Abstract:
This invention provides recombinant DNA constructs and methods for manipulating expression of a
target gene that is regulated by a small RNA, by interfering with the binding of the small RNA to its
target gene. More specifically, this invention discloses recombinant DNA constructs encoding
cleavage blockers, 5-modified cleavage blockers, and translational inhibitors useful for modulating
expression of a target gene and methods for their use. Further disclosed are miRNA targets useful
for designing recombinant DNA constructs including miRNA- unresponsive transgenes, miRNA
decoys, cleavage blockers, 5-modified cleavage blockers, and translational inhibitors, as well as
methods for their use, and transgenic eukaryotic cells and organisms containing such constructs.

                     RECOMBINANT DNA CONSTRUCTS AND METHODS
                   FOR MODULATING EXPRESSION OF A TARGET GENE
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS AND INCORPORATION OF
SEQUENCE LISTINGS
          [001] This application claims the benefit of priority of U. S. Provisional Patent Application
61/077,244, filed 1 July 2008, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The sequence
listing that is contained in the file named "38-21_55745_A.txt", which is 2574 kilobytes (measured in
operating system MS-Windows), was created on 27 June 2008, and was filed by electronic submission
with U. S. Provisional Patent Application 61/077,244 on 1 July 2008 is incorporated by reference in its
entirety herein. The sequence listing that is contained in the file named "38-21_55745_B.txt", which is
2611 kilobytes (measured in operating system MS-Windows), created on 24 June 2009., is filed herewith
and incorporated herein by reference. This is a divisional application of AU <removed-apn>, which is a
divisonal of AU2009267007, the entirety of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          [002] Disclosed herein are recombinapnt DNA constructs with DNA that undergoes processing
to an RNA providing RNase III cleavage resistance to a target gene transcript. Such RNAs serve as
cleavage blockers and translational inhibitors useful for modulating expression of a target gene. Further
disclosed are miRNA recognition site sequences and their use in designing recombinant DNA constructs
including miRNA-unresponsive transgenes, miRNA decoys, cleavage blockers, and translational
inhibitors. Also disclosed are non-natural transgenic plant cells, plants, and seeds containing in their
genome a recombinant DNA construct of this invention. Further disclosed are methods of modulating
expression of a target gene using recombinant DNA constructs of this invention.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          [003] Several cellular pathways involved in RNA-mediated gene suppression have been
described, each distinguished by a characteristic pathway and specific components. Generally, RNA
mediated gene suppression involves a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) intermediate that is formed
intramolecularly within a single RNA molecule or intermolecularly between two RNA molecules. This
longer dsRNA intermediate is processed by a ribonuclease of the RNase III family (Dicer or Dicer-like
ribonuclease) to one or more small double-stranded RNAs, one strand of which is incorporated by the
ribonuclease into the RNA-induced silencing complex ("RISC"). Which strand is incorporated into
RISC is believed to depend on certain thermodynamic properties of the double-stranded small RNA., such
as those described by Schwarz et al. (2003) Cell, 115:199-208, and Khvorova et al. (2003) Cell, 115:209
216.
          [004] The siRNA pathway involves the non-phased cleavage of a longer double-stranded RNA
intermediate to small interfering RNAs ("siRNAs"). The size of siRNAs is believed to range from about
                                                       I

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
19 to about 25 base pairs, but common classes of siRNAs include those containing 21 base pairs or 24
base pairs. See, for example, Hamilton et al. (2002) EMBO J., 21:4671-4679.
          [0051    The microRNA pathway involves microRNAs ("miRNAs"), non-protein coding RNAs
generally of between about 19 to about 25 nucleotides (commonly about 20 - 24 nucleotides in plants)
that guide cleavage in trans of target transcripts, negatively regulating the expression of genes involved
in various regulation and development pathways; see Ambros et al. (2003) RNA, 9:277-279. Naturally
occurring miRNAs are derived from a primary transcript ("pri-miRNA") that is naturally processed to a
shorter transcript ("pre-miRNA") which itself is further processed to the mature miRNA. For a recent
review of miRNA biogenesis in both plants and animals, see Kim (2005) Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol.,
6:376-385. Gene regulation of biological pathways by miRNAs can occur at multiple levels and in
different ways, including regulation of single or multiple genes, regulation of transcriptional regulators,
and regulation of alternative splicing; see Makeyev & Maniatis (2008) Science, 319:1789-1790. Various
utilities of miRNAs, their precursors, their recognition sites, and their promoters are described in detail in
co-assigned U. S. Patent Application Publication 2006/0200878 Al, specifically incorporated by
reference herein, which include: (1) the expression of a native miRNA or miRNA precursor sequence to
suppress a target gene; (2) the expression of an engineered (non-native) miRNA or miRNA precursor
sequence to suppress a target gene; (3) expression of a transgene with a miRNA recognition site, wherein
the transgene is suppressed when the corresponding mature miRNA is expressed, either endogenously or
transgenically; and (4) expression of a transgene driven by a miRNA promoter.
          [0061    In the trans-acting siRNA ("ta-siRNA") pathway, miRNAs serve to guide in-phase
processing of siRNA primary transcripts in a process that requires an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
for production of a double-stranded RNA precursor; trans-acting siRNAs are defined by lack of
secondary structure, a miRNA target site that initiates production of double-stranded RNA, requirements
of DCL4 and an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR6), and production of multiple perfectly phased
 ~21-nt small RNAs with perfectly matched duplexes with 2-nucleotide 3' overhangs (see Allen et al.
(2005) Cell, 121:207-22 1; Vazquez et al. (2004) Mol. Cell, 16:69-79).
          [0071    The phased small RNA ("phased sRNA") pathway (see PCT patent application
PCT/US2007/019283, published as WO 2008/027592) is based on an endogenous locus termed a
"phased small RNA locus", which transcribes to an RNA transcript fonning a single foldback structure
that is cleaved in phase in vivo into multiple small double-stranded RNAs (termed "phased small RNAs")
capable of suppressing a target gene. In contrast to siRNAs, a phased small RNA transcript is cleaved in
phase. In contrast to miRNAs, a phased small RNA transcript is cleaved by DCL4 or a DCL4-like
orthologous ribonuclease (not DCL1) to multiple abundant small RNAs capable of silencing a target
gene. In contrast to the ta-siRNA pathway, the phased small RNA locus transcribes to an RNA transcript
that forms hybridized RNA independently of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and without a miRNA
target site that initiates production of double-stranded RNA.
          [0081    Gene suppression mediated by small RNAs processed from natural antisense transcripts
has been reported in at least two pathways. In the natural antisense transcript small interfering RNA
                                                       2

    WO 2010/002984                                                                PCT/US2009/049392
("nat-siRNA") pathway (Borsani et al. (2005) Cell, 123:1279-1291), siRNAs are generated by DCL1
cleavage of a double-stranded RNA formed between the antisense transcripts of a pair of genes (cis
antisense gene pairs). A similar natural anti-sense transcript microRNA ("nat-miRNA") pathway (Lu et
al. (2008) Proc. aatl.Acad. Sci. USA, 105: 4951-4956) has also been reported. In metazoan animals,
small RNAs termed Piwi-interacting RNAs ("piRNAs") have been reported to also have gene-silencing
activity (Lau et al. (2006) Science, 313:363-367; O'Donnell & Boeke (2007) Cell, 129:37-44).
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          [009]   In one aspect, this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that
undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least
one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to
the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the
hybridized segment.
          [0010]    Another aspect of this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct encoding a
"cleavage blocker" for inhibiting double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least one target
gene, thereby increasing expression of the target gene (relative to expression in the absence of the
cleavage blocker). One embodiment is a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that undergoes
processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target
gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript
resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment,
wherein the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the resultant formation of the
hybridized segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least one target gene.
          [0011]    Another aspect of this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct encoding a a
"5'-modified cleavage blocker". One embodiment includes a recombinant DNA construct including
DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of
at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that
imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of
the hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the
resultant formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of
the at least one target gene, wherein the cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease is mediated by binding of
a mature miRNA, the binding is at a miRNA recognition site (that is recognized by the mature miRNA)
in the transcript, the cleavage of the transcript occurs at the miRNA recognition site, and the hybridized
segment is formed at least partially within the miRNA recognition site, and the hybridized segment
includes an A, G, or C (but not a U) at a position corresponding to the 5' terminus of the mature miRNA
that natively binds to the recognition site, but does not require mismatches between the single-stranded
RNA and the miRNA recognition site at positions of the miRNA recognition site corresponding to
positions 9, 10, or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of the mature miRNA, or insertions at a position in the single
                                                        3

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
stranded RNA at positions of the miRNA recognition site corresponding to positions 10 or II (in 3' to 5'
direction) of the mature miRNA.
         [0012]    Another aspect of this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct encoding a
"translational inhibitor" for inhibiting translation of the transcript, thereby decreasing expression of the
target gene (relative to expression in the absence of expression of the construct). One embodiment is a
recombinant DNA construct including DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA including single
stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at
least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III
ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the single
stranded RNA to the transcript (and the formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits translation of the
transcript.
         [0013]    Other aspects of this invention provide methods for modulating expression of miRNA
target genes from plant species. Embodiments of this invention include methods to increase or improve
yield of crop plants by expressing in such plants recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, for
example, recombinant DNA constructs encoding a native miRNA precursor sequence or an artificial
precursor sequence, or recombinant DNA constructs encoding a cleavage blocker or translational
inhibitor or decoy.
         [0014]    Further aspects of this invention provide non-natural transgenic plant cells having in
their genome a recombinant DNA construct of this invention. Also provided are a non-natural transgenic
plant containing the transgenic plant cell of this invention, a non-natural transgenic plant grown from the
transgenic plant cell of this invention, and non-natural transgenic seed produced by the transgenic plants,
as well as commodity products produced from a non-natural transgenic plant cell, plant, or seed of this
invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0015]    Figure 1 depicts the predicted fold-back structures of the native miRNA miRMONI
precursor (Figure 1A), the synthetic miRNA miRGL1 precursor (Figure 1B), the synthetic cleavage
blocker miRGL1-CB (Figure IC), and the synthetic 5'-modified miRGLI cleavage blocker (Figure 1D),
as well as an alignment (Figure 1E) of the miRNA recognition site in the target gene GL1, the mature
miRGL 1, the mature miRGL 1-CB, and the artificial GL 1 recognition site in the miRGL 1-sensor, as
described in Examples 1 and 2.
         [0016]    Figure 2 depicts a maize transformation base vector (pMON93039, SEQ ID NO:
2065), as described in Example 5.
         [0017]    Figure 3 depicts depicts a soybean or cotton transformation base vector (pMON82053,
SEQ ID NO: 2066), as described in Example 5.
         [0018]    Figure 3 depicts depicts a cotton transformation base vector (pMON99053, SEQ ID
NO: 2067), as described in Example 5.
                                                        4

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          [0019]    Unless otherwise stated, nucleic acid sequences in the text of this specification are
given, when read from left to right, in the 5' to 3' direction. Nucleic acid sequences may be provided as
DNA or as RNA, as specified; disclosure of one necessarily defines the other, as is known to one of
ordinary skill in the art. The term "miRNA precursor", as used herein, refers to an RNA transcript that is
naturally processed to produce a mature miRNA. Where a term is provided in the singular, the inventors
also contemplate aspects of the invention described by the plural of that term.
RECOMBINANT DNA CONSTRUCTS THAT ARE PROCESSED TO RNA PROVIDING RNASE III
RESISTANCE TO A TARGET GENE TRANSCRIPT
          [0020]   In one aspect, this invention provides a recombinant DNA construct including DNA
that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at
least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts
to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the
hybridized segment. The recombinant DNA construct is made by techniques known in the art, such as
those described under the heading "Making and Using Recombinant DNA Constructs" and illustrated in
the working Examples. The recombinant DNA construct is particularly useful for making transgenic
plant cells, transgenic plants, and transgenic seeds as discussed below under "Making and Using
Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants". This invention therefore includes embodiments wherein
the recombinant DNA construct is located within a vector for transforming a plant cell (such as within a
plasmid or viral vector), or on a biolistic particle for transforming a plant cell, or within a chromosome or
plastid of a non-natural transgenic plant cell, or within a non-natural transgenic cell, non-natural
transgenic plant tissue, non-natural transgenic plant seed, non-natural transgenic pollen grain, or a non
natural transgenic or partially transgenic plant. Further included are embodiments wherein the
recombinant DNA construct is in a commodity product produced from a non-natural transgenic cell, non
natural transgenic plant tissue, non-natural transgenic plant seed, non-natural transgenic pollen grain, or a
non-natural transgenic or partially transgenic plant of this invention; such commodity products include,
but are not limited to harvested leaves, roots, shoots, tubers, stems, fruits, seeds, or other parts of a plant,
meals, oils, extracts, fermentation or digestion products, crushed or whole grains or seeds of a plant, or
any food or non-food product including such commodity products produced from a transgenic plant cell,
plant, or seed of this invention.
          [0021]   The processing of the DNA includes transcription of the DNA to a primary RNA
transcript, which may undergo one or more additional natural processing steps that result in the single
stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene. In one embodiment, the processing
of the DNA includes transcription of the DNA to an RNA intermediate including one or more double
stranded RNA stems; the double-stranded RNA stem or stems is further processed to single-stranded
RNA. A final product of the DNA processing is the RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to
the transcript of at least one target gene.
                                                        5

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
          [0022]   For example, the recombinant DNA construct includes DNA that is transcribed to a
primary transcript with a sequence derived from a native pri-miRNA or pre-miRNA sequence that forms
secondary structure including one or more double-stranded stems, followed by processing of the primary
transcript to a shorter, at least partially double-stranded intermediate (similar to a pre-miRNA) which is
then cleaved by an RNase III ribonuclease (ribonuclease III, e. g., Drosha or DCLI or a DCL 1-like
orthologous ribonuclease) to a pair of single-stranded RNAs (similar to a miRNA and a miRNA* pair).
In another example, the recombinant DNA construct includes DNA that is transcribed to a primary
transcript that forms secondary structure including one or more double-stranded stems, followed by
cleavage of the double-stranded RNA stem(s) by an RNase III ribonuclease to one or more pairs of
single-stranded small RNAs (similar to an siRNA duplex). In another example, the recombinant DNA
construct includes DNA that is transcribed to a primary transcript that includes one or more spliceable
introns that are removed by intronic processing. In yet another example, the recombinant DNA construct
includes DNA that is transcribed to a primary transcript including one or more self-cleaving ribozymes
(see, e. g., Tang & Breaker (2000) Proc.NatL. Acad. Sci. USA, 97:5784-5789); removal of the
ribozyme(s) results in the RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one
target gene.
          [0023]   The RNA resulting from processing of the DNA includes at least single-stranded RNA
that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene. In one embodiment, the RNA resulting from
processing of the DNA consists of one single-stranded RNA molecule that binds to the transcript of one
target gene. In another embodiment, the RNA resulting from processing of the DNA consists of one
single-stranded RNA molecule that binds to the transcripts of multiple target genes. In another
embodiment, the RNA resulting from processing of the DNA consists of multiple molecules of single
stranded RNA that bind to the transcript of at least one target gene; this can result, e. g., from processing
of a primary RNA transcript having multiple segments, each including single-stranded RNA that binds to
the transcript of at least one target gene, for example, where the multiple segments (which can have the
same or different sequence) are separated by self-cleaving ribozymes and cleavage of the ribozymes
yields the multiple single-stranded RNAs. In another embodiment, the RNA resulting from processing of
the DNA includes single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene, as well as
additional RNA elements (which may be single-stranded or double-stranded or both), such as, but not
limited to, an RNA aptamer, an RNA riboswitch, a ribozyme, site-specific recombinase recognition sites,
or an RNA sequence that serves to regulate transcription of the single-stranded RNA that binds to the
transcript of at least one target gene.
          [0024]   In various embodiments, the at least one target gene includes: coding sequence, non
coding sequence, or both coding and non-coding sequences; a single target gene or multiple target genes
(for example, multiple alleles of a target gene, or multiple different target genes); or one or more of (a) an
endogenous gene of a eukaryote, (b) a transgene of a transgenic plant, (c) an endogenous gene of a pest
or pathogen of a plant, and (d) an endogenous gene of a prokaryotic or eukaryotic symbiont associated
                                                         6

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
with a pest or pathogen of a plant. Target genes that can be regulated by a recombinant DNA construct
of this invention are described in detail below under the heading "Target Genes".
           [0025]    The single-stranded RNA binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially (in some cases perfectly) double-stranded RNA. In some
embodiments the percent complementarity between the single-stranded RNA and the transcript of at least
one target gene is 100%. However, it is clear that Watson-Crick base-pairing need not be complete
between the single-stranded RNA and the transcript of at least one target gene, but is at least sufficient so
that under physiological conditions a stably hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA
is formed between the two.
           [0026]    The hybridized segment of double-stranded RNA imparts to the transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease (for example, Drosha or Dicer or Dicer-like proteins, including,
but not limited to, DCL1, DCL2, DCL3, DCL4, DCLI-like, DCL2-like, DCL3-like, or DCL4-like
proteins) within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment. In many instances, the resistance imparted
is resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within the hybridized segment. For example,
where the single-stranded RNA binds to the transcript of at least one target gene at a miRNA recognition
site in the transcript recognized and bound by an endogenous miRNA, such that the hybridized segment
encompasses the miRNA recognition site, the hybridized segment of double-stranded RNA imparts to the
transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease at the miRNA recognition site (i. e., within
the hybridized segment). In other instances, the resistance imparted is resistance to cleavage by an
RNase III ribonuclease in the vicinity of the hybridized segment. For example, where the single-stranded
RNA binds to the transcript of at least one target gene immediately or closely adjacent to a miRNA
recognition site in the transcript recognized and bound by an endogenous miRNA, such that the
hybridized segment does not encompass the miRNA recognition site but is sufficiently close to prevent
binding by the endogenous miRNA to the transcript, the hybridized segment of double-stranded RNA
imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease at the miRNA recognition
site (i. e., in the vicinity of, but not within, the hybridized segment).
           [0027]    The length of the single-stranded RNA is not necessarily equal to the length of the
hybridized segment, since not all of the single-stranded RNA necessarily binds to the transcript of at least
one target gene. In some embodiments, the length of the single-stranded RNA is about equal to, or
exactly equal to, the length of the hybridized segment. In other embodiments, the length of the single
stranded RNA is greater than the length of the hybridized segment. Expressed in terms of numbers of
contiguous nucleotides, the length of the single-stranded RNA is generally from between about 10
nucleotides to about 500 nucleotides, or from between about 20 nucleotides to about 500 nucleotides, or
from between about 20 nucleotides to about 100 nucleotides, for example, about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, about 30, about 35, about 40, about 45, about 50,
about 60, about 70, about 80, about 90, about 100, about 120, about 140, about 160, about 180, about
200, about 240, about 280, about 320, about 360, about 400, or about 500 nucleotides. Expressed in
terms of numbers of contiguous nucleotides (and recognizing that the hybridized segment can include
                                                          7

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
nucleotides that are not base-paired), the length of the hybridized segment is generally from between
about 10 nucleotides to about 100 nucleotides, or from between about 10 nucleotides to about 24
nucleotides, or from between about 20 nucleotides to about 100 nucleotides, or from between about 26
nucleotides to about 100 nucleotides, although it can be greater than about 100 nucleotides, and in some
preferred embodiments it is preferably smaller than 100 nucleotides (such as in some embodiments of
translational inhibitors, described below under the heading "Translational Inhibitors"). In preferred
embodiments, the length of the hybridized segment is about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, about 30, about 35, about 40, about 45, about 50, about 60, about 70, about
80, about 90, or about 100 nucleotides. In one particularly preferred embodiment, the length of the
hybridized segment is between about 10 to about 24 nucleotides, e. g., about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, or 24 nucleotides.
          [0028]   In many embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes other
DNA elements in addition to the DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded
RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least
partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III
ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment. These additional DNA elements include
at least one element selected from the group consisting of:
         (a) a promoter functional in a eukaryotic (plant, animal, fungus, or protist) cell, such as any of
              the promoters described under the heading "Promoters";
         (b) a Pol III promoter (see "Promoters", below) operably linked to the DNA that undergoes
              processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA;
         (c) DNA that is processed to an RNA aptamer (as described under the heading "Aptamers")
         (d) a transgene transcription unit (as described under the heading "Transgene Transcription
              Units");
         (e) DNA encoding a spliceable intron (as described under the heading "Introns");
         (f) DNA encoding a self-splicing ribozyme (as described under the heading "Ribozymes");
         (g) DNA encoding a site-specific recombinase recognition site (as described under the heading
              "Recombinases");
         (h) DNA encoding a gene suppression element (as described under the heading "Gene
              Suppression Elements"); and
         (i) DNA encoding a transcription regulatory element (as described under the heading
              "Transcription Regulatory Elements").
          [0029]   The recombinant DNA construct of this invention is particularly useful for providing an
RNA that functions as a "cleavage blocker" or a "translational inhibitor", according to the RNA's
interaction with the transcript of the target gene(s). Cleavage blockers and translational inhibitors are
described in more detail below.
                                                       8

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
Cleavage Blockers
         [0030]    One aspect of this invention is a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that
undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least
one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to
the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the
hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the resultant
formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least
one target gene. In this context, the term "cleavage blocker" generally refers to the RNA including
single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene, and more specifically refers to
the portion(s) of the single-stranded RNA that forms a hybridized segment of at least partially double
stranded RNA with the transcript. Cleavage blockers inhibit double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression
of the at least one target gene, thereby increasing expression of the target gene (relative to expression in
the absence of the cleavage blocker).
         [0031]    Generally, the cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease is mediated by binding of a small
RNA (most preferably a small RNA that is associated with a silencing complex) to the transcript. In
preferred embodiments, the small RNA is selected from the group consisting of a miRNA, an siRNA, a
trans-acting siRNA, a phased small RNA, a natural antisense transcript siRNA, and a natural antisense
transcript miRNA; however, the small RNA can be any small RNA associated with a silencing complex
such as RISC or an Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein. In some embodiments, the small RNA is an
endogenous small RNA (e. g., an endogenous miRNA); in other embodiments, the small RNA is a
transgenic small RNA (e. g., a transgenically expressed engineered miRNA).
         [0032]    In various embodiments, the length of the hybridized segment includes between about
10 base pairs to about 100 base pairs, although it can be greater than about 100 base pairs. In preferred
embodiments (and recognizing that the hybridized segment can include nucleotides that are not base
paired), the length of the hybridized segment includes between about 10 base pairs to about 100 base
pairs, such as from between about 10 to about 20, or between about 10 to about 24, or between about 10
to about 30, or between about 10 to about 40, or between about 10 to about 50, or between about 18 to
about 28, or between about 18 to about 25, or between about 18 to about 24, or between about 20 to
about 30, or between about 20 to about 40, or between about 20 to about 50 base pairs. In preferred
embodiments, the length of the hybridized segment is about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, about 30, about 34, about 40, about 45, about 50, about 60, about 70, about
80, about 90, or about 100 base pairs, wherein the hybridized segment optionally includes additional
nucleotides that are not base-paired and that are not counted in the length of the hybridized segment
when this is expressed in terms of base pairs. In particularly preferred embodiments, the length of the
hybridized segment is between about 18 to about 28 base pairs (that is, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26,
27, or 28 base pairs), or between about 10 to about 24 base pairs (that is, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, or 24 base pairs), or between about 18 to about 24 base pairs (that is, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, or 24 base pairs) wherein the hybridized segment optionally includes additional nucleotides
                                                       9

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
that are not base-paired and that are not counted in the length of the hybridized segment when this is
expressed in terms of base pairs. One of skill in the art is able to determine what number of unpaired
nucleotides is acceptable for a given hybridized segment, i. e., that will still allow formation hybridized
segment that is stable under physiological conditions and is resistant to RNase III ribonuclease cleavage.
         [0033]    In some instances, the hybridized segment is completely base-paired, that is, contains a
contiguous ribonucleotide sequence that is the same length as, and is perfectly complementary to, a
contiguous ribonucleotide sequence of the target gene transcript. In particularly preferred embodiments,
however, the hybridized segment is not completely base-paired, and includes at least one mismatch or at
least one insertion in the hybridized segment at a position that results in inhibiting cleavage of the
transcript by the RNase III ribonuclease.
          [0034]    One aspect of this invention provides a "miRNA cleavage blocker". One preferred
embodiment is a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA
including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized
segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by
an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the
single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the resultant formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits
double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least one target gene, wherein the cleavage by an
RNase III ribonuclease is mediated by binding of a mature miRNA, the binding is at a miRNA
recognition site (that is recognized by the mature miRNA) in the transcript, the cleavage of the transcript
occurs at the miRNA recognition site, and the hybridized segment is formed at least partially within the
miRNA recognition site. In this embodiment, the recombinant DNA construct yields a miRNA cleavage
blocker RNA that binds to (or in the vicinity of) a miRNA recognition site in a target gene transcript,
fonning a hybridized segment that is itself resistant to RNase III ribonuclease cleavage (or that prevents
RNase III ribonuclease cleavage of the transcript in the vicinity of the hybridized segment), thus
preventing the mature miRNA that normally recognizes the miRNA recognition site from binding to the
miRNA recognition site and mediating RNase III ribonuclease cleavage of the target gene transcript. In
particularly preferred embodiments, the hybridized segment includes: (a) at least one mismatch between
the single-stranded RNA and the miRNA recognition site at positions of the miRNA recognition site
corresponding to positions 9, 10, or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of the mature miRNA, or (b) at least one
insertion at a position in the single-stranded RNA at positions of the miRNA recognition site
corresponding to positions 10 or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of the mature miRNA. In some preferred
embodiments, the single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene has a
nucleotide sequence to allow a stably hybridized segment to be formed between it and the target gene
transcript, but that inhibits binding of an Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein to the hybridized segment,
as described by Mi et al. (2008) Cell, 133:1-12; for example, the single-stranded RNA has a nucleotide
sequence that includes an A, G, or C (but not a U) at a position corresponding to the 5' terminus of the
mature miRNA that natively binds to the recognition site. Most preferably, the binding of a miRNA
cleavage blocker to the target gene transcript results in inhibition of miRNA-mediated suppression of the
                                                      10

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
at least one target gene, thereby increasing expression of the target gene (relative to expression in the
absence of the miRNA cleavage blocker).
          [0035]   Another aspect of this invention includes a "5'-modified cleavage blocker". A
preferred embodiment includes a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that undergoes processing
to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment, wherein the
binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the resultant formation of the hybridized
segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least one target gene, wherein the
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease is mediated by binding of a mature miRNA, the binding is at a
miRNA recognition site (that is recognized by the mature miRNA) in the transcript, the cleavage of the
transcript occurs at the miRNA recognition site, and the hybridized segment is formed at least partially
within the miRNA recognition site, and the hybridized segment includes an A, G, or C (but not a U) at a
position corresponding to the 5' terminus of the mature miRNA that natively binds to the recognition
site, but does not include mismatches between the single-stranded RNA and the miRNA recognition site
at positions of the miRNA recognition site corresponding to positions 9, 10, or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction)
of the mature miRNA, or insertions at a position in the single-stranded RNA at positions of the miRNA
recognition site corresponding to positions 10 or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of the mature miRNA. Binding
of such a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to the target gene transcript results in inhibition of miRNA
mediated suppression of the at least one target gene, thereby increasing expression of the target gene
(relative to expression in the absence of the cleavage blocker).
          [0036]   One of ordinary skill in the art easily recognizes that various aspects of this invention
include analogous recombinant DNA constructs that are processed to provide RNA including single
stranded RNA that serve as an "siRNA cleavage blocker", a "trans-acting siRNA cleavage blocker", a
"phased small RNA cleavage blocker", a "natural antisense transcript siRNA cleavage blocker", or a
"natural antisense transcript miRNA cleavage blocker" (or, in general terms, a "small RNA cleavage
blocker"), according to whether the RNase III ribonuclease cleavage that is inhibited is mediated by,
respectively, an siRNA, a trans-actingsiRNA, a phased small RNA, a natural antisense transcript siRNA,
or a natural antisense transcript miRNA (or, in general terms, any small RNA associated with a silencing
complex such as RISC or an Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein). In these cases, the formation of the
RNase III ribonuclease cleavage-resistant hybridized segment generally prevents the respective small
RNA from binding to the target gene transcript and mediating RNase III ribonuclease cleavage of the
transcript. Most preferably, the binding of such a small RNA cleavage blocker to the target gene
transcript results in inhibition of double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least one target
gene, thereby increasing expression of the target gene (relative to expression in the absence of the small
RNA cleavage blocker). One of ordinary skill in the art is able to devise a nucleotide sequence for such
an RNA including single-stranded RNA that, upon binding to the transcript of at least one target gene,
forms a hybridized segment that is stable under physiological conditions and is resistant to RNase III
                                                       11

    WO 2010/002984                                                                PCT/US2009/049392
ribonuclease cleavage, for example, (1) by selecting a nucleotide sequence that inhibits binding of an
Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein to the hybridized segment, as described by Mi et al. (2008) Cell,
doi:10. 1016/j.cell.2008.02.034; (2) by selecting a nucleotide sequence such that the difference in free
energy ("AAG", see Khvorova et aL. (2003) Cell, 115, 209-216) between the portions of the single
stranded RNA and the target gene transcript that form the hybridized segment inhibit association with a
silencing complex such as RISC or an Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein; or (3) by selecting a
nucleotide sequence such that mismatches or insertions at a potential small RNA-mediated RNase III
ribonuclease cleavage site prevents cleavage of the transcript.   Knowledge of the target gene itself is not
required, merely the sequence of the mature miRNA sequence or of a miRNA precursor that is processed
to the mature miRNA-or, alternatively, knowledge of the miRNA recognition site sequence-in
combination with the teachings of this application, in order to identify or design a cleavage blocker (or
5'-modified cleavage blocker) for inhibiting the target gene silencing effects of a given miRNA.
          [0037]    One approach to manipulating a miRNA-regulated pathway has been disclosed (see co
assigned U. S. Patent Application 11/974,469, published as U. S. Patent Application Publication 2009
0070898 Al, which disclosure including rules for predicting or designing a miRNA decoy sequence is
specifically incorporated by reference herein) as a novel miRNA "decoy", a sequence that can be
recognized and bound by an endogenous mature miRNA resulting in base-pairing between the miRNA
decoy sequence and the endogenous mature miRNA, thereby forming a stable RNA duplex that is not
cleaved because of the presence of mismatches between the miRNA decoy sequence and the mature
miRNA.
          [0038]   The Examples of this application specifically identify miRNA targets recognized by
particular miRNAs. Provided with this information and Applicants' teachings, one of ordinary skill in
the art would be able to design and use various additional embodiments of this invention, including a
recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the
plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage
blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA
target; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated
cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (d)
DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least
one miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence
derived from the native nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of at least one miRNA target; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed
into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target.
                                                      12

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
Translational Inhibitors
          [0039]   Another aspect of this invention is a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that
undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least
one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to
the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the
hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the formation
of the hybridized segment) inhibits translation of the transcript. In this context, the term "translational
inhibitor" generally refers to the RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at
least one target gene, and more specifically refers to the portion(s) of the single-stranded RNA that forms
a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA with the transcript. Translational
inhibitors inhibit translation of the transcript, thereby decreasing expression of the target gene (relative to
expression in the absence of expression of the construct).
          [0040]   Binding of the translational inhibitor is to a location of the mRNA that is wholly or at
least partially within the coding sequence or in a location such that the formation of the hybridized
segment interferes with translation. In one embodiment, the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the
transcript (and the formation of the hybridized segment) occurs at least partially within the 5'
untranslated region of the transcript; this embodiment is often preferred where the transcript is of a plant
target gene. In another embodiment, the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the
formation of the hybridized segment) occurs at least partially within the 3' untranslated region of the
transcript; this embodiment is preferred where the transcript is of an animal target gene. In yet another
embodiment, the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript occurs within or in the vicinity of
the start codon or of the 5' cap, preferably preventing translation initiation.
          [0041]   In preferred embodiments, the hybridized segment is resistant to cleavage by the RNase
III ribonuclease. In preferred embodiments, the length of the hybridized segment includes between about
10 base pairs to about 50 base pairs, although it can be greater than about 50 base pairs. In preferred
embodiments (and recognizing that the hybridized segment can include nucleotides that are not base
paired), the length of the hybridized segment includes between about 10 base pairs to about 50 base pairs,
such as from between about 10 to about 20, or between about 10 to about 30, or between about 10 to
about 40, or between about 10 to about 50, or between about 18 to about 28, or between about 18 to
about 25, or between about 18 to about 23, or between about 20 to about 30, or between about 20 to
about 40, or between about 20 to about 50 base pairs. In preferred embodiments, the length of the
hybridized segment is about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
about 30, about 34, about 40, about 45, or about 50 base pairs, wherein the hybridized segment optionally
includes additional nucleotides that are not base-paired and that are not counted in the length of the
hybridized segment when this is expressed in terms of base pairs. In particularly preferred embodiments,
the length of the hybridized segment is between about 18 to about 28 base pairs, that is, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, or 28 base pairs, wherein the hybridized segment optionally includes additional
nucleotides that are not base-paired and that are not counted in the length of the hybridized segment
                                                        13

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
when this is expressed in terms of base pairs. One of skill in the art is able to determine what number of
unpaired nucleotides is acceptable for a given hybridized segment, i. e., that will still allow formation
hybridized segment that is stable under physiological conditions and is resistant to RNase III
ribonuclease cleavage.
         [0042]    One of ordinary skill in the art is able to devise a nucleotide sequence for such an RNA
including single-stranded RNA that, upon binding to the transcript of at least one target gene, forms a
hybridized segment that is stable under physiological conditions and is resistant to RNase III
ribonuclease cleavage, for example, (1) by selecting a nucleotide sequence that inhibits binding of an
Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein to the hybridized segment, as described by Mi et al. (2008) Cell,
doi:10. 1016/j.cell.2008.02.034; (2) by selecting a nucleotide sequence such that the difference in free
energy ("AAG", see Khvorova el al. (2003) Cell, 115, 209-216) between the portions of the single
stranded RNA and the target gene transcript that form the hybridized segment inhibit association with a
silencing complex such as RISC or an Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein; or (3) by selecting a
nucleotide sequence such that mismatches or insertions at a potential small RNA-mediated RNase III
ribonuclease cleavage site prevents cleavage of the transcript. In a particularly preferred embodiment,
the length of the hybridized segment includes between about 19 to about 50 base pairs, the hybridized
segment includes smaller segments of 9 or fewer contiguous, perfectly complementary base pairs, and at
least one mismatch or insertion is between each pair of the smaller segments.
METHODS OF MODULATING EXPRESSION OF A TARGET GENE
         [0043]    In another aspect, this invention provides a method of modulating expression of a target
gene, including expressing in a cell a recombinant DNA construct of this invention, that is, a recombinant
DNA construct including DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that
binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double
stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or
in the vicinity of the hybridized segment. Expressing in vivo in a cell a recombinant DNA construct of
this invention provides an RNA that functions as a "cleavage blocker" or a "translational inhibitor".
         [0044]    By "modulating expression of a target gene" is meant either: (a) increasing expression
of the target gene, e. g., where the recombinant DNA construct expressed in the cell provides a cleavage
blocker, or (b) decreasing expression of the target gene, e. g., where the recombinant DNA construct
expressed in the cell provides a translational inhibitor. By "expressing in a cell" is meant carrying out in
vivo the process of transcription, as well as any additional natural processing steps necessary to provide
the RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene.
         [0045]    The cell in which the recombinant DNA construct is expressed is in many embodiments
a eukaryotic cell (such as a plant, animal, fungus, or protist cell), and in other embodiments is a
prokaryotic cell (such as a bacterial cell). The target gene that has its expression modulated by the
method of this invention is not necessarily an endogenous gene of the cell in which the recombinant
DNA construct is expressed. For example, this invention encompasses a method including expressing in
                                                        14

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
cells of a plant a recombinant DNA construct including DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA
including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene of a pest or pathogen
of the plant to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the
transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized
segment, thereby either (a) increasing expression of the target gene of the pest or pathogen, when the
recombinant DNA construct provides a cleavage blocker, or (b) decreasing expression of the target gene
of the pest or pathogen, when the recombinant DNA construct provides a translational inhibitor. Where
the target gene is not an endogenous gene of the cell wherein the recombinant DNA construct is
transcribed (such as in cells of a plant), additional processing steps may occur either in the cell where
transcription occurred, or in other cells (such as in cells of a pest or pathogen of the plant).
          [0046]    In one embodiment of the method, the recombinant DNA construct is expressed in a
cell to provide a cleavage blocker RNA. In this embodiment, the binding of the single-stranded RNA to
the transcript (and the formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of the at least one target gene, thereby increasing expression of the target gene, relative to
expression in the absence of expression of the construct.
          [0047]    In one embodiment of the method, the recombinant DNA construct is expressed in a
cell to provide a translational blocker RNA. In this embodiment, the binding of the single-stranded RNA
to the transcript (and the formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits translation of the transcript,
thereby decreasing expression of the target gene, relative to expression in the absence of expression of
the construct.
          [0048]    MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are believed to generally regulate gene expression post
transcriptionally in plants by directing sequence-specific cleavage of messenger RNAs ("mRNAs"). One
aspect of this invention is a method to control the rate of post-transcriptional suppression of a plant gene
that transcribes to a mRNA containing a miRNA recognition site that is normally recognized and bound
by a specific miRNA in complex with Argonaute (Ago), followed by cleavage of the resulting
miRNA/mRNA hybridized segment by an RNase III ribonuclease such as a Dicer-like ribonuclease.
This method uses a "cleavage blocker" construct to transgenically express in planta an RNA including
single-stranded RNA that binds to the mRNA transcript of the target gene to form a hybridized segment
of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an
RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the
single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the resultant formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits
double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of the at least one target gene. The "cleavage blocker" RNA
generally competes with endogenous mature miRNAs, for binding with an mRNA that is normally
regulated by that miRNA; the cleavage blocker protects the mRNA from cleavage by the miRNA-Ago
complex by binding to the miRNA target site on the mRNA to form a non-cleavable hybridized segment.
Thus, a cleavage blocker protects the target mRNA's cleavage site (miRNA recognition site) from being
cleaved by miRNA and prevents down-regulation of that particular target gene. Preferably, a cleavage
blocker increases expression of the target gene (relative to its expression in the absence of the cleavage
                                                       15

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
blocker). This method allows for regulation of gene expression in a specific manner and is a useful
alternative to upregulating the level of a gene's transcript or its encoded protein by over-expression of the
gene.
          [0049]    One aspect of this invention is a method for providing a cleavage blocker by generating
the cleavage blocker single-stranded RNA in planta from a "cleavage blocker construct" based on a
recombinant miRNA-precursor-like sequence. A miRNA-precursor-like sequence is created by placing
the cleavage blocker sequence in the backbone of a miRNA primary transcript, while maintaining the
predicted secondary structure in the transcript's fold-back in such a way that resulting transcript is
processed by Dicer-like ribonucleases to single-stranded RNA, which is then able to associate with the
miRNA recognition site on the target mRNA and prevent the mRNA from being cleaved by a mature
miRNA. The cleavage blocker sequence is selected such that, upon hybridization of the cleavage blocker
to the target mRNA, a hybridized segment is formed that includes: (a) at least one mismatch between the
single-stranded RNA and the miRNA recognition site at positions of the miRNA recognition site
corresponding to positions 9, 10, or 11 of the mature miRNA, or (b) at least one insertion at a position in
the single-stranded RNA at positions of the miRNA recognition site corresponding to positions 10-11 of
the mature miRNA. In especially preferred embodiments, the single-stranded RNA that binds to the
transcript of at least one target gene has a nucleotide sequence to allow a stably hybridized segment to be
formed between it and the target gene transcript, but that inhibits binding of an Argonaute or Argonaute
like protein to the hybridized segment, as described by Mi et al. (2008) Cell,
doi:10. 1016/j.cell.2008.02.034; for example, the single-stranded RNA has a nucleotide sequence that
includes an A, G, or C (but not a U) at a position corresponding to the 5' terminus of the mature miRNA
that natively binds to the recognition site. For cleavage blockers expressed in transgenic plants, there is
in many embodiments preferably also a mismatch between the single-stranded RNA and the miRNA
recognition site at the position of the miRNA recognition site corresponding to positions 1 of the mature
miRNA to prevent transitivity of the suppression effect.
          [0050]   An alternative method for generating a cleavage blocker in vivo or in planta is to
express short single-stranded RNA from a strong promoter such as Pol II or Pol III promoters. This
single-stranded RNA preferably includes sequence that is complimentary to the mRNA only at the
miRNA recognition site. Because producing a cleavage blocker using this method does not require the
association of the RNA with an Argonaute or Ago protein, mismatches at positions 10 and 11 are not
required.
Target Genes
          [0051]   The recombinant DNA construct of this invention can be designed to modulate the
expression of any target gene or genes. The target gene can be translatable (coding) sequence, or can be
non-coding sequence (such as non-coding regulatory sequence), or both, and can include at least one
gene selected from the group consisting of a eukaryotic target gene, a non-eukaryotic target gene, a
microRNA precursor DNA sequence, and a microRNA promoter. The target gene can be native
                                                       16

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
(endogenous) to the cell (e. g., a cell of a plant or animal) in which the recombinant DNA construct is
transcribed, or can be native to a pest or pathogen (or a symbiont of the pest or pathogen) of the plant or
animal in which the recombinant DNA construct is transcribed. The target gene can be an exogenous
gene, such as a transgene in a plant. A target gene can be a native gene targetted for suppression, with or
without concurrent expression of an exogenous transgene, for example, by including a gene expression
element in the recombinant DNA construct, or in a separate recombinant DNA construct. For example, it
can be desirable to replace a native gene with an exogenous transgene homologue.
         [0052]    The target gene can include a single gene or part of a single gene that is targetted for
suppression, or can include, for example, multiple consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple non
consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple alleles of a target gene, or multiple target genes from one
or more species. A target gene can include any sequence from any species (including, but not limited to,
non-eukaryotes such as bacteria, and viruses; fungi; plants, including monocots and dicots, such as crop
plants, ornamental plants, and non-domesticated or wild plants; invertebrates such as arthropods,
annelids, nematodes, and molluscs; and vertebrates such as amphibians, fish, birds, domestic or wild
mammals, and even humans.
         [0053]    In one embodiment, the target gene is exogenous to the plant in which the recombinant
DNA construct is to be transcribed, but endogenous to a pest or pathogen (e. g., viruses, bacteria, fungi,
oomycetes, and invertebrates such as insects, nematodes, and molluscs), or to a symbiont of the pest or
pathogen, of the plant. The target gene can include multiple target genes, or multiple segments of one or
more genes. In one embodiment, the target gene or genes is a gene or genes of an invertebrate pest or
pathogen of the plant. Thus, a recombinant DNA construct of this invention can be transcribed in a plant
and used to modulate the expression of a gene of a pathogen or pest that may infest the plant. These
embodiments are particularly useful in providing non-natural transgenic plants having resistance to one
or more plant pests or pathogens, for example, resistance to a nematode such as soybean cyst nematode
or root knot nematode or to a pest insect.
         [0054]    Where the target gene is that of an invertebrate pest, the invertebrate pest is at least one
or more invertebrate selected from the group consisting of insects, arachnids (e. g., mites), nematodes,
molluscs (e. g., slugs and snails), and annelids, and can include an invertebrate associated with an
invertebrate pest in a symbiotic relationship (e. g., the mutualistic relationship between some ant and
aphid species). The term "symbiotic" relationship as used herein encompasses both facultative (non
obligate) and obligate symbioses wherein at least one of the two or more associated species benefits, and
further includes mutualistic, commensal, and parasitic relationships. Symbionts also include non
invertebrate symbionts, such as prokaryotes and eukaryotic protists. An invertebrate pest can be
controlled indirectly by targetting a symbiont that is associated, internally or externally, with the
invertebrate pest. For example, prokaryotic symbionts are known to occur in the gut or other tissues of
many invertebrates, including invertebrate pests of interest. examples of a targetted symbiont associated
with an invertebrate pest include the aphid endosymbiotic bacteria Buchnera; Wolbachia bacteria that
infect many insects; Baunannia cicadellinicolaand Sulcia muelleri, the co-symbiotic bacteria of the
                                                        17

    WO 2010/002984                                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
glassy-winged sharpshooter (Homalodisca coagulata),which transmits the Pierce's disease pathogen
Xylellafastidiosa; and eukaryotic protist (flagellate) endosymbionts in termites. In an alternative
approach, expression of an endogenous target gene of the invertebrate pest can be modified in such a way
as to control a symbiont of the invertebrate, in turn affecting the host invertebrate.
          [0055]    The target gene can be translatable (coding) sequence, or can be non-coding sequence
(such as non-coding regulatory sequence), or both. examples of a target gene include non-translatable
(non-coding) sequence, such as, but not limited to, 5' untranslated regions, promoters, enhancers, or other
non-coding transcriptional regions, 3' untranslated regions, terminators, and introns. Target genes
include genes encoding microRNAs, small interfering RNAs, and other small RNAs associated with a
silencing complex (RISC) or an Argonaute protein; RNA components of ribosomes or ribozymes; small
nucleolar RNAs; and other non-coding RNAs. Target genes can also include genes encoding
transcription factors and genes encoding enzymes involved in the biosynthesis or catabolism of
molecules of interest (such as, but not limited to, amino acids, fatty acids and other lipids, sugars and
other carbohydrates, biological polymers, and secondary metabolites including alkaloids, terpenoids,
polyketides, non-ribosomal peptides, and secondary metabolites of mixed biosynthetic origin).
          [0056]    In many embodiments, the target gene is an essential gene of a plant pest or pathogen
(or of a symbiont of the pest or pathogen). Essential genes include genes that are required for
development of the pest or pathogen to a fertile reproductive adult. Essential genes include genes that,
when silenced or suppressed, result in the death of the organism (as an adult or at any developmental
stage, including gametes) or in the organism's inability to successfully reproduce (e. g., sterility in a male
or female parent or lethality to the zygote, embryo, or larva). A description of nematode essential genes
is found, e. g., in Kemphues, K. "Essential Genes" (December 24, 2005), WormBook, ed. The C. elegans
Research Community, WormBook, doi/10.1895/wonnbook.1.57.1, available on line at
www.wormbook.org. A description of insect genes is publicly available at the Drosophilagenome
database (available on line at flybase.bio.indiana.edu/), and 438 essential genes have been identified for
Drosophila as a representative insect; see Boutros et al. (2004) Science, 303:832-835, and supporting
material available on line at www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/303/5659/832/DC1.            A description of
bacterial and fungal essential genes is provided in the Database of Essential Genes ("DEG", available on
line at tubic.tju.edu.cn/deg/). Essential genes include those that influence other genes, where the overall
effect is the death of the invertebrate pest or loss of the invertebrate pest's inability to successfully
reproduce. In an example, suppression of the Drosophilahomeobox gene Caudalleads eventually to
host mortality caused by disequilibrium of the insect's commensal gut bacterial population (Ryu et al.
(2008) Science, 319:777-782) and thus Caudal as well as the antimicrobial peptide genes directly
controlled by Caudal are both considered essential genes.
          [0057]    Plant pest invertebrates include, but are not limited to, pest nematodes, pest molluscs
(slugs and snails), pest annelids, and pest insects. Plant pathogens of interest include fungi, oomycetes,
bacteria (e. g., the bacteria that cause leaf spotting, fireblight, crown gall, and bacterial wilt), mollicutes,
and viruses (e. g., the viruses that cause mosaics, vein banding, flecking, spotting, or abnormal growth).
                                                         18

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
See also G. N. Agrios, "Plant Pathology" (Fourth Edition), Academic Press, San Diego, 1997, 635 pp.,
for descriptions of fungi, bacteria, mollicutes (including mycoplasmas and spiroplasmas), viruses,
nematodes, parasitic higher plants, and flagellate protozoans, all of which are plant pests or pathogens of
interest. See also the updated compilation of plant pests and pathogens and the diseases caused by such
on the American Phytopathological Society's "Common Names of Plant Diseases", available online at
www.apsnet.org/online/common/top.asp.
          [0058]    Examples of fungal plant pathogens of particular interest include, e. g., the fungi that
cause powdery mildew, rust, leaf spot and blight, damping-off, root rot, crown rot, cotton boll rot, stem
canker, twig canker, vascular wilt, smut, or mold, including, but not limited to, Fusariumspp.,
Phakospora spp., Rhizoctonia spp., Aspergillus spp., Gibberella spp., Pyriculariaspp., and Alternaria
spp., and the numerous fungal species provided in Tables 4 and 5 of U. S. Patent 6,194,636, which is
specifically incorporated in its entirety by reference herein. examples of plant pathogens include
pathogens previously classified as fungi but more recently classified as oomycetes. Specific examples of
oomycete plant pathogens of particular interest include members of the genus Pythiumn (e. g., Pythium
aphanidermatum)and Phytophthora (e. g., Phytophthorainfestans, Phytophthorasojae,) and organisms
that cause downy mildew (e. g., Peronosporafarinosa).
          [0059]    Examples of invertebrate pests include cyst nematodes Heterodera spp. especially
soybean cyst nematode Heteroderaglycines, root knot nematodes Meloidogyne spp., corn rootworms
(Diabroticaspp.), Lygus spp., aphids and similar sap-sucking insects such as phylloxera (Daktulosphaira
vitifoliae), corn borers, cutworms, armyworms, leafhoppers, Japanese beetles, grasshoppers, and other
pest coleopterans, dipterans, and lepidopterans.
          [0060]   Specific examples of suitable target genes also include genes involved in amino acid or
fatty acid synthesis, storage, or catabolism, genes involved in multi-step biosynthesis pathways, where it
may be of interest to regulate the level of one or more intermediate; and genes encoding cell-cycle
control proteins. Target genes can include genes encoding undesirable proteins (e. g., allergens or toxins)
or the enzymes for the biosynthesis of undesirable compounds (e. g., undesirable flavor or odor
components).
          [0061]   The recombinant DNA construct can be designed to be more specifically modulate the
expression of the target gene, for example, by designing the recombinant DNA construct to include DNA
that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the target gene
transcript, wherein the single-stranded RNA includes a nucleotide sequence substantially non-identical
(or non-complementary) to a non-target gene sequence (and is thus less likely to bind to a non-target
gene transcript). In one example, the recombinant DNA construct is designed to suppress a target gene
that is a gene endogenous to a single species (e. g., Western corn rootworm, Diabroticavirgifera
virgifera LeConte) but to not suppress a non-target gene such as genes from related, even closely related,
species (e. g., Northern corn rootworm, Diabroticabarberi Smith and Lawrence, or Southern corn
rootworm, Diabroticaundecimpunctata). In other embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct is
designed to modulate the expression of a target gene sequence common to multiple species in which the
                                                       19

    WO 2010/002984                                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
target gene is to be silenced. For example, a recombinant DNA construct for modulating a target gene in
corn rootworm can be selected to be specific to all members of the genus Diabrotica. In a further
example of this embodiment, such a Diabrotica-targettedrecombinant DNA construct can be selected so
as to not target any gene sequence from beneficial insect species.
Promoters
          [0062]    Generally, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes a promoter,
functional in the cell in which the construct is intended to be transcribed, and operably linked to the DNA
that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at
least one target gene. In various embodiments, the promoter is selected from the group consisting of a
constitutive promoter, a spatially specific promoter, a temporally specific promoter, a developmentally
specific promoter, and an inducible promoter.
          [0063]    Non-constitutive promoters suitable for use with the recombinant DNA constructs of
the invention include spatially specific promoters, temporally specific promoters, and inducible
promoters. Spatially specific promoters can include organelle-, cell-, tissue-, or organ-specific promoters
(e. g., a plastid-specific, a root-specific, a pollen-specific, or a seed-specific promoter for suppressing
expression of the first target RNA in plastids, roots, pollen, or seeds, respectively). In many cases a seed
specific, embryo-specific, aleurone-specific, or endosperm-specific promoter is especially useful.
Temporally specific promoters can include promoters that tend to promote expression during certain
developmental stages in a plant's growth cycle, or during different times of day or night, or at different
seasons in a year. Inducible promoters include promoters induced by chemicals or by environmental
conditions such as, but not limited to, biotic or abiotic stress (e. g., water deficit or drought, heat, cold,
high or low nutrient or salt levels, high or low light levels, or pest or pathogen infection). Of particular
interest are microRNA promoters, especially those having a temporally specific, spatially specific, or
inducible expression pattern; examples of miRNA promoters, as well as methods for identifying miRNA
promoters having specific expression patterns, are provided in U. S. Patent Application Publications
2006/0200878, 2007/0199095, and 2007/0300329, which are specifically incorporated herein by
reference. An expression-specific promoter can also include promoters that are generally constitutively
expressed but at differing degrees or "strengths" of expression, including promoters commonly regarded
as "strong promoters" or as "weak promoters".
          [0064]    Promoters of particular interest include the following examples: an opaline synthase
promoter isolated from T-DNA of Agrobacterium;a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter; enhanced
promoter elements or chimeric promoter elements such as an enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV)
35S promoter linked to an enhancer element (an intron from heat shock protein 70 of Zea mays); root
specific promoters such as those disclosed in U.S. Patents 5,837,848; 6,437,217 and 6,426,446; a maize
L3 oleosin promoter disclosed in U.S. Patent 6,433,252; a promoter for a plant nuclear gene encoding a
plastid-localized aldolase disclosed in U. S. Patent Application Publication 2004/0216189; cold-inducible
promoters disclosed in U.S. Patent 6,084,089; salt-inducible promoters disclosed in U. S. Patent Number
                                                        20

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
6,140,078; light-inducible promoters disclosed in U.S. Patent 6,294,714; pathogen-inducible promoters
disclosed in U.S. Patent 6,252,138; and water deficit-inducible promoters disclosed in U.S. Patent
Application Publication 2004/0123347 Al. All of the above-described patents and patent publications
disclosing promoters and their use, especially in recombinant DNA constructs functional in plants are
incorporated herein by reference.
          [0065]    Plant vascular- or phloem-specific promoters of interest include a rolC or rolA promoter
of Agrobacterium rhizogenes, a promoter of a Agrobacterium tumefaciens T-DNA gene 5, the rice
sucrose synthase RSsl gene promoter, a Commelina yellow mottle badnavirus promoter, a coconut foliar
decay virus promoter, a rice tungro bacilliform virus promoter, the promoter of a pea glutamine synthase
GS3A gene, a invCD 111 and invCD 141 promoters of a potato invertase genes, a promoter isolated from
Arabidopsis shown to have phloem-specific expression in tobacco by Kertbundit et al. (1991) Proc. Nail.
Acad. Sci. USA., 88:5212-5216, a VAHOXI promoter region, a pea cell wall invertase gene promoter,
an acid invertase gene promoter from carrot, a promoter of a sulfate transporter gene Sultrl 3, a promoter
of a plant sucrose synthase gene, and a promoter of a plant sucrose transporter gene.
          [0066]    Promoters suitable for use with a recombinant DNA construct of this invention include
polymerase II ("pol II") promoters and polymerase III ("pol III") promoters. RNA polymerase II
transcribes structural or catalytic RNAs that are usually shorter than 400 nucleotides in length, and
recognizes a simple run of T residues as a termination signal; it has been used to transcribe siRNA
duplexes (see, e. g., Lu et al. (2004) Nucleic Acids Res., 32:e171). Pol II promoters are therefore
preferred in certain embodiments where a short RNA transcript is to be produced from a recombinant
DNA construct of this invention. In one embodiment, the recombinant DNA construct includes a pol II
promoter to express an RNA transcript flanked by self-cleaving ribozyme sequences (e. g., self-cleaving
hannerhead ribozymes), resulting in a processed RNA, including single-stranded RNA that binds to the
transcript of at least one target gene, with defined 5' and 3' ends, free of potentially interfering flanking
sequences. An alternative approach uses pol III promoters to generate transcripts with relatively defined
5' and 3' ends, i. e., to transcribe an RNA with minimal 5' and 3' flanking sequences. In some
embodiments, Pol III promoters (e. g., U6 or HI promoters) are preferred for adding a short AT-rich
transcription termination site that results in 2 base-pair overhangs (UU) in the transcribed RNA; this is
useful, e. g., for expression of siRNA-type constructs. Use of pol III promoters for driving expression of
siRNA constructs has been reported; see van de Wetering et al. (2003) EMBO Rep., 4: 609-615, and
Tuschl (2002) Nature Biotechnol., 20: 446-448.
          [0067]    The promoter element can include nucleic acid sequences that are not naturally
occurring promoters or promoter elements or homologues thereof but that can regulate expression of a
gene. Examples of such "gene independent" regulatory sequences include naturally occurring or
artificially designed RNA sequences that include a ligand-binding region or aptamer (sec "Aptamers",
below) and a regulatory region (which can be cis-acting). See, for example, Isaacs et al. (2004) Nat.
Biotechnol., 22:841-847, Bayer and Smolke (2005) Nature Biotechnol., 23:337-343, Mandal and Breaker
(2004) Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol., 5:451-463, Davidson and Ellington (2005) Trends Biotechnol.,
                                                       21

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
23:109-112, Winkler et al. (2002) Nature, 419:952-956, Sudarsan et al. (2003) RNA, 9:644-647, and
Mandal and Breaker (2004) Nature Struct.Mol. Biol., 11:29-35. Such "riboregulators" could be selected
or designed for specific spatial or temporal specificity, for example, to regulate translation of the DNA
that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at
least one target gene only in the presence (or absence) of a given concentration of the appropriate ligand.
One example is a riboregulator that is responsive to an endogenous ligand (e. g., jasmonic acid or
salicylic acid) produced by the plant when under stress (e. g., abiotic stress such as water, temperature, or
nutrient stress, or biotic stress such as attach by pests or pathogens); under stress, the level of endogenous
ligand increases to a level sufficient for the riboregulator to begin transcription of the DNA that
undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least
one target gene.
Aptamers
          [0068]   In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes DNA
that is processed to an RNA aptamer, that is, an RNA that binds to a ligand through binding mechanism
that is not primarily based on Watson-Crick base-pairing (in contrast, for example, to the base-pairing
that occurs between complementary, anti-parallel nucleic acid strands to form a double-stranded nucleic
acid structure). See, for example, Ellington and Szostak (1990) Nature, 346:818-822. Examples of
aptamers can be found, for example, in the public Aptamer Database, available on line at
aptamer.icmb.utexas.edu (Lee et al. (2004) Nucleic Acids Res., 32(1):D95-100). Aptamers useful in the
invention can, however, be monovalent (binding a single ligand) or multivalent (binding more than one
individual ligand, e. g., binding one unit of two or more different ligands).
          [0069]   Ligands useful in the invention include any molecule (or part of a molecule) that can be
recognized and be bound by a nucleic acid secondary structure by a mechanism not primarily based on
Watson-Crick base pairing. In this way, the recognition and binding of ligand and aptamer is analogous
to that of antigen and antibody, or of biological effector and receptor. Ligands can include single
molecules (or part of a molecule), or a combination of two or more molecules (or parts of a molecule),
and can include one or more macromolecular complexes (e. g., polymers, lipid bilayers, liposomes,
cellular membranes or other cellular structures, or cell surfaces). Examples of specific ligands include
vitamins such as coenzyme B12 and thiamine pyrophosphate, flavin mononucleotide, guanine, adenosine,
S-adenosylmethionine, S-adenosylhomocysteine, coenzyme A, lysine, tyrosine, dopamine, glucosamine
6-phosphate, caffeine, theophylline, antibiotics such as chloramphenicol and neomycin, herbicides such
as glyphosate and dicamba, proteins including viral or phage coat proteins and invertebrate epidermal or
digestive tract surface proteins, and RNAs including viral RNA, transfer-RNAs (t-RNAs), ribosomal
RNA (rRNA), and RNA polymerases such as RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP). One class of
RNA aptamers useful in the invention are "thermoswitches" that do not bind a ligand but are thermally
responsive, that is to say, the aptamer's conformation is determined by temperature; see, for example,
Box 3 in Mandal and Breaker (2004) Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol., 5:451-463.
                                                       22

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
Transgene Transcription Units
          [0070]    In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes a
transgene transcription unit. A transgene transcription unit includes DNA sequence encoding a gene of
interest, e. g., a natural protein or a heterologous protein. A gene of interest can be any coding or non
coding sequence from any species (including, but not limited to, non-eukaryotes such as bacteria, and
viruses; fungi, protists, plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates. Genes of interest include those genes also
described above as target genes, under the heading "Target Genes". The transgene transcription unit can
further include 5' or 3' sequence or both as required for transcription of the transgene.
Introns
          [0071]    In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes DNA
encoding a spliceable intron. By "intron" is generally meant a segment of DNA (or the RNA transcribed
from such a segment) that is located between exons (protein-encoding segments of the DNA or
corresponding transcribed RNA), wherein, during maturation of the messenger RNA, the intron present is
enzymatically "spliced out" or removed from the RNA strand by a cleavage/ligation process that occurs
in the nucleus in eukaryotes. The term "intron" is also applied to non-coding DNA sequences that are
transcribed to RNA segments that can be spliced out of a maturing RNA transcript, but are not introns
found between protein-coding exons. One example of these are spliceable sequences that that have the
ability to enhance expression in plants (in some cases, especially in monocots) of a downstream coding
sequence; these spliceable sequences are naturally located in the 5' untranslated region of some plant
genes, as well as in some viral genes (e. g., the tobacco mosaic virus 5' leader sequence or "omega"
leader described as enhancing expression in plant genes by Gallie and Walbot (1992) Nucleic Acids Res.,
20:4631-4638). These spliceable sequences or "expression-enhancing introns" can be artificially inserted
in the 5' untranslated region of a plant gene between the promoter but before any protein-coding exons.
Examples of such expression-enhancing introns include, but are not limited to, a maize alcohol
dehydrogenase (Zm-Adhl), a maize Bronze-I expression-enhancing intron, a rice actin 1 (Os-Act])
intron, a Shrunken-i (Sh-1) intron, a maize sucrose synthase intron, a heat shock protein 18 (hsp18)
intron, and an 82 kilodalton heat shock protein (hsp82) intron. U. S. Patents 5,593,874 and 5,859,347,
specifically incorporated by reference herein, describe methods of improving recombinant DNA
constructs for use in plants by inclusion of an expression-enhancing intron derived from the 70 kilodalton
maize heat shock protein (hsp70) in the non-translated leader positioned 3' from the gene promoter and 5'
from the first protein-coding exon.
Ribozymes
          [0072]    In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes DNA
encoding one or more ribozymes. Ribozymes of particular interest include a self-cleaving ribozyme, a
hammerhead ribozyme, or a hairpin ribozyme. In one embodiment, the recombinant DNA construct
                                                       23

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
includes DNA encoding one or more ribozymes that serve to cleave the transcribed RNA to provide
defined segments of RNA, such as the single-stranded RNA that binds to the target gene transcript.
Recombinases
          [0073]     In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes DNA
encoding one or more site-specific recombinase recognition sites. In one embodiment, the recombinant
DNA construct includes at least a pair of loxP sites, wherein site-specific recombination of DNA between
the loxP sites is mediated by a Cre recombinase. The position and relative orientation of the loxP sites is
selected to achieve the desired recombination; for example, when the loxP sites are in the same
orientation, the DNA between the loxP sites is excised in circular form. In another embodiment, the
recombinant DNA construct includes DNA encoding one loxP site; in the presence of Cre recombinase
and another DNA with a loxP site, the two DNAs are recombined.
Gene Suppression Elements
          [0074]     In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention further
includes DNA encoding a gene suppression element. Gene suppression elements include any DNA
sequence (or RNA sequence encoded therein) designed to specifically suppress a gene or genes of
interest, which can be a gene endogenous to the cell in which the recombinant DNA construct is
transcribed, or a gene exogenous to that cell. The gene to be suppressed can be any of those disclosed as
target genes under the heading "Target Genes".
          [0075]     Suitable gene suppression elements are described in detail in U. S. Patent Application
Publication 2006/0200878, which disclosure is specifically incorporated herein by reference, and include
one or more of:
           (a) DNA that includes at least one anti-sense DNA segment that is anti-sense to at least one
               segment of the gene to be suppressed;
          (b) DNA that includes multiple copies of at least one anti-sense DNA segment that is anti-sense
               to at least one segment of the gene to be suppressed e;
          (c) DNA that includes at least one sense DNA segment that is at least one segment of the gene to
               be suppressed;
          (d) DNA that includes multiple copies of at least one sense DNA segment that is at least one
               segment of the gene to be suppressed;
          (e) DNA that transcribes to RNA for suppressing the gene to be suppressed by forming double
               stranded RNA and includes at least one anti-sense DNA segment that is anti-sense to at least
               one segment of the gene to be suppressed and at least one sense DNA segment that is at least
               one segment of the gene to be suppressed;
          (f) DNA that transcribes to RNA for suppressing the gene to be suppressed by forming a single
               double-stranded RNA and includes multiple serial anti-sense DNA segments that are anti
                                                       24

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
             sense to at least one segment of the gene to be suppressed and multiple serial sense DNA
             segments that are at least one segment of the gene to be suppressed;
         (g) DNA that transcribes to RNA for suppressing the gene to be suppressed by forming multiple
             double strands of RNA and includes multiple anti-sense DNA segments that are anti-sense to
             at least one segment of the gene to be suppressed and multiple sense DNA segments that are
             at least one segment of the gene to be suppressed, and wherein the multiple anti-sense DNA
             segments and the multiple sense DNA segments are arranged in a series of inverted repeats;
         (h) DNA that includes nucleotides derived from a plant miRNA;
         (i) DNA that includes nucleotides of a siRNA;
         (j) DNA that transcribes to an RNA aptamer capable of binding to a ligand; and
         (k) DNA that transcribes to an RNA aptamer capable of binding to a ligand, and DNA that
transcribes to regulatory RNA capable of regulating expression of the gene to be suppressed, wherein the
regulation is dependent on the conformation of the regulatory RNA, and the conformation of the
regulatory RNA is allosterically affected by the binding state of the RNA aptamer.
         [0076]    In some embodiments, an intron is used to deliver a gene suppression element in the
absence of any protein-coding exons (coding sequence). In one example, an intron, such as an
expression-enhancing intron (preferred in certain embodiments), is interrupted by embedding within the
intron a gene suppression element, wherein, upon transcription, the gene suppression element is excised
from the intron. Thus, protein-coding exons are not required to provide the gene suppressing function of
the recombinant DNA constructs disclosed herein.
Transcription Regulatory Elements
         [0077]    In some embodiments, the recombinant DNA construct of this invention includes DNA
encoding a transcription regulatory element. Transcription regulatory elements include elements that
regulate the expression level of the recombinant DNA construct of this invention (relative to its
expression in the absence of such regulatory elements). Examples of suitable transcription regulatory
elements include riboswitches (cis- or trans-acting),transcript stabilizing sequences, and miRNA
recognition sites, as described in detail in U. S. Patent Application Publication 2006/0200878,
specifically incorporated herein by reference.
Making and Using Recombinant DNA Constructs
         [0078]    The recombinant DNA constructs of this invention are made by any method suitable to
the intended application, taking into account, for example, the type of expression desired and
convenience of use in the plant in which the construct is to be transcribed. General methods for making
and using DNA constructs and vectors are well known in the art and described in detail in, for example,
handbooks and laboratory manuals including Sambrook and Russell, "Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
Manual" (third edition), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, NY, 2001. An example of useful
technology for building DNA constructs and vectors for transformation is disclosed in U. S. Patent
                                                       25

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
Application Publication 2004/0115642 Al, specifically incorporated herein by reference. DNA
constructs can also be built using the GATEWAYTM cloning technology (available from Invitrogen Life
Technologies, Carlsbad, CA), which uses the site-specific recombinase LR cloning reaction of the
Integrase/att system from bacteriophage lambda vector construction, instead of restriction endonucleases
and ligases. The LR cloning reaction is disclosed in U. S. Patents 5,888,732 and 6,277,608, and in U. S.
Patent Application Publications 2001/283529, 2001/282319 and 2002/0007051, all of which are
specifically incorporated herein by reference. Another alternative vector fabrication method employs
ligation-independent cloning as disclosed by Aslandis et al. (1990) Nucleic Acids Res., 18:6069-6074 and
Rashtchian et al. (1992) Biochem., 206:91-97, where a DNA fragment with single-stranded 5' and 3'
ends is ligated into a desired vector which can then be amplified in vivo.
         [0079]    In certain embodiments, the DNA sequence of the recombinant DNA construct includes
sequence that has been codon-optimized for the plant in which the recombinant DNA construct is to be
expressed. For example, a recombinant DNA construct to be expressed in a plant can have all or parts of
its sequence (e. g., the first gene suppression element or the gene expression element) codon-optimized
for expression in a plant by methods known in the art. See, e. g., U. S. Patent 5,500,365, incorporated by
reference, for a description of codon-optimization methodology for plants; see also De Amicis and
Marchetti (2000) Nucleic Acid Res., 28:3339-3346.
NON-NATURAL TRANSGENIC PLANT CELLS, PLANTS, AND                 SEEDS
         [0080]    In another aspect, this invention provides a non-natural transgenic plant cell having in
its genome a recombinant DNA construct of this invention including DNA that undergoes processing to
an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of the hybridized segment. This invention
further provides a non-natural transgenic plant including the non-natural transgenic plant cell. In one
embodiment, the non-natural transgenic plant is wholly composed of transgenic tissue. In another
embodiment, the non-natural plant is a partially transgenic plant and includes non-transgenic tissue; in
one example, the non-natural partially transgenic plant includes a non-transgenic scion and a transgenic
rootstock including the non-natural transgenic plant cell. Further provided by this invention is a non
natural transgenic seed including the non-natural transgenic plant cell.
         [0081]    A non-natural transgenic plant of this invention includes plants of any developmental
stage, and includes a non-natural regenerated plant prepared from the non-natural transgenic plant cells
disclosed herein, or a non-natural progeny plant (which can be an inbred or hybrid progeny plant) of the
regenerated plant, or seed of such a non-natural transgenic plant. Also provided is a non-natural
transgenic seed having in its genome a recombinant DNA construct of this invention. The non-natural
transgenic plant cells, transgenic plants, and transgenic seeds of this invention are made by methods well
known in the art, as described below under the heading "Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells and
Transgenic Plants".
                                                       26

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
          [0082]    The non-natural transgenic plant cell can include an isolated plant cell (e. g., individual
plant cells or cells grown in or on an artificial culture medium), or can include a plant cell in
undifferentiated tissue (e. g., callus or any aggregation of plant cells). The non-natural transgenic plant
cell can include a plant cell in at least one differentiated tissue selected from the group consisting of leaf
(e. g., petiole and blade), root, stem (e. g., tuber, rhizome, stolon, bulb, and corm) stalk (e. g., xylem,
phloem), wood, seed, fruit, and flower (e. g., stamen, filament, anther, pollen, microspore, carpel, pistil,
ovary, ovules). The non-natural transgenic plant cell or non-natural transgenic plant of the invention can
be stably transformed, e. g., fertile transgenic plants and their non-natural transgenic seed also containing
the recombinant construct of this invention.
          [0083]    In some embodiments of this invention, the non-natural plant is a non-natural transgenic
plant. In such embodiments, all cells (with the possible exception of haploid cells) and tissues of the
non-natural plant contain the recombinant DNA construct of this invention. In other embodiments, the
non-natural plant is partially transgenic, and includes natural non-transgenic tissue (for example, non
natural transgenic tissue grafted onto natural non-transgenic tissue). In one embodiment, the non-natural
plant includes a natural non-transgenic scion and a non-natural transgenic rootstock including the
transgenic plant cell, wherein the non-transgenic scion and transgenic rootstock are grafted together.
Such embodiments are particularly useful where the plant is one that is commonly vegetatively grown as
a scion grafted onto a rootstock (wherein scion and rootstock can be of the same species or variety or of
different species or variety); examples include grapes, apples, pears, quince, avocados, citrus, stone
fruits, kiwifruit, roses, and other plants of agricultural or ornamental importance. Specifically claimed
embodiments include embodiments where (a) the non-natural partially transgenic plant includes a natural
non-transgenic grape scion and a non-natural transgenic grape rootstock; and (b) the non-natural partially
transgenic plant includes a natural non-transgenic fruit tree (e. g., pear) scion and a non-natural
transgenic fruit tree (e. g., quince) rootstock.
Making and Using Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants
          [0084]    Where a recombinant DNA construct of this invention is used to produce a non-natural
transgenic plant cell, plant, or seed of this invention, ransformation can include any of the well-known
and demonstrated methods and compositions. Suitable methods for plant transformation include virtually
any method by which DNA can be introduced into a cell. One method of plant transformation is
microprojectile bombardment, for example, as illustrated in U.S. Patents 5,015,580 (soybean), 5,538,880
(maize), 5,550,318 (maize), 5,914,451 (soybean), 6,153,812 (wheat), 6,160,208 (maize), 6,288,312 (rice),
6,365,807 (rice), and 6,399,861 (maize), and 6,403,865 (maize), all of which are incorporated by
reference for enabling the production of transgenic plants.
          [0085]    Another useful method of plant transformation is Agrobacteriuin-mediated
transformation by means of Agrobacterium containing a binary Ti plasmid system, wherein the
Agrobacteriumcarries a first Ti plasmid and a second, chimeric plasmid containing at least one T-DNA
border of a wild-type Ti plasmid, a promoter functional in the transformed plant cell and operably linked
                                                         27

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
to a gene suppression construct of the invention. See, for example, the binary system described in U. S.
Patent 5,159,135, incorporated by reference. Also see De Framond (1983) Biotechnology, 1:262-269;
and Hoekema et al., (1983) Nature, 303:179. In such a binary system, the smaller plasmid, containing
the T-DNA border or borders, can be conveniently constructed and manipulated in a suitable alternative
host, such as E. coli, and then transferred into Agrobacteriun.
         [0086]    Detailed procedures for Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation of plants, especially
crop plants, include procedures disclosed in U. S. Patents 5,004,863, 5,159,135, and 5,518,908 (cotton);
5,416,011, 5,569,834, 5,824,877 and 6,384,301 (soybean); 5,591,616 and 5,981,840 (maize); 5,463,174
(brassicas including canola), 7,026,528 (wheat), and 6,329,571 (rice), and in U. S. Patent Application
Publications 2004/0244075 (maize) and 2001/0042257 Al (sugar beet), all of which are specifically
incorporated by reference for enabling the production of transgenic plants. Similar methods have been
reported for many plant species, both dicots and monocots, including, among others, peanut (Cheng et al.
(1996) PlantCell Rep., 15: 653); asparagus (Bytebier et al. (1987) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.,
84:5345); barley (Wan and Lemaux (1994) PlantPhysiol., 104:37); rice (Toriyama et al. (1988)
Bio/Technology, 6:10; Zhang et al. (1988) Plant Cell Rep., 7:379; wheat (Vasil et al. (1992)
Bio/Technology, 10:667; Becker et al. (1994) PlantJ. , 5:299), alfalfa (Masoud et al. (1996) Transgen.
Res., 5:313); and tomato (Sun et al. (2006) Plant Cell Physiol., 47:426-43 1). See also a description of
vectors, transformation methods, and production of transformed Arabidopsis thalianaplants where
transcription factors are constitutively expressed by a CaMV35S promoter, in U. S. Patent Application
Publication 2003/0167537 Al, incorporated by reference. Various methods of transformation of other
plant species are well known in the art, see, for example, the encyclopedic reference, "Compendium of
Transgenic Crop Plants", edited by Chittaranjan Kole and Timothy C. Hall, Blackwell Publishing Ltd.,
2008; ISBN 978-1-405-16924-0 (available electronically at
mrw.interscience.wiley.com/emrw/9781405181099/hpt/toc), which describes transformation procedures
for cereals and forage grasses (rice, maize, wheat, barley, oat, sorghum, pearl millet, finger millet, cool
season forage grasses, and bahiagrass), oilsee crops (soybean, oilseed brassicas, sunflower, peanut, flax,
sesame, and safflower), legume grains and forages (common bean, cowpea, pea, faba bean, lentil, tepary
bean, Asiatic beans, pigeonpea, vetch, chickpea, lupin, alfalfa, and clovers), temperate fruits and nuts
(apple, pear, peach, plums, berry crops, cherries, grapes, olive, almond, and Persian walnut), tropical and
subtropical fruits and nuts (citrus, grapefruit, banana and plantain, pineapple, papaya, mango, avocado,
kiwifruit, passionfruit, and persimmon), vegetable crops (tomato, eggplant, peppers, vegetable brassicas,
radish, carrot, cucurbits, alliums, asparagus, and leafy vegetables), sugar, tuber, and fiber crops
(sugarcane, sugar beet, stvia, potato, sweet potato, cassava, and cotton), plantation crops, ornamentals,
and turf grasses (tobacco, coffee, cocoa, tea, rubber tree, medicinal plants, ornamentals, amd turf
grasses), and forest tree species One of ordinary skill in the art has various transformation methodologies
for production of stable transgenic plants.
         [0087]    Transformation methods to provide transgenic plant cells and transgenic plants
containing stably integrated recombinant DNA are preferably practiced in tissue culture on media and in
                                                      28

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
a controlled environment. "Media" refers to the numerous nutrient mixtures that are used to grow cells in
vitro, that is, outside of the intact living organism. Recipient cell targets include, but are not limited to,
meristem cells, callus, immature embryos or parts of embryos, and gametic cells such as microspores,
pollen, sperm, and egg cells. Any cell from which a fertile plant can be regenerated is contemplated as a
useful recipient cell for practice of the invention. Callus can be initiated from various tissue sources,
including, but not limited to, immature embryos or parts of embryos, seedling apical meristems,
microspores, and the like. Those cells which are capable of proliferating as callus can serve as recipient
cells for genetic transformation. Practical transformation methods and materials for making transgenic
plants of this invention (e. g., various media and recipient target cells, transformation of immature
embryos, and subsequent regeneration of fertile transgenic plants) are disclosed, for example, in U. S.
Patents 6,194,636 and 6,232,526 and U. S. Patent Application Publication 2004/0216189, which are
specifically incorporated by reference.
          [0088]    In general transformation practice, DNA is introduced into only a small percentage of
target cells in any one transformation experiment. Marker genes are generally used to provide an
efficient system for identification of those cells that are stably transformed by receiving and integrating a
transgenic DNA construct into their genomes. Preferred marker genes provide selective markers which
confer resistance to a selective agent, such as an antibiotic or herbicide. Any of the antibiotics or
herbicides to which a plant cell may be resistant can be a useful agent for selection. Potentially
transformed cells are exposed to the selective agent. In the population of surviving cells will be those
cells where, generally, the resistance-conferring gene is integrated and expressed at sufficient levels to
permit cell survival. Cells can be tested further to confirm stable integration of the recombinant DNA.
Commonly used selective marker genes include those conferring resistance to antibiotics such as
kanamycin or paromomycin (nptI), hygromycin B (aph IV) and gentamycin (aac3 and aacC4) or
resistance to herbicides such as glufosinate (bar orpat) and glyphosate (EPSPS). Examples of useful
selective marker genes and selection agents are illustrated in U. S. Patents 5,550,318, 5,633,435,
5,780,708, and 6,118,047, all of which are specifically incorporated by reference. Screenable markers or
reporters, such as markers that provide an ability to visually identify transformants can also be employed.
Examples of useful screenable markers include, for example, a gene expressing a protein that produces a
detectable color by acting on a chromogenic substrate (e. g., beta glucuronidase (GUS) (uidA) or
luciferase (luc)) or that itself is detectable, such as green fluorescent protein (GFP) (gfp) or an
immunogenic molecule. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many other useful markers or
reporters are available for use.
          [0089]    Detecting or measuring transcription of the recombinant DNA construct in the
transgenic plant cell of the invention can be achieved by any suitable method, including protein detection
methods (e. g., western blots, ELISAs, and other immunochemical methods), measurements of enzymatic
activity, or nucleic acid detection methods (e. g., Southern blots, northern blots, PCR, RT-PCR,
fluorescent in situ hybridization).
                                                         29

    WO 2010/002984                                                                       PCT/US2009/049392
          [0090]    Other suitable methods for detecting or measuring transcription of the recombinant
DNA construct in the transgenic plant cell of the invention include measurement of any other trait that is
a direct or proxy indication of the level of expression of the target gene in the transgenic plant cell in
which the recombinant DNA construct is transcribed, relative to the level of expression in one in which
the recombinant DNA is not transcribed, e. g., gross or microscopic morphological traits, growth rates,
yield, reproductive or recruitment rates, resistance to pests or pathogens, or resistance to biotic or abiotic
stress (e. g., water deficit stress, salt stress, nutrient stress, heat or cold stress). Such methods can use
direct measurements of a phenotypic trait or proxy assays (e. g., in plants, these assays include plant part
assays such as leaf or root assays to determine tolerance of abiotic stress). Such methods include direct
measurements of resistance to an invertebrate pest or pathogen (e. g., damage to plant tissues) or proxy
assays (e. g., plant yield assays, or bioassays such as the Western corn rootworm (Diabroticavirgifera
virgifera LeConte) larval bioassay described in International Patent Application Publication
W02005/110068 A2 and U. S. Patent Application Publication US 2006/0021087 Al, specifically
incorporated by reference, or the soybean cyst nematode bioassay described by Steeves et al. (2006)
Funct. PlantBiol., 33:991-999, wherein cysts per plant, cysts per gram root, eggs per plant, eggs per
gram root, and eggs per cyst are measured.
          [0091]   The recombinant DNA constructs of the invention can be stacked with other
recombinant DNA for imparting additional traits (e. g., in the case of transformed plants, traits including
herbicide resistance, pest resistance, cold germination tolerance, water deficit tolerance, and the like) for
example, by expressing or suppressing other genes. Constructs for coordinated decrease and increase of
gene expression are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004/0126845 Al, specifically
incorporated by reference.
          [0092]    Seeds of fertile transgenic plants can be harvested and used to grow progeny
generations, including hybrid generations, of transgenic plants of this invention that include the
recombinant DNA construct in their genome. Thus, in addition to direct transformation of a plant with a
recombinant DNA construct of this invention, transgenic plants of the invention can be prepared by
crossing a first plant having the recombinant DNA with a second plant lacking the construct. For
example, the recombinant DNA can be introduced into a plant line that is amenable to transformation to
produce a transgenic plant, which can be crossed with a second plant line to introgress the recombinant
DNA into the resulting progeny. A transgenic plant of the invention can be crossed with a plant line
having other recombinant DNA that confers one or more additional trait(s) (such as, but not limited to,
herbicide resistance, pest or disease resistance, environmental stress resistance, modified nutrient content,
and yield improvement) to produce progeny plants having recombinant DNA that confers both the
desired target sequence expression behavior and the additional trait(s).
          [0093]   In such breeding for combining traits the transgenic plant donating the additional trait
can be a male line (pollinator) and the transgenic plant carrying the base traits can be the female line.
The progeny of this cross segregate such that some of the plant will carry the DNA for both parental
traits and some will carry DNA for one parental trait; such plants can be identified by markers associated
                                                           30

    WO 2010/002984                                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
with parental recombinant DNA         Progeny plants carrying DNA for both parental traits can be crossed
back into the female parent line multiple times, e. g., usually 6 to 8 generations, to produce a
homozygous progeny plant with substantially the same genotype as one original transgenic parental line
as well as the recombinant DNA of the other transgenic parental line.
          [0094]    Yet another aspect of the invention is a transgenic plant grown from the transgenic seed
of the invention. This invention contemplates transgenic plants grown directly from transgenic seed
containing the recombinant DNA as well as progeny generations of plants, including inbred or hybrid
plant lines, made by crossing a transgenic plant grown directly from transgenic seed to a second plant not
grown from the same transgenic seed. Crossing can include, for example, the following steps:
              (a) plant seeds of the first parent plant (e. g., non-transgenic or a transgenic) and a second
                        parent plant that is transgenic according to the invention;
              (b) grow the seeds of the first and second parent plants into plants that bear flowers;
              (c) pollinate a flower from the first parent with pollen from the second parent; and
              (d) harvest seeds produced on the parent plant bearing the fertilized flower.
          [0095]    It is often desirable to introgress recombinant DNA into elite varieties, e. g., by
backcrossing, to transfer a specific desirable trait from one source to an inbred or other plant that lacks
that trait. This can be accomplished, for example, by first crossing a superior inbred ("A") (recurrent
parent) to a donor inbred ("B") (non-recurrent parent), which carries the appropriate gene(s) for the trait
in question, for example, a construct prepared in accordance with the current invention. The progeny of
this cross first are selected in the resultant progeny for the desired trait to be transferred from the non
recurrent parent "B", and then the selected progeny are mated back to the superior recurrent parent "A".
After five or more backcross generations with selection for the desired trait, the progeny can be
essentially hemizygous for loci controlling the characteristic being transferred, but are like the superior
parent for most or almost all other genes. The last backcross generation would be selfed to give progeny
which are pure breeding for the gene(s) being transferred, i. e., one or more transformation events.
          [0096]    Through a series of breeding manipulations, a selected DNA construct can be moved
from one line into an entirely different line without the need for further recombinant manipulation. One
can thus produce inbred plants which are true breeding for one or more DNA constructs. By crossing
different inbred plants, one can produce a large number of different hybrids with different combinations
of DNA constructs. In this way, plants can be produced which have the desirable agronomic properties
frequently associated with hybrids ("hybrid vigor"), as well as the desirable characteristics imparted by
one or more DNA constructs.
          [0097]    In certain transgenic plant cells and transgenic plants of the invention, it may be
desirable to concurrently express a gene of interest while also modulating expression of a target gene.
Thus, in some embodiments, the transgenic plant contains recombinant DNA further including a gene
expression element for expressing at least one gene of interest, and transcription of the recombinant DNA
construct of this invention is preferably effected with concurrent transcription of the gene expression
element.
                                                         31

    WO 2010/002984                                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
          [0098]    The recombinant DNA constructs of this invention can be transcribed in any plant cell
or tissue or in a whole plant of any developmental stage. Transgenic plants can be derived from any
monocot or dicot plant, such as, but not limited to, plants of commercial or agricultural interest, such as
crop plants (especially crop plants used for human food or animal feed), wood- or pulp-producing trees,
vegetable plants, fruit plants, and ornamental plants. Examples of plants of interest include grain crop
plants (such as wheat, oat, barley, maize, rye, triticale, rice, millet, sorghum, quinoa, amaranth, and
buckwheat); forage crop plants (such as forage grasses and forage dicots including alfalfa, vetch, clover,
and the like); oilseed crop plants (such as cotton, safflower, sunflower, soybean, canola, rapeseed, flax,
peanuts, and oil palm); tree nuts (such as walnut, cashew, hazelnut, pecan, almond, and the like);
sugarcane, coconut, date palm, olive, sugarbeet, tea, and coffee; wood- or pulp-producing trees;
vegetable crop plants such as legumes (for example, beans, peas, lentils, alfalfa, peanut), lettuce,
asparagus, artichoke, celery, carrot, radish, the brassicas (for example, cabbages, kales, mustards, and
other leafy brassicas, broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, turnip, kohlrabi), edible cucurbits (for
example, cucumbers, melons, summer squashes, winter squashes), edible alliums (for example, onions,
garlic, leeks, shallots, chives), edible members of the Solanaceae (for example, tomatoes, eggplants,
potatoes, peppers, groundcherries), and edible members of the Chenopodiaceae (for example, beet, chard,
spinach, quinoa, amaranth); fruit crop plants such as apple, pear, citrus fruits (for example, orange, lime,
lemon, grapefruit, and others), stone fruits (for example, apricot, peach, plum, nectarine), banana,
pineapple, grape, kiwifruit, papaya, avocado, and berries; plants grown for biomass or biofuel (for
example, Miscanthus grasses, switchgrass, jatropha, oil palm, eukaryotic microalgae such as
Botryococcus braunii,Chlorella spp., and Dunaliella spp., and eukaryotic macroalgae such as Gracilaria
spp., and Sargassum spp.); and ornamental plants including ornamental flowering plants, ornamental
trees and shrubs, ornamental groundcovers, and ornamental grasses.
          [0099]    This invention also provides commodity products produced from a non-natural
transgenic plant cell, plant, or seed of this invention, including, but not limited to, harvested leaves, roots,
shoots, tubers, stems, fruits, seeds, or other parts of a plant, meals, oils, extracts, fermentation or
digestion products, crushed or whole grains or seeds of a plant, or any food or non-food product
including such commodity products produced from a transgenic plant cell, plant, or seed of this
invention. The detection of one or more of nucleic acid sequences of the recombinant DNA constructs of
this invention in one or more commodity or commodity products contemplated herein is defacto
evidence that the commodity or commodity product contains or is derived from a non-natural transgenic
plant cell, plant, or seed of this invention.
          [00100]    In various embodiments, the non-natural transgenic plant having in its genome a
recombinant DNA construct of this invention has at least one additional altered trait, relative to a plant
lacking the recombinant DNA construct, selected from the group of traits consisting of:
         (a)      improved abiotic stress tolerance;
         (b)      improved biotic stress tolerance;
         (c)      modified primary metabolite composition;
                                                       32

    WO 2010/002984                                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
          (d)      modified secondary metabolite composition;
          (e)      modified trace element, carotenoid, or vitamin composition;
          (f)      improved yield;
          (g)      improved ability to use nitrogen, phosphate, or other nutrients;
          (h)      modified agronomic characteristics;
          (i)      modified growth or reproductive characteristics; and
          (j)      improved harvest, storage, or processing quality.
          [00101]     In some embodiments, the non-natural transgenic plant is characterized by: improved
tolerance of abiotic stress (e. g., tolerance of water deficit or drought, heat, cold, non-optimal nutrient or
salt levels, non-optimal light levels) or of biotic stress (e. g., crowding, allelopathy, or wounding); by a
modified primary metabolite (e. g., fatty acid, oil, amino acid, protein, sugar, or carbohydrate)
composition; a modified secondary metabolite (e. g., alkaloids, terpenoids, polyketides, non-ribosomal
peptides, and secondary metabolites of mixed biosynthetic origin) composition; a modified trace element
(e. g., iron, zinc), carotenoid (e. g., beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein, zeaxanthin, or other carotenoids and
xanthophylls), or vitamin (e. g., tocopherols) composition; improved yield (e. g., improved yield under
non-stress conditions or improved yield under biotic or abiotic stress); improved ability to use nitrogen,
phosphate, or other nutrients; modified agronomic characteristics (e. g., delayed ripening; delayed
senescence; earlier or later maturity; improved shade tolerance; improved resistance to root or stalk
lodging; improved resistance to "green snap" of stems; modified photoperiod response); modified growth
or reproductive characteristics (e. g., intentional dwarfing; intentional male sterility, useful, e. g., in
improved hybridization procedures; improved vegetative growth rate; improved germination; improved
male or female fertility); improved harvest, storage, or processing quality (e. g., improved resistance to
pests during storage, improved resistance to breakage, improved appeal to consumers); or any
combination of these traits.
          [00102]     In another embodiment, non-natural transgenic seed, or seed produced by the non
natural transgenic plant, has modified primary metabolite (e. g., fatty acid, oil, amino acid, protein, sugar,
or carbohydrate) composition, a modified secondary metabolite composition, a modified trace element,
carotenoid, or vitamin composition, an improved harvest, storage, or processing quality, or a combination
of these. In another embodiment, it can be desirable to change levels of native components of the
transgenic plant or seed of a transgenic plant, for example, to decrease levels of an allergenic protein or
glycoprotein or of a toxic metabolite.
          [00103]     Generally, screening a population of transgenic plants each regenerated from a
transgenic plant cell is performed to identify transgenic plant cells that develop into transgenic plants
having the desired trait. The transgenic plants are assayed to detect an enhanced trait, e. g., enhanced
water use efficiency, enhanced cold tolerance, increased yield, enhanced nitrogen use efficiency,
enhanced seed protein, and enhanced seed oil. Screening methods include direct screening for the trait in
a greenhouse or field trial or screening for a surrogate trait. Such analyses are directed to detecting
changes in the chemical composition, biomass, physiological properties, or morphology of the plant.
                                                         33

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
Changes in chemical compositions such as nutritional composition of grain are detected by analysis of
the seed composition and content of protein, free amino acids, oil, free fatty acids, starch, tocopherols, or
other nutrients. Changes in growth or biomass characteristics are detected by measuring plant height,
stem diameter, internode length, root and shoot dry weights, and (for grain-producing plants such as
maize, rice, or wheat) ear or seed head length and diameter. Changes in physiological properties are
identified by evaluating responses to stress conditions, e. g., assays under imposed stress conditions such
as water deficit, nitrogen or phosphate deficiency, cold or hot growing conditions, pathogen or insect
attack, light deficiency, or increased plant density. Other selection properties include days to pollen
shed, days to silking in maize, leaf extension rate, chlorophyll content, leaf temperature, stand, seedling
vigor, internode length, plant height, leaf number, leaf area, tillering, brace roots, staying green, stalk
lodging, root lodging, plant health, fertility, green snap, and pest resistance. In addition, phenotypic
characteristics of harvested seed may be evaluated; for example, in maize this can include the number of
kernels per row on the ear, number of rows of kernels on the ear, kernel abortion, kernel weight, kernel
size, kernel density and physical grain quality. The following illustrates examples of screening assays
useful for identifying desired traits in maize plants. These can be readily adapted for screening other
plants such as canola, cotton, and soybean either as hybrids or inbreds.
          [00104]    Transgenic maize plants having nitrogen use efficiency are identified by screening in
fields with three levels of nitrogen fertilizer being applied, e.g. low level (0 pounds/acre), medium level
(80 pounds/acre) and high level (180 pounds/acre). Plants with enhanced nitrogen use efficiency provide
higher yield as compared to control plants.
          [00105]    Transgenic maize plants having enhanced yield are identified by screening the
transgenic plants over multiple locations with plants grown under optimal production management
practices and maximum weed and pest control. A useful target for improved yield is a 5% to 10%
increase in yield as compared to yield produced by plants grown from seed for a control plant. Selection
methods may be applied in multiple and diverse geographic locations and over one or more planting
seasons to statistically distinguish yield improvement from natural environmental effects.
          [00106]    Transgenic maize plants having enhanced water use efficiency are identified by
screening plants in an assay where water is withheld for period to induce stress followed by watering to
revive the plants. For example, a useful selection process imposes 3 drought/re-water cycles on plants
over a total period of 15 days after an initial stress free growth period of 11 days. Each cycle consists of
5 days, with no water being applied for the first four days and a water quenching on the 5th day of the
cycle. The primary phenotypes analyzed by the selection method are the changes in plant growth rate as
determined by height and biomass during a vegetative drought treatment.
          [00107]    Transgenic maize plants having enhanced cold tolerance are identified by screening
plants in a cold germination assay and/or a cold tolerance field trial. In a cold germination assay trays of
transgenic and control seeds are placed in a dark growth chamber at 9.7 degrees Celsius for 24 days.
Seeds having higher germination rates as compared to the control are identified as having enhanced cold
tolerance. In a cold tolerance field trial plants with enhanced cold tolerance are identified from field
                                                        34

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
planting at an earlier date than conventional spring planting for the field location. For example, seeds are
planted into the ground around two weeks before local farmers begin to plant maize so that a significant
cold stress is exerted onto the crop. As a control, seeds also are planted under local optimal planting
conditions such that the crop has little or no exposure to cold condition. At each location, seeds are
planted under both cold and normal conditions preferably with multiple repetitions per treatment.
          [00108]    The foregoing description and the examples presented in this disclosure describe the
subject matter of this invention, which includes the following: (I) a recombinant DNA construct
comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the
transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded
RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the
vicinity of said hybridized segment; (I) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes
processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target
gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said
transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized
segment, wherein said processing of DNA to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA comprises
transcription of said DNA to an RNA intermediate comprising one or more double-stranded RNA stems;
(III) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising
single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment
of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an
RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein length of said
single-stranded RNA comprises between about 10 to about 100 nucleotides; (IV) a recombinant DNA
construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that
binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double
stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within
or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, further comprising at least one element selected from the
group consisting of: (A) promoter functional in a eukaryotic cell; (B) a Pol III promoter operably linked
to said DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA; (C) DNA that is
processed to an RNA aptamer; (D) a transgene transcription unit; (E) DNA encoding a spliceable intron;
(F) DNA encoding a self-splicing ribozyme; (G) DNA encoding a site-specific recombinase recognition
site; (H) DNA encoding a gene suppression element; and (I) DNA encoding a transcription regulatory
element; (V) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA
comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said
at least one target gene comprises: (A) coding sequence, non-coding sequence, or both coding and non
coding sequence; or (B) a single target gene, or multiple target genes; or (C) one or more of the group
consisting of: (1) an endogenous gene of a eukaryote, (2) a transgene of a transgenic plant, (3) an
                                                       35

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
endogenous gene of a pest or pathogen of a plant, and (4) an endogenous gene of a symbiont associated
with a pest or pathogen of a plant; (VI) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes
processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target
gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said
transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized
segment, wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double
stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said
transcript; (VII) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA
comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein: (1)
said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene and the length of said hybridized segment comprises between
about 10 to about 100 base pairs; (2) said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits
translation of said transcript and the length of said hybridized segment comprises between about 10 to
about 50 base pairs; or (3) said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits translation
of said transcript and the length of said hybridized segment comprises between about 19 to about 50 base
pairs, said hybridized segment comprises smaller segments of 9 or fewer contiguous, perfectly
complementary base pairs, and at least one mismatch or insertion is between each pair of said smaller
segments; (VIII) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA
comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene and the length of said hybridized segment comprises between
about 10 to about 100 base pairs, and said double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression comprises
cleavage of said transcript by said RNase III ribonuclease, and said cleavage is mediated by binding of a
small RNA to said transcript; (IX) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes
processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target
gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said
transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized
segment, wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double
stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said
transcript; and wherein said small RNA is: (1) an endogenous small RNA or a transgenic small RNA; or
                                                       36

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
(2) selected from the group consisting of a miRNA, an siRNA, a trans-acting siRNA, a phased small
RNA, a natural antisense transcript siRNA, and a natural antisense transcript miRNA; (X) a recombinant
DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA
that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially
double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease
within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to
said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at least one target gene;
or (B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said
transcript inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at least one target gene and the
length of said hybridized segment comprises between about 10 to about 100 base pairs, and said double
stranded RNA-mediated suppression comprises cleavage of said transcript by said RNase III
ribonuclease, and said cleavage is mediated by binding of a small RNA to said transcript; and wherein
said hybridized segment comprises at least one mismatch or at least one insertion in said hybridized
segment at a position that results in inhibiting cleavage of said transcript by said RNase III ribonuclease;
(XI) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising
single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment
of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an
RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said binding of said
single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said
at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein said binding of said
single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at
least one target gene and the length of said hybridized segment comprises between about 10 to about 100
base pairs, and said double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression comprises cleavage of said transcript by
said RNase III ribonuclease, and said cleavage is mediated by binding of a small RNA to said transcript;
and wherein said small RNA is a mature miRNA, said binding is at a miRNA recognition site in said
transcript, said cleavage of said transcript occurs at said miRNA recognition site, and said hybridized
segment is formed at least partially within said miRNA recognition site; (XII) a recombinant DNA
construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that
binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double
stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within
or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said
transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at least one target gene; or
(B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said
transcript inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of said at least one target gene and the
length of said hybridized segment comprises between about 10 to about 100 base pairs, and said double
stranded RNA-mediated suppression comprises cleavage of said transcript by said RNase III
ribonuclease, and said cleavage is mediated by binding of a small RNA to said transcript; and wherein
said small RNA is a mature miRNA, said binding is at a miRNA recognition site in said transcript, said
                                                        37

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
cleavage of said transcript occurs at said miRNA recognition site, and said hybridized segment is formed
at least partially within said miRNA recognition site; and wherein said hybridized segment comprises:
(1) at least one mismatch between said single-stranded RNA and said miRNA recognition site at
positions corresponding to positions 9, 10, or 11 of said mature miRNA, or (2) at least one insertion at a
position in said single-stranded RNA at positions corresponding to positions 10-11 of said mature
miRNA, or (3) an A, G, or C (but not a U) at a position corresponding to the 5' terminus of said mature
miRNA, but does not include (a) mismatches between said single-stranded RNA and said miRNA
recognition site at positions of said miRNA recognition site corresponding to positions 9, 10, or 11 (in 3'
to 5' direction) of said mature miRNA, or (b) insertions at a position in said single-stranded RNA at
positions of said miRNA recognition site corresponding to positions 10 or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of
said mature miRNA; (XIII) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to
an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits translation of said transcript, and said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript occurs: (i) at least partially within the 5'
untranslated region or 3' untranslated region of said transcript; or (ii) within or in the vicinity of the start
codon or of the 5' cap; (XIV) a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing
to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form
a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance
to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, wherein
said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene; or (B) inhibits translation of said transcript; and wherein said
binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript inhibits translation of said transcript, and said
hybridized segment is resistant to cleavage by said RNase III ribonuclease; (XV) a method of modulating
expression of a target gene, comprising expressing in a cell a recombinant DNA construct comprising
DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript
of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that
imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of
said hybridized segment; (XVI) a method of modulating expression of a target gene, comprising
expressing in a cell a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an
RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment; and wherein
said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said transcript: (A) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated
suppression of said at least one target gene, thereby increasing expression of said target gene; or (B)
                                                      38

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
inhibits translation of said transcript, thereby decreasing expression of said target gene; (XVII) a non
natural plant chromosome or plastid comprising a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that
undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least
one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to
said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said
hybridized segment; (XVIII) a non-natural transgenic plant cell having in its genome a recombinant
DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA
that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially
double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease
within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment, or a non-natural transgenic plant or a non-natural
transgenic plant seed or a non-natural transgenic pollen grain comprising said non-natural transgenic
plant cell; (XIX) a non-natural partially transgenic plant comprising: (A) a non-natural transgenic plant
cell having in its genome a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to
an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment and further
comprising non-transgenic tissue: or (B) a transgenic rootstock comprising a non-natural transgenic plant
cell having in its genome a recombinant DNA construct comprising DNA that undergoes processing to
an RNA comprising single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a
hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said transcript resistance to
cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said hybridized segment and further
comprising a non-transgenic scion; (XX) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell,
comprising a promoter that is functional in said plant cell and operably linked to at least one
polynucleotide selected from: (A) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (B) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (C) DNA encoding a translational
inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (D) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (E) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3, wherein a miRNA
recognition site in said native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA
mediated cleavage; (F) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (G) DNA encoding
double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and (H) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (XXI) a recombinant
                                                        39

    WO 2010/002984                                                                PCT/US2009/049392
DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell, comprising a promoter that is functional in said plant cell and
operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from: (A) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target
identified in Tables 2 or 3; (B) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease
small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3;
(C) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (D) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent
or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 or 3; (E) DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence
derived from the native nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3,
wherein a miRNA recognition site in said native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to
prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (F) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a
miRNA for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (G) DNA
encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least
one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and (H) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed
into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and
wherein said at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3 is at least one selected from the group
consisting of a miR156 target, a miR160 target, a miR164 target, a miR166 target, a miR167 target, a
miR169 target, a miR171 target, a miR172 target, a miR319 target, miR395 target, a miR396 target, a a
miR398 target, a miR399 target, a miR408 target, a miR444 target, a miR528 target, a miR167g target, a
miR169g target, COPI (constitutive photomorphogenesis 1), GA2ox (gibberellic acid 2 oxidase),
GA20ox (gibberellic acid 20 oxidase), HB2 (homeobox 2), HB2-4 (homeobox 2 and homeobox 4), HB4
(homeobox 4), LG1 (ligulelessl), SPX (SYG1, PHO81 and XPR1 domain; PFAM entry PF03105 at
www.sanger.ac.uk), VIMla (variant in methlylation la), DHS1 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS2
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS3 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS4 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS5
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS6 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS7 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS8
(deoxyhypusine synthase), CRF (corn RING finger; RNF169), G1543a (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis
thalianahomeobox 17), G1543b (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thalianahomeobox 17), GS3 (grain
size 3), and GW2 (grain weight 2); (XXII) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell,
comprising a promoter that is functional in said plant cell and operably linked to at least one
polynucleotide selected from: (A) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (B) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (C) DNA encoding a translational
inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (D) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (E) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
                                                     40

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3, wherein a miRNA
recognition site in said native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA
mediated cleavage; (F) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (G) DNA encoding
double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and (H) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and wherein said at least
one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3 is at least one selected from the group consisting of a
miR156 target, a miR160 target, a miRl64 target, a miR166 target, a miR167 target, a miRl69 target, a
miR171 target, a miR172 target, a miR319 target, miR395 target, a miR396 target, a a miR398 target, a
miR399 target, a miR408 target, a miR444 target, a miR528 target, a miRl67g target, a miRl69g target,
COPI (constitutive photomorphogenesis 1), GA2ox (gibberellic acid 2 oxidase), GA20ox (gibberellic
acid 20 oxidase), HB2 (homeobox 2), HB2-4 (homeobox 2 and homeobox 4), HB4 (homeobox 4), LGI
(ligulelessl), SPX (SYG1, PHO81 and XPR1 domain; PFAM entry PF03105 at www.sanger.ac.uk),
VIM 1a (variant in methlylation 1a), DHS 1 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS2 (deoxyhypusine synthase),
DHS3 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS4 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS5 (deoxyhypusine synthase),
DHS6 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS7 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS8 (deoxyhypusine synthase),
CRF (corn RING finger; RNF 169), G1543a (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thaliana homeobox 17),
G1543b (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thalianahomeobox 17), GS3 (grain size 3), and GW2 (grain
weight 2); and wherein said at least one polynucleotide is at least one selected from the group consisting
of DNA encoding a nucleotide sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1120, 1121, 1122, 1248, 1257,
1313,1314,1364,1387,1478,1489,1490,1491,1492,1493,1585,1597,1598,1599,1713,1752,1753,
1801,1802,1820,1927,1929,1931,1971,2006,2007,2008,2010,2012,2014,2016,2018,2022,2023,
2025,2027,2029,2031,2033,2035,2037,2039,2041,2043,2045,2047,2049,2051,2053,2055,2056,
2057, 2059, 2060, 2061, and 2063; and (XXIII) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant
cell, comprising a promoter that is functional in said plant cell and operably linked to at least one
polynucleotide selected from: (A) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (B) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (C) DNA encoding a translational
inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (D) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (E) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3, wherein a miRNA
recognition site in said native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA
mediated cleavage; (F) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (G) DNA encoding
                                                      41

    WO 2010/002984                                                                PCT/US2009/049392
double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and (H) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; aind wherein said
recombinant DNA construct is stably integrated into a plastid or a chromosome of said plant cell.
                                                  EXAMPLES
Example 1
         [00109]     This example illustrates the making and using of a "cleavage blocker" recombinant
DNA construct including DNA that undergoes processing to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that
binds to the transcript of at least one target gene to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double
stranded RNA that imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or
in the vicinity of the hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the
transcript (and the resultant formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA
mediated suppression of a target gene. More specifically, this example describes constructs for
producing in planta an artificial or engineered miRNA or a cleavage blocker and use of the cleavage
blocker to inhibit miRNA-mediated suppression of an Arabidopsis GL I gene in transformed plant cells.
         [00110]     Target gene: The Arabidopsis GLABROUS 1 (GLI) gene is required for trichome
synthesis; GLI mutants lack leaf trichomes. GLI is encoded by the DNA sequence
ATGAGAATAAGGAGAAGAGATGAAAAAGAGAATCAAGAATACAAGAAAGGTTTATGGACA
GTTGAAGAAGACAACATCCTTATGGACTATGTTCTTAATCATGGCACTGGCCAATGGAACCG
CATCGTCAGAAAAACTGGGCTAAAGAGATGTGGGAAAAGTTGTAGACTGAGATGGATGAAT
TATTTGAGCCCTAATGTGAACAAAGGCAATTTCACTGAACAAGAAGAAGACCTCATTATTCG
TCTCCACAAGCTCCTCGGCAATAGATGGTCTTTGATAGCTAAAAGAGTACCGGGAAGAACA
GATAACCAAGTCAAGAACTACTGGAACACTCATCTCAGCAAAAAACTCGTCGGAGATTACT
CCTCCGCCGTCAAAACCACCGGAGAAGACGACGACTCTCCACCGTCATTGTTCATCACTGCC
GCCACACCTTCTTCTTGTCATCATCAACAAGAAAATATCTACGAGAATATAGCCAAGAGCTT
TAACGGCGTCGTATCAGCTTCGTACGAGGATAAACCAAAACAAGAACTGGCTCAAAAAGAT
GTCCTAATGGCAACTACTAATGATCCAAGTCACTATTATGGCAATAACGCTTTATGGGTTCA
TGACGACGATTTTGAGCTTAGTTCACTCGTAATGATGAATTTTGCTTCTGGTGATGTTGAGTA
CTGCCTTTAG (SEQ ID NO: 1), includes a miRNA recognition site, which has the sequence
CTCCACCGTCATTGTTCATCA (SEQ ID NO: 2) and which is also indicated by the underlined text at
nucleotide positions 404 to 424 of SEQ ID NO: 1.
         [00111]     MicroRNA: Selected as a scaffold or initial sequence for designing an artificial
miRNA was DNA derived from a soybean"miRMON 1" precursor having the sequence
AATTCATTACATTGATAAAACACAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACATT
TCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCTGAGACCAAATGAGCAGCTG
ACCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATTCAGCTGCTCATCTGTTCTCAGGTCGCCCTTGTTGG
ACTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGGA
                                                       42

    WO 2010/002984                                                              PCT/US2009/049392
AAAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGATT
GTCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATA (SEQ ID NO: 3), where nucleotides of the mature miRNA
("miRMONI") are indicated by underlined text at nucleotide positions 104 to 124 of SEQ ID NO: 3.
The encoded transcript was predicted to have the fold-back structure depicted in Figure 1A, and is a
segment of a longer miRMONI precursor having the sequence
AAAATTCATTACATTGATAAAACACAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACA
TTTCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCTGAGACCAAATGAGCAGCT
GACCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATTCAGCTGCTCATCTGTTCTCAGGTCGCCCTTGTTG
GACTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGG
AAAAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGAT
TGTCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATATTTTCAGACCAGGCACCTGTAACTAATTATAGGTA
CCATACCTTAAAATAAGTCCAACTAAGTCCATGTCTGTGATTTTTTAGTGTCACAAATCACA
ATCCATTGCCATTGGTTTTTTAATTTTTCATTGTCTGTTGTTTAACTAACTCTAGCTTTTTAGC
TGCTTCAAGTACAGATTCCTCAAAGTGGAAAATGTTCTTTGAAGTCAATAAAAAGAGCTTTG
ATGATCATCTGCATTGTCTAAGTTGGATAAACTAATTAGAGAGAACTTTTGAACTTTGTCTA
CCAAATATCTGTCAGTGTCATCTGTCAGTTCTGCAAGCTGAAGTGTTGAATCCACGAGGTGC
TTGTTGCAAAGTTGTGATATTAAAAGACATCTACGAAGAAGTTCAAGCAAAACTCTTTTTGG
C (SEQ ID NO: 4), where nucleotides of the mature miRMONI are indicated by underlined text at
nucleotide positions 106 to 126 of SEQ ID NO: 4; this longer miRMONI precursor was previously
disclosed as SEQ ID NO: 38 in U. S. Patent Application No. 11/303,745, published as U. S. Patent
Application Publication 2006/200878, and is specifically incorporated herein by reference). The longer
precursor (SEQ ID NO: 4) is also suitable as a scaffold.
          [00112]    DNA encoding an engineered "miRGL1" miRNA precursor derived from SEQ ID
NO: 3 was designed to produce an engineered miRGL 1 precursor transcript that is processed to an
artificial "miRGL 1" mature miRNA for suppressing the Arabidopsis endogenous gene, GL 1. The
miRGL I precursor had the sequence
AATTCATTACATTGATAAAACACAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACATT
TCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCTGATGAACAATGACGGTGGA
GCCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATCTCCA CCGTCA TCGTCCA TCA GGTCGCCCTTGTTGGA
CTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGGAA
AAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGATTG
TCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATA (SEQ ID NO: 5), where nucleotides of the mature miRNA
("miRGL 1") are indicated by underlined text at nucleotide positions 104 to 124 of SEQ ID NO: 5 and
nucleotides of the corresponding opposite strand designated miRNA* ("miRGL 1*") are indicated by
italicized text at nucleotide positions 151 to 171 of SEQ ID NO: 5. This miRGL1 precursor was
predicted to have the fold-back structure depicted in Figure 1B and is processed in planta to the mature
miRGL1, which has the sequence (in 5' to 3' direction) TGATGAACAATGACGGTGGAG (SEQ ID
NO: 6, alternatively written in 3' to 5' direction as GAGGTGGCAGTAACAAGTAGT).
                                                      43

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
          [00113]    Cleavage Blocker: DNA encoding a cleavage blocker ("miRGLI-CB") precursor
derived from SEQ ID NO: 3 was designed to transcribe to an engineered "cleavage blocker"-type
miRNA precursor that is processed to an RNA including single-stranded RNA that binds to the transcript
of the target gene GLl to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that
imparts to the GL 1 transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity
of the hybridized segment, wherein the binding of the single-stranded RNA to the transcript (and the
resultant formation of the hybridized segment) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated suppression of
the at least one target gene, wherein the suppression is mediated by miRGL 1. The miRGL 1-CB
precursor had the sequence
AATTCATTACATTGATAAAACACAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACATT
TCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCTGATGAACATAGACGGTGGA
GCCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATCTCCA CCGTCTA CGTCCA TCA GGTCGCCCTTGTTGGA
CTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGGAA
AAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGATTG
TCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATA (SEQ ID NO: 7), where nucleotides of the mature cleavage
blocker ("miRGL 1-CB") are indicated by underlined text at nucleotide positions 104 to 124 of SEQ ID
NO: 7 and nucleotides of the corresponding opposite strand miRNA* ("miRGL1-CB *") are indicated by
italicized text at nucleotide positions 151 to 171 of SEQ ID NO: 7. Nucleotides at positions 113 and 114
of SEQ ID NO: 7 are indicated by bold underlined text and correspond to positions 10 and 11 (in 3' to 5'
direction) of the mature miRGL1-CBl; these two nucleotides were selected to be intentionally
mismatched to nucleotides of the miRNA recognition site (SEQ ID NO: 2) of GLI (SEQ ID NO: 1) to
prevent cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease. The encoded miRGL 1-CB RNA precursor was predicted
to have the fold-back structure depicted in Figure 1C and is processed in planta to the mature miRGL I
CB, which has the sequence (in 5' to 3' direction) TGATGAACATAGACGGTGGAG (SEQ ID NO: 8,
alternatively written in 3' to 5' direction as GAGGTGGCAGATACAAGTAGT).               Figure 1E depicts an
alignment of the GL 1 miRNA recognition site (SEQ ID NO: 2), the mature miRGL I in 3' to 5' direction
(SEQ ID NO: 6), and the mature miRGL1-CB in 3' to 5' direction (SEQ ID NO: 8).
          [00114]    miRGL1 Sensor: DNA encoding a "miRGL1-sensor" having the sequence
TccagctgctcatttggtctcaTGATCACTGCGGCCGCAATACAgccatagatcacttgatgtcaCGAccaccetcattgttcatca
gatttctctctgcaagcg (SEQ ID NO: 9) was designed to include an artificial miRGL 1 recognition site having
the sequence GACCACCGTCATTGTTCATCA (SEQ ID NO: 10), which is also indicated by
underlined text at nucleotide positions 67 and 87 of SEQ ID NO: 9. Nucleotides at positions 67 and 68
of SEQ ID NO: 9 (or nucleotides at positions 1 and 2 of SEQ ID NO: 10) are indicated by bold
underlined text and correspond to positions 1 and 2 (in 3' to 5' direction) of the mature miRGL 1; these
two nucleotides were selected to be intentionally mismatched to the last two nucleotides on the 3' end of
the mature miRGL I (SEQ ID NO: 6) to prevent transitivity.
                                                      44

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
          [00115]     Three plasmids for Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation were constructed:
          (1) "35S/miRGL1/Term"-this plasmid included a construct containing, in 5' to 3' direction, (a)
               a 35S promoter driving expression of (b) a miRGL1 precursor (SEQ ID NO: 5), and (c) a
              nos terminator;
          (2) "35S/GFP/miRGLI-sensor/Term"-this plasmid included a construct containing, in 5' to 3'
               direction, (a) a 35S promoter operably linked to (b) a green fluorescent protein (GFP) coding
               sequence, (c) a miRGL 1-sensor sequence (SEQ ID NO: 9), and (d) a nos terminator;
          (3) "35S/miRGL1-CB"-this plasmid included a construct containing, in 5' to 3' direction, (a) a
               35S promoter driving expression of (b) a miRGL1-CB precursor (SEQ ID NO: 7).
          [00116]     An aspect of this invention was demonstrated using protocols described in Kosciafnska
et al. (2005) Plant Mol. Biol., 59:647-66 1). Nicotiana benthanianaplants were transiently transformed
using Agrobacterium with various combinations of these plasmids and, where necessary, "filler" (null
plasmid)Agrobacterium to ensure infiltration of equal amounts of Agrobacterium.
          [00117]     Nicotiana benthamianaplants transformed with plasmid (2) exhibited GFP (green)
fluorescence when visualized under UV light. In plants transformed with plasmids (1) and (2), GFP
fluorescence was abolished with only chlorophyll (red) fluorescence observed under UV light, indicating
that the mature miRGL I microRNA suppressed expression of GFP. In plants transformed with plasmids
(1), (2) and (3), GFP fluorescence was restored, indicating that the miRGL1-CB cleavage blocker
inhibited double-stranded RNA-mediated (i. e., mRGL 1-mediated) suppression of the target gene GFP by
protecting the miRGL 1 recognition site from being cleaved by the mature miRGL 1, resulting in
increased expression (fluorescence) of the target gene GFP relative to its expression in the absence of the
cleavage blocker.
          [00118]     In another demonstration of this invention, stably transformedArabidopsis thaliana
plants were produced by Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation with a plasmid expressing a miRGL I
precursor (SEQ ID NO: 5), which is processed in planta to a "miRGL 1" mature miRNA for suppressing
the Arabidopsis endogenous gene, GL 1. The resulting transfonned Arabidopsis plants exhibited leaves
without trichomes, indicating suppression of the target gene GLABROUS 1. Arabidopsis plants
homozygous for miRGL 1 DNA are further transformed with a plasmid expressing a miRGL 1-CB
precursor (SEQ ID NO: 7) and selected using kanamycin resistance. In these double transformant
plants, in planta expression of the mature cleavage blocker miRGL1-CB (in 3' to 5' direction, SEQ ID
NO: 8) inhibits double-stranded RNA-mediated (i. e., mRGL 1-mediated) suppression of the target gene
GLABROUS 1 (GL1) by protecting the miRGL1 recognition site from being cleaved by the mature
miRGL 1, resulting in restoration of trichome production (indicating increased expression of the target
gene GLI relative to its expression in the absence of the cleavage blocker).
Example 2
          [00119]     This example illustrates an alternative "cleavage blocker" recombinant DNA construct
having modification at a position corresponding to the 5' terminus of the mature miRNA that natively
                                                        45

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
binds to the recognition site of the target gene, i. e., a "5'-modified cleavage blocker" that is
transgenically produced in planta and a method of use of this cleavage blocker to inhibit miRNA
mediated suppression of a target gene in transformed plant cells.
          [00120]    In one example, DNA encoding an artificial miRNA (miRGL1) precursor (SEQ ID
NO: 6) was modified by a single nucleotide change (changing the 5' terminus of the mature miRGLI
from a U to a C) to yield the 5'-modified cleavage blocker precursor sequence
AATTCATTACATTGATAAAACA CAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACATT
TCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCCGATGAACAATGACGGTGGA
GCCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATCTCCA CCGTCA TCGTCCA TCGGGTCGCCCTTGTTGG
ACTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGGA
AAAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGATT
GTCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATA (SEQ ID NO: 11), where nucleotides of the mature 5'
modified cleavage blocker are indicated by underlined text at nucleotide positions 104 to 124 of SEQ ID
NO: 11 (for comparison, nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 11 that correspond to miRGL1* nucleotides in
SEQ ID NO: 6 are indicated by italicized text at nucleotide positions 151 to 171 of SEQ ID NO: 11).
This 5'-modified cleavage blocker RNA precursor was predicted to have the fold-back structure depicted
in Figure 1D and is processed in planta to the mature 5'-modified cleavage blocker, which has the
sequence (in 5' to 3' direction) CGATGAACAATGACGGTGGAG (SEQ ID NO: 12, alternatively
written in 3' to 5' direction as GAGGTGGCAGTAACAAGTAGC). Nicotiana benthaminianawas
transiently transfected using procedures similar to those described in Example 2. The resulting mature
small RNA processed from this 5'-modified cleavage blocker RNA precursor was unexpectedly observed
to function as a cleavage blocker, inhibiting miRGL 1-mediated suppression of the target gene GFP.
          [00121]    Two 5'-modified variants of the miRGL1-CB precursor (SEQ ID NO: 7) were made,
wherein the position corresponding to the 5' terminus of the mature miRGL 1-CB was changed from a T
to an A or from a T to a C, respectively, but wherein the mismatches corresponding to positions 10 or 11
(in 3' to 5' direction) of the mature miRGL1 were preserved. Both variants were predicted to have a
fold-back structure (not shown) similar to those shown in Figures 1A through 1D. The "5'-A variant"
had the nucleotide sequence
AATTCATTACATTGATAAAACACAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACATT
TCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCAGATGAACATAGACGGTGGA
GCCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATCTCCA CCGTCTA CGTCCA TCTGGTCGCCCTTGTTGGA
CTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGGAA
AAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGATTG
TCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATA (SEQ ID NO: 13) and the "5'-C variant" had the nucleotide
sequence
AATTCATTACATTGATAAAACACAATTCAAAAGATCAATGTTCCACTTCATGCAAAGACATT
TCCAAAATATGTGTAGGTAGAGGGGTTTTACAGGATCGTCCCGATGAACATAGACGGTGGA
GCCACATGATGCAGCTATGTTTGCTATCTCCA CCGTCTA CGTCCA TCTGGTCGCCCTTGTTGGA
                                                         46

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
CTGTCCAACTCCTACTGATTGCGGATGCACTTGCCACAAATGAAAATCAAAGCGAGGGGAA
AAGAATGTAGAGTGTGACTACGATTGCATGCATGTGATTTAGGTAATTAAGTTACATGATTG
TCTAATTGTGTTTATGGAATTGTATA (SEQ ID NO: 14), where nucleotides of the mature cleavage
blocker are indicated by underlined text at nucleotide positions 104 to 124 of SEQ ID NO: 13 or of SEQ
ID NO: 14 (for comparison, nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 13 or of SEQ ID NO: 14 that correspond to
miRGLl* nucleotides in SEQ ID NO: 6 are indicated by italicized text at nucleotide positions 151 to
171 of SEQ ID NO: 13 or of SEQ ID NO: 14).
          [00122]    The "5'-C variant" (SEQ ID NO: 14) was transiently transfected into Nicotiana
benthaminiana(using procedures similar to those of Example 2); co-inoculation of the "5'-C" variant
and 35S/miRGL1-sensor/Term (without miRGL1) resulted in GFP fluorescence, indicating that the "5'-C
variant" was unable to cleave the miRGLI recognition site and did not have miRNA-like activity.
          [00123]     Both the "5'-A variant" (SEQ ID NO: 13) (plasmid pMON115363) and the "5'-C
variant" (SEQ ID NO: 14) (plasmid pMON1 15349) were tested using transient transfection of Nicotiana
benthaminiana(similar to the experiment described in Example 2), and found to also inhibit miRGL1
mediated suppression of the target gene GFP, although not to as great an extent as the original cleavage
blocker miRGL1-CB (SEQ ID NO: 7).
          [00124]    The above example serves as guidance in making and using a cleavage blocker (or 5'
modified cleavage blocker) useful for inhibiting miRNA-mediated suppression of a target gene. It is
clear to one of ordinary skill in the art that knowledge of the target gene itself is not required, merely the
sequence of the mature miRNA sequence or of a miRNA precursor that is processed to the mature
miRNA-or, alternatively, knowledge of the miRNA recognition site sequence-in combination with the
teachings of this application, in order to devise a cleavage blocker (or 5'-modified cleavage blocker) to
inhibit the target gene silencing effects of a given miRNA.
          [00125]    Thus, this application further provides and claims novel cleavage blockers and 5'
modified cleavage blockers for all miRNA sequences that have been publicly disclosed, including, but
not limited to, the miRNAs available at miRBase (microrna.sanger.ac.uk), and the mature miRNAs and
miRNA precursors disclosed in U. S. Patent Applications 11/303,745 (published as U. S. Patent
Application Publication 2006/0200878), 11/974,469 (published as U. S. Patent Application Publication
2009-0070898 A1), 11/868,081 (published as U. S. Patent Application Publication 2008/0115240),
10/884,374 (published as U. S. Patent Application Publication 2005/0144669), and 10/490,955 (now U.
S. Patent 7,232,806), which patent application disclosures including the respective sequence listings are
specifically incorporated by reference herein.
Example 3
          [00126]    This example provides embodiments of target genes identified as "validated miRNA
targets" (i. e., containing a validated miRNA recognition site). Recombinant DNA constructs of this
invention are useful for modulating expression of such target genes and for making non-natural
                                                       47

     WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
transgenic plant cells, plant tissues, and plants (especially non-natural transgenic crop plants) having
improved yield or other desirable traits.
          [00127]    Prediction of a recognition site is achieved using methods known in the art, such as
sequence complementarity rules as described by Zhang (2005) Nucleic Acid Res., 33:W701-704 and by
Rhoades et al. (2002) Cell, 110:513-520. One method to experimentally validate predicted miRNA
recognition sites is the technique known as RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA 5' ends
("5' RLM-RACE" or "5' RACE"), which identifies miRNA cleavage patterns; see, for example,
Kasschau et al. (2003) Dev. Cell, 4:205-217, and Llave et al. (2002) Science, 297:2053-2056. This
approach relies on ligation of an RNA adapter molecule to the 5' end of the cleavage site and is
dependent on the 5' phosphate left by RNase III enzymes including Ago 1. The resulting PCR products
are sequenced and the relative number of clones which align to the predicted miRNA cleavage site
between nucleotides 10 and 11 relative to the miRNA 5' end provide an estimate of miRNA activity.
          [00128]    While the standard for validation of a predicted miRNA target is experimental
verification of the predicted cleavage, computational validation is also extremely useful for providing a
set of potential target genes that is of manageable or practical size. At least two computational validation
approaches based on homology of miRNAs and predicted miRNA targets can be used. One approach
compares the predicted targets with experimentally verified targets; the predicted target is
computationally validated if it is homologous to an experimentally validated target. This approach is
expected to identify miRNA targets with high confidence and to become increasingly important as more
experimentally validated targets become available. The second approach compares sequences from two
species when no known miRNA target information is available. If both miRNAs and predicted miRNA
targets are conserved in both species, then predicted targets in both species are deemed validated.
          [00129]    In this example, the first approach was used, wherein computational validation of
predicted miRNA targets was based on homology of predicted targets and known targets. A list of
experimentally verified plant miRNA target genes was created through mining the literature on miRNA
targets from rice (Sunkar et al. (2005) Plant Cell, 17:1397-1411; Luo et al. (2006) FEBS Lett., 580:5111
5116), moss (Physcomitrellapatens) (Axtell et al. (2007) Plant Cell, 19:1750-1769; Fattash et al. (2007)
BMC PlantBiol., 7:13), poplar (Lu et al. (2005) Plant Cell, 17:2186-2203), green algae (Molnir et al.
(2007) Nature, 447:1126-1130), and maize (Lauter et al. (2005) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 102:9412
9417). To this list were added 203 Arabidopsis thaliana loci from the publicly accessible Arabidopsis
Small RNA Project (available on line at asrp.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/db/microRNAfamily.html). From this
list, a gene function keyword "dictionary" from the available functional annotation was compiled,
including known keyword variants (Table 1).
          [00130]    Any functional annotation of a given predicted miRNA target was searched for a
match to the dictionary's keywords. A computational algorithm was developed to match the longest
keyword first, second longest keyword second, and so on, to reduce false positives in keyword match.
Where a match was found, the predicted target was deemed validated. This approach was applied to
                                                        48

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miRNA targets that had been predicted from proprietary sequence databases from various plant species;
the computationally validated miRNA targets thus identified are given in Table 2.
         [00131]    Identification of validated miRNA targets allows the manipulation of the interaction
between a given miRNA and its target gene (whether a native gene or a transgene that contains a
validated miRNA recognition site). For example, over-expression of a target gene containing a validated
miRNA target (validated miRNA recognition site) is expected to reduce the effect of that particular
miRNA in the biochemical network or networks involving the miRNA.
         [00132]    Alternatively, an artificial transcript that includes the same miRNA target sequence (or
one modified to prevent cleavage by an RNase II ribonuclease) can be used as a miRNA "decoy" (as
described in co-assigned U. S. Patent Application 11/974,469, published as U. S. Patent Application
Publication 2009-0070898 Al, which disclosure is specifically incorporated by reference herein),
competing with the endogenous target gene to bind to that particular miRNA and thereby reducing the
effect of the miRNA (e. g., suppression of the target gene and reduction of the effect of the miRNA on
other genes downstream of the target gene) in the biochemical network or networks involving the
miRNA. Knowledge of the validated miRNA targets disclosed herein allows one of ordinary skill in the
art to use the miRNA target sequences as scaffolds for designing artificial sequences useful as transgenic
miRNA decoys to reduce the effect of the miRNA on its target gene(s), or to identify endogenous
sequences that are similarly useful as miRNA decoys. Thus, this application further provides and claims
miRNA decoys for the validated miRNA targets disclosed herein, as well as miRNA decoys for all
miRNA sequences that have been publicly disclosed, including, but not limited to, the miRNAs available
at miRBase (microma.sanger.ac.uk), and the mature miRNAs and miRNA precursors disclosed in U. S.
Patent Applications 11/303,745 (published as U. S. Patent Application Publication 2006/0200878),
11/974,469 (published as U. S. Patent Application Publication 2009-0070898 Al), 11/868,081 (published
as U. S. Patent Application Publication 2008/0115240), 10/884,374 (published as U. S. Patent
Application Publication 2005/0144669), and 10/490,955 (now U. S. Patent 7,232,806), which
specifications are specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.
         [00133]    In yet another embodiment, this invention further provides a miRNA-unresponsive
transgene by modifying the sequence of a validated miRNA recognition site in the transgene to prevent
binding and/or cleavage by that particular miRNA.         In one example, increased expression of a gene that
is normally modulated by an endogenous miRNA may be achieved by expressing a recombinant DNA
construct encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the
native nucleotide sequence of the gene but wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide
sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage. In still another
embodiment, this invention provides a transgene sequence that is modified by the addition of a validated
miRNA recognition site in order to place that transgene under the control of that particular miRNA; in a
variation on this, a transgenic plant is made by introducing into its genome both the transgene as well as
an exogenous precursor of the particular miRNA that is to regulate the transgene.
                                                        49

WO 2010/002984                                                           PCT/US2009/049392
                         Table 1: miRNA target keyword dictionary
  miR156     Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein, Squamosa Promoter Binding, Squamosa
             Promoter-Binding, SBP-like, SPL, SPL2, SPL15, SPL9, SPL13, SPL4, SPL10, SPL6,
             SPL 11, SBP domain containing protein, SBP domain, SBP-domain, teosinte glume
             architecture, tga 1
  miR157     Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein, Squamosa Promoter Binding, Squamosa
             Promoter-Binding, SBP-like, SPL, SPL2, SPL15, SPL9, SPL13, SPL4, SPL10, SPL6,
             SPL 11, SBP domain containing protein, SBP domain, SBP-domain, teosinte glume
             architecture, tga 1
  miR158     Pentatricopeptide repeat, pentatricopeptide (PPR), PPR, PPR-repeat, pentatricopeptide
  miR159     MYB, AtMYB65, AtMYB101, AtMYB104, GAMyB, myb domain protein, myb
             domain, myb protein, DUO 1, MYB120, MYB97, MYB65, MYB33, myb-like DNA
             binding domain, myb-like, myb-like DNA-binding
  miR160     Auxin Response Factor, ARF, ARF 10, ARF16, ARF17, B3 DNA binding domain
             containing protein, B3 domain, B3 DNA-binding domain, B3 Domain-Containing
  miR161     Pentatricopeptide repeat, pentatricopeptide (PPR), PPR, PPR-repeat, EMB2654,
             EMBRYO DEFECTIVE 2654, pentatricopeptide
  miR162     Dicer-like 1, Dicer-likel, Dicer like 1, DCL, DCLl, CAF, SUSI, SINI, ASUl,
             EMB76, EMB60, Dicer
  miR163     S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferase, SAMT, S-adenosyl-L
             methionine:carboxyl methyltransferase, methyltransferase
  miR164     Cup-shaped cotyledon, Cup shaped cotyledon, CUC, NAM, NAC, CUC2, CUCl,
             NAM-like, NACl, No Apical Meristem, ATAF, ANAC079/ANAC080, ANAC100,
             ANAC092, NAC domain protein, NAC domain, NAC domain-containing protein, NAC
             domain-containing
  miR165     Phavoluta, Phabulosa, Revoluta, Corona, PHB, PFV, CNA, HD-ZIPIII, HD-ZIP, HD
             ZIP, REV, PHV, AtHB8, AtHB 15, ICU4, ATHB-15, INCURVATA 4, IFL, IFL1, HD
             ZIP class III HD-Zip protein, HD-ZIP class III, HD-Zip protein, class III HD-Zip
             protein, class III HD-Zip, homeodomain/leucine zipper, rolled leafl (rldl), rolled leaf 1
             rolled leaf, rldl, HB1 gene, HB1, HD-ZIP III
  miR166     Phavoluta, Phabulosa, Revoluta, Corona, PHB, PFV, CNA, HD-ZIPIII, HD-ZIP, HD
             ZIP, REV, PHV, AtHB8, AtHB15, ICU4, ATHB-15, INCURVATA 4, IFL, IFL1, HD
             ZIP class III HD-Zip protein, HD-ZIP class III, HD-Zip protein, class III HD-Zip
             protein, class III HD-Zip, homeodomain/leucine zipper, rolled leafl (rldl), rolled leaf 1
             rolled leaf, rldl, HB1 gene, HB1, HD-ZIP III
  miR167     Auxin Response Factor, ARF, ARF6, ARF8
  miR168     Argonaute, AGO, AGO 1, PINHEAD, ZWILLE, ZLL, AGO2, AGO3, AGO4, AGO5,
             AGO6, AGO7, AGO8, AGO9, AGO 10, PNH/ZLL
  miR169     nuclear transcription factor Y, HAP2, CCAAT, CCAAT-binding, NFYa, HAP2b,
             HAP2b-like, HAP2ab-like, HAP2c-like, HAP2c, HAP2a, HAP2a-like
  miR170     Scarecrow-like, Scarecrow, SCL, SCARECROW gene regulator, SCARECROW gene,
             Scarecrow/GRAS transcription factors, GRAS, Scarecrow/GRAS, nodulation signaling
             pathway 2 protein, nodulation signaling pathway 2, Nodulation-Signaling Pathway 2,
             NSP2, nodulation signaling pathway, nodulation-Signaling Pathway, NSP 1
  miR171     Scarecrow-like, Scarecrow, SCL, SCARECROW gene regulator, SCARECROW gene,
             Scarecrow/GRAS transcription factors, GRAS, Scarecrow/GRAS, nodulation signaling
             pathway 2 protein, nodulation signaling pathway 2, Nodulation-Signaling Pathway 2,
             NSP2, nodulation signaling pathway, nodulation-Signaling Pathway, NSP 1
                                               50

WO 2010/002984                                                               PCT/US2009/049392
  miR172     Apetala, AP2, TOEl, TOE2, TOE3, SMZ, SNZ, Target of EAT, TOE, Schnarchzapfen
             SCHLAFMUTZE, Glossyl5, Glossy-15, Glossy 15, AP2 domain containing protein,
             AP2 domain protein, AP2 domain, Apetala floral homeotic protein APETALA2,
             Apetala floral homeotic protein, Apetala protein, APETALA2
  miR173     TAS
  miR319     Teosinte Branched, Cycloidea, PCF, TCP, TCP2, TCP3, TCP4, TCP 10, TCP24, TCP
             family transcription factor, TCP family, TCP domain protein, TCP-domain protein,
             maternal effect embryo arrest, Cyclin, CyCA, CyCB, CyCC, CyCD, CyCH, CyCT,
             CyCU
  miR390     TAS3, TAS, Ser/Thr/Tyr protein kinase, Ser/Thr/Tyr
  miR393     Transport inhibitor response, TIR, TIRl, F-box, F box, F-box family protein, F box
             family protein, F-box family, F box family, IPS1, GRH1, GRR1-LIKE, ubiquitin
             protein ligase, ubiquitin protein ligase, basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family protein,
             bHLH, basic helix-loop-helix, F-box domain containing protein, F-box domain protein,
             F-box domain
  miR394     F-box, F box, F-box family protein, F box family protein, F-box family, F box family,
             F-box domain containing protein, F-box domain protein, F-box domain
  miR395     APS, AST, ATP-sulfurylase, sulfate transporter, sulphate transporter, AST68, APS 1,
             APS3, APS4, ATP sulfurylase, sulfate adenylyltransferase, Sulfate transporter
  miR396     Growth regulation factor, GRL, GRF, GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR,
             GROWTH REGULATING FACTOR, AtGRF3, AtGRF4, AtGRF8, AtGRF7, AtGRFl
             AtGRF2, AtGRF
  miR397     Laccase, LAC, PCL, plantacyanin, plastacyanin, blue copper binding protein, IRX 12,
             copper ion binding
  miR398     Copper superoxide dismutase, superoxide dismutase 2, CSD, CSD2, COPPER/ZINC
             SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE, COPPER ZINC SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE,
             COPPER-ZINC SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE, cytochrome c oxidase, cytochromec
             oxidase, cytochrome-c oxidase
  miR399     E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme, PH02, ubiquitin-protein ligase, ubiquitin protein
             ligase, UBC24, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme, ubiquitin conjugating
  miR400     Pentatricopeptide repeat, pentatricopeptide (PPR), PPR, EMB2745, EMBRYO
             DEFECTIVE 2745, pentatricopeptide
  miR402     DML3, DEMETER-LIKE PROTEIN 3, DEMETER-LIKE PROTEIN, DEMETER
             LIKE PROTEIN
  miR403     AGO, Argonaute, AGO2
  miR408     Laccase, LAC, LAC3, PCL, plantacyanin, plastacyanin, blue copper binding protein,
             blue copper binding, ARPN, copper ion binding, blue copper protein
  miR444     MADS box, MADS-box, MADS
  miR447     2-phosphoglycerate kinase-related, 2-phosphoglycerate kinase, phosphoglycerate kinas
  miR472     RFL1, RPS5, RPS5-LIKE 1, ATP binding, RPS5, RESISTANT TO P. SYRINGE 5,
             disease resistance protein (CC-NBS-LRR class), disease resistance protein, CC-NBS
             LRR, NBS-LRR disease resistance protein, NBS-LRR type disease resistance protein
  miR473     GRAS domain-containing protein, AtGAI, AtLAS, AtPAT1, AtRGA, AtRGL1,
             AtRGL2, AtRGL3, AtSCL1, AtSCL 11, AtSCL 13, AtSCL 14, AtSCL 15, AtSCL 16,
             AtSCL 18, AtSCL21, AtSCL22, AtSCL23, AtSCL26, AtSCL27, AtSCL28, AtSCL29,
             AtSCL3, AtSCL30, AtSCL31, AtSCL32, AtSCL33, AtSCL4, AtSCL5, AtSCL6,
             AtSCL7, AtSCL8, AtSCL9, AtSCR, AtSHR, REPRESSOR, RGA2, RGA-LIKE 1,
             RGL, RGL1, SGR7, VHS4, VHS5
  miR474     Pentatricopeptide repeat,pentatricopeptide (PPR), PPR,PPR
             repeat,EMB2654,EMBRYO DEFECTIVE 2654,pentatricopeptide
                                                51

WO 2010/002984                                                               PCT/US2009/049392
  miR475     Pentatricopeptide repeat,pentatricopeptide (PPR), PPR,PPR
             repeat,EMB2654,EMBRYO DEFECTIVE 2654,pentatricopeptide
  miR476     Pentatricopeptide repeat,pentatricopeptide (PPR), PPR,PPR
             repeat,EMB2654,EMBRYO DEFECTIVE 2654,pentatricopeptide
  miR477     Basic helix-loop helix (bHLH) transcription factor, transcription factor/zinc ion binding
             CONSTANS-like, GRAS domain-containing protein, bHLH, GRAS, CONSTANS
             like, CONSTANS
  miR478     Organic anion transporter-like protein, Organic anion transporter
  miR480     Proton-dependent oligopeptide transport family protein, Proton-dependent oligopeptide
             transport, Proton dependent oligopeptide transport
  miR482     Putative disease resistance protein, disease resistance protein, disease resistance
  miR529     Ethylene-response factor/AP2 domain transcription factor, erf/ap2, Ethylene-response
             factor/AP2
  miR534     Ankyrin-repeat proteins, Ankyrin repeat proteins, Ankyrin-repeat protein, Ankyrin
             repeat, Ankyrin repeat
  miR536     F-box, F box, F-box family protein, F box family protein, F-box family, F box family,
             F-box protein
  miR538     MADS-box, MADS
  miR771     eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 family protein, eIF-2 family protein, cIF-2,
             eIF2
  miR773     DMT02, DMT2, MET02, MET2, DNA methyltransferase 2, DNA (cytosine-5-)
             methyltransferase
  miR774     F-box family, F-box, F box, F-box domain containing protein, F-box domain protein, F
             box domain
  miR775     galactosyltransferase family protein, galactosyltransferase family, galactosyltransferase
  miR776     IRE, INCOMPLETE ROOT HAIR ELONGATION
  miR777     COPI-interacting protein-related, COPI-interacting protein, COPI-interacting, COPI
             interacting
  miR778     SET-domain, SET, SUVH6, SUVH5, SU(VAR)3-9 homolog
  miR779     leucine-rich repeat transmeibrane protein kinase, leucine-rich repeat, leucine rich
             repeat, transmembrane protein kinase, transmembrane
  miR780     CHX18, ATCHX18, cation/hydrogen exchanger 18, monovalent cation:proton
             antiporter, proton antiporter
  miR781     InterPro:IPROO3169, SWIB complex BAF60b domain-containing protein, SWIB
             complex BAF60b domain, SWIB, BAF60b, plus-3 domain-containing protein, plus-3
             domain, plus-3, GYF domain-containing protein, GYF domain
  miR809     Mlo disease resistant protein gene, Mlo-like, Mlo
  miR818     ENT domain protein gene, ENT domain, ENT-domain
  miR820     DNA cytosine methyltransferase, cytosine methyltransferase
  miR823     CMT3, CHROMOMETHYLASE 3, CHROMOMETHYLASE
  miR824     MADS-box, MADS, AGL16, AGAMOUS-LIKE, AGAMOUS
  miR827     SPX, NLA, SYGl/Pho8l/XPR1, zinc finger, zinc-finger, C3HC4-type RING finger,
             C3HC4
  miR828     MYB, myb domain protein, myb protein, AtMYB 113, MYB 113, MYB-like protein,
             myb-like, myb-like DNA-binding
  miR842     JR/MBP, jacalin lectin family protein, jacalin lectin family, jacalin lectin, jacalin, lectin
  miR844     protein kinase family protein, protein kinase family, protein kinase
  miR846     JR/MBP, InterPro:IPR00 1229, jasmonate inducible protein, jacalin lectin family
             protein, jacalin lectin family, jacalin lectin, jacalin, lectin
                                                 52

WO 2010/002984                                                            PCT/US2009/049392
   miR856    Zinc transporter, Zinc-transporter, ACHX18, ATCHX18 1ATCHX1 8, cation/hydrogen
             exchanger 18, cation/hydrogen exchanger, monovalent cation:proton antiporter, proton
             antiporter, antiporter
   miR857    LAC, LAC7, laccase 7, copper ion binding, copper-ion binding
   miR858    MYB, myb domain protein, myb protein, MYB12, AtMYB12, AtMYB83, MYB83,
             MYB-like protein, myb-like, myb-like DNA-binding
   miR859    F-box, F box, F-box family protein, F box family protein, F-box family, F box family,
             F-box protein, InterPro:IPR006527, UDP-3-0-acyl N-acetylglycosamine deacetylase
             family protein,UDP-3-0-acyl N-acetylglycosamine deacetylase family, UDP-3-0-acyl
             N-acetylglycosamine deacetylase, UDP-3-0-acyl N-acetylglycosamine, F-box domain
             containing protein, F-box domain protein, F-box domain
   miR902    Basic helix-loop helix (bHLH) transcription factor, bHLH
   miR904    AGO, Argonaute
  miR1 029   Ethylene-response factor/AP2 domain transcription factor, Ethylene-response factor,
             Ethylene response factor, erf/AP2
  miR1219c   Auxin Response Factors, Auxin Response Factor, arf
                  Table 2: Computationally validated miRNA targets
  miRNA                 Gene Function             SEQ ID          Gene ID             Species of
                                                   NO:                                  origin*
miR156/157  SPL                                     15     PHE0014564             Arabidopsis
                                                                                  thaliana
miR156/157  SPL                                     16     PHE0014996             A. thaliana
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein       17     PHE0004508             A. thaliana
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein       18     PHE0004925             A. thaliana
miR160      ARF                                     19     PHE0003525             A. thaliana
miR164      ANAC092                                 20     PHE0013733             A. thaliana
miR164      NAC domain protein                      21     PHE0001074             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                22     PHE0008129             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                23     PHE0010493             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                24     PHE0012654             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                25     PHE0007271             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                26     PHE0007467             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                27     PHE0007720             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                28     PHE0010355             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                29     PHE0010473             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                30     PHE0010494             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                31     PHE0010495             A. thaliana
miR165/166  Revoluta                                32     PHE0010537             A. thaliana
miR166      Revoluta                                33     PHE0010496             A. thaliana
miR166      Revoluta                                34     PHE0010497             A. thaliana
miR166      Revoluta                                35     PHE0010500             A. thaliana
miR167      ARF                                     36     PHE0003428             A. thaliana
miR172      AP2                                     37     PHE0003881             A. thaliana
miR172      AP2 domain                              38     PHE0006606             A. thaliana
miR393      F-box                                   39     PHE0007151             A. thaliana
miR393      F-box                                   40     PHE0007164             A. thaliana
miR393      F-box                                   41     PHE0007167             A. thaliana
miR393      Transport inhibitor response            42     PHE0004988             A. thaliana
miR396      GRL                                     43     PHE0004617             A. thaliana
miR778      SET-domain                              44     PHE0006443             A. thaliana
miR779      leucine-rich repeat transmembrane       45     PHE0002993             A. thaliana
            protein kinase
                                               53

WO 2010/002984                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
miR858      MYB                                  46  PHE0001073         A. thaliana
miR858      MYB                                  47  PHE0001093         A. thaliana
miR858      MYB                                  48  PHE0002073         A. thaliana
miR858      MYB                                  49  PHE0010073         A. thaliana
miR858      MyB                                  50  PHE0011722         A. thaliana
miR858      MyB                                  51  PHE0015935         A. thaliana
miR859      F-box                                52  PHE0003311         A. thaliana
miR859      F-box                                53  PHE0006468         A. thaliana
miR902      bHLH                                 54  PHE0000658         A. thaliana
miR902      bHLH                                 55  PHE0006524         A. thaliana
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    56  MRT3708_37334C.1    Canola(Brassica
                                                                         napus or Brassica
                                                                         rapa)
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    57  MRT3708  1062 8C.4  Canola
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    58  MRT3708  22559C.1   Canola
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    59  MRT3708  30289C.3   Canola
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    60  MRT3708  39670C.2   Canola
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    61  MRT3708  53675C.1   Canola
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    62  MRT3708  58630C.1   Canola
miR159      MYB                                  63  MRT3708  33278C.1   Canola
miR159      MYB                                  64  MRT3708  33279C.1   Canola
miR163      methyltransferase                    65  MRT3708  16440C.1   Canola
miR163      methyltransferase                    66  MRT3708  28174C.1   Canola
miRl63      methyltransferase                    67  MRT3708  52155C.2   Canola
miR164      NAM                                  68  MRT3708  39966C.1   Canola
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   69  MRT3708  51022C.1   Canola
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   70  MRT3708  7877C.4    Canola
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein             71  MRT3708  45624C.1   Canola
miR165/166  HD-Zip protein                       72  MRT3708  5493C.1    Canola
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                73  MRT3708  37499C.2   Canola
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                74  MRT3708  50323C.1   Canola
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        75  MRT3708  45516C.2   Canola
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        76  MRT3708  46224C.1   Canola
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        77  MRT3708  56325C.1   Canola
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y       78  MRT3708  42756C.1   Canola
miR170/171  SCARECROW gene regulator             79  MRT3708  34048C.2   Canola
miR172      AP2                                  80  MRT3708  39387C.1   Canola
miR172      AP2 domain                           81  MRT3708  36942C.2   Canola
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         82  MRT3708  31301C.1   Canola
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         83  MRT3708  52518C.1   Canola
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         84  MRT3708  55951C.1   Canola
miR394      F-box                                85  MRT3708  61891C.1   Canola
miR395      ATP sulfurylase                      86  MRT3708  35187C.3   Canola
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase          87  MRT3708  36129C.1   Canola
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase          88  MRT3708  55043C.1   Canola
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             89  MRT3708  29578C.1   Canola
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             90  MRT3708  51563C.1   Canola
miR398      cytochrome c oxidase                 91  MRT3708  47361C.2   Canola
miR400      PPR                                  92  MRT3708  57455C.1   Canola
miR408      blue copper protein                  93  MRT3708  29149C.3   Canola
miR472      ATP binding                          94  MRT3708  45273C.1   Canola
miR472      ATP binding                          95  MRT3708  55890C.1   Canola
miR472      ATP binding                          96  MRT3708  55902C.2   Canola
miR824      MADS-box                             97  MRT3708  59018C.1   Canola
miR827      zinc finger                          98  MRT3708  29390C.1   Canola
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                 99  MRT3708  31708C.1   Canola
miR856      antiporter                           100 MRT3708  61144C.1   Canola
miR857      LAC                                  101 MRT3708  24461C.1   Canola
miR858      MYB                                  102 MRT3708  31372C.1   Canola
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 103 MRT3708  16589C.4   Canola
                                              54

WO 2010/002984                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 104 MRT3708_29291C.3    Canola
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 105 MRT3708_54665C.1    Canola
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 106 MRT3708_61897C.1    Canola
miR859      F-box domain                         107 MRT3708_51653C.1    Canola
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                108 MRT3711_1592C.1     Field mustard
                                                                         (Brassicarapaor
                                                                        Brassica
                                                                         campestris)
miR168      Argonaute                            109 MRT3711 4500C.2     Field mustard
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y       110 MRT3711 4547C.1     Field mustard
miR172      AP2                                  111 MRT3711 6838C.1     Field mustard
miR319      PCF                                  112 MRT3711 7220C.1     Field mustard
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         113 MRT3711 1771C.1     Field mustard
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase          114 MRT3711 3394C.1     Field mustard
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase          115 MRT3711 4165C. 1    Field mustard
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase          116 MRT3711 4313C.1     Field mustard
miR472      ATP binding                          117 MRT3711 7972C.1     Field mustard
miR827      zinc finger                          118 MRT3711 10064C.1    Field mustard
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 119 MRT3711 7980C.1     Field mustard
miR156/157  SBP domain                           120 MRT3847 197471C.3   Glycine max
miR156/157  SBP domain                           121 MRT3847 202791C.3   G. max
miR156/157  SBP domain                           122 MRT3847 28990C.5    G. max
miR156/157  SBP domain                           123 MRT3847 39715C.7    G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    124 MRT3847 207934C.2   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    125 MRT3847 257545C.4   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    126 MRT3847 217782C.3   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    127 MRT3847 235081C.4   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    128 MRT3847 235082C.6   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    129 MRT3847 289291C.3   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    130 MRT3847 335568C.1   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    131 MRT3847 350831C.1   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    132 MRT3847 14683C.5    G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    133 MRT3847 237444C.4   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    134 MRT3847 329752C.1   G. max
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    135 MRT3847 334134C.1   G. max
miR156/157  teosinte glune architecture          136 MRT3847 338602C.1   G. max
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          137 MRT3847 345009C.1   G. max
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          138 MRT3847 346338C.1   G. max
miR160      ARF                                  139 PHE0003526          G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                140 MRT3847 139013C.5   G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                141 MRT3847 197785C.3   G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                142 MRT3847 239685C.2   G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                143 MRT3847 269589C.4   G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                144 MRT3847 28328C.3    G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                145 MRT3847 289982C.2   G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                146 MRT3847 37862C.4    G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                147 MRT3847 41982C.5    G. max
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                148 MRT3847 52071C.7    G. max
miRl6l      pentatricopeptide                    149 MRT3847 4014C.4     G. max
miR161      PPR                                  150 MRT3847 20482C.2    G. max
miR161      PPR                                  151 MRT3847 227121C.4   G. max
miR164      NAC domain protein                   152 MRT3847 46332C.2    G. max
miR164      NAC domain protein                   153 MRT3847 46333C.6    G. max
miR164      NACl                                 154 PHE0001363          G. max
miR164      NAM                                  155 MRT3847 244824C.2   G. max
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   156 MRT3847 259513C.2   G. max
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   157 MRT3847 270117C.3   G. max
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   158 MRT3847 48464C.4    G. max
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   159 MRT3847 48465C.6    G. max
miR165/166  class IIIHD-Zip protein              160 MRT3847 209034C.4   G. max
                                              55

WO 2010/002984                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           161 MRT3847_233286C.5   G. max
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           162 MRT3847_248020C.5   G. max
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           163 MRT3847_288367C.4   G. max
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           164 MRT3847_296736C.1   G. max
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           165 MRT3847_326691C.1   G. max
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           166 MRT3847_345104C.1   G. max
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           167 MRT3847_348410C.1   G. max
miR166      Homeobox                           168 PHE0003454          G. max
miR167      ARF                                169 PHE0003655          G. max
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              170 MRT3847 195447C.5   G. max
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              171 MRT3847 263906C.5   G. max
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              172 MRT3847 305421C.4   G. max
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              173 MRT3847 340154C.1   G. max
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              174 MRT3847 41926C.6    G. max
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              175 MRT3847 55334C.5    G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      176 MRT3847 251095C.3   G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      177 MRT3847 259875C.4   G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      178 MRT3847 293871C.3   G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      179 MRT3847 305217C.3   G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      180 MRT3847 347487C.1   G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      181 MRT3847 40604C.6    G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      182 MRT3847 53466C.6    G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      183 MRT3847 53467C.5    G. max
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      184 MRT3847 54675C.6    G. max
miR169      NFYa                               185 PHE0011547          G. max
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     186 MRT3847 25786C.5    G. max
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     187 MRT3847 289667C.3   G. max
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     188 MRT3847 312701C.1   G. max
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     189 MRT3847 335193C.1   G. max
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     190 MRT3847 51286C.6    G. max
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     191 MRT3847 54010C.4    G. max
miR170/171  Scarecrow-like                     192 MRT3847 41579C.4    G. max
miR171      GRAS                               193 MRT3847 267119C.3   G. max
miR171      GRAS                               194 MRT3847 270988C.3   G. max
miR171      GRAS                               195 MRT3847 275596C.2   G. max
miR171      GRAS                               196 MRT3847 294457C.2   G. max
miR171      GRAS                               197 MRT3847 344862C.1   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         198 PHE0000638          G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         199 MRT3847 202930C.3   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         200 MRT3847 21933C.5    G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         201 MRT3847 235857C.3   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         202 MRT3847 257655C.4   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         203 MRT3847 289890C.3   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         204 MRT3847 289891C.3   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         205 MRT3847 295726C.1   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         206 MRT3847 326790C.1   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         207 MRT3847 329301C.1   G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         208 MRT3847 43925C.7    G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         209 MRT3847 46007C.5    G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         210 MRT3847 51633C.3    G. max
miR172      AP2 domain                         211 MRT3847 59804C.6    G. max
miR172      APETALA2                           212 MRT3847 196945C.3   G. max
miR319      Cyclin                             213 MRT3847 238163C.3   G. max
miR319      PCF                                214 MRT3847 262919C.1   G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    215 MRT3847 23013 1C.1  G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    216 MRT3847 304168C.2   G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    217 MRT3847 336868C.1   G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    218 MRT3847 343365C.1   G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    219 MRT3847 38312C.5    G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    220 MRT3847 103008C.6   G. max
                                            56

WO 2010/002984                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    221 MRT3847_12165C.5    G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    222 MRT3847_247420C.4   G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    223 MRT3847_294519C.4   G. max
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    224 MRT3847_334277C.1   G. max
miR390      TAS                                225 MRT3847_133706C.5   G. max
miR390      TAS                                226 MRT3847_298568C.2   G. max
miR390      TAS                                227 MRT3847_60306C.8    G. max
miR393      TIRI                               228 MRT3847_238705C.4   G. max
miR393      TIRI                               229 MRT3847 27973C.7    G. max
miR393      TIRI                               230 MRT3847 313402C.3   G. max
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       231 MRT3847 329954C.2   G. max
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       232 MRT3847 335477C.1   G. max
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       233 MRT3847 44371C.6    G. max
miR394      F-box domain                       234 MRT3847 249313C.3   G. max
miR394      F-box domain                       235 MRT3847 260044C.4   G. max
miR395      AST                                236 MRT3847 118061C.7   G. max
miR395      AST                                237 MRT3847 120571C.4   G. max
miR395      AST                                238 MRT3847 161863C.4   G. max
miR395      AST                                239 MRT3847 233832C.4   G. max
miR395      AST                                240 MRT3847 294717C.3   G. max
miR395      AST                                241 MRT3847 303988C.3   G. max
miR395      AST                                242 MRT3847 336528C.1   G. max
miR395      AST                                243 MRT3847 55707C.5    G. max
miR395      ATP sulfurylase                    244 MRT3847 14792C.7    G. max
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        245 MRT3847 331787C.1   G. max
miR395      sulfate transporter                246 MRT3847 10451C.5    G. max
miR395      sulfate transporter                247 MRT3847 245035C.3   G. max
miR396      GRF                                248 PHE0001215          G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           249 MRT3847 183050C.6   G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           250 MRT3847 200704C.5   G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           251 MRT3847 21877C.7    G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           252 MRT3847 275465C.2   G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           253 MRT3847 285089C.5   G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           254 MRT3847 307974C.3   G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           255 MRT3847 34351C.6    G. max
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           256 MRT3847 39577C.5    G. max
miR397      Laccase                            257 MRT3847 148737C.1   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            258 MRT3847 196074C.1   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            259 MRT3847 240006C.2   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            260 MRT3847 256982C.1   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            261 MRT3847 25859C.5    G. max
miR397      Laccase                            262 MRT3847 29767C.4    G. max
miR397      Laccase                            263 MRT3847 297900C.1   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            264 MRT3847 309594C.2   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            265 MRT3847 33656C.5    G. max
miR397      Laccase                            266 MRT3847 347553C.1   G. max
miR397      Laccase                            267 MRT3847 36695C.5    G. max
miR397      Laccase                            268 MRT3847 49069C.6    G. max
miR397      Laccase                            269 MRT3847 7864C.1     G. max
miR397      Laccase                            270 MRT3847 99867C.5    G. max
miR398      COPPER/ZINC SUPEROXIDE             271 MRT3847_235546C.3   G. max
            DISMUTASE
miR400      pentatricopeptide                  272 MRT3847  12750C.4   G. max
miR400      pentatricopeptide                  273 MRT3847  17367C.3   G. max
miR400      PPR                                274 MRT3847  10096C.3   G. max
miR400      PPR                                275 MRT3847  139832C.5  G. max
miR400      PPR                                276 MRT3847  141759C.5  G. max
miR400      PPR                                277 MRT3847  218904C.2  G. max
miR400      PPR                                278 MRT3847  267668C.2  G. max
miR400      PPR                                279 MRT3847  57083C.4   G. max
                                            57

WO 2010/002984                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
miR408      blue copper protein                280 PHE0000330          G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                281 MRT3847_273288C.3   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                282 MRT3847_329905C.2   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                283 MRT3847_336704C.1   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                284 MRT3847_343250C.1   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                285 MRT3847_346770C.1   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                286 MRT3847_349900C.1   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                287 MRT3847_350132C.1   G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                288 MRT3847 60064C.6    G. max
miR408      blue copper protein                289 MRT3847 66506C.8    G. max
miR408      Laccase                            290 MRT3847 296270C.2   G. max
miR408      Laccase                            291 MRT3847 31127C.7    G. max
miR444      MADS box                           292 PHE0002647          G. max
miR444      MADS box                           293 PHE0002648          G. max
miR444      MADS box                           294 PHE0015540          G. max
miR444      MADS-box                           295 MRT3847 247970C.2   G. max
miR444      MADS-box                           296 MRT3847 259952C.3   G. max
miR472      ATP binding                        297 MRT3847 324977C.1   G. max
miR472      ATP binding                        298 MRT3847 335756C.1   G. max
miR472      disease resistance protein         299 MRT3847 348618C.1   G. max
miR472      NBS-LRR type disease resistance    300 MRT3847_292513C.3   G. max
            protein
miR472      NBS-LRR type disease resistance    301 MRT3847_34971C.6    U. max
            protein
miR472/482  disease resistance protein         302 MRT3847 159134C.1   G. max
miR472/482  disease resistance protein         303 MRT3847 208382C.4   G. max
miR472/482  disease resistance protein         304 MRT3847 229943C.2   G. max
miR472/482  disease resistance protein         305 MRT3847 262606C.4   G. max
miR472/482  NBS-LRR type disease resistance    306 MRT3847_223192C.5   G. max
            protein
miR472/482  NBS-LRR type disease resistance    307 MRT3847_264890C.3   G. max
            protein
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat           308 MRT3847  204627C.1  G. max
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat           309 MRT3847  234253C.2  G. max
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat           310 MRT3847  289449C.2  G. max
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat           311 MRT3847  342062C.1  G. max
miR475      PPR                                312 MRT3847  137370C.4  G. max
miR475      PPR                                313 MRT3847  196480C.3  G. max
miR475      PPR                                314 MRT3847  241148C.2  G. max
miR475      PPR                                315 MRT3847  30662C.4   G. max
miR475      PPR                                316 MRT3847  44502C.5   G. max
miR475      PPR-repeat                         317 MRT3847  235882C.3  G. max
miR477      bHLH                               318 MRT3847  117808C.5  G. max
miR477      bHLH                               319 MRT3847  330789C.2  G. max
miR477      GRAS                               320 MRT3847  161254C.2  G. max
miR477      GRAS                               321 MRT3847  250541C.3  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         322 MRT3847  216742C.1  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         323 MRT3847  221164C.1  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         324 MRT3847  28447C.6   G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         325 MRT3847  302802C.3  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         326 MRT3847  146432C.5  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         327 MRT3847  184524C.6  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         328 MRT3847  268743C.4  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         329 MRT3847  272693C.2  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         330 MRT3847  297146C.2  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         331 MRT3847  314629C.2  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         332 MRT3847  335514C.1  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         333 MRT3847  335735C.1  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         334 MRT3847  337518C.1  G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein         335 MRT3847  340947C.1  G. max
                                            58

WO 2010/002984                                                       PCT/US2009/049392
miR482      disease resistance protein               336 MRT3847_352235C.1   G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein               337 MRT3847_63055C.5    G. max
miR482      disease resistance protein               338 MRT3847_66636C.5    G. max
miR482      Putative disease resistance protein      339 MRT3847_184595C.4   G. max
miR824      MADS box                                 340 PHE0001395          G. max
miR824      MADS box                                 341 PHE0003427          G. max
miR824      MADS box                                 342 PHE0013854          G. max
miR824      MADS-box                                 343 MRT3847_14550C.4    G. max
miR824      MADS-box                                 344 MRT3847 39202C.7    G. max
miR828      MyB                                      345 PHE0001477          G. max
miR828      MYB                                      346 MRT3847 346366C.1   G. max
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                     347 MRT3847 215219C.3   G. max
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                     348 MRT3847 215220C.2   G. max
miR828/858  myb-like DNA-binding                     349 MRT3847 22767C.2    G. max
miR857      LAC                                      350 MRT3847 13225C.3    G. max
miR858      MyB                                      351 PHE0000380          G. max
miR858      MYB                                      352 PHE0001408          G. max
miR858      MyB                                      353 PHE0004448          G. max
miR858      MyB                                      354 PHE0012029          G. max
miR858      MyB                                      355 PHE0015929          G. max
miR858      MYB                                      356 MRT3847 212141C.3   G. max
miR858      MYB                                      357 MRT3847 347736C.1   G. max
miR858      MYB                                      358 MRT3847 38379C.5    G. max
miR858      MYB                                      359 MRT3847 40737C.7    G. max
miR858      MYB                                      360 MRT3847 41334C.3    G. max
miR858      MYB12                                    361 MRT3847 51246C.6    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     362 MRT3847 131164C.6   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     363 MRT3847 137726C.5   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     364 MRT3847 228792C.3   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     365 MRT3847 255360C.1   G. max
miR858      myb-likc DNA-binding                     366 MRT3847 255362C.6   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     367 MRT3847 260391C.1   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     368 MRT3847 261508C.2   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     369 MRT3847 270136C.3   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     370 MRT3847 290332C.2   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     371 MRT3847 294239C.3   G. max
miR858       nyb-like DNA-binding                    372 MRT3847 322770C.2   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     373 MRT3847 32417C.5    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     374 MRT3847 332192C.1   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     375 MRT3847 335664C.1   G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     376 MRT3847 34082C.5    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     377 MRT3847 39825C.5    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     378 MRT3847 40203C.4    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     379 MRT3847 41332C.5    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     380 MRT3847 42168C.6    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     381 MRT3847 51247C.3    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     382 MRT3847 52127C.4    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     383 MRT3847 54395C.5    G. max
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                     384 MRT3847 55676C.6    G. max
miR156      SBP domain                               385 MRT3635_30868C.2    Gossypium
                                                                             hirsutum
miR156/157  SBP domain                               386 MRT3635  36657C.2   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  SBP domain                               387 MRT3635  65765C.1   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding     Protein    388 MRT3635  15791C.2   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding     Protein    389 MRT3635  48230C.2   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding     Protein    390 MRT3635  69088C.1   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding     Protein    391 MRT3635  69159C.1   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding     Protein    392 MRT3635  30369C.2   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding     Protein    393 MRT3635  56290C.1   G. hirsutum
miR156/157  teosinte glume architecture              394 MRT3635  15393C.1   G. hirsutum
                                                  59

WO 2010/002984                                                PCT/US2009/049392
miR159      MYB65                              395 MRT3635_249C.2     G. hirsutum
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding               396 MRT3635_54684C.2   G. hirsutum
miR160      Auxin Response Factor              397 MRT3635_36222C.2   G. hirsutum
miR162      CAF                                398 MRT3635_16630C.2   G. hirsutum
miR164      NAC domain protein                 399 MRT3635_24172C.2   G. hirsutum
miR164      No Apical Meristem                 400 MRT3635_48601C.2   G. hirsutun
miR164      No Apical Meristem                 401 MRT3635_64345C.1   G. hirsutum
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           402 MRT3635_4809C.2    G. hirsutum
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           403 MRT3635 50942C.2   G. hirsutum
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein           404 MRT3635 72188C.1   G. hirsutum
miR166      class III HD-Zip protein           405 MRT3635 12880C.2   G. hirsutum
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              406 MRT3635 13510C.2   G. hirsutum
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              407 MRT3635 14893C.2   G. hirsutum
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              408 MRT3635 24556C.2   G. hirsutum
miR167      Auxin Response Factor              409 MRT3635 59443C.1   G. hirsutum
miR168      AGO1                               410 MRT3635 43628C.2   G. hirsutum
miR168      Argonaute                          411 MRT3635 68755C.1   G. hirsutum
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      412 MRT3635 18720C.2   G. hirsutum
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      413 MRT3635 60547C.1   G. hirsutum
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      414 MRT3635 63602C.1   G. hirsutum
miR169      CCAAT-binding                      415 MRT3635 751C.2     G. hirsutum
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     416 MRT3635 57584C.1   G. hirsutum
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     417 MRT3635 63203C.1   G. hirsutum
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y     418 MRT3635 67492C.1   G. hirsutum
miR171      GRAS                               419 MRT3635 41132C.2   G. hirsutun
miR172      AP2                                420 MRT3635 50596C.2   G. hirsutum
miR172      AP2 domain                         421 MRT3635 21738C.2   G. hirsutum
miR172      AP2 domain                         422 MRT3635 5937C.2    G. hirsutum
miR172      AP2 domain                         423 MRT3635 64989C.1   G. hirsutum
miR172      AP2 domain                         424 MRT3635 8244C.2    G. hirsutum
miR319      TCP                                425 MRT3635 31917C.2   G. hirsutum
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    426 MRT3635 40862C.2   G. hirsutum
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    427 MRT3635 55735C.1   G. hirsutum
miR393      TIR1                               428 MRT3635 18850C.2   G. hirsutum
miR393      TIR1                               429 MRT3635 35639C.2   G. hirsutum
miR393      TIRI                               430 MRT3635 68504C.1   G. hirsutum
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       431 MRT3635 18188C.2   G. hirsutum
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       432 MRT3635 49076C.2   G. hirsutum
miR395      AST                                433 MRT3635 73824C.1   G. hirsutum
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        434 MRT3635 15903C.2   G. hirsutum
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        435 MRT3635 48567C.2   G. hirsutum
miR395      sulfate transporter                436 MRT3635 64866C.1   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           437 MRT3635 10089C.2   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           438 MRT3635 18322C.2   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           439 MRT3635 43733C.2   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           440 MRT3635 44225C.2   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           441 MRT3635 67643C.1   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           442 MRT3635 71085C.1   G. hirsutum
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           443 MRT3635 7854C.2    G. hirsutum
miR397      Laccase                            444 MRT3635 2612C.2    G. hirsutum
miR397      Laccase                            445 MRT3635 59330C.1   G. hirsutum
miR397      Laccase                            446 MRT3635 62379C.1   G. hirsutum
miR400      PPR                                447 MRT3635 14024C.2   G. hirsutum
miR400      PPR                                448 MRT3635 24425C.2   G. hirsutum
miR400      PPR                                449 MRT3635 62540C.1   G. hirsutum
miR400      PPR                                450 MRT3635 71976C.1   G. hirsutum
miR408      blue copper protein                451 MRT3635 25321C.2   G. hirsutum
miR408      blue copper protein                452 MRT3635 36078C.2   G. hirsutum
miR408      blue copper protein                453 MRT3635 36080C.2   G. hirsutum
miR408      blue copper protein                454 MRT3635 54561C.2   G. hirsutum
                                            60

WO 2010/002984                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
miR408      blue copper protein                  455 MRT3635_54936C.2    G. hirsutum
miR444      MADS-box                             456 MRT3635_52393C.1    G. hirsutum
miR472      ATP binding                          457 MRT3635_16581C.2    G. hirsutum
miR472/482  NBS-LRR type disease resistance      458 MRT3635_77272C.1    G. hirsutum
            protein
miR475      pentatricopeptide                    459 MRT3635 73944C.1    G. hirsutum
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat             460 MRT3635 35992C.1    G. hirsutum
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat             461 MRT3635 51055C.1    G. hirsutum
miR475      PPR                                  462 MRT3635 36232C.2    G. hirsutum
miR475      PPR                                  463 MRT3635 65837C.1    G. hirsutum
miR475      PPR                                  464 MRT3635 6832C.2     G. hirsutum
miR827      SPX                                  465 MRT3635 71336C.1    G. hirsutum
miR827      zinc finger                          466 MRT3635 61225C.1    G. hirsutum
miR828      MYB                                  467 MRT3635 63902C.1    G. hirsutum
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                 468 MRT3635  11678C.2   G. hirsutum
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                 469 MRT3635 23974C.2    G. hirsutum
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                 470 MRT3635 37632C.1    G. hirsutum
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                 471 MRT3635 46849C.2    G. hirsutum
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                 472 MRT3635 75185C.1    G. hirsutum
miR828/858  MYB                                  473 MRT3635  12320C.2   G. hirsutum
miR828/858  myb-like DNA-binding                 474 MRT3635 25669C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      MYB                                  475 MRT3635  11888C.1   G. hirsutum
miR858      MYB                                  476 MRT3635  17735C.1   U. hirsutum
miR858      MYB                                  477 MRT3635 3345C.1     G. hirsutum
miR858      MYB                                  478 MRT3635 46789C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 479 MRT3635 48257C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 480 MRT3635 53024C.2    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 481 MRT3635 55977C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 482 MRT3635 57077C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 483 MRT3635 66730C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 484 MRT3635 67640C.1    G. hirsutuin
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 485 MRT3635 69682C.1    G. hirsutum
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 486 MRT3635 74072C.1    G. hirsutum
miR156      SBP domain                           487 MRT4513 33353C.1   Hordeum vulgare
miR156/157  SBP domain                           488 MRT4513  19757C.1  H. vulgare
miR156/157  SBP domain, miR157                   489 MRT4513 52153C.1   H. vulgare
miR156/157  SBP-domain, miR157                   490 MRT4513 41849C.    II.vulgare
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    491 MRT4513 4449C.1    H. vulgare
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          492 MRT4513  1572C.3   H. vulgare
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          493 MRT4513 55409C.1   H. vulgare
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                494 MRT4513 43004C.1   H. vulgare
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                495 MRT4513 48930C.1   H. vulgare
iniR160     Auxin Response Factor                496 MRT4513 51165C.1   H. vulgare
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                497 MRT4513 9322C.2    H. vulgare
miR164      NAC domain protein                   498 MRT4513 51143C.2   H. vulgare
miR164      NAC domain protein                   499 MRT4513 7890C.1    H. vulgare
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   500 MRT4513 26199C.1   H. vulgare
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                501 MRT4513 29483C.2   H. vulgare
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                502 MRT4513 29827C.2   H. vulgare
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                503 MRT4513 31779C.1   H. vulgare
miRl67      Auxin Response Factor                504 MRT4513 47791C.1   HL vulgare
miR168      Argonaute                            505 MRT4513 31835C.1   H. vulgare
miR168      Argonaute                            506 MRT4513 43289C.1   H. vulgare
miR168      PINHEAD                              507 MRT4513 28709C.1   H. vulgare
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        508 MRT4513 27452C.1   H. vulgare
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        509 MRT4513 38912C.1   H. vulgare
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        510 MRT4513 51394C.1   H. vulgare
miR170/171  SCL                                  511 MRT4513 44124C.1   H. vulgare
miR172      AP2                                  512 MRT4513 6417C.1    H. vulgare
miR172      AP2 domain                           513 MRT4513 42015C.1   H. vulgare
                                              61

WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR319      PCF                                   514 MRT4513_31590C.1   H. vulgare
miR319      PCF                                   515 MRT4513_52459C.1   H. vulgare
miR393      Transport inhibitor response          516 MRT4513_12741C.1   H. vulgare
miR393      Transport inhibitor response          517 MRT4513_38675C.1   H. vulgare
miR394      F-box                                 518 MRT4513_23211C.1   H. vulgare
miR396      Growth-regulating factor              519 MRT4513_20166C.2   H. vulgare
miR396      Growth-regulating factor              520 MRT4513_26009C.2    H. vulgare
miR396      Growth-regulating factor              521 MRT4513_33203C.1   H. vulgare
miR396      Growth-regulating factor              522 MRT4513 4600C.1    H. vulgare
miR396      Growth-regulating factor              523 MRT4513 50332C.1   H. vulgare
miR397      Laccase                               524 MRT4513 35926C.1   H. vulgare
miR397      Laccase                               525 MRT4513 40609C.1   H. vulgare
miR398      Copper/zinc superoxide dismutase      526 MRT4513 43414C.2   H. vulgare
miR398      Copper/zinc superoxide dismutase      527 MRT4513 8559C.2    H. vulgare
miR408      blue copper protein                   528 MRT4513 31098C.2   H. vulgare
miR472      NBS-LRR disease resistance protein    529 MRT4513 5784C.1    H. vulgare
miR475      pentatricopeptide                     530 MRT4513 47541C.1   H. vulgare
miR475      PPR                                   531 MRT4513 7525C.2    H. vulgare
miR482      disease resistance                    532 MRT4513 11673C.1   H. vulgare
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  533 MRT4513 11055C.1   H. vulgare
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  534 MRT4513 42246C.1   H. vulgare
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  535 MRT4513 4767C.1    H. vulgare
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  536 MRT4513 5642C.1    H. vulgare
miR156/157  SBP domain                            537 MRT3880 19943C.1   Medicago sativa
miR156/157  SBP domain                            538 MRT3880 34839C.1    M. sativa
miR156/157  SBP domain                            539 MRT3880 54023C.1    1. sativa
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein     540 MRT3880 59834C.1   M. sativa
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein     541 MRT3880 62151C.1   M. sativa
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain           542 MRT3880 51095C.1   M. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                 543 MRT3880 22965C.1   M. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                 544 MRT3880 28718C.1   M. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                 545 MRT3880 38543C.1   M. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                 546 MRT3880 44036C.1   M. sativa
miR161      PPR                                   547 MRT3880 11000C.1   M. sativa
miR161/475  Pentatricopeptide repeat              548 MRT3880 37878C.1   M. sativa
miR162      Dicer                                 549 MRT3880 26893C.1    M. sativa
miR164      NAC domain protein                    550 MRT3880 18003C.2   M. sativa
miR164      No Apical Meristem                    551 MRT3880 44619C.1    MI.sativa
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein              552 MRT3880 37546C.1   M sativa
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein              553 MRT3880 39764C.1    M. sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                 554 MRT3880 12926C.1    M. sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                 555 MRT3880 17672C.1   M sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                 556 MRT3880 25270C.1   M. sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                 557 MRT3880 30476C.1    M. sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                 558 MRT3880 36150C.1    M. sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                 559 MRT3880 470C.1     M. sativa
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y        560 MRT3880 16272C.2   M. sativa
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y        561 MRT3880 21811C.2    M. sativa
miR169      nuclear transcription factor Y        562 MRT3880 59679C.1   M. sativa
miR170/171  GRAS                                  563 MRT3880 12452C.1   M. sativa
miR170/171  GRAS                                  564 MRT3880 29125C.1   M. sativa
miR170/171  GRAS                                  565 MRT3880 31130C.1   M. sativa
miR170/171  GRAS                                  566 MRT3880 40896C.1    M. sativa
miR170/171  GRAS                                  567 MRT3880 63440C.1    M. sativa
miR172      AP2 domain                            568 MRT3880 36568C.1   M. sativa
miR172      AP2 domain                            569 MRT3880 39959C.1   M. sativa
miR172      AP2 domain                            570 MRT3880 55789C.1   M. sativa
miR319      TCP                                   571 MRT3880 2628C.1     M. sativa
miR319      TCP family transcription factor       572 MRT3880 44480C.1   M sativa
miR393      Transport inhibitor response          573 MRT3880 18564C.2    M. sativa
                                               62

WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
miR393      Transport inhibitor response              574 MRT3880_38847C.1   M. sativa
miR393      Transport inhibitor response              575 MRT3880_67369C.1   M. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor                  576 MRT3880_18861C.1   M. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor                  577 MRT3880_22460C.1   M. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor                  578 MRT3880_41297C.1    M. sativa
miR397      Laccase                                   579 MRT3880_43121C.1   M. sativa
miR397      Laccase                                   580 MRT3880_561 14C.2   M. sativa
miR400      pentatricopeptide                         581 MRT3880_53970C.1   M. sativa
miR400      PPR                                       582 MRT3880 14263C.1   M. sativa
miR400      PPR                                       583 MRT3880 65540C.1   M. sativa
miR400/475  Pentatricopeptide repeat                  584 MRT3880 27459C.1   M. sativa
miR400/475  Pentatricopeptide repeat                  585 MRT3880 49876C.1    M/.sativa
miR400/475  PPR                                       586 MRT3880 44329C.1   M. sativa
miR408      blue copper protein                       587 MRT3880 46744C.2   M. sativa
miR408      blue copper protein                       588 MRT3880 53025C.1   M. sativa
miR408      blue copper protein                       589 MRT3880 5838C.1    M. sativa
miR472      ATP binding                               590 MRT3880 29560C.1   M. sativa
miR472      ATP binding                               591 MRT3880 30961C.1   M. sativa
miR472      ATP binding                               592 MRT3880 48315C.1   M. sativa
miR472      ATP binding                               593 MRT3880 53199C.1   M. sativa
miR472      ATP binding                               594 MRT3880 54030C.2   M. sativa
miR472      ATP binding                               595 MRT3880 57442C.1   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                596 MRT3880 10080C.1   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                597 MRT3880 12559C.2   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                598 MRT3880 17698C.1    M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                599 MRT3880 21650C.1    11. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                600 MRT3880 22933C.1    M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                601 MRT3880 26007C.1   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                602 MRT3880 28379C.1   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                603 MRT3880 3002C.1     M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                604 MRT3880 38354C.1   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                605 MRT3880 41496C.1   M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                606 MRT3880 51100C.1    M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                607 MRT3880 5498C.1    M. sativa
miR472      disease resistance protein                608 MRT3880 59891C.1     l. sativa
miR472      NBS-LRR type disease resistance           609 MRT3880_45204C.1   M. sativa
            protein
miR472      NBS-LRR type disease resistance           610 MRT3880_52654C.1   M. sativa
            protein
miR472      NBS-LRR type disease resistance           611 MRT3880_66600C.1   M. sativa
            protein
miR472      NBS-LRR type disease resistance           612 MRT3880_7642C.1    M. sativa
            protein
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                613 MRT3 880 19707C.1    /f sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                614 MRT3880 19814C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                615 MRT3880 26877C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                616 MRT3880 2935C.1     M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                617 MRT3880 36417C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                618 MRT3880 44875C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                619 MRT3880 5004C.1     lf sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                620 MRT3880 52723C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                621 MRT3880 57846C.1   M sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                622 MRT3880 63259C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                623 MRT3880 6363C.1     M. sativa
miR472/482  disease resistance protein                624 MRT3880 65083C.1    M. sativa
miR472/482, disease resistance protein,leucine rich   625 MRT3880_55187C.1    M. sativa
miR779      repeat
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat                  626 MRT3880 13183C.1    M. sativa
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat                  627 MRT3880 42014C.1   M. sativa
miR475      Pentatricopeptide repeat                  628 MRT3880 46171C.1    M. sativa
                                                   63

WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR475      PPR                                   629 MRT3880_12164C.1    M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   630 MRT3880_12471C.1   M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   631 MRT3880_16503C.1   M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   632 MRT3880_22609C.1    M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   633 MRT3880_35917C.1    M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   634 MRT3880_39210C.1    M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   635 MRT3880_55838C.1    M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   636 MRT3880_56789C.1   M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   637 MRT3880 65802C.1    M. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   638 MRT3880 870C.1      MA. sativa
miR475      PPR                                   639 MRT3880 9632C.1     M. sativa
miR476      Pentatricopeptide repeat              640 MRT3880 13782C.1    M/.sativa
miR477      GRAS                                  641 MRT3880 1038C.1    M. sativa
miR477      GRAS                                  642 MRT3880 14765C.1    M. sativa
miR477      GRAS                                  643 MRT3880 28393C.1    M. sativa
miR477      GRAS                                  644 MRT3880 31231C.1   M. sativa
miR477      GRAS                                  645 MRT3880 42028C.1    M. sativa
miR477      GRAS                                  646 MRT3880 51782C.1   M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            647 MRT3880 12508C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            648 MRT3880 16156C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            649 MRT3880 22305C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            650 MRT3880 30579C.1    M/.sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            651 MRT3880 38019C.1    M1.sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            652 MRT3880 4159C.1     M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            653 MRT3880 49695C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            654 MRT3880 54965C.1    1M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            655 MRT3880 56400C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            656 MRT3880 56673C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            657 MRT3880 58830C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            658 MRT3880 58849C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            659 MRT3880 59857C.1   M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            660 MRT3880 60136C.1    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            661 MRT3880 65552C.2    M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            662 MRT3880 8722C.1    3M. sativa
miR482      disease resistance protein            663 MRT3880 9618C.1     M. sativa
miR828      myb-like DNA-binding                  664 MRT3880 19611 C.1   MA. sativa
miR858       nyb-like DNA-binding                 665 MRT3880 10365C.1    M. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  666 MRT3880 12267C.1     I. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  667 MRT3880 19438C.1   M sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  668 MRT3880 23642C.1    M. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  669 MRT3880 33147C.1    M. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  670 MRT3880 34889C.1   M sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  671 MRT3880 39946C.1   31. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  672 MRT3880 55009C.1    M1.sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  673 MRT3880 56414C.1    M. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  674 MRT3880 62538C.1   M. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  675 MRT3880 801C.1     M. sativa
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                  676 MRT3880 8393C.1    M. sativa
miR859      F-box protein                         677 MRT3880 46176C.1    M. sativa
miR859      F-box protein                         678 MRT3880 47002C.1    M. sativa
miRMON13    PPR                                   679 MRT3880 52640C.1   A. sativa
miRMON13    PPR                                   680 MRT3880 60915C.1   3M. sativa
miR156      SBP domain                            681 MRT4530 118092C.3   Oryza sativa
miR156      SBP domain                            682 MRT4530 135991C.4   0. sativa
miR156      SBP domain                            683 MRT4530 257640C.1   0. sativa
miR156      SBP-domain                            684 MRT4530 142142C.4   0. sativa
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding  Protein    685 MRT4530 195506C.2   0. sativa
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding  Protein    686 MRT4530 220364C.2   0. sativa
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding  Protein    687 MRT4530 236277C.1   0. sativa
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding  Protein    688 MRT4530 53217C.5    0. sativa
                                               64

WO 2010/002984                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    689 MRT4530_6964C.4    0. sativa
miR159      MYB                                  690 MRT4530_103606C.2  0.sativa
miR159      myb-like                             691 MRT4530_82994C.2   0.sativa
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          692 MRT4530_103605C.3  0.sativa
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          693 MRT4530_156102C.3  0. sativa
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          694 MRT4530_181046C.3  0.sativa
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          695 MRT4530_42135C.5   0. sativa
miR160      ARF                                  696 PHE0003527         0. sativa
miR160      ARF                                  697 PHE0003528         0. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                698 MRT4530 228913C.1  0. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                699 MRT4530 69952C.4   0. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                700 MRT4530 71017C.4   0. sativa
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                701 MRT4530 75962C.5   0.sativa
miR162      CAF                                  702 MRT4530 212066C.2  0.sativa
miR164      NAC                                  703 MRT4530 224181C.2  0.sativa
miR164      NAC domain protein                   704 MRT4530 178256C.3  0.sativa
miR164      NAC domain protein                   705 MRT4530 221769C.1  0. sativa
miR164      NACl                                 706 MRT4530 141528C.5  0.sativa
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   707 MRT4530 147737C.4  0. sativa
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   708 MRT4530 157393C.3  0.sativa
miR166      HD-ZIP                               709 MRT4530 253068C.2  0.sativa
miR167      ARF                                  710 PHE0003657         0. sativa
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                711 MRT4530 86291C.3   0.sativa
miR168      Argonaute                            712 MRT4530 147864C.3  0. sativa
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        713 MRT4530 156068C.3  0.sativa
miR 169     CCAAT-binding                        714 MRT4530 52650C.3   0.sativa
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        715 MRT4530 98042C.6   0. sativa
miR171      GRAS                                 716 MRT4530 157676C.3  0.sativa
miR171      GRAS                                 717 MRT4530 159257C.2  0.sativa
miR171      GRAS                                 718 MRT4530 177712C.1  0. sativa
miR171      GRAS                                 719 MRT4530 64038C.2   0.sativa
miR171      Scarecrow-like                       720 MRT4530 146050C.4  0. sativa
miR171      SCL                                  721 MRT4530 111185C.3  O.sativa
miR171      SCL                                  722 MRT4530 12928C.2   0.sativa
miR171      SCL                                  723 MRT4530 88963C.6   0. sativa
miR172      AP2                                  724 PHE0003882         0.sativa
miR172      AP2 domain                           725 MRT4530 160275C.3  0.sativa
miR172      AP2 domain                           726 MRT4530 56773C.3   0.sativa
miR319      TCP family transcription factor      727 MRT4530 154891C.2  0.sativa
miR319      TCP family transcription factor      728 MRT4530 9431C.5    0.sativa
miR319      TCP3                                 729 MRT4530 151800C.2  0.sativa
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         730 MRT4530 241313C.2  0.sativa
miR395      ATP sulfurylase                      731 MRT4530 16384C.4   0. sativa
miR395      sulfate transporter                  732 MRT4530 33633C.6   0. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             733 PHE0000026         0. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             734 MRT4530 140789C.3  0.sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             735 MRT4530 145151C.4  0. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             736 MRT4530 147352C.3  0.sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             737 MRT4530 180707C.1  0. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             738 MRT4530 221461C.1  0. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             739 MRT4530 63308C.3   O. sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             740 MRT4530 73195C.3   0.sativa
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             741 MRT4530 83576C.4   0. sativa
miR397      Laccase                              742 MRT4530 148379C.4  0. sativa
miR397      Laccase                              743 MRT4530 181828C.1  0. sativa
miR397      Laccase                              744 MRT4530 237569C.1  0. sativa
miR397      Laccase                              745 MRT4530 60143C.3   0.sativa
miR408      blue copper protein                  746 MRT4530 137979C.3  0.sativa
miR408      blue copper protein                  747 MRT4530 260849C.1  0. sativa
miR408      blue copper protein                  748 MRT4530 40477C.6   0. sativa
                                              65

WO 2010/002984                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miR408      Laccase                              749 MRT4530_160612C.2  0.sativa
miR408      Laccase                              750 MRT4530_169405C.1  0. sativa
miR444      MADS                                 751 MRT4530_27947C.3   0.sativa
miR444      MADS                                 752 MRT4530_78475C.3   0.sativa
miR444      MADS box                             753 PHE0001381         0. sativa
miR444      MADS box                             754 PHE0015548         0. sativa
miR444      MADS box                             755 PHE0015549         0. sativa
miR444      MADS-box                             756 PHE0003829         0. sativa
miR444      MADS-box                             757 MRT4530 196636C.3  0.sativa
miR809      Mlo                                  758 MRT4530 59197C.5   0.sativa
miR538      MADS-box                             759 PHE0014613        Physcomitrella
                                                                       patens
miR156/157  SBP domain                           760 MRT4558 6587C.1    Sorghum bicolor
miR156/157  SBP-domain                           761 MRT4558 12680C.1   S. bicolor
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    762 MRT4558 8644C.2    S. bicolor
miR159      GAMYB                                763 MRT4558 37619C.1   S. bicolor
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                764 MRT4558 27799C.1   S. bicolor
miR164      NAC domain protein                   765 MRT4558 43436C.1   S. bicolor
miR164      NAC domain protein                   766 MRT4558 4564C.2    S. bicolor
miR164      NACl                                 767 MRT4558 43081C.1   S. bicolor
miR164      No Apical Meristem                   768 MRT4558 41467C.1   S. bicolor
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein             769 MRT4558 27560C.1   S. bicolor
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                770 MRT4558 10718C.3   S. bicolor
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                771 MRT4558 1659C.2    S. bicolor
miR167      Auxin Response Factor                772 MRT4558 37108C.1   S. bicolor
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        773 MRT4558 11671C.2   S. bicolor
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        774 MRT4558 13240C.2   S. bicolor
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        775 MRT4558 19368C.2   S. bicolor
miR169      CCAAT-binding                        776 MRT4558 8287C.2    S. bicolor
miR170/171  SCL                                  777 MRT4558 7655C.1    S. bicolor
miR172      AP2 domain                           778 MRT4558 25704C.2   S. bicolor
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         779 MRT4558 1226C.2   S.hicolor
miR393      Transport inhibitor response         780 MRT4558 20000C.2   S. bicolor
miR394      F-box domain                         781 MRT4558 11973C.2   S. bicolor
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase          782 MRT4558 11861C.1   S. bicolor
miR395      Sulfate transporter                  783 MRT4558 24400C.2   S. bicolor
miR396      Growth-regulating factor             784 MRT4558 13321C.2   S. bicolor
miR400      Pentatricopeptide repeat             785 MRT4558 43831C.1   S. bicolor
miR408      blue copper protein                  786 MRT4558 16166C.2   S. bicolor
miR408      blue copper protein                  787 MRT4558 8981C.2    S. bicolor
miR408      Laccase                              788 MRT4558 40844C.1   S. bicolor
miR444      MADS-box                             789 MRT4558 11440C.2   S. bicolor
miR472      ATP binding                          790 MRT4558 33723C.1   S. bicolor
miR475      PPR                                  791 MRT4558 5261C.2    S. bicolor
miR536      F-box protein                        792 MRT4558 34710C.1   S. bicolor
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 793 MRT4558 5881C.2    S. bicolor
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding                 794 MRT4558 642C.1     S. bicolor
miR159      myb protein                          795 MRT4565 281735C.1  Triticum aestivum
miR169      CCAAT                                796 MRT4565 240119C.2  T aestivum
miR169      CCAAT                                797 MRT4565 270644C.2  T aestivum
miRl72      AP2                                  798 MRT4565 247090C.1  T aestivum
miR394      F-box                                799 MRT4565 259298C.2  T aestivum
miR444      MADS box                             800 PHE0002649         T aestivum
miR444      MADS-box                             801 MRT4565 247066C.1  T.aestivum
miR444      MADS-box                             802 MRT4565 258649C.1  T aestivum
miR529      AP2                                  803 MRT4565 278632C.2  T aestivum
miR858      MYB                                  804 MRT4565 223049C.1  T. aestivum
miR165/166  REV                                  805 PHE0012638         unidentified
miR824      MADS box                             806 PHE0015528         unidentified
miR824      MADS box                             807 PHE0015545         unidentified
                                              66

WO 2010/002984                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miR1029     erf                                  808 MRT4577_148956C.8  Zea mays
miR1029     erf                                  809 MRT4577_267494C.5  Z mays
miR1029     erf                                  810 MRT4577_389477C.2  Z mays
miR1029     erf                                  811 MRT4577_48700C.7   Z mays
miR1029     erf                                  812 MRT4577_565542C.1  Z mays
miR1029     erf                                  813 MRT4577_600239C.1  Z inays
miR156      Squamosa Promoter Binding            814 MRT4577_396357C.4  Z. mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           815 MRT4577_122478C.6  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           816 MRT4577 270892C.4  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           817 MRT4577 334372C.5  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           818 MRT4577 532824C.3  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           819 MRT4577 535297C.2  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           820 MRT4577 537670C.2  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           821 MRT4577 565057C.1  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           822 MRT4577 568647C.1  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           823 MRT4577 571545C.1  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP domain                           824 MRT4577 644419C.1  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP-domain                           825 MRT4577 23629C.7   Z mays
miR156/157  SBP-domain                           826 MRT4577 295538C.7  Z mays
miR156/157  SBP-domain                           827 MRT4577 31704C.9   Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding            828 MRT4577 427964C.4  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding            829 MRT4577 461098C.3  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    830 MRT4577 137984C.6  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    831 MRT4577 188360C.6  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    832 MRT4577 205098C.7  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    833 MRT4577 26483C.7   Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    834 MRT4577 341149C.6  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    835 MRT4577 383301C.4  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    836 MRT4577 42534C.9   Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    837 MRT4577 564644C.1  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein    838 MRT4577 619443C.1  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter-Binding            839 MRT4577 333683C.4  Z mays
miR156/157  Squamosa Promoter-Binding            840 MRT4577 38044C.8   Z mays
miR156/157  teosinte glume architecture          841 MRT4577 181019C.5  Z mays
miR156/157  teosinte glume architecture          842 MRT4577 78773C.8   Z mays
miR159      GAMYB                                843 MRT4577 481577C.2  Z mays
miR159      MYB                                  844 MRT4577 210747C.5  Z mays
miR159      MYB                                  845 MRT4577 542744C.2  Z mays
miR159      myb-like                             846 MRT4577 298452C.5  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding                 847 MRT4577 565447C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding                 848 MRT4577 565456C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          849 MRT4577 30813C.8   Z. mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          850 MRT4577 390477C.4  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          851 MRT4577 391124C.5  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          852 MRT4577 416957C.3  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          853 MRT4577 545477C.2  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          854 MRT4577 582653C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          855 MRT4577 598088C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          856 MRT4577 605039C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          857 MRT4577 613992C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          858 MRT4577 622542C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          859 MRT4577 709777C.1  Z mays
miR159      myb-like DNA-binding domain          860 MRT4577 77765C.6   Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                861 MRT4577 256734C.4  Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                862 MRT4577 258637C.3  Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                863 MRT4577 385317C.4  Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                864 MRT4577 400043C.5  Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                865 MRT4577 41620C.7   Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                866 MRT4577 429671C.4  Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor                867 MRT4577 430512C.4  Z mays
                                              67

WO 2010/002984                                          PCT/US2009/049392
miR160      Auxin Response Factor       868 MRT4577_448022C.1   Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor       869 MRT4577_503622C.2   Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor       870 MRT4577_569655C.1   Z mays
miR160      Auxin Response Factor       871 MRT4577_605037C.1   Z mays
miR161      PPR                         872 MRT4577_219343C.5   Z mays
miR161      PPR                         873 MRT4577_338127C.1   Z mays
miR161      PPR                         874 MRT4577_381918C.5   Z. mays
miR161      PPR                         875 MRT4577_549370C.2   Z mays
miR161      PPR                         876 MRT4577 653452C.1   Z mays
miR162      Dicer                       877 MRT4577 226226C.4   Z mays
miR162      Dicer                       878 MRT4577 50615C.6    Z mays
miR162      Dicer                       879 MRT4577 592675C.1   Z mays
miR164      NAC domain protein          880 MRT4577 686098C.1   Z mays
miR164      NAC domain protein          881 MRT4577 98755C.5    Z mays
miR164      NACl                        882 PHE0003788          Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          883 MRT4577 105083C.9   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          884 MRT4577 16045C.7    Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          885 MRT4577 256695C.4   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          886 MRT4577 29326C.8    Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          887 MRT4577 317955C.5   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          888 MRT4577 370828C.5   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          889 MRT4577 394716C.4   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          890 MRT4577 586054C.1   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          891 MRT4577 625707C.1   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          892 MRT4577 629408C.1   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          893 MRT4577 705865C.1   Z mays
miR164      No Apical Meristem          894 MRT4577 9951C.8     Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    895 MRT4577 197925C.4   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    896 MRT4577 200605C.3   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    897 MRT4577 320718C.6   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    898 MRT4577 43102C.9    Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    899 MRT4577 535928C.2   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    900 MRT4577 568616C.1   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    901 MRT4577 613062C.1   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    902 MRT4577 659410C.1   Z mays
miR165/166  class III HD-Zip protein    903 MRT4577 673351C.1   Z mays
miR165/166  HD-ZIP                      904 PHE0008043          Z mays
miR165/166  Rev                         905 PHE0007773          Z mays
miR165/166  Rev                         906 PHE0012657          Z mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 907 MRT4577 229497C.6   Z mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 908 MRT4577 312384C.3   Z mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 909 MRT4577 342259C.4   Z.mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 910 MRT4577 442838C.4   Z mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 911 MRT4577 535676C.2   Z mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 912 MRT4577 566770C.1   Z.mays
miR165/166  rolled leaf                 913 MRT4577 586718C.1   Z mays
miR167      ARF                         914 PHE0003656          Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       915 MRT4577 267543C.4   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       916 MRT4577 267545C.6   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       917 MRT4577 306050C.5   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       918 MRT4577 310720C.4   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       919 MRT4577 339989C.4   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       920 MRT4577 35746C.4    Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       921 MRT4577 360403C.2   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       922 MRT4577 377896C.4   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       923 MRT4577 45522C.9    Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       924 MRT4577 509023C.3   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       925 MRT4577 521851C.2   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       926 MRT4577 536912C.2   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor       927 MRT4577 569979C.1   Z mays
                                     68

WO 2010/002984                                       PCT/US2009/049392
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    928 MRT4577_650810C.1   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    929 MRT4577_676039C.1   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    930 MRT4577_680014C.1   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    931 MRT4577_681088C.1   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    932 MRT4577_681995C.1   Z mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    933 MRT4577_683953C.1   Z mays
miR 167     Auxin Response Factor    934 MRT4577_684325C.1   Z. mays
miR167      Auxin Response Factor    935 MRT4577_8821C.7     Z mays
miR168      Argonaute                936 MRT4577 247045C.8   Z mays
miR168      Argonaute                937 MRT4577 29086C.7    Z mays
miR168      Argonaute                938 MRT4577 418712C.5   Z mays
miR168      Argonaute                939 MRT4577 57570C.9    Z mays
miR168      Argonaute                940 MRT4577 577443C.1   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            941 MRT4577 40749C.8    Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            942 MRT4577 428392C.4   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            943 MRT4577 434247C.4   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            944 MRT4577 536961C.2   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            945 MRT4577 536962C.2   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            946 MRT4577 540147C.2   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            947 MRT4577 556372C.2   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            948 MRT4577 570254C.1   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            949 MRT4577 668660C.1   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            950 MRT4577 693949C.1   Z mays
miR169      CCAAT-binding            951 MRT4577 701125C.1   Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      952 PHE0006551          Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      953 MRT4577 140896C.6   Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      954 MRT4577 234039C.6   Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      955 MRT4577 269667C.5   Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      956 MRT4577 520619C.2   Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      957 MRT4577 617401C.1   Z mays
miR170/171  SCL                      958 MRT4577 75777C.8    Z mays
miR171      GRAS                     959 MRT4577 26778C.8    Z mays
miR171      GRAS                     960 MRT4577 30852C.6    Z mays
miR171      GRAS                     961 MRT4577 683754C.1   Z mays
miR171      GRAS                     962 MRT4577 687943C.1   Z mays
miR171      Scarecrow                963 MRT4577 569322C.1   Z mays
miR172      AP2                      964 PHE0006602          Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               965 MRT4577 12523C.7    Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               966 MRT4577 27478C.9    Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               967 MRT4577 304712C.4   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               968 MRT4577 307553C.7   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               969 MRT4577 431122C.3   Z. mays
miR172      AP2 domain               970 MRT4577 455774C.3   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               971 MRT4577 468762C.3   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               972 MRT4577 548310C.2   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               973 MRT4577 556612C.2   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               974 MRT4577 597136C.1   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               975 MRT4577 669210C.1   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               976 MRT4577 676464C.1   Z mays
miR172      AP2 domain               977 MRT4577 708079C.1   Z mays
miR172      APETALA2                 978 MRT4577 49517C.8    Z mays
miR172      APETALA2                 979 MRT4577 700043C.1   Z mays
miR172      Glossy15                 980 PHE0000011          Z mays
miR319      Cyclin                   981 PHE0001434          Z mays
miR319      PCF                      982 MRT4577 427906C.4   Z mays
miR319      PCF                      983 MRT4577 480991C.1   Z mays
miR319      PCF                      984 MRT4577 568064C.1   Z mays
miR319      PCF                      985 MRT4577 590917C.1   Z mays
miR319      PCF                      986 MRT4577 679533C.1   Z mays
miR319      PCF                      987 MRT4577 680167C.1   Z mays
                                  69

WO 2010/002984                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    988  MRT4577_147719C.7  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    989  MRT4577_221733C.7  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    990  MRT4577_275063C.6  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    991  MRT4577_30525C.6   Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    992  MRT4577_340633C.4  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    993  MRT4577_557860C.2  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    994  MRT4577_558102C.2  Z. mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    995  MRT4577_568063C.1  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    996  MRT4577 571095C.1  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    997  MRT4577 590269C.1  Z mays
miR319      TCP family transcription factor    998  MRT4577 686625C.1  Z mays
miR390      TAS                                999  MRT4577 306288C.5  Z mays
miR390      TAS                                1000 MRT4577 325578C.3  Z mays
miR390      TAS                                1001 MRT4577 687438C.1  Z mays
miR390      TAS                                1002 MRT4577 72903C.4   Z mays
miR393      F-box                              1003 PHE0000546         Z mays
miR393      F-box                              1004 PHE0000912         Z mays
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       1005 MRT4577 39097C.9   Z mays
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       1006 MRT4577 546333C.2  Z mays
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       1007 MRT4577 560980C.2  Z mays
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       1008 MRT4577 656737C.1  Z mays
miR393      Transport inhibitor response       1009 MRT4577 688815C.1  Z mays
miR394      F-box domain                       1010 MRT4577 56429C.8   Z mays
miR394      F-box domain                       1011 MRT4577 613832C.1  Z mays
miR395      AST                                1012 MRT4577 293072C.7  Z mays
miR395      AST                                1013 MRT4577 57393C.8   Z mays
miR395      AST                                1014 MRT4577 594643C.1  Z mays
miR395      AST                                1015 MRT4577 655078C.1  Z mays
miR395      AST                                1016 MRT4577 681126C.1  Z mays
miR395      ATP sulfurylase                    1017 MRT4577 118322C.5  Z mays
miR395      ATP sulfurylase                    1018 MRT4577 453989C.4  Z mays
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        1019 MRT4577 386324C.4  Z mays
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        1020 MRT4577 57434C.9   Z mays
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        1021 MRT4577 694623C.1  Z mays
miR395      sulfate adenylyltransferase        1022 MRT4577 709359C.1  Z mays
miR395      sulfate transporter                1023 MRT4577 644561C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1024 PHE0000025         Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1025 PHE0000289         Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1026 PHE0001216         Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1027 MRT4577 215581C.4  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1028 MRT4577 215583C.5  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1029 MRT4577 232004C.7  Z. mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1030 MRT4577 24924C.7   Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1031 MRT4577 266456C.6  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1032 MRT4577 278593C.3  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1033 MRT4577 29961C.8   Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1034 MRT4577 356670C.6  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1035 MRT4577 359461C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1036 MRT4577 372672C.5  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1037 MRT4577 410501C.4  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1038 MRT4577 432229C.3  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1039 MRT4577 534804C.2  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1040 MRT4577 551090C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1041 MRT4577 563407C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1042 MRT4577 569284C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1043 MRT4577 597418C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1044 MRT4577 618948C.1  Z mays
miR396      Growth-regulating factor           1045 MRT4577 635741C.1  Z mays
miR397      Laccase                            1046 MRT4577 233334C.7  Z mays
miR397      Laccase                            1047 MRT4577 26704C.2   Z mays
                                            70

WO 2010/002984                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miR397      Laccase                            1048 MRT4577_293572C.3   Z mavs
miR397      Laccase                            1049 MRT4577_602028C.1   Z mays
miR398      cytochrome c oxidase               1050 MRT4577_434356C.4   Z mays
miR398      cytochrome c oxidase               1051 MRT4577_547404C.2   Z mays
miR399      Cyclin                             1052 PHE0002694          Z mays
miR400      PPR                                1053 MRT4577_480700C.2   Z mays
miR400      PPR                                1054 MRT4577_593504C.1   Z. mays
miR408      blue copper protein                1055 MRT4577_325458C.1   Z mays
miR408      blue copper protein                1056 MRT4577 37590C.9    Z mays
miR408      blue copper protein                1057 MRT4577 47069C.8    Z mays
miR408      blue copper protein                1058 MRT4577 528699C.2   Z mays
miR408      blue copper protein                1059 MRT4577 550892C.1   Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1060 PHE0003380          Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1061 MRT4577 245033C.8   Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1062 MRT4577 380413C.6   Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1063 MRT4577 388860C.4   Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1064 MRT4577 461451C.3   Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1065 MRT4577 625157C.1   Z mays
miR408      Laccase                            1066 MRT4577 629379C.1   Z mays
miR408      plantacyanin                       1067 PHE0000329          Z mays
miR444      MADS                               1068 PHE0013719          Z mays
miR444      MADS box                           1069 PHE0002650          Z mays
miR444      MADS box                           1070 MRT4577 321664C.4   Z mays
miR444      MADS-box                           1071 MRT4577 204116C.4   Z mays
miR444      MADS-box                           1072 MRT4577 537511C.2   Z mays
miR444      MADS-box                           1073 MRT4577 553467C.1   Z mays
miR444      MADS-box                           1074 MRT4577 613242C.1   Z mays
miR444      MADS-box                           1075 MRT4577 695496C.1   Z mays
miR472      ATP binding                        1076 MRT4577 110498C.5   Z mays
miR472      ATP binding                        1077 MRT4577 251486C.3   Z mays
miR472      NBS-LRR type discasc resistance    1078 MRT4577_320221C.4   Z mays
            protein
miR475      PPR                                1079 MRT4577  110120C.3  Z mays
miR475      PPR                                1080 MRT4577  205728C.3  Z mays
miR475      PPR                                1081 MRT4577  664698C.1  Z mays
miR477      GRAS                               1082 MRT4577  278714C.7  Z mays
miR477      GRAS                               1083 MRT4577  401721C.2  Z mays
miR477      GRAS                               1084 MRT4577  463199C.2  Z mays
miR477      GRAS                               1085 MRT4577  526548C.1  Z mays
miR477      GRAS                               1086 MRT4577  569010C.1  Z mays
miR482      disease resistance                 1087 MRT4577  204880C.4  Z mays
miR482      disease resistance                 1088 MRT4577  285745C.3  Z mays
iniR482     disease resistance                 1089 MRT4577  537326C.2  Z mays
miR482      disease resistance                 1090 MRT4577  642390C.1  Z mays
miR482      disease resistance                 1091 MRT4577  647253C.1  Z mays
miR482      disease resistance                 1092 MRT4577  700169C.1  Z mays
miR776      IRE                                1093 MRT4577  475418C.2  Z mays
miR776      IRE                                1094 MRT4577  569446C.1  Z mays
miR776      IRE                                1095 MRT4577  668929C.1  Z mays
miR827      SYG1/Pho8l/XPR1                    1096 MRT4577  565044C.1  Z mays
miR844      protein kinase                     1097 MRT4577  34878C.9   Z. mays
miR844      protein kinase                     1098 MRT4577  469768C.2  Z mays
miR857      LAC                                1099 MRT4577  447458C.4  Z mays
miR858      MYB                                1100 MRT4577  230084C.4  Z mays
miR858      MYB                                1101 MRT4577  28298C.7   Z mays
miR858      MYB                                1102 MRT4577  365133C.3  Z mays
miR858      MYB                                1103 MRT4577  691552C.1  Z mays
miR858      myb-like                           1104 MRT4577  237723C.3  Z mays
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding               1105 MRT4577  204899C.4  Z mays
miR858      myb-like DNA-binding               1106 MRT4577  229676C.2  Z mays
                                            71

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1107     MRT4577_303539C.6       Z mavs
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1108     MRT4577_330816C.1       Z mays
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1109     MRT4577_340919C.6       Z mays
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1110     MRT4577_549954C.1       Z mays
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1111     MRT4577_585620C.1       Z mays
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1112     MRT4577_665482C.1       Z mays
    miR858         myb-like  DNA-binding                    1113     MRT4577 704749C.]       Z. mays
    miR904         AGO                                      1114     MRT4577 374929C.6       Z mays
Example 4
          [00134]   This example provides additional embodiments of target genes identified as
"validated miRNA targets" (i. e., containing a validated miRNA recognition site) and representative uses
of validated miRNA recognition sites, e. g., for the design of artificial sequences useful in making
recombinant DNA constructs, including, but not limited to, transgenes with an exogenous miRNA
recognition site added, transgenes with a native miRNA recognition site modified or deleted, decoys,
cleavage blockers, or translational inhibitors as taught and claimed by Applicants. Recombinant DNA
constructs of this invention are useful for modulating expression of such target genes and for making
non-natural transgenic plant cells, plant tissues, and plants (especially non-natural transgenic crop plants)
having improved yield or other desirable traits.
          [00135]   Table 3 provides a list of miRNAs and miRNA targets containing miRNA recognition
sites that were identified in various plants using techniques similar to those described in Example 2. The
miRNA targets were identified by gene name, protein domain, function, location, or simply as a gene
having a miRNA recognition site; this information is sufficient for designing artificial sequences
including miRNA-unresponsive transgenes, cleavage blockers, 5'-modified cleavage blockers,
translational inhibitors, and miRNA decoys. Table 3 further provides a list of miRNA precursors
(designed to be processed to a native mature miRNA), as well as artificial sequences including miRNA
precursors designed to be processed to a synthetic mature miRNA, miRNA decoys, miRNA
unresponsive transgenes, and miRNA cleavage blockers, all of which are especially useful in making
recombinant DNA constructs of this invention. One of ordinary skill in the art, informed by the
teachings of this application and provided with the nucleotide sequence of a miRNA or a miRNA
recognition site in a target gene, would be readily able to devise such artificial sequences. Such a person
of ordinary skill would further recognize that knowledge of the target gene itself is not required, merely
the sequence of the mature miRNA sequence or of a miRNA precursor that is processed to the mature
miRNA-or, alternatively, knowledge of the miRNA recognition site sequence-in combination with the
teachings of this application, in order to devise a cleavage blocker (or 5'-modified cleavage blocker) to
inhibit the target gene silencing effects of a given miRNA. Table 3 also provides examples of
recombinant DNA constructs which, when transgenically expressed in a crop plant (preferably, but not
limited to, maize or corn, soybean, canola, cotton, alfalfa, sugarcane, sugar beet, sorghum, and rice),
results in improved yield by that crop plant, when compared to the crop plant in which the construct is
not expressed. Techniques for making transgenic plants are described under the heading "Making and
Using Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants". "Improved yield" can be increased intrinsic yield;
                                                       72

    WO 2010/002984                                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
in other embodiments, improved yield is yield increased under a particular growing condition, such as
abiotic or biotic stress conditions (e. g., heat or cold stress, drought stress, or nutrient stress), when
compared to a crop lacking expression of the recombinant DNA construct of this invention.
         [00136]     With the above information about miRNA targets, one of ordinary skill in the art is
able to make and use various additional embodiments of aspects of this invention, including a
recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the
plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage
blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 or 3; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated
cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (d) DNA encoding a
decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target
identified in Tables 2 or 3; (e) DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide
sequence derived from the native nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2
or 3, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise
modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is
processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2
or 3; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing
expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 or 3. Specifically claimed are embodiments wherein the recombinant DNA construct is stably
integrated into a plastid or a chromosome of the plant cell. Also specifically claimed are methods to
improve yield in a plant, wherein the recombinant DNA construct is transgenically expressed in a crop
plant (preferably, but not limited to, maize or corn, soybean, canola, cotton, alfalfa, sugarcane, sugar
beet, sorghum, and rice), resulting in improved yield by that crop plant, when compared to the crop plant
in which the construct is not expressed.
         [00137]     Embodiments within the scope of this invention include a recombinant DNA construct
transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and operably linked
to at least one polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of at least one miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease
small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (d) DNA encoding a decoy
to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (e)
DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native
nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA
                                                        73

    WO 2010/002984                                                                PCT/US2009/049392
encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of at least one
miRNA target; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing
expression of at least one miRNA target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into
siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target-wherein the at least one miRNA target
is at least one selected from the group consisting of a miR156 target, a miR160 target, a miR164 target, a
miR166 target, a miR167 target, a miR169 target, a miRl7l target, a miR172 target, a miR319 target,
miR395 target, a miR396 target, a a miR398 target, a miR399 target, a miR408 target, a miR444 target, a
miR528 target, a miR167g target, a miR169g target, COPI (constitutive photomorphogenesisl), GA2ox
(gibberellic acid 2 oxidase), GA20ox (gibberellic acid 20 oxidase), HB2 (homeobox 2), HB2-4
(homeobox 2 and homeobox 4), HB4 (homeobox 4), LG1 (ligulelessl), SPX (SYGI, PHO81 and XPR1
domain; PFAM entry PF03105 at www.sanger.ac.uk), VIMla (variant in methlylation la), DHS1
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS2 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS3 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS4
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS5 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS6 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS7
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS8 (deoxyhypusine synthase), CRF (corn RING finger; RNF169), G1543a
(maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thaliana homeobox 17), G1543b (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis
thalianahomeobox 17), GS3 (grain size 3), and GW2 (grain weight 2). Particular embodiments that are
specifically claimed by this invention include a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell,
including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide
selected from the group consisting of DNA encoding a nucleotide sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs:
1120,1121,1122,1248,1257,1313,1314,1364,1387,1478,1489,1490,1491,1492,1493,1585,1597,
1598,1599,1713,1752,1753,1801,1802,1820,1927,1929,1931,1971,2006,2007,2008,2010,2012,
2014,2016,2018,2022,2023,2025,2027,2029,2031,2033,2035,2037,2039,2041,2043,2045,2047,
2049, 2051, 2053, 2055, 2056, 2057, 2059, 2060, 2061, and 2063; also specifically claimed are
embodiments wherein the recombinant DNA construct is stably integrated into a plastid or a chromosome
of the plant cell.
          [00138]    Further embodiments are methods to improve yield in a plant, wherein a recombinant
DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (b)
DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of
the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (d) DNA
encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one
miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence
derived from the native nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of at least one miRNA target; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed
                                                      74

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target-wherein the at
least one miRNA target is at least one selected from the group consisting of a miR156 target, a miR160
target, a miR164 target, a miR166 target, a miRl 67 target, a miRi 69 target, a miRl7l target, a miR 172
target, a miR319 target, miR395 target, a miR396 target, a a miR398 target, a miR399 target, a miR408
target, a miR444 target, a miR528 target, a miR167g target, a miR169g target, COPI (constitutive
photomorphogenesis1), GA2ox (gibberellic acid 2 oxidase), GA20ox (gibberellic acid 20 oxidase), HB2
(homeobox 2), HB2-4 (homeobox 2 and homeobox 4), HB4 (homeobox 4), LG1 (liguleless 1), SPX
(SYGI, PHO81 and XPRI domain; PFAM entry PF03105 at www.sanger.ac.uk), VIMla (variant in
methlylation 1a), DHS 1 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS2 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS3
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS4 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS5 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS6
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS7 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS8 (deoxyhypusine synthase), CRF
(corn RING finger; RNF169), G1543a (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thaliana homeobox 17),
G1543b (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thalianahomeobox 17), GS3 (grain size 3), and GW2 (grain
weight 2)-is transgenically expressed in a crop plant (preferably, but not limited to, maize or corn,
soybean, canola, cotton, alfalfa, sugarcane, sugar beet, sorghum, and rice), resulting in improved yield by
that crop plant, when compared to the crop plant in which the construct is not expressed. Specifically
claimed are methods to improve yield in a plant, wherein a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a
plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and operably linked to at least one
polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of DNA encoding a nucleotide sequence selected from
SEQ ID NOs: 1120, 1121, 1122, 1248, 1257, 1313, 1314, 1364, 1387, 1478, 1489, 1490, 1491, 1492,
1493,1585,1597,1598,1599,1713,1752,1753,1801,1802,1820,1927,1929,1931,1971,2006,2007,
2008,2010,2012,2014,2016,2018,2022,2023,2025,2027,2029,2031,2033,2035,2037,2039,2041,
2043, 2045, 2047, 2049, 2051, 2053, 2055, 2056, 2057, 2059, 2060, 2061, and 2063 is transgenically
expressed in a crop plant (preferably, but not limited to, maize or corn, soybean, canola, cotton, alfalfa,
sugarcane, sugar beet, sorghum, and rice), resulting in improved yield by that crop plant, when compared
to the crop plant in which the construct is not expressed.
          [00139]   Additional aspects of this invention include a non-natural transgenic plant cell
including a stably integrated recombinant DNA construct transcribable in the non-natural transgenic plant
cell, wherein the recombinant DNA construct includes a promoter functional in the non-natural
transgenic plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding at
least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; the recombinant DNA construct can be stably
integrated into a plastid, a chromosome, or the genome of the plant cell. Embodiments include a non
natural transgenic plant cell including a stably integrated recombinant DNA construct transcribable in the
non-natural transgenic plant cell, wherein the recombinant DNA construct includes a promoter functional
in the non-natural transgenic plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide including a
DNA sequence selected from SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
                                                      75

   WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
                                               Table 3
 Construct type             Name          SEQ        Gene ID     Nucleotide      Source     Rationale
                                           ID                     Position     Organism     for plant
                                          NO:                                              transform
                                                                                              ation*
miRNA               miR156                1115                               Zea mays
miRNA               miR156                1116                               Zea mays
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1117                                Zea mays
                    Binding Protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1118                                Zea mays
                    Binding Protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1119                                Zea mays
                    Binding Protein
Decoy (artificial   miR156 decoy          1120                               Artificial    Improved
sequence)                                                                     sequence     yield*
Decoy (artificial   miR156 decoy          1121                               Artificial    Improved
sequence)                                                                     sequence     yield*
miRNA-              Squamosa Promoter     1122                               Artificial    Improved
unresponsive        Binding Protein                                           sequence     yield*
                    (miR156-unresponsive)
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1123 MRT4577_564644C.1 478 - 497    Zea mays
                    Binding-domain
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1124 MRT4577_23629C.7  1001 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1020
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1125 MRT4577_188360C.6 1571-        Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1590
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1126 MRT4577_205098C.7 1658 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1677
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1127 MRT4577_565057C.1 980 - 999    Zea mays
                    Binding-domain
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1128 MRT4577_137984C.6 2097 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               2116
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1129 MRT4577_532824C.3 1136 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1155
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1130 MRT4577_122478C.6 767 - 786    Zea mays
                    Binding-domain
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1131 MRT4577_31704C.9  1125 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1144
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1132 MRT4577_26483C.7  1503 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1522
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1133 MRT4577_295538C.7 1433 -       Zea mays
                    Binding-domain                               1452
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1134 MRT4577_644419C.1 962 - 981    Zea mays
                    Binding-domain
                    protein
miR156 target       Squamosa Promoter     1135 MRT4577_619443C.1 914-933      Zea mays
                    Binding-domain
                  I protein
                                                 76

   WO 2010/002984                                                PCT/US2009/049392
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1136 MRT4577_341149C.6 1807 -        Zea mays
               Binding-domain                           1826
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1137 MRT4577_78773C.8  1202 -        Zea mays
               Binding-domain                           1221
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1138 MRT4577_42534C.9  1935 -        Zea mays
               Binding-domain                           1954
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1139 MRT4577_270892C.4 978  - 997    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1140 MRT4577_571545C.1 623  - 642    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1141 MRT4577_181019C.5 788- 807      Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1142 MRT4577_537670C.2 575-594       Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1143 MRT4577_535297C.2 1840 -        Zea mays
               Binding-domain                           1859
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1144 MRT4577_334372C.5 477  - 496    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1145 MRT4577_568647C.1 1004 -        Zea mays
               Binding-domain                           1023
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1146 MRT4577_383301C.4 896  - 915    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1147 MRT4577_427964C.4 991  - 1010   Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1148 MRT4577_240798C.6 769  - 788    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1149 MRT4577_38044C.8  951 - 970     Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1150 MRT4577_461098C.3 469  - 488    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1151 MRT4577_333683C.4 643-662       Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1152 MRT4577_396357C.4 647  - 666    Zea mays
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1153 MRT3635_15393C.1  98 - 117      Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1154 MRT3635_15791C.2  990  - 1009   Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1155 MRT3635_23851C.2  233  - 252    Gossypium
                                                                      hirsutum
                                       77

   WO 2010/002984                                                PCT/US2009/049392
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1156 MRT3635_28051C.1  213  - 232    Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1157 MRT3635_30369C.2  1511 -        Gossypium
               Binding-domain                           1530          hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1158 MRT3635_30868C.2  652  - 671    Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1159 MRT3635_36657C.2  555  - 574    Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1160 MRT3635_48230C.2  857  - 876    Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1161 MRT3635_54380C.2  21 - 40       Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1162 MRT3635_59825C.1  50 - 69       Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1163 MRT3635_65765C.1  709  - 728    Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1164 MRT3635_69088C.1  1238 -        Gossypium
                                                        1257          hirsutum
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1165 MRT3635_69159C.1  892 - 911     Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1166 MRT3635_71102C.1  294-313       Gossypium
                                                                      hirsutum
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1167 MRT3635_72531C.1  612  - 631    Gossypium
               Binding-domain                                         hirsutum
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1168 MRT3702_110108C.4 1253 -       Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1272          thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squanosa Promoter 1169 MRT3702_113039C.2 757  - 776   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1170 MRT3702_115945C.3 2609 -       Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           2628          thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1171 MRT3702_11947C.6  680  - 699   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1172 MRT3702_120785C.3 1157 -       Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1176          thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1173 MRT3702_141151C.3 1073 -       Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1092          thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1174 MRT3702_141152C.2 1172 -       Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1191          thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1175 MRT3702_147696C.3 1186-        Arabidopsis
                                                        1205          thaliana
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1176 MRT3702_147811C.3 1446 -       Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1465          thaliana
               protein
                                       78

   WO 2010/002984                                               PCT/US2009/049392
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1177 MRT3702_148347C.1 1118 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1137         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1178 MRT3702_148348C.3 1121 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1140         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1179 MRT3702_15197C.5  785 - 804   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                        thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1180 MRT3702_177137C.1 2477 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           2496         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1181 MRT3702_179579C.1 1149 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1168         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1182 MRT3702_23035C.6  1358 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1377         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1183 MRT3702_23765C.7  1036 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1055         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1184 MRT3702_4036C.6   804 - 823   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                        thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1185 MRT3702_5396C.6   1297 -      Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                           1316         thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1186 MRT3702_9141C.7   829 - 848   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                        thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1187 MRT3702_94277C.3  781 - 800   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                        thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1188 MRT3702_9951C.4   781 - 800   Arabidopsis
               Binding-domain                                        thaliana
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1189 MRT3708_10628C.4  459-478     Brassica
                                                                     napus
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1190 MRT3708_22559C.1  330 - 349   Brassica
               Binding-domain                                        napus
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1191 MRT3708_53675C.1  290 - 309   Brassica
               Binding-domain                                        napus
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1192 MRT3708_58630C.1  407-426     Brassica
                                                                     napus
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1193 MRT3847_14683C.5  1677 -       Glycine max
                                                        1696
miR156 target  miR156 target     1194 MRT3847 167543C.1 486 - 505    Glycine max
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1195 MRT3847_197471C.3 295 - 314    Glycine max
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1196 MRT3847_206274C.4 117 - 136    Glycine max
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1197 MRT3847_207934C.2 547 - 566    Glycine max
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1198 MRT3847 213855C.7 701 - 720    Glycine max
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1199 MRT3847_217782C.3 851 - 870    Glycine max
               Binding-domain
               protein
                                       79

   WO 2010/002984                                               PCT/US2009/049392
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1200 MRT3847_218322C.4 109 - 128    Glycine max
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1201 MRT3847_235081C.4 1980 -       Glycine max
               Binding-domain                           1999
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1202 MRT3847 235082C.6 915-934      Glycine max
miR156 target  miR156 target     1203 MRT3847 237444C.4 582 - 601    Glycine max
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1204 MRT3847 252038C.4 515-534      Glycine max
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1205 MRT3847 268305C.4 396-415      Glycine max
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1206 MRT3847 289291C.3 961 - 980    Glycine max
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1207 MRT3847_329752C.1 933 - 952    Glycine max
               Binding-domain
               protein
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1208 MRT3847_334134C.1 1239 -       Glycine max
                                                        1258
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1209 MRT3847_335568C.1 1747 -       Glycine max
                                                        1766
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1210 MRT3847_338602C.1 1070 -       Glycine max
                                                        1089
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1211 MRT3847 341315C.1 47-66        Glycine max
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1212 MRT3847 341402C.1 978-997      Glycine max
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1213 MRT3847_350831C.1 1280-        Glycine max
                                                        1299
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1214 MRT3880_19943C.1  633 - 652   Medicago
               Binding-domain                                        truncatula
               protein
miR156 target  miR156 target     1215 MRT3880_49046C.1  98-117      Medicago
                                                                     truncatula
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1216 MRT3880_54023C.1  527 - 546   Medicago
               Binding-domain                                        truncatula
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1217 MRT3880_59834C.1  726 - 745   Medicago
               Binding-domain                                        truncatula
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1218 MRT3880_62151C.1  1070 -      Medicago
               Binding-domain                           1089         truncatula
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1219 MRT4513_19757C.1  529 - 548   Hordeum
               Binding-domain                                        vulgare
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1220 MRT4513_41849C.1  439 - 458   Hordeum
               Binding-domain                                        vulgare
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1221 MRT4513_4449C.1   221 - 240   Hordeum
               Binding-domain                                        vulgare
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1222 MRT4513_52153C.1  523-542     Hordeum
               Binding-domain                                        vulgare
               protein
miR156 target  miRl56 target     1223 MRT4530_11398C.3  696-715      Oryza
                                                                    sativa
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1224 MRT4530_118092C.3 821 - 840    Oryza
               Binding-domain                                        sativa
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1225 MRT4530_135991C.4 710 - 729    Oryza
               Binding-domain                                        sativa
               protein
miR156 target  Squamosa Promoter 1226 MRT4530_142142C.4 1074 -       Oryza
               Binding-domain                           1093         sativa
               protein
                                       80

   WO 2010/002984                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1227 MRT4530_195506C.2 981 - 1000   Oryza
                  Binding-domain                                        sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1228 MRT4530_199837C.4 2401 -       Oryza
                  Binding-domain                           2420         sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     miR156 target     1229 MRT4530_219862C.2 146 - 165    Oryza
                                                                       sativa
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1230 MRT4530_220364C.2 1764 -       Oryza
                  Binding-domain                           1783         sativa
                  protein
miRl56 target     Squamosa Promoter 1231 MRT4530_230201C.3 265 - 284    Oryza
                  Binding-domain                                        sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     miR156 target     1232 MRT4530_230404C.3 2222 -       Oryza
                                                           2241        sativa
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1233 MRT4530_236277C.1 728 - 747    Oryza
                  Binding-domain                                        sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1234 MRT4530_257640C.1 956 - 975    Oryza
                  Binding-domain                                        sativa
                  protein
miR1 56 target    Squamosa Promoter 1235 MRT4530_44605C.5  1148 -       Oryza
                  Binding-domain                           1167         sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1236 MRT4530_53217C.5  858- 877     Oryza
                  Binding-domain                                        sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1237 MRT4530_6964C.4   2113 -       Oryza
                  Binding-domain                           2132         sativa
                  protein
miR156 target     miRl56 target     1238 MRT4530_95203C.4  994 - 1013   Oryza
                                                                       sativa
miRl56 target     Squamosa Promoter 1239 MRT4558_12680C.1  78 -97       Sorghum
                  Binding-domain                                        bicolor
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1240 MRT4558_27285C.1  130 - 149    Sorghum
                  Binding-domain                                        bicolor
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1241 MRT4558_6587C.1   516-535      Sorghum
                  Binding-domain                                        bicolor
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1242 MRT4558_8644C.2   866 - 885    Sorghum
                  Binding-domain                                        bicolor
                  protein
miR156 target     miRl56 target     1243 MRT4565_169464C.2 296-315      Triticum
                                                                        aestivum
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1244 MRT4565_212647C.1 523 - 542    Triticum
                  Binding-domain                                        aestivum
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1245 MRT4565_239085C.1 1565 -       Triticum
                  Binding-domain                           1584         aestivum
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1246 MRT4565_259386C.1 339 - 358    Triticum
                  Binding-domain                                        aestivum
                  protein
miR156 target     Squamosa Promoter 1247 MRT4565_272025C.1 954 - 973    Triticum
                  Binding-domain                                        aestivum
                  protein
Decoy (artificial miR160 decoy      1248                               Artificial    Improved
sequence)                                                               sequence     yield*
                                          81

   WO 2010/002984                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
miR160 target  Auxin Response Factor 1249 MRT4577_429671C.3 1429 -       Zea mays
                10-like protein                             1449
miR160 target  Auxin Response Factor 1250 MRT4577_400043C.4 1894 -       Zea mays
                10-like protein                             1914
miR160 target  Auxin Response Factor 1251 MRT4577_385317C.3 863 - 883    Zea mays
                10-like protein
miR160 target  Auxin Response Factor 1252 MRT4577_41620C.6  756-776      Zea mays
                10-like protein
miR160 target  Auxin Response Factor 1253 MRT4577_258637C.2 1353 -       Zea mays
                10-like protein                             1373
miR160 target  Auxin Response Factor 1254 MRT4577_448022C.1 421 - 442    Zea mays
                10-like protein
miRNA          miR164                1255                               Zea mays
miR164 target  NACl; No Apical       1256                                Zea mays
               Meristem, ATAF, Cup
               Shaped Cotyledon
               (NAC) domain protein
miRNA-         NACl (miR164-         1257                               Artificial    Improved
unresponsive   unresponsive)                                             sequence     yield*
miR164 target  miR164 target         1258 MRT3635_6393C.2   135 - 155    Gossypium
                                                                         hirsutum
miR164 target  miR164 target         1259 MRT3635_64345C.1  925 - 945    Gossypium
                                                                         hirsutum
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,   1260 MRT3702_105151C.5 843 - 863   Arabidopsis
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                          thaliana
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  CUC1; No Apical       1261 MRT3702_11937C.6  651 -671    Arabidopsis
               Meristem, ATAF, Cup                                       thaliana
               Shaped Cotyledon
               (NAC) domain protein
miR164 target  NACI; No Apical       1262 MRT3702_180541C.1 762 - 782   Arabidopsis
               Meristem, ATAF, Cup                                       thaliana
               Shaped Cotyledon
               (NAC) domain protein
miR164 target  NACl; No Apical       1263 MRT3702_180670C.1 785 - 805   Arabidopsis
               Meristem, ATAF, Cup                                       thaliana
               Shaped Cotyledon
               (NAC) domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,   1264 MRT3702_20256C.5  651 - 671   Arabidopsis
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                          thaliana
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,   1265 MRT3702_22669C.4  765 - 785   Arabidopsis
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                          thaliana
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  CUC2; No Apical       1266 MRT3702_24103C.6  856 - 876   Arabidopsis
               Meristem, ATAF, Cup                                       thaliana
               Shaped Cotyledon
               (NAC) domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,   1267 MRT3702_24851C.6  809 - 829   Arabidopsis
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                          thaliana
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,   1268 MRT3708_39966C.1  192 - 212   Brassica
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                          napus
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
                                           82

   WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1269 MRT3708_51022C.1  803 - 823    Brassica
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            napus
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1270 MRT3712_8777C.1   316  - 336   Brassica
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            oleracea
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1271 MRT3847_244824C.2 290  - 310    Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1272 MRT3847_259513C.2 719 - 739     Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1273 MRT3847_270117C.3 784 - 804     Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
niR164 target  No Apical Meristern,   1274 MRT3847_46332C.2  714  - 734    Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1275 MRT3847_46333C.6  731 - 751     Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1276 MRT3847_48464C.4  1140 -        Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                              1160
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1277 MRT3847_48465C.6  777  - 797    Glycine max
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1278 MRT3880_18003C.2  705  - 725   Medicago
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            trncatula
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  miR164 target          1279 MRT3880_33685C.1  278-298      Medicago
                                                                           truncatula
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1280 MRT3880_44619C.1  781  - 801   Medicago
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            trrncatula
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1281 MRT4513_26199C.1  809  - 829   Hordeum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            vulgare
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1282 MRT4513_37185C.1  17 - 37      Hordeum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            vulgare
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  Salicylic acid-induced 1283 MRT4513_4722C.1   251 -271      Hordeum
               protein 19                                                  vulgare
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1284 MRT4513_7890C.1   687  - 707   Hordeum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            vulgare
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
                                            83

   WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1285 MRT4530_141528C.5 890 - 910     Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            sativa
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1286 MRT4530_147737C.4 912 - 932     Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            sativa
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1287 MRT4530_157393C.3 923 - 943     Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            saliva
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1288 MRT4530_178256C.3 954 - 974     Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            sativa
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1289 MRT4530_211705C.4 1929 -        Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                              1949          sativa
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
niR164 target  No Apical Meristern,   1290 MRT4530_221769C.1 159 - 179     Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            sativa
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1291 MRT4530_224181C.2 790  - 810    Oryza
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            sativa
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1292 MRT4558_11465C.1  13 - 33       Sorghum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            bicolor
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  Salicylic acid-induced 1293 MRT4558_31046C.1  256 -276      Sorghum
               protein 19, regulation                                      bicolor
               of transcription, DNA
               binding
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1294 MRT4558_41467C.1  1230 -        Sorghum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                              1250          bicolor
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1295 MRT4558_43081C.1  344-364       Sorghum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            bicolor
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1296 MRT4558_43436C.1  853 - 873     Sorghum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            bicolor
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1297 MRT4558_4564C.2   691  - 711    Sorghum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            bicolor
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1298 MRT4565_235741C.1 849  - 869    Triticum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                            aestivum
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,    1299 MRT4565_241295C.1 1062 -        Triticum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                              1082          aestivum
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
                                            84

   WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
miR164 target  SIAH1 protein-like,       1300 MRT4565_246008C.1 696  - 716    Triticum
               ubiquitin-dependent                                            aestivum
               protein catabolism,
               nucleus, zinc ion
               binding
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,       1301 MRT4565_250946C.1 675 - 695     Triticum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                               aestivum
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristein,      1302 MRT4565_269060C.1 730  - 750    Triticum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                               aestivum
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  Salicylic acid-induced    1303 MRT4565_272391C.1 765  - 785    Triticum
               protein 19, regulation                                         aestivum
               of transcription, DNA
               binding
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,       1304 MRT4565_279043C.1 945  - 965    Triticum
               ATAF, Cup Shaped                                               aestivum
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  No Apical Meristem,       1305 MRT4577_16045C.7  927  - 947    Zea mays
               ATAF, Cup Shaped
               Cotyledon (NAC)
               domain protein
miR164 target  miR164 target             1306 MRT4577 205444C.5 524 - 544    Zea mays
miR164 target  hypothetical protein;     1307 MRT4577_325166C.3 868 - 888     Zea mays
               putative role in
               boundary specification;
               nam2
miR164 target  hypothetical protein;     1308 MRT4577_78918C.6  893  - 913    Zea mays
               putative role in SAM
               initiation and boundary
               specification; nam1
miR164 target  miR164 target             1309 MRT4577 98755C.5  942-962      Zea mays
miR164 target  miR164 target             1310 MRT4577 9951C.8   930-950      Zea mays
miRNA          miR166                    1311                                Zea mays
miR166 target  Revoluta                  1312                                Zea mays
miRNA-         Revoluta (miR166-         1313                                Artificial    Improved
unresponsive   unresponsive)                                                  sequence     yield*
miRNA-         Revoluta (miR166-         1314                                Artificial    Improved
unresponsive   unresponsive)                                                  sequence     yield*
miR166 target  miR166 target             1315 MRT3635_23433C.2  197-217       Gossypium
                                                                              hirsutum
miR166 target  miR166 target             1316 MRT3635_50942C.2  298- 318      Gossypium
                                                                              hirsutum
miR166 target  interfascicular fiberless 1317 MRT3702_104431C.5 1262 -       Arabidopsis
                1; IFLl; HDZIPIII                               1282          thaliana
               domain protein
miR166 target  homeodomain-leucine       1318 MRT3702_104605C.6 915  - 935   Arabidopsis
               zipper protein                                                 thaliana
miR166 target  homeodomain-leucine       1319 MRT3702_113325C.3 1268 -       Arabidopsis
               zipper protein; ATIHB-                           1288          thaliana
                15
miR166 target  homeodomain-lcucinc       1320 MRT3702_120571C.3 1281 -       Arabidopsis
               zipper protein 14;                               1301          thaliana
               ATHB-14
miR166 target  homeodomain-leucine       1321 MRT3702_18869C.5  934  - 954   Arabidopsis
               zipper protein 8; hb-8                                         thaliana
miR166 target  Glycosyl transferase      1322 MRT3702_24778C.3  2793 -       Arabidopsis
                                                                2813          thaliana
                                               85

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR166 target  CORONA; START         1323 MRT3708_45624C.1  210  - 230   Brassica
               domain; HDZIPIII                                           napus
               domain transcription
               factor
miR166 target  HD-Zip protein        1324 MRT3708_5493C.1   79 - 99      Brassica
               (Homeodomain-leucine                                       napus
               zipper protein);
               START domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1325 MRT3712_4770C.1   229  - 249   Brassica
               zipper protein; START                                      oleracea
               domain
miR166 target  miR166 target         1326 MRT3847 209034C.4 506 - 526     Glycine max
miR166 target  miR166 target         1327 MRT3847 233286C.5 730-750       Glycine max
miR166 target  miR166 target         1328 MRT3847 248020C.5 298-318       Glycine max
miR166 target  miR166 target         1329 MRT3847 251781C.4 950-970       Glycine max
miR166 target  miR166 target         1330 MRT3847_288367C.4 1562 -        Glycine max
                                                            1582
miR166 target  Class III HD-Zip      1331 MRT3847_296736C.1 869 - 889     Gvcine max
               protein 4
miR166 target  Class III HD-Zip      1332 MRT3847_326691C.1 910  - 930    Glycine max
               protein 4
miR166 target  miR166 target         1333 MRT3847_348410C.1 912-932       Glycine max
miR166 target  Class III HD-Zip      1334 MRT3880_12194C.1  788- 808     Medicago
               protein 8                                                  truncatula
miR166 target  Class III HD-Zip      1335 MRT3880_30145C.1  560-580      Medicago
               protein 1                                                  truncatula
miR166 target  Class III HD-Zip      1336 MRT3880_37546C.1  819-839      Medicago
               protein 6                                                  truncatula
miR166 target  Class III HD-Zip      1337 MRT3880_39764C.1  536  - 556   Medicago
               protein 6                                                  truncatula
miR166 target  homeodomain-leucine   1338 MRT4530_10527C.4  959  - 979    Oryza
               zipper protein                                             sativa
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1339 MRT4530_107863C.5 880  - 900    Oryza
               zipper protein; START                                      sativa
               domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain leucine-  1340 MRT4530_160340C.3 1031 -        Oryza
               zipper protein Hox10;                        1051          sativa
               START domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1341 MRT4530_21619C.2  563 - 583     Oryza
               zipper protein; START                                      sativa
               domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1342 MRT4530_253068C.2 957  - 977    Oryza
               zipper protein; START                                      sativa
               domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1343 MRT4558_27560C.1  750  - 770    Sorghum
               zipper protein; START                                      bicolor
               domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1344 MRT4565_226777C.1 285  - 305    Triticum
               zipper protein; START                                      aestivum
               domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1345 MRT4565_232172C.1 168  - 188    Triticum
               zipper protein; START                                      aestivum
               domain
miR166 target  Homeodomain-leucine   1346 MRT4565_264759C.1 954  - 973    Triticum
               zipper protein; START                                      aestivum
               domain
miR166 target  miR166 target         1347 MRT4577_141500C.4 839-859      Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target         1348 MRT4577 200605C.3 788- 808     Zea mays
                                           86

   WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR166 target  rolled leafl; RLD1;    1349 MRT4577_229497C.6  1098 -       Zea mays
               class III homeodomain-                         1118
               leucine zipper (HD
               ZIPIII)
miR166 target  Rolled leaf ;          1350 MRT4577_312384C.3  563 -583     Zea mays
               Homeobox: Homeobox
               domain; START
               domain
miR166 target  miR166 target          1351 MRT4577 320718C.6  963-983     Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target          1352 MRT4577_342259C.4  1092 -      Zea mays
                                                              1112
miR166 target  miR166 target          1353 MRT4577_442838C.4  1159 -       Zea mays
                                                              1179
miR166 target  miR166 target          1354 MRT4577 535676C.2  560 - 580   Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target          1355 MRT4577_535928C.2  1142-       Zea mays
                                                              1162
miR166 target  miR166 target          1356 MRT4577  566770C.1 545-565     Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target          1357 MRT4577  568616C.1 801 - 821   Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target          1358 MRT4577  586718C.1 572-592     Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target          1359 MRT4577  659410C.1 788- 808    Zea mays
miR166 target  miR166 target          1360 MRT4577  673351C.1 161-181     Zea mays
miRNA          miR167b                1361                                Zea mays
miRNA          miR167b                1362                                Zea mays
miR167 target  ARF8                   1363                                 Zea mays
miRNA-         ARF8 (mirl67-          1364                                Artificial    Improved
unresponsive   unresponsive)                                               sequence     yield*
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1365 MRT3702_22410C.4   4382 -      Arabidopsis
               8;ARFS;                                        4402         thaliana
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1366 MRT3708_50323C.1   89- 109     Brassica
               domain; ARF8-like                                           napus
miR167 target  miR167 target          1367 MRT3847_305421C.4  1358 -       Glycine max
                                                              1378
miR167 target  miR167 target          1368 MRT3847_340154C.1  1586 -       Glycine max
                                                              1606
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1369 MRT3847_41926C.6   1489 -       Glycine max
               domain; ARF8-like                              1509
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1370 MRT3880_12926C.1   365 - 385   Medicago
               domain; ARF8-like                                           truncatula
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1371 MRT3880_25270C.1   1758 -      Medicago
               domain; ARF8-likc                              1778         truncatula
miR167 target  miR167 target          1372 MRT4513_29483C.2   564-584     Hordeum
                                                                          vulgare
miR167 target  miR167 target          1373 MRT4530_178528C.2  2219-        Oryza
                                                              2239        sativa
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1374 MRT4530_86291C.3   2659 -       Oryza
               domain; ARF8-like                              2679         sativa
miR167 target  auxin response factor  1375 MRT4558_37108C.1   147- 167     Sorghum
               domain; ARF8-like                                           bicolor
miR167 target  miR167 target          1376 MRT4577_306050C.5  647-667     Zea mays
miR167 target  miR167 target          1377 MRT4577_339989C.4  2584-       Zea mays
                                                              2604
miR167 target  miR167 target          1378 MRT4577 377896C.4  244-264     Zea mays
miR167 target  miR167 target          1379 MRT4577_521851C.2  1595 -      Zea mays
                                                              1615
miR167 target  miR167 target          1380 MRT4577_650810C.1  1618-       Zea mays
                                                              1638
miR167 target  miR167 target          1381 MRT4577 680014C.1  208-228     Zea  mays
miR167 target  miR167 target          1382 MRT4577 681995C.1  230-250     Zea  mays
miR167 target  miR167 target          1383 MRT4577 683953C.1  442-462     Zea  mays
miRNA          miR169                 1384                                Zea  mays
miRNA          miR169                 1385                                Zea  mays
                                            87

   WO 2010/002984                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
miR169 target  NFY family of TFs     1386                               Zea mays
miRNA-         NFY family of TFs     1387                               Artificial    Improved
unresponsive   (miR169-unresponsive)                                     sequence     yield*
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1388 MRT3635_18720C.2  1123 -       Gossypium
               binding transcription                        1143         hirsutum
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1389 MRT3635_24490C.1  345 - 365    Gossypium
               binding transcription                                     hirsutum
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1390 MRT3635_60547C.1  1610 -       Gossypium
               binding transcription                        1630         hirsutum
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1391 MRT3635_63203C.1  1353 -       Gossypium
               binding transcription                        1373         hirsutum
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   iiR169 target        1392 MRT3635_63602C.1  692 - 712    Gossypium
                                                                         hirsutum
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1393 MRT3635_751C.2    1156 -       Gossypium
               binding transcription                        1176         hirsutum
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target         1394 MRT3635_7843C.2   302 - 322    Gossypium
                                                                         hirsutum
miR169 target  HAP2/CCAAT            1395 MRT3702_11008C.6  1183 -      Arahidopsis
               transcription factor;                        1203         thaliana
               At3g05690
miR169 target  HAP2A, CCAAT-         1396 MRT3702_145277C.3 1122 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1142         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
               family protein;
               ATHAP2A,EMBRYO
               DEFECTIVE 2220
miR169 target  miR169 target         1397 MRT3702_145278C.1 1870-       Arabidopsis
                                                            1890         thaliana
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1398 MRT3702_1608C.8   1254-       Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1274         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1399 MRT3702_167062C.2 1489 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1509         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2C, CCAAT-         1400 MRT3702_175138C.1 1412 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1432         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
               family protein;
               At1g17590
miR169 target  HAP2A, CCAAT-         1401 MRT3702_176968C.1 1037 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1057         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
               family protein;
               ATHAP2A,EMBRYO
               DEFECTIVE 2220
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1402 MRT3702_180826C.1 1610 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1630         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1403 MRT3702_20139C.6  1305 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1325         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1404 MRT3702_20659C.7  1428 -      Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1448         thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
                                           88

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1405 MRT3702_4133C.5   1308-        Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1328          thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1406 MRT3702_5699C.6   1504 -       Arabidopsis
               binding transcription                        1524          thaliana
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1407 MRT3708_42756C.1  928  - 948   Brassica
               binding transcription                                      napus
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target         1408 MRT3708_45516C.2  1074 -       Brassica
                                                            1094          napus
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1409 MRT3708_46224C.1  1017 -        Brassica
               binding transcription                        1037          napus
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1410 MRT3708_56325C.1  670-690      Brassica
               binding transcription                                      napus
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1411 MRT3711_4547C.1   157- 177     Brassica
               binding transcription                                      rapa
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1412 MRT3712_6671C.1   481  - 501   Brassica
               binding transcription                                      oleracea
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1413 MRT3847_251095C.3 995  - 1015   Glycine max
               binding transcription
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1414 MRT3847_25786C.5  1208 -        Glycine max
               binding transcription                        1228
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1415 MRT3847_278998C.2 722  - 742    Glycine max
               binding transcription
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target         1416 MRT3847_305217C.3 1028-         Glycine max
                                                            1048
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1417 MRT3847_312701C.1 803 - 823     Glycine max
               binding transcription
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  rniR169 target        1418 MRT3847_335193C.1 1452-         Glycine max
                                                            1472
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1419 MRT3847_51286C.6  801 - 821     Glycine max
               binding transcription
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1420 MRT3847_53466C.6  1490 -        Glycine max
               binding transcription                        1510
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1421 MRT3847_53467C.5  902  - 922    Glycine max
               binding transcription
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
niR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1422 MRT3847_54010C.4  1403 -        Glycine max
               binding transcription                        1423
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1423 MRT3880_16272C.2  1496 -       Medicago
               binding transcription                        1516          truncatula
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  HAP2, CCAAT-          1424 MRT3880_21811C.2  1054-        Medicago
               binding transcription                        1074          truncatula
               factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target         1425 MRT3880_36579C.1  90-110       Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR169 target  miR169 target         1426 MRT3880_48656C.1  73 - 94      Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
                                           89

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR169 target  miR169 target          1427 MRT3880_55431C.1  145- 166    Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1428 MRT3880_59679C.1  1268 -      Medicago
               binding transcription                         1288         truncatula
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target          1429 MRT3880_9392C.1   182-202     Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1430 MRT4513_27452C.1  721-741     Hordeum
               binding transcription                                      vulgare
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1431 MRT4513_38912C.1  1037-       Hordeum
               binding transcription                         1057         vulgare
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1432 MRT4513_51394C.1  631 - 651   Hordeum
                binding transcription                                     vulgare
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1433 MRT4530_156068C.3 1715 -       Oryza
               binding transcription                         1735         sativa
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target          1434 MRT4530_16169C.4  1389 -       Oryza
                                                             1409        sativa
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1435 MRT4530_196466C.4 2027 -       Oryza
               binding transcription                         2047         sativa
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target  miR169 target          1436 MRT4530_223395C.1 653 -673     Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR169 target   RAPB protein; rapB    1437 MRT4530_225972C.3 867 - 887    Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR169 target  miR169 target          1438 MRT4530_238300C.1 220-240      Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1439 MRT4530_267924C.1 1002 -       Oryza
               binding transcription                         1022         sativa
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1440 MRT4530_268072C.1 756 - 776    Oryza
               binding transcription                                      sativa
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1441 MRT4530_52650C.3  1391 -       Oryza
               binding transcription                         1411         saliva
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1442 MRT4530_67920C.7  1637 -       Oryza
               binding transcription                         1657         sativa
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1443 MRT4530_98042C.6  1170-        Oryza
               binding transcription                         1190         sativa
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1444 MRT4558_11671C.2  530-550      Sorghum
               binding transcription                                      bicolor
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1445 MRT4558_13240C.2  880-900      Sorghum
               binding transcription                                      bicolor
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1446 MRT4558_19368C.2  726-746      Sorghum
               binding transcription                                      bicolor
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   Transcription factor  1447 MRT4558_8287C.2   346 - 366   Sorghum
                                                                          bicolor
miR169 target  miR169 target          1448 MRT4565_219265C.1 936-956      Triticum
                                                                          aestivum
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1449 MRT4565_224073C.1 1081 -       Triticum
               binding transcription                         1101         aestivum
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
                                            90

    WO 2010/002984                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
miR169 target   miR169 target         1450 MRT4565_232474C.1 1040 -       Triticum
                                                             1060         aestivum
miR169 target   miR169 target         1451 MRT4565_236768C.1 1284 -       Triticum
                                                             1304         aestivum
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1452 MRT4565_240119C.1 934 -954     Triticum
                binding transcription                                     aestivum
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1453 MRT4565_250357C.1 1230 -       Triticum
                binding transcription                        1250         aestivum
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1454 MRT4565_270644C.1 1050 -       Triticum
                binding transcription                        1070         aestivum
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   miR169 target         1455 MRT4565_271488C.1 1032 -       Triticum
                                                             1052         aestivum
miR169 target   HAP2, CCAAT-          1456 MRT4565_271817C.1 2171 -       Triticum
                binding transcription                        2191         aestivum
                factor (CBF-B/NF-YA)
miR169 target   miR169 target         1457 MRT4565_278167C.1 895-915      Triticum
                                                                          aestivum
miR169 target   miR169 target         1458 MRT4577 136204C.6 573 -593    Zea mays
miR169 target   miR169 target         1459 MRT4577_192239C.6 1297-       Zea mays
                                                             1317
miR169 target   miR169 target         1460 MRT4577_270253C.7 1375 -      Zea mays
                                                             1395
miR169 target   miR169 target         1461 MRT4577_321589C.4 1051-       Zea mays
                                                             1071
miR169 target   miR169 target         1462 MRT4577_35015C.6  1679-       Zea mays
                                                             1699
miR169 target   miR169 target         1463 MRT4577_40749C.8  1361-       Zea mays
                                                             1381
miR169 target   miR169 target         1464 MRT4577_411247C.4 1445-       Zea mays
                                                             1465
miR169 target   miR169 target         1465 MRT4577_428392C.4 1583 -      Zea mays
                                                             1603
miR169 target   miR169 target         1466 MRT4577 434247C.4 671 - 691   Zea mays
miR169 target   miR169 target         1467 MRT4577 536961C.2 920-940     Zea mays
miR169 target   miR169 target         1468 MRT4577_536962C.2 1836-       Zea mays
                                                             1856
miR169 target   miR169 target         1469 MRT4577_540147C.2 1327-       Zea mays
                                                             1347
miR169 target   miR169 target         1470 MRT4577_556372C.2 1417-       Zea mays
                                                             1437
miR169 target   miR169 target         1471 MRT4577_570253C.1 340-360     Zea mays
miR169 target   miR169 target         1472 MRT4577_570254C.1 1391-       Zea mays
                                                             1411
miR169 target   miR169 target         1473 MRT4577_668660C.1 1292 -      Zea mays
                                                             1312
miR169 target   miR169 target         1474 MRT4577 693949C.1 400-420     Zea mays
miR169 target   miR169 target         1475 MRT4577 701125C.1 471 - 491   Zea mays
miR169 target   miR169 target         1476 MRT4577 72313C.1  262-282     Zea mays
miRNA           miR171b               1477                               Zea mays
miRNA           osa-MIR171b           1478                                Oryza        Improved
precursor for   (precursor)                                               sativa       yield*
overexpression
of mature
miR171
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scll   1479 MRT4577_520619C.1 106 - 126    Zea mays
                protein (3e-37); GRAS
                family transcription
                factor
                                            91

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scll   1480 MRT4577_139132C.5 1336 -       Zea mays
               protein (3e-37); GRAS                         1356
                family transcription
                factor
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scl    1481 MRT4577_75777C.7  640 - 660    Zea mays
               protein (3e-37); GRAS
                family transcription
                factor
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scll   1482 MRT4577_234039C.5 771 - 791    Zea mays
               protein (3e-37); GRAS
                family transcription
                factor
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scll   1483 MRT4577_57336C.8  1274 -       Zea mays
               protein (3e-37); GRAS                         1294
                family transcription
                factor
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scll   1484 MRT4577_140896C.5 507 - 527    Zea mays
               protein (3e-37); GRAS
                family transcription
                factor
miR171 target   Scarecrow-like Scll   1485 MRT4577_30852C.5  800 - 820    Zea mays
               protein (3e-37); GRAS
                family transcription
                factor
miRNA          miR172                 1486                               Zea mays
miRNA          miR172                 1487                               Zea mays
miR172 target   Glossy15              1488                               Zea mays
Decoy          miR172 decoy           1489                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                          sequence     yield*
Decoy          miR172 decoy           1490                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                          sequence     yield*
Decoy          miR172 decoy           1491                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                          sequence     yield*
miRNA          miRMONI8               1492                               Zea mays
Cleavage       mirR172 cleavage       1493                               Artificial    Improved
blocker        blocker                                                    sequence     yield*
miR172 target  AP2 domain             1494 MRT3635_50596C.2  622 - 642    Gossypium
                transcription factor;                                     hirsutum
                SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
                SNZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain             1495 MRT3635_64291C.1  246 - 266    Gossypium
               transcription factor;                                      hirsutum
                SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
                SNZ
miR172 target   AP2 domain            1496 MRT3635_64989C.1  1102 -       Gossypium
               transcription factor;                         1122         hirsutum
                SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
                SNZ
miR172 target  miR172 target          1497 MRT3635_65450C.1  241 - 261    Gossypium
                                                                          hirsutum
miR172 target  miR172 target          1498 MRT3635_70864C.1  646 - 666    Gossypium
                                                                          hirsutum
miR172 target  AP2 domain             1499 MRT3635_8244C.2   1657 -       Gossypium
               transcription factor;                         1677         hirsutum
                SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
                SNZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain             1500 MRT3702_103726C.5 1044 -      Arabidopsis
               transcription factor;                         1064         thaliana
                SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
                SNZ
                                            92

   WO 2010/002984                                                       PCT/US2009/049392
miR172 target  AP2 domain containing     1501 MRT3702_103748C.5 1560 -      Arabidopsis
               protein RAP2.7                                   1580         thaliana
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1502 MRT3702_14904C.2  1095 -      Arabidopsis
               transcription factor;                            1115         thaliana
               SCHLAFMUTZE;
               SMZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1503 MRT3702_150241C.1 947-967     Arabidopsis
               transcription factor-like                                     thaliana
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1504 MRT3702_156728C.3 1030 -      Arabidopsis
               transcription factor-like                        1050         thaliana
miR172 target  APETALA2; AP2             1505 MRT3702_168284C.1 1271 -      Arabidopsis
                                                                1291         thaliana
miR172 target  AP2 domain-               1506 MRT3702_175574C.1 1630 -      Arabidopsis
               containing transcription                         1650         thaliana
               factor RAP2.7
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1507 MRT3702_179746C.1 263 - 283   Arabidopsis
               transcription factor;                                         thaliana
               SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
               SNZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1508 MRT3702_19267C.5  1368 -      Arabidopsis
               transcription factor-like                        1388         thaliana
miR172 target  elongation factor 2-like  1509 MRT3702_4319C.8   1045 -      Arabidopsis
                                                                1065         thaliana
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1510 MRT3702_76733C.6  1663 -      Arabidopsis
               transcription factor;                            1683         thaliana
               SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
               SNZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1511 MRT3708_36942C.2  411 -431    Brassica
               transcription factor-like                                     napus
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1512 MRT3708_39387C.1  366 - 386   Brassica
               transcription factor-like                                     napus
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1513 MRT3711_6838C.1   137- 157    Brassica
               transcription factor-likc                                     rapa
miR172 target  miR172 target             1514 MRT3847 196945C.3 667 - 687    Glycine max
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1515 MRT3847_202930C.3 1630 -       Glycine max
               transcription factor-like                        1650
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1516 MRT3847_235857C.3 1789 -       Glycine max
               transcription factor-like                        1809
miR172 target  miR172 target             1517 MRT3847_257655C.4 1984 -       Glycine max
                                                                2004
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1518 MRT3847_289890C.3 2213 -       Glycine max
               transcription factor-like                        2233
miR172 target  miR172 target             1519 MRT3847 289891C.3 529-549      Glycine max
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1520 MRT3847_295726C.1 1539 -       Glycine max
               transcription factor-like                        1559
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1521 MRT3847_326790C.1 1269 -       Glvcine max
               transcription factor-like                        1289
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1522 MRT3847_329301C.1 775 - 795    Glycine max
               transcription factor-like
miR172 target  miR172 target             1523 MRT3847 344570C.1 564 - 584    Glycine max
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1524 MRT3847_43925C.7  811- 831     Glycine max
               transcription factor-like
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1525 MRT3847_46007C.5  1544 -       Glycine max
               transcription factor-like                        1564
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1526 MRT3847_51633C.3  910-930      Glycine max
               transcription factor-likc
miR172 target  miR172 target             1527 MRT3847_59804C.6  2369 -       Glycine max
                                                                2389
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1528 MRT3880_19283C.1  558 - 578   Medicago
               transcription factor-like                                     truncatula
                                               93

   WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1529 MRT3880_32459C.1  311- 331     Medicago
               transcription factor-like                                      truncatula
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1530 MRT3880_36568C.1  1424 -       Medicago
               transcription factor-like                        1444          truncatula
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1531 MRT3880_39959C.1  1689 -       Medicago
               transcription factor-like                        1709          truncatula
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1532 MRT3880_55789C.1  1241 -       Medicago
               transcription factor-like                        1261          truncatula
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1533 MRT4513_42015C.1  1464 -       Hordeum
               transcription factor-like                        1484          vulgare
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1534 MRT4513_6417C.1   632 - 652    Hordeum
               transcription factor-like                                      vulgare
miR172 target  miR172 target             1535 MRT4530_140532C.4 1358 -        Oryza
                                                                1378         sativa
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1536 MRT4530_146548C.4 669 - 689     Oryza
               transcription factor;                                          sativa
               SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
               SNZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1537 MRT4530_160275C.3 1405 -        Oryza
               transcription factor-like                        1425          sativa
miR172 target  miR172 target             1538 MRT4530_16723C.7  804 - 824     Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1539 MRT4530_209082C.4 1976 -        Oryza
               transcription factor;                            1996          sativa
               SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
               SNZ
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1540 MRT4530_212672C.3 187  - 207    Oryza
               transcription factor-like                                      sativa
miR172 target  miR172 target             1541 MRT4530_238241C.2 1481 -        Oryza
                                                                1501         sativa
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1542 MRT4530_263068C.2 1768 -        Oryza
               transcription factor;                            1788          sativa
               SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
               SNZ
miR172 target  miR172 target             1543 MRT4530_266671C.1 2391 -        Oryza
                                                                2411         sativa
miR172 target  miR172 target             1544 MRT4530_272652C.1 378-398       Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR172 target  miR172 target             1545 MRT4530_274692C.1 236-256       Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1546 MRT4530_56773C.3  1148-         Oryza
               transcription factor-like                        1168          sativa
miR172 target  Zinc finger (C3HC4-       1547 MRT4530_57252C.7  41 - 61       Oryza
               type RING                                                      saliva
               finger)protein-like,
               transport, nucleus,
               metal ion binding
miR172 target  miR172 target             1548 MRT4558_24999C.3  298-318      Sorghum
                                                                              bicolor
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1549 MRT4558_25704C.2  512  - 532    Sorghum
               transcription factor;                                          hicolor
               SCHNARCHZAPFEN;
               SNZ
miR172 target  miR172 target             1550 MRT4565_108668C.1 220-240       Triticum
                                                                              aestivum
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1551 MRT4565_118657C.1 354-374       Triticum
               transcription factor-like                                      aestivum
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1552 MRT4565_235388C.1 572  - 592    Triticum
               transcription factor-like                                      aestivum
miR172 target  AP2 domain                1553 MRT4565_245146C.1 1148 -        Triticum
               transcription factor-likc                        1168          aestivum
                                               94

    WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
miR172 target   AP2 domain                1554 MRT4565_247090C.1  1462 -       Triticum
                transcription factor-like                         1482         aestivum
miR172 target   miR172 target             1555 MRT4565_249252C.1  551 - 571    Triticum
                                                                               aestivum
miR172 target   AP2 domain                1556 MRT4565_256056C.1  810 - 830    Triticum
                transcription factor-like                                      aestivum
miR172 target   AP2 domain                1557 MRT4565_273183C.1  1152 -       Triticum
                transcription factor-like                         1172         aestivum
miR172 target   AP2 domain                1558 MRT4565_279009C.1  1155 -       Triticum
                transcription factor-like                         1175         aestivum
miR172 target   miR172 target             1559 MRT4565_83602C.3   26 - 46      Triticum
                                                                               aestivum
miR172 target   Glycosyltransferase       1560 MRT4565_88032C.3   361 - 381    Triticum
                                                                               aestivum
miR172 target   miR172 target             1561 MRT4577_12523C.7   2414-       Zea mays
                                                                  2434
miR172 target   miR172 target             1562 MRT4577 243746C.1  140 - 160   Zea mays
miR172 target   miR172 target             1563 MRT4577_27478C.9   1546-       Zea mays
                                                                  1566
miR172 target   miR172 target             1564 MRT4577_304712C.4  1326-       Zea mays
                                                                  1346
miR172 target   miR172 target             1565 MRT4577_307553C.7  1508 -      Zea mays
                                                                  1528
miR172 target   AP2 domain                1566 MRT4577_39951C.8   1611 -       Zea mays
                transcription factor-like                         1631
miR172 target   miR172 target             1567 MRT4577_431122C.3  1359-       Zea mays
                                                                  1379
miR172 target   miR172 target             1568 MRT4577 431125C.4  824-844     Zea mays
miR172 target   miR172 target             1569 MRT4577 455774C.3  963-983     Zea mays
miR172 target   miR172 target             1570 MRT4577_468762C.3  2414-       Zea mays
                                                                  2434
miR172 target   miR172 target             1571 MRT4577 49516C.9   408-428     Zea mays
miR172 target   AP2 domain                1572 MRT4577_49517C.8   1652 -       Zea mays
                transcription factor-like                         1672
miR172 target   miR172 target             1573 MRT4577_548310C.2  1451 -      Zea mays
                                                                  1471
miR172 target   miR172 target             1574 MRT4577_556612C.2  1352 -      Zea mays
                                                                  1372
miR172  target  miR172   target           1575 MRT4577 597136C.1  551 -571    Zea   mays
miR172  target  miR172   target           1576 MRT4577 616573C.1  670-690     Zea   mays
miR172  target  miR172   target           1577 MRT4577 668951C.1  270 - 290   Zea   mays
miR172  target  miR172   target           1578 MRT4577_669210C.1  1031 -      Zea   mays
                                                                  1051
miR172 target   miR172 target             1579 MRT4577_676464C.1  1308 -      Zea mays
                                                                  1328
miR172 target   miR172 target             1580 MRT4577  679724C.1 157 - 177   Zea mays
miR172 target   miR172 target             1581 MRT4577  700043C.1 147- 167    Zea mays
miR172 target   miR172 target             1582 MRT4577  701524C.1 136 - 156   Zea mays
miR172 target   miR172 target             1583 MRT4577  708079C.1 540-560     Zea mays
miRNA           miR319                    1584                                Zea mays
miRNA           osa-MIR319                1585                                 Oryza        Improved
precursor for   (precursor)                                                    sativa       yield*
overexpression
of mature
miR319
miR319 target   TCP family                1586 MRT4577_275782C.5  1673 -       Zea mays
                transcription factor                              1692
miR319 target   TCP family                1587 MRT4577_558102C.1  949-968      Zea mays
                transcription factor
miR319 target   TCP family                1588 MRT4577_30525C.5   1316-        Zea mays
                transcription factor                              1335
                                                95

   WO 2010/002984                                                       PCT/US2009/049392
miR319 target  TCP family              1589 MRT4577_275060C.2 818- 836       Zea mays
               transcription factor
miR319 target  TCP family              1590 MRT4577_22397C.4  943-961        Zea mays
               transcription factor
miR319 target  TCP family              1591 MRT4577_275063C.5 1247-          Zea mays
               transcription factor                           1265
miR319 target  TCP family              1592 MRT4577_480991C.1 150- 169       Zea mays
               transcription factor
miR319 target  TCP family              1593 MRT4577_427906C.3 1557-          Zea mays
               transcription factor                           1576
miR319 target  TCP family              1594 MRT4577_213173C.3 1594-          Zea mays
               transcription factor                           1613
miRNA          miR396                  1595                                 Zea mays
miR396 target  Zm-GRF1                 1596                                 Zea mays
Decoy          miR396 decoy            1597                                 Artificial    Improved
                                                                             construct    yield*
Decoy          miR396 decoy            1598                                 Artificial    Improved
                                                                             sequence     yield*
Decoy          miR396 decoy            1599                                 Artificial    Improved
                                                                             sequence     yield*
miR396 target  miR396 target           1600 MRT3635_67262C.1  6 - 25         Gossypium
                                                                             hirsutum
miR396 target  miR396 target           1601 MRT3635_70418C.1  147 - 166      Gossypium
                                                                             hirsutum
miR396 target  miR396 target           1602 MRT3635_71272C.1  414   - 433    Gossypium
                                                                             hirsutum
miR396 target  miR396 target           1603 MRT3635_71696C.1  37  - 56       Gossypium
                                                                             hirsutum
miR396 target  ATP-dependent RNA       1604 MRT3702_15262C.6  1141 -        Arabidopsis
               helicase-like protein                          1160           thaliana
miR396 target  subtilase family        1605 MRT3702_17628C.6  1886 -        Arabidopsis
               protein, contains Pfam                         1905           thaliana
               profile: PF00082
               subtilase family
miR396 target  miR396 target           1606 MRT3702_18069C.6  2763 -        Arabidopsis
                                                              2782           thaliana
miR396 target  miR396 target           1607 MRT3702_2454C.7   1387 -        Arabidopsis
                                                              1406           thaliana
miR396 target  miR396 target           1608 MRT3708_59476C.1  194 - 213     Brassica
                                                                             napus
miR396 target  miR396 target           1609 MRT3708_61891C.1  236-255       Brassica
                                                                             napus
miR396 target  Cysteine proteinase     1610 MRT3847_115000C.2 180   - 199    Glycine max
               precursor, proteolysis;
               cysteine-type
               endopeptidase activity
miR396 target  miR396 target           1611 MRT3847_249313C.3 1165 -         Glycine max
                                                              1184
miR396 target  Putative fimbriata,     1612 MRT3847_260044C.4 1337 -         Glycine max
               ubiquitin cycle,                               1356
               nucleus, protein
               binding
miR396 target  miR396 target           1613 MRT3847 282324C.5 578 - 597      Glycine max
miR396 target  Microsomal              1614 MRT3847_32554C.3  245 - 264      Glycine max
               cytochrome b5,
               electron transport,
               mitochondrial inner
               membrane, iron ion
               binding
                                             96

   WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
miR396 target  BRASSINOSTEROID           1615 MRT3847_60193C.5  1967 -        Glycine max
               INSENSITIVE 1-                                   1986
               associated receptor
               kinase 1 precursor (EC
               2.7.11.1) (BRIl
               associated receptor
               kinase 1) (Somatic
               embryogenesis
               receptor-like kinase 3),
               protein amino acid
               phosphorylation,
               integral to membrane,
               protein serine/threonine
               kinase activity
miR396 target  miR396 target             1616 MRT3847 72393C.1  34 - 53       Glycine max
miR396 target  Putative AFGl-like        1617 MRT4513_2056C.1   294 - 313    Hordeum
               ATPase                                                         vulgare
miR396 target  Putative fimbriata, cell  1618 MRT4513_23211C.1  721  - 740   Hordeum
               differentiation, nucleus,                                      vulgare
               protein binding
miR396 target  Cryptochrome 2, DNA       1619 MRT4513_24452C.1  19 - 38      Hordeum
               repair, DNA                                                    vulgare
               photolyase activity
miR396 target  miR396 target             1620 MRT4513_32857C.1  621-640      Hordeum
                                                                              vulgare
miR396 target  S-locus protein 5         1621 MRT4513_48780C.1  84 - 103     Hordeum
                                                                              vulgare
miR396 target  miR396 target             1622 MRT4530_139664C.5 2371 -        Oryza
                                                                2390         sativa
miR396 target  Putative RNA              1623 MRT4530_171648C.2 1063 -        Oryza
               polymerase III,                                  1082          sativa
               RNA_polRpb2_1:
               RNA polymerase beta
               subunit,
               RNApolRpb2_3:
               RNA polymerase
               Rpb2, domain 3,
               RNApolRpb2_4:
               RNA polymerase
               Rpb2, domain 4,
               RNApolRpb2_5:
               RNA polymerase
               Rpb2, domain 5,
               RNApolRpb2_6:
               RNA polymerase
               Rpb2, domain 6,
               RNApolRpb2_7:
               RNA polymerase
               Rpb2, domain 7;
               transcription; nucleus;
               metal ion binding
miR396 target  miR396 target             1624 MRT4530_267934C.1 467-486       Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR396 target  miR396 target             1625 MRT4530_268027C.1 95 - 114      Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR396 target  miR396 target             1626 MRT4530_27400C.6  682-701       Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR396 target  miR396 target             1627 MRT4530_59122C.7  573  - 591    Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR396 target  miR396 target             1628 MRT4530_62393C.7  2341 -        Oryza
                                                                2360         sativa
                                               97

   WO 2010/002984                                                       PCT/US2009/049392
miR396 target  miR396 target            1629 MRT4530_81835C.6  1243 -        Oryza
                                                               1262         sativa
miR396 target  Hypothetical protein     1630 MRT4530_98651C.4  271 - 290     Oryza
               P0698A04.3; GRP:                                              sativa
               Glycine rich protein
               family
miR396 target  Putative fimbriata, F-   1631 MRT4558_11973C.2  1234 -        Sorghum
               box: F-box domain                               1253          bicolor
miR396 target  Methyltransferase,       1632 MRT4558_29180C.1  101 - 120     Sorghum
               putative, cell wall                                           bicolor
               (sensu Magnoliophyta),
               methyltransferase
               activity
miR396 target  miR396 target            1633 MRT4558_34091C.1  266-285      Sorghum
                                                                             bicolor
miR396 target  Putative receptor-like   1634 MRT4558_9324C.2   375  - 394    Sorghum
               kinase; Pkinase_Tyr:                                          bicolor
               Protein tyrosine kinase,
               protein amino acid
               phosphorylation,
               integral to membrane,
               protein-tyrosine kinase
               activity
miR396 target  Acyl-CoA                 1635 MRT4565_127266C.2 27 - 46       Triticum
               dehydrogenase,                                                aestivum
               putative
miR396 target  miR396 target            1636 MRT4565_162831C.1 1134 -        Triticum
                                                               1153          aestivum
miR396 target  Ribulose-1,5-            1637 MRT4565_200090C.1 1047 -        Triticum
               bisphosphate                                    1066          aestivum
               carboxylase/oxygenase
               small subunit
miR396 target  Putative fimbriata       1638 MRT4565_230957C.1 450  - 469    Triticum
                                                                             aestivum
miR396 target  Dirigent-like protein    1639 MRT4565_234418C.1 1427 -        Triticum
                                                               1446          aestivum
miR396 target  putative F-box protein   1640 MRT4565_242541C.1 1472 -        Triticum
                                                               1491          aestivum
miR396 target  Putative                 1641 MRT4565_244837C.1 918 - 937     Triticum
               folylpolyglutamate                                            aestivum
               synthetase, folic acid
               and derivative
               biosynthesis,
               extracellular space,
               ATP binding
miR396 target  miR396 target            1642 MRT4565_248632C.1 625  - 644    Triticum
                                                                             aestivum
miR396 target  miR396 target            1643 MRT4565_249453C.1 108 - 127     Triticum
                                                                             aestivum
miR396 target  Folylpolyglutamate       1644 MRT4565_253149C.I 616  - 635    Triticum
               synthetase, putative,                                         aestivum
               folic acid and
               derivative biosynthesis,
               ATP binding (4e-99)
miR396 target  Phytochrome / protein    1645 MRT4565_253747C.1 894  - 913    Triticum
               kinase-like, protein                                          aestivum
               amino acid
               phosphorylation,
               protein-tyrosine kinase
               activity
miR396 target  Putative fimbriata       1646 MRT4565_259298C.1 1362 -        Triticum
                                                               1381          aestivum
                                              98

   WO 2010/002984                                                       PCT/US2009/049392
miR396 target  Putative fimbriata      1647 MRT4565_260134C.1  414  - 433    Triticum
                                                                             aestivum
miR396 target  miR396 target           1648 MRT4565_273137C.1  137 - 156     Triticum
                                                                             aestivum
miR396 target  Putative                1649 MRT4577130243C.1   12-31         Zea mays
               dihydrolipoamide S
               acetyltransferase;
               Biotin-lipoyl: Biotin
               requiring enzyme,
               metabolism,
               mitochondrion,
               dihydrolipoyllysine
               residue
               acetyltransferase
               activity
miR396 target  miR396 target           1650 MRT4577 165771C.1  95 - 114     Zea   mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1651 MRT4577 213750C.1  60-79        Zea   mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1652 MRT4577 26483C.7   805 - 824    Zea   mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1653 MRT4577_341149C.6  1110-        Zea   mays
                                                               1129
miR396 target  miR396 target           1654 MRT4577 355112C.1  159 - 177    Zea mays
miR396 target  Putative gag-pol        1655 MRT4577 406214C.1  376-395      Zea mays
miR396 target  beta-keto acyl          1656 MRT4577_416676C.5  1463 -        Zea mays
               reductase; cuticular                            1482
               wax biosynthesis;
               glossy8
miR396 target  miR396 target           1657 MRT4577 521629C.3  555-574      Zea mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1658 MRT4577_540304C.2  1355 -       Zea mays
                                                               1374
miR396 target  miR396 target           1659 MRT4577_540948C.2  1095 -       Zea mays
                                                               1114
miR396 target  miR396 target           1660 MRT4577 548836C.1  467-486      Zea mays
miR396 target  Retrotransposon         1661 MRT4577_555855C.1  148 - 167     Zea mays
               protein, putative,
               unclassified;
               Retrotransgag:
               Retrotransposon gag
               protein, RNA
               dependent DNA
               replication, nucleus,
               RNA-directed DNA
               polymerase activity
miR396 target  miR396 target           1662 MRT4577 557678C.2  344-363      Zea   mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1663 MRT4577 561121C.1  956-975      Zea   mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1664 MRT4577 564288C.1  290-309      Zea   mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1665 MRT4577_56429C.8   1315 -       Zea   mays
                                                               1334
miR396 target  miR396 target           1666 MRT4577 595828C.1  63 - 82      Zea mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1667 MRT4577_613832C.1  1029-        Zea mays
                                                               1048
miR396 target  miR396 target           1668 MRT4577  619443C.1 394-413      Zea mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1669 MRT4577  635169C.1 602-621      Zea mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1670 MRT4577  638921C.1 172-191      Zea mays
miR396 target  miR396 target           1671 MRT4577  664914C.1 581 - 600    Zea mays
miRNA          miR393                  1672                                 Zea mays
miR393 target  TIRI-like transport     1673 MRT3635_18188C.2   746  - 766    Gossypium
               inhibitor response-like                                       hirsutum
               protein
miR393 target  TIRi -like transport    1674 MRT3635_18850C.2   171  - 191    Gossypium
               inhibitor response-like                                       hirsutum
               protein
                                             99

   WO 2010/002984                                                      PCT/US2009/049392
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1675 MRT3635_35639C.2  1049 -        Gossypium
               inhibitor response-like                        1069          hirsutum
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1676 MRT3635_49076C.2  373 - 393     Gossypium
               inhibitor response-like                                      hirsutum
               protein
miR393 target  TIRi -like transport    1677 MRT3635_68504C.1  1996 -        Gossypium
               inhibitor response-like                        2016          hirsutum
               protein
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1678 MRT3702_13118C.8  2015 -       Arabidopsis
               inhibitor response-like                        2035          thaliana
               protein; At3g26830
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1679 MRT3702_145409C.1 1508 -       Arabidopsis
               inhibitor response-like                        1528          thaliana
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1680 MRT3702_15703C.8  1738 -       Arabidopsis
               inhibitor response-like                        1758          thaliana
               protein
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1681 MRT3702_16076C.7  1587 -       Arabidopsis
               inhibitor response-like                        1607          thaliana
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1682 MRT3702_92498C.6  1898 -       Arabidopsis
               inhibitor response-like                        1918          thaliana
               protein; At1g12820
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1683 MRT3708_31301C.1  259 -280     Brassica
               inhibitor response-like                                      napus
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1684 MRT3708_52518C.1  250  - 270   Brassica
               inhibitor response-like                                      napus
               protein
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1685 MRT3708_55951C.1  93 - 113     Brassica
               inhibitor response-like                                      napus
               protein
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1686 MRT3711_1771C.1   103 - 123    Brassica
               inhibitor response-like                                      rapa
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI-like transport     1687 MRT3847_238705C.4 1172 -        Glycine max
               inhibitor response-like                        1192
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1688 MRT3847_27973C.7  1339 -        Glycine max
               inhibitor response-like                        1359
               protein
miR393 target  miR393 target           1689 MRT3847 313402C.3 958 - 978     Glycine max
miR393 target  miR393 target           1690 MRT3847_329954C.2 1740 -        Glycine max
                                                              1760
miR393 target  miR393 target           1691 MRT3847_335477C.1 1715 -        Glycine max
                                                              1735
miR393 target  miR393 target           1692 MRT3847_338734C.1 1474 -        Glycine max
                                                              1494
miR393 target  TIRI-like transport     1693 MRT3847_44371C.6  2345 -        Glycine max
               inhibitor response-like                        2365
               protein
miR393 target  miR393 target           1694 MRT3880_18564C.2  3116 -       Medicago
                                                              3136          truncatula
miR393 target  TIRI-like transport     1695 MRT3880_38847C.1  139 - 159    Medicago
               inhibitor response-like                                      truncatula
               protein
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1696 MRT4513_12741C.1  197  - 217   Hordeum
               inhibitor response-like                                      vulgare
               protein
                                             100

   WO 2010/002984                                                      PCT/US2009/049392
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1697 MRT4513_38675C.1  419  - 439   Hordeum
               inhibitor response-like                                      vulgare
               protein
miR393 target  miR393 target           1698 MRT4530_113561C.5 5590-         Oryza
                                                              5610         sativa
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1699 MRT4530_237446C.2 2221 -        Oryza
               inhibitor response-like                        2241          sativa
               protein
miR393 target  TIR1-like transport     1700 MRT4530_241313C.2 1706 -        Oryza
               inhibitor response-like                        1726          sativa
               protein
miR393 target  TIRl -like transport    1701 MRT4558_1226C.2   167  - 187    Sorghum
               inhibitor response-like                                      bicolor
               protein
miR393 target  TIRi-like transport     1702 MRT4558_20000C.2  412  - 432    Sorghum
               inhibitor response-like                                      bicolor
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1703 MRT4565_141193C.1 43 - 63       Triticum
               inhibitor response-like                                      aestivum
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1704 MRT4565_226582C.1 486  - 506    Triticum
               inhibitor response-like                                      aestivum
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI -like transport    1705 MRT4565_247449C.1 28 - 48       Triticum
               inhibitor response-like                                      aestivum
               protein
miR393 target  TIRI-like transport     1706 MRT4565_274399C.1 1499 -        Triticum
               inhibitor response-like                        1519          aestivum
               protein
miR393 target  miR393 target           1707 MRT4577_262597C.7 2373 -       Zea mays
                                                              2393
miR393 target  miR393 target           1708 MRT4577_39097C.9  1716-        Zea mays
                                                              1736
miR393 target  miR393 target           1709 MRT4577_546333C.2 1349-        Zea mays
                                                              1369
miR393 target  miR393 target           1710 MRT4577_656737C.1 1325 -       Zea mays
                                                              1345
miRNA          iniR395                 1711                                Zea mays
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1712                                 Zea mays
               domain protein
Decoy          miR395 decoy            1713                                Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1714 MRT3635_15903C.2  410  - 429    Gossypium
               domain protein                                               hirsutum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1715 MRT3635_48567C.2  480  - 499    Gossypium
               domain protein                                               hirsutum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1716 MRT3702_166264C.1 202  - 221   Arabidopsis
               domain protein                                               thaliana
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter     1717 MRT3702_169467C.1 107 - 126    Arabidopsis
                                                                            thaliana
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1718 MRT3702_17054C.8  470  - 489   Arabidopsis
               domain protein                                               thaliana
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1719 MRT3702_177422C.1 340  - 359   Arabidopsis
               domain protein                                               thaliana
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter     1720 MRT3702_20451C.6  125  - 144   Arabidopsis
                                                                            thaliana
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1721 MRT3702_23086C.8  544  - 563   Arabidopsis
               domain protein                                               thaliana
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase         1722 MRT3702_57141C.1  331 - 350    Arabidopsis
               domain protein                                               thaliana
                                             101

   WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1723 MRT3708_36129C.1  403  - 422   Brassica
               domain protein                                              napus
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1724 MRT3708_4492C.1   316  - 335   Brassica
               domain protein                                              napus
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1725 MRT3708_55043C.1  400  - 419   Brassica
               domain protein                                              napus
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1726 MRT3711_3394C.1   356-375      Brassica
               domain protein                                              rapa
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1727 MRT3711_4165C.1   383 -402     Brassica
               domain protein                                              rapa
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1728 MRT3711_4313C.1   384-403      Brassica
               domain protein                                              rapa
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1729 MRT3712_1686C.1   124  - 143   Brassica
                                                                           oleracea
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1730 MRT3847 10451C.5  125 - 144     Glycine max
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1731 MRT3847 131987C.4 153 - 172     Glycine max
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylasc        1732 MRT3847_14792C.7  641 - 660     Glycine max
               domain protein
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1733 MRT3847 245035C.3 64 - 83       Glycine max
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1734 MRT3847_331787C.1 381 - 400     Glycine max
               domain protein
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1735 MRT4530_16384C.4  560  - 579    Oryza
               domain protein                                              sativa
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1736 MRT4530_33633C.6  746  - 765    Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1737 MRT4558_11861C.1  474  - 493    Sorghum
               domain protein                                              bicolor
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1738 MRT4558_24400C.2  275  - 294   Sorghum
                                                                           bicolor
miR395 target  Sulfate transporter    1739 MRT4565_219452C.1 259  - 278    Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1740 MRT4565_223839C.1 541 - 560     Triticum
               domain protein                                              aestivum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1741 MRT4565_232080C.1 462  - 481    Triticum
               domain protein                                              aestivum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1742 MRT4565_236093C.1 542  - 561    Triticum
               domain protein                                              aestivum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1743 MRT4565_254783C.1 482  - 501    Triticum
               domain protein                                              aestivum
miR395 target  miR395 target          1744 MRT4565_35429C.3  207  - 226    Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1745 MRT4577_118322C.5 455 - 474     Zea mays
               domain protein
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1746 MRT4577_386324C.4 465  - 484    Zea mays
               domain protein
miR395 target  ATP sulfurylase        1747 MRT4577_57434C.9  528  - 547    Zea mays
               domain protein
miR395 target  miR395 target          1748 MRT4577_644561C.1 27-46        Zea mays
miR395 target  miR395 target          1749 MRT4577 694623C.1 449-468      Zea mays
miRNA          miR398                 1750                                Zea mays
miR398 target  SODs and cytochrome    1751                                 Zea mays
               c oxidase
Decoy          miR398 decoy           1752                                Artificial    Improved
                                                                           sequence     yield*
Decoy          miR398 decoy           1753                                Artificial    Improved
                                                                           sequence     yield*
miR398 target  miR398 target          1754 MRT3702_118804C.3 1651 -       Arabidopsis
                                                             1671          thaliana
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1755 MRT3708_22683C.2  117 - 137    Brassica
               dismutase (SODC)                                            napus
               domain protein
                                            102

   WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR398 target  Lasl-like              1756 MRT3847_22858C.5  2306 -        Glycine max
                                                             2326
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1757 MRT3847_235546C.3 112 - 132     Glycine max
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1758 MRT4530_151653C.4 66 - 86       Oryza
               dismutase (SODC)                                            sativa
               domain protein
miR398 target  miR398 target          1759 MRT4530_201873C.4 1720-         Oryza
                                                             1740         sativa
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1760 MRT4530_20521C.4  152 - 172     Oryza
               dismutase (SODC)                                            sativa
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1761 MRT4558_3896C.2   103 - 123     Sorghum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            bicolor
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1762 MRT4558_9962C.2   176  - 196    Sorghum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            bicolor
               domain protein
miR398 target  miR398 target          1763 MRT4565_118267C.1 66 - 86       Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR398 target  miR398 target          1764 MRT4565_122618C.1 14-34         Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1765 MRT4565_123037C.3 94 - 114      Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target   niR398 target         1766 MRT4565_129871C.1 54 - 74       Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1767 MRT4565_133338C.1 172  - 192    Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1768 MRT4565_162003C.1 144  - 164    Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  miR398 target          1769 MRT4565_16358C.1  66 - 86       Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR398 target  miR398 target          1770 MRT4565_187852C.1 194-214       Triticum
                                                                           aestivum
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1771 MRT4565_201143C.1 93 - 113      Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1772 MRT4565_201144C.1 85 - 105      Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  Cytochrome c oxidase   1773 MRT4565_221067C.1 153 - 173     Triticum
               subunit Vb                                                  aestivum
miR398 target  Cytochrome c oxidase   1774 MRT4565_223829C.1 139 - 159     Triticum
               subunit Vb                                                  aestivum
miR398 target  Cytochrome c oxidase   1775 MRT4565_230710C.1 303 - 323     Triticum
               subunit Vb                                                  aestivum
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1776 MRT4565_236346C.1 91 - 111      Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1777 MRT4565_244294C.1 69 - 89       Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  Cytochrome c oxidase   1778 MRT4565_246005C.1 160  - 180    Triticum
               subunit Vb                                                  aestivum
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide 1779 MRT4565_248858C.1 69 - 89       Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                            aestivum
               domain protein
                                            103

   WO 2010/002984                                                         PCT/US2009/049392
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1780 MRT4565_72209C.2   105 - 125      Triticum
               dismutase (SODC)                                                aestivum
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1781 MRT4577_19020C.8   92  - 112      Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1782 MRT4577_211709C.6  85  - 105      Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1783 MRT4577_329847C.3  89  - 109      Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1784 MRT4577_329851C.4  114   - 134    Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1785 MRT4577_33501 1C.2 7 - 27         Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1786 MRT4577_339810C.4  174   - 194    Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1787 MRT4577_339813C.4  233 -253       Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1788 MRT4577_358061C.1  120   - 140    Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1789 MRT4577_388896C.4  200   - 220    Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1790 MRT4577_401904C.1  49  - 69       Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1791 MRT4577_54564C.7   147 - 167      Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  miR398 target            1792 MRT4577 561629C.1  222 - 242     Zea mays
miR398 target  miR398 target            1793 MRT4577 570532C.1  129 - 149     Zea mays
miR398 target  Copper/zinc superoxide   1794 MRT4577_571443C.1  184 - 204      Zea mays
               dismutase (SODC)
               domain protein
miR398 target  miR398 target            1795 MRT4577 648609C.1  83 - 103      Zea mays
miRNA          miR399                   1796                                  Zea mays
miRNA          miR399                   1797                                  Zea mays
miRNA          miR399                   1798                                  Zea mays
miRNA          miR399                   1799                                  Zea mays
miR399 target  pho2 and inorganic       1800                                   Zea mays
               phosphate transporter
Decoy          miR399 decoy             1801                                  Artificial    Improved
                                                                               sequence     yield*
Cleavage       miR399 cleavage          1802                                  Artificial    Improved
blocker        blocker (in miRMON1                                             sequence     yield*
               backbone)
miR399 target  E2, ubiquitin-           1803 MRT3702_9137C.7    607   - 627   Arabidopsis
               conjugating enzyme;                                             thaliana
               At2g33770 PHO2
miR399 target  PH02-like (phosphate)    1804 MRT3847_4521C.5    139 - 159      Glycine max
               E2 ubiquitin
               conjugating enzyme
miR399 target  Phosphate transporter  | 1805 MRT3847 51499C.6   381   - 401    Glycine max
                                              104

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR399 target  PH02-like (phosphate) 1806 MRT3880_39637C.1  33 - 53      Medicago
               E2 ubiquitin-                                              truncatula
               conjugating enzyme
miR399 target  miR399 target         1807 MRT3880_45031C.1  512-532      Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR399 target  miR399 target         1808 MRT3880_48872C.1  5-25         Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR399 target  miR399 target         1809 MRT3880_54972C.1  5-25         Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR399 target  Phosphate transporter 1810 MRT3880_64645C.1  245  - 265   Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR399 target  miR399 target         1811 MRT4530_189375C.1 502-522       Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR399 target  Phosphate transporter 1812 MRT4530_40506C.4  292  - 312    Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR399 target  miR399 target         1813 MRT4530_53090C.4  821  - 841    Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR399 target  miR399 target         1814 MRT4530_7904C.4   1144 -        Oryza
                                                            1164         sativa
miR399 target  miR399 target         1815 MRT4558_16475C.1  693-713      Sorghum
                                                                          bicolor
miR399 target  miR399 target         1816 MRT4558_34625C.1  171  - 191   Sorghum
                                                                          bicolor
miR399 target  miR399 target         1817 MRT4565_160343C.1 481  - 501    Triticum
                                                                          aestivum
miRNA          miR408                1818                                Zea mays
miR408 target  laccase and           1819                                 Zea mays
               plantacyanin
Decoy          miR408 decoy          1820                                Artificial    Improved
                                                                         sequence      yield*
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1821 MRT3635_36078C.2  61 - 80       Gossypium
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      hirsutum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1822 MRT3635_36080C.2  61 - 80       Gossypium
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      hirsutum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1823 MRT3702_153631C.1 42 - 61      Arabidopsis
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      thaliana
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1824 MRT3702_20027C.5  108  - 127   Arabidopsis
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      thaliana
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1825 MRT3702_20202C.5  99 - 118     Arabidopsis
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      thaliana
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1826 MRT3702_6668C.5   71 - 90      Arabidopsis
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      thaliana
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1827 MRT3708_48434C.2  137 - 156    Brassica
                                                                          napus
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1828 MRT3711_7108C.1   9-28         Brassica
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      rapa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1829 MRT3847 133008C.1 25 - 44       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1830 MRT3847 166855C.1 17 - 36       Glycine max
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphcnol     1831 MRT3847_261984C.4 181 - 200     Glycine max
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1832 MRT3847_273040C.3 702  - 721    Glycine max
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
                                           105

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR408 target  miR408 target         1833 MRT3847_273288C.3 114  - 133    Glycine max
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1834 MRT3847_296270C.2 189  - 208    Glycine max
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1835 MRT3847 31127C.7  232-251       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1836 MRT3847 329905C.2 137 - 156     Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1837 MRT3847 336704C.1 58 - 77       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1838 MRT3847 343250C.1 286-305       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1839 MRT3847 346770C.1 38 - 57       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1840 MRT3847 349900C.1 68 - 87       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1841 MRT3847 66506C.8  33 - 52       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1842 MRT3847 66508C.1  12 - 31       Glycine max
miR408 target  miR408 target         1843 MRT3880_52991C.2  96-115       Medicago
                                                                          truncatula
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1844 MRT3880_53025C.1  96 - 115     Medicago
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      truncatula
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1845 MRT3880_58299C.2  659  - 678   Medicago
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      truncatula
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1846 MRT3880_5838C.1   37 - 56      Medicago
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      truncatula
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1847 MRT3880_61178C.1  715  - 734    Medicago
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      truncatula
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1848 MRT4513_31098C.2  106- 125     Hordeum
                                                                          vulgare
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1849 MRT4513_36864C.1  93 - 112     Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1850 MRT4513_43046C.1  113 -132     Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1851 MRT4513_47240C.1  630  - 649   Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1852 MRT4513_8677C.1   71 - 90      Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1853 MRT4530_137979C.3 929  - 948    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1854 MRT4530_148564C.5 1091 -        Oryza
                                                            1110         sativa
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1855 MRT4530_160612C.2 220-239       Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1856 MRT4530_169405C.1 105  - 124    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1857 MRT4530_247839C.2 360-379       Oryza
                                                                         sativa
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1858 MRT4530_260849C.1 658  - 677    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1859 MRT4530_26787C.5  611 - 630     Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1860 MRT4530_274369C.1 112-131       Oryza
                                                                         sativa
                                           106

   WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
miR408 target  miR408 target             1861 MRT4530_275579C.1 108  - 127    Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR408 target  miR408 target             1862 MRT4530_36958C.6  99-118        Oryza
                                                                             sativa
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1863 MRT4530_40477C.6  182  - 201    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1864 MRT4530_69716C.6  162  - 181    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target             1865 MRT4558_23167C.3  713-732      Sorghum
                                                                              bicolor
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1866 MRT4558_2496C.2   104 - 123     Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          bicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diplienol        1867 MRT4558_26802C.1  87 - 106      Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          bicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1868 MRT4558_37109C.1  109  - 128    Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          bicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1869 MRT4558_40844C.1  217  - 236    Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          hicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1870 MRT4558_5019C.2   102  - 121    Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          bicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1871 MRT4558_8981C.2   180  - 199    Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          bicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1872 MRT4565_100542C.3 91 - 110      Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1873 MRT4565_130135C.1 10-29         Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Hsp70 domain protein      1874 MRT4565_198220C.1 1221 -        Triticum
                                                                1240          aestivum
miR408 target  miR408 target             1875 MRT4565_202586C.1 51 - 70       Triticum
                                                                              aestivum
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1876 MRT4565_216408C.1 206  - 225    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Ammonium                  1877 MRT4565_219732C.1 742-761       Triticum
               transporter; basic helix-                                      aestivum
               loop-helix domain
               (bHLH)
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1878 MRT4565_229783C.1 98 - 117      Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1879 MRT4565_235378C.1 116  - 135    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1880 MRT4565_250808C.1 652  - 671    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol         1881 MRT4565_257176C.1 91 - 110      Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                          aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
                                               107

   WO 2010/002984                                                    PCT/US2009/049392
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1882 MRT4565_263239C.1 102  - 121    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1883 MRT4565_263949C.1 94 - 113      Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1884 MRT4565_267955C.1 84 - 103      Triticum
                                                                          aestivum
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1885 MRT4565_274907C.1 720  - 739    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1886 MRT4565_276632C.1 172  - 191    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1887 MRT4565_278866C.1 365-384       Triticum
                                                                          aestivum
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1888 MRT4565_66211C.2  36 - 55       Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1889 MRT4565_67059C.3  133 - 152     Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1890 MRT4565_87146C.2  314  - 333    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                      aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1891 MRT4577_137208C.1 94-113        Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1892 MRT4577 191445C.5 696-715      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1893 MRT4577 234909C.4 331 -350     Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1894 MRT4577 245033C.8 117-136      Zea mays
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1895 MRT4577_264839C.3 102 - 121     Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1896 MRT4577 30771C.9  282-301      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1897 MRT4577 325201C.6 619-638      Zea mays
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1898 MRT4577_325458C.1 59-78         Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1899 MRT4577_327865C.2 113 - 132     Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1900 MRT4577 341887C.5 132-151      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1901 MRT4577 37590C.9  800-819      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1902 MRT4577 380413C.6 208-227      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1903 MRT4577 387021C.4 151 - 170     Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1904 MRT4577 388860C.4 117 - 136    Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1905 MRT4577 427804C.4 729 - 748    Zea mays
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1906 MRT4577_446604C.1 67 - 86       Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1907 MRT4577 456053C.1 66-85        Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1908 MRT4577 461451C.3 463-482      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1909 MRT4577 46308C.7  273 - 292    Zea mays
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1910 MRT4577_517561C.1 883-902       Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1911 MRT4577_528699C.2 636-655       Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1912 MRT4577 536494C.2 151-170      Zea mays
                                           108

   WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR408 target  Laccase (Diphenol     1913 MRT4577_550892C.1  659-678       Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR408 target  miR408 target         1914 MRT4577  572693C.1 101 - 120    Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1915 MRT4577  602288C.1 5-24         Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1916 MRT4577  603948C.1 206-225      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1917 MRT4577  603999C.1 226-245      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1918 MRT4577  610458C.1 111-130      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1919 MRT4577  623809C.1 153 - 172    Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1920 MRT4577  625157C.1 254-273      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1921 MRT4577  629379C.1 269-288      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1922 MRT4577  645720C.1 236-255      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1923 MRT4577  650403C.1 788-807      Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1924 MRT4577  686202C.1 160 - 179    Zea mays
miR408 target  miR408 target         1925 MRT4577  710942C.1 48-67        Zea mays
miR444         miR444                1926                                 Zea mays
miRNA          miR444                1927                                  Zea mays     Improved
precursor                                                                               yield*
miR444 target  Os.ANR1               1928                                  Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miRNA-         Os.ANRl (miR444       1929                                 Artificial    Improved
unresponsive   unresponsive)                                               construct    yield*
miR444 target  AGL17, AGL21,         1930                                  Zea mays
               ANR1
Decoy          miR444 decoy          1931                                 Artificial    Improved
                                                                           construct    yield*
miR444 target  MADS-box              1932 MRT3847_247970C.2  471  - 491    Glycine max
               transcription factor
               protein
miR444 target  MADS-box              1933 MRT3847_259952C.3  453 - 473     Glycine max
               transcription factor
               protein
miR444 target  MADS-box              1934 MRT3880_12754C.1   75-95        Medicago
               transcription factor                                        truncatula
               protein
miR444 target  miR444 target         1935 MRT4513_18691C.1   73 - 93      Hordeum
                                                                           vulgare
miR444 target  miR444 target         1936 MRT4513_36208C.1   320-340      Hordeum
                                                                           vulgare
miR444 target  miR444 target         1937 MRT4530_101813C.4  1164 -        Oryza
                                                             1184         sativa
miR444 target  MADS-box              1938 MRT4530_196636C.3  539-559       Oryza
               transcription factor                                        sativa
               protein
miR444 target  miR444 target         1939 MRT4530_197829C.2  585  - 605    Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR444 target  miR444 target         1940 MRT4530_223119C.3  610-630       Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR444 target  miR444 target         1941 MRT4530_244375C.1  208-228       Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR444 target  miR444 target         1942 MRT4530_251481C.2  1234 -        Oryza
                                                             1254         sativa
miR444 target  miR444 target         1943 MRT4530_272160C.1  571 -591      Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR444 target  miR444 target         1944 MRT4530_274638C.1  337-357       Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR444 target  miR444 target         1945 MRT4530_275771C.1  97 - 117      Oryza
                                                                          sativa
miR444 target  MADS-box              1946 MRT4530_78475C.3   305-325       Oryza
               transcription factor                                        sativa
               protein
                                           109

   WO 2010/002984                                                      PCT/US2009/049392
miR444 target  MADS-box               1947 MRT4558_10090C.1   400-420       Sorghum
               transcription factor                                         bicolor
               protein
miR444 target  MADS-box               1948 MRT4558_11440C.2   434-454       Sorghum
               transcription factor                                         bicolor
               protein
miR444 target  miR444 target          1949 MRT4558_3598C.3    1024 -       Sorghum
                                                              1044          bicolor
miR444 target  miR444 target          1950 MRT4558_37372C.1   1355 -       Sorghum
                                                              1375          bicolor
miR444 target  MADS-box               1951 MRT4565_247066C.1  375 - 395     Triticum
               transcription factor                                         aestivum
               protein
miR444 target  MADS-box               1952 MRT4565_39318C.3   416 -436      Triticum
               transcription factor                                         aestivum
               protein
miR444 target  miR444 target          1953 MRT4565_98921C.1   352  - 372    Triticum
                                                                            aestivum
miR444 target  miR444 target          1954 MRT4577_166928C.8  1146 -       Zea mays
                                                              1166
miR444 target  miR444 target          1955 MRT4577 204116C.4  475-495      Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1956 MRT4577 296919C.6  475-495      Zea mays
miR444 target  MADS-box               1957 MRT4577_321664C.4  1029 -        Zea mays
               transcription factor                           1049
               protein
miR444 target  miR444 target          1958 MRT4577_417091C.4  1757-        Zea mays
                                                              1777
miR444 target  miR444 target          1959 MRT4577 502196C.3  468-488      Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1960 MRT4577 537511C.2  364-384      Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1961 MRT4577 538474C.2  451 - 471    Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1962 MRT4577 5433C.4    473 - 493    Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1963 MRT4577 543434C.2  377-397      Zea mays
miR444 target  MADS-box               1964 MRT4577_553467C.1  17-37         Zea mays
               transcription factor
               protein
miR444 target  miR444 target          1965 MRT4577  581326C.1 388-408      Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1966 MRT4577  590710C.1 509-529      Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1967 MRT4577  613242C.1 18 - 38      Zea mays
miR444 target  miR444 target          1968 MRT4577  672581C.1 430-450      Zea mays
miRNA          miR528                 1969                                 Zea mays
miR528 target  SOD                    1970                                 Zea mays
Decoy          miR528 decoy           1971                                 Artificial    Improved
                                                                            construct    yield*
miR528 target  Salicylic acid-binding 1972 MRT3847_26249C.5   98 - 118      Glycine max
               protein
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol      1973 MRT4513_36138C.1   838 - 858    Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol      1974 MRT4513_39686C.1   35 - 55      Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol      1975 MRT4513_5560C.1    506  - 525   Hordeum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        vulgare
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol      1976 MRT4530_128077C.2  269  - 289    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol      1977 MRT4530_139238C.4  2152 -        Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                          2172          sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
                                            110

   WO 2010/002984                                                      PCT/US2009/049392
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1978 MRT4530_155994C.3 247 - 267     Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  VIP2-like protein;      1979 MRT4530_237311C.1 632-652       Oryza
               PHD-zinc finger                                              sativa
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1980 MRT4530_275240C.1 24 - 44       Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1981 MRT4530_68465C.5  687  - 706    Oryza
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        sativa
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  VIP2-like protein;      1982 MRT4530_85016C.5  215  - 235    Oryza
               PHD-zinc finger                                              sativa
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1983 MRT4558_8881C.1   101  - 121    Sorghum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        bicolor
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1984 MRT4565_204482C.1 212  - 231    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1985 MRT4565_219247C.1 923  - 943    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1986 MRT4565_22497C.4  806  - 826    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Major Facilitator       1987 MRT4565_260315C.1 584  - 604    Triticum
               Superfamily                                                  aestivum
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1988 MRT4565_276632C.1 219-239       Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  miR528 target           1989 MRT4565_278866C.1 412-432       Triticum
                                                                            aestivum
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1990 MRT4565_6214C.4   548  - 567    Triticum
               oxidase); Multicopper                                        aestivum
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1991 MRT4577_302078C.5 115  - 135    Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1992 MRT4577_327865C.2 163 - 183     Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  Laccase (Diphenol       1993 MRT4577_338803C.6 189-209       Zea mays
               oxidase); Multicopper
               oxidase Plantacyanin
miR528 target  miR528 target           1994 MRT4577 574203C.1 48-68        Zea mays
miRNA          miR827                  1995                                Zea mays
miR827 target  SPX                     1996 MRT3702_118660C.4 258-278      Arabidopsis
               (SYG1/Pho8 1/XPR1)                                           thaliana
               domain-containing
               protein; RING domain
               ubiquitin ligase
miR827 target  SPX                     1997 MRT3702_165543C.2 253 - 273    Arabidopsis
               (SYG1/Pho8 1/XPR1)                                           thaliana
               domain-containing
               protein; MFS_1: Major
               Facilitator Superfamily
miR827 target  SPX                     1998 MRT3702_4781C.6   153 - 173    Arabidopsis
               (SYG1/Pho81/XPR1)                                            thaliana
               domain-containing
               protein; MFS_1: Major
               Facilitator Superfamily
                                             111

    WO 2010/002984                                                     PCT/US2009/049392
miR827 target   SPX                     1999 MRT3708_29390C.1  32 - 52     Brassica
                (SYG1/Pho81/XPR1)                                           napus
                domain-containing
                protein; RING domain
                ubiquitin ligase
miR827 target   miR827 target           2000 MRT3711_10064C.1  155 - 175   Brassica
                                                                            rapa
miR827 target   SPX                     2001 MRT3712_6456C.1   96 - 116    Brassica
                (SYG1/Pho8 1/XPR1)                                          oleracea
                domain-containing
                protein
miR827 target   SPX                     2002 MRT4530_236774C.2 395-415      Oryza
                (SYG1/Pho8 1/XPR1)                                          sativa
                domain-containing
                protein; MFS_1: Major
                Facilitator Superfamily
miR827 target   SPX                     2003 MRT4530_45193C.6  335-355      Oryza
                (SYG1/Pho81/XPR1)                                           sativa
                domain-containing
                protein; MFS_1: Major
                Facilitator Superfamily
miR827 target   miR827 target           2004 MRT4577 197256C.1 135 - 155   Zea mays
miR827 target   miR827 target           2005 MRT4577 235663C.3 559 - 579   Zea mays
miRNA           miRCOPl_1227-1247       2006                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRNA           miRCOPI_653-673         2007                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRNA           miRCOPl_1417-1437       2008                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRCOP1 target  COP1 (constitutive      2009                                Zea mays
                photomorphogenesis 1)
miRNA           miRGA2_945-965          2010                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRGA2 target   zm-GA2ox (gibberellic   2011                                Zea mays
                acid 2 oxidase)
miRNA           miRGA20_852-872         2012                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRGA20 target  zim-GA20ox              2013                                Zea mays
                (gibberellic acid 20
                oxidase)
miRNA           miRHB2-4_700-720        2014                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRHB2-4        ZmHB2-4 (homeobox       2015                                Zea mays
target          2 and homeobox 4)
miRNA           miRHB4_84-104           2016                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRHB4 target   ZmHB-4 (homeobox 4)     2017                               Zea mays
miRNA           miRLG1_899-919          2018                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRLG1 target   LG1 (Liguleless1)       2019                               Zea mays
miRNA           miRMON18                2020                                Glycine max
miRMON18        SPX (SYG1, PHO81        2021                               Zea mays
target          and XPR1 domain;
                PFAM entry PF03105
                at www.sanger.ac.uk)
Decoy           miRMON18 decoy          2022                               Artificial    Improved
                                                                            sequence     yield*
miRNA           miRVIMla                2023                               Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                   sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
                                              112

    WO 2010/002984                             PCT/US2009/049392
miRVIMla        VIMla (Variant in     2024          Zea mays
target          Methylation1 a)
miRNA           miRDHSI               2025         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
miRDHS1         DHS1 (Deoxyhypusine   2026          Zea mays
target          synthase)
miRNA           miRDHS2               2027         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
miRDHS2         DHS2 (Deoxyhypusine   2028          Zea mays
target          synthase)
miRNA           miRDHS3               2029         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
miRDHS3         DHS3 (Deoxyhypusine   2030          Zea mays
target          synthase)
miRNA           miRDHS4               2031         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
miRDHS4         DHS4 (Deoxyhypusine   2032          Zea mays
target          synthase)
Synthetic       DHS5 ta-siRNA         2033         Artificial    Improved
tasiRNA                                             sequence     yield*
DHS5 ta-siRNA   DHS5 (Deoxyhypusine   2034          Zea mays
target          synthase)
Synthetic       DHS6 ta-siRNA         2035         Artificial    Improved
tasiRNA                                             sequence     yield*
DHS6 ta-siRNA   DHS6 (Deoxyhypusine   2036          Zea mays
target          synthase)
Synthetic       DHS7 ta-siRNA         2037         Artificial    Improved
tasiRNA                                             sequence     yield*
DHS7 ta-siRNA   DHS7 (Deoxyhypusine   2038          Zea mays
target          synthase)
Synthetic       DHS8 ta-siRNA         2039         Artificial    Improved
tasiRNA                                             sequence     yield*
DHS8 ta-siRNA   DHS8 (Deoxyhypusine   2040          Zea mays
target          synthase)
Synthetic       DHS ta-siRNA          2041         Artificial    Improved
tasiRNA                                             sequence     yield*
DHS ta-siRNA    DHS (Deoxyhypusine    2042          Zea mays
target          synthase)
miRNA           miRCRF_804-824        2043         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
miRCRF target   CRF (corn RING        2044          Zea mays
                finger; also RNF 169)
miRNA           miRMON18              2045          Zea mays     Improved
precursor                                                        yield*
miRMON18        SPX                   2046          Zea mays
target
miRNA           miRZmGl543a           2047         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
miRZmG1543a     ZmG1543a (maize       2048          Zea mays
target          orthologue of
                Arabidopsis thaliana
                homeobox 17)
miRNA           miRZmGl543            2049         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                           sequence     yield*
(synthetic)
                                           113

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
miRZmGl543          ZmG1543a (maize          2050                                         Zea mays
target              orthologue of
                    Arabidopsis thaliana
                    homeobox 17)
miRNA               miRZmGl543b              2051                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
(synthetic)
miRZmGl543b         ZmG1543b (maize          2052                                         Zea mays
target              orthologue of
                    Arabidopsis thaliana
                    homeobox 17)
miRNA               miRHB2                   2053                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
(synthetic)
miRHB2 target       HB2 (homeobox 2)         2054                                         Zea mays
miRNA               Os.MIR169g               2055                                         Oryza         Improved
precursor                                                                                 sativa        yield*
miRNA               Zm.MIR167g               2056                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
miRNA               miRGS3                   2057                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
(synthetic)
miRGS3 target       GS3 (grain size 3)       2058                                         Zea mays
miRNA               ZmGW2_miR1               2059                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
(synthetic)
miRNA               Zni_GW2_miR2             2060                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
(synthetic)
miRNA               ZmGW2_miR3               2061                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 sequence      yield*
(synthetic)
GW2_miRl/2/3        GW2 (grain weight 2)     2062                                         Zea mays
target
miRNA               miR-IPS                  2063                                         Artificial    Improved
precursor                                                                                 construct     yield*
(synthetic)
miR-IPS target      Zin 2-isopropylmalate    2064                                         Zea mays
                    synthase
*Particularly preferred crop plants are maize, soybean, canola, cotton, alfalfa, sugarcane, sugar beet,
sorghum, and rice
Example 5
          [00140]    This example illustrates various aspects of the invention relating to transgenic plant
cells and transgenic plants. More specifically, this example illustrates transformation vectors and
techniques useful with different crop plants for providing non-natural transgenic plant cells, plants, and
seeds having in their genome any of this invention's recombinant DNA constructs transcribable in a plant
cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and operably linked to at least one
polynucleotide as disclosed herein, including: (1) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant
cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and operably linked to at least one
polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (c) DNA encoding a translational
                                                      114

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (e) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3, wherein a miRNA
recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA
mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (g) DNA encoding
double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA
target identified in Tables 2 or 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for
suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3; (2) a recombinant DNA
construct transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (b)
DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of
the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one miRNA target; (d) DNA
encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least one
miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence
derived from the native nucleotide sequence of at least one miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of at least one miRNA target; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed
into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of at least one miRNA target-wherein the at
least one miRNA target is at least one selected from the group consisting of a miR156 target, a miR160
target, a miR164 target, a miR166 target, a miR167 target, a miR169 target, a miR171 target, a miR172
target, a miR319 target, miR395 target, a miR396 target, a a miR398 target, a miR399 target, a miR408
target, a miR444 target, a miR528 target, a miR167g target, a miR169g target, COPI (constitutive
photomorphogenesis 1), GA2ox (gibberellic acid 2 oxidase), GA20ox (gibberellic acid 20 oxidase), HB2
(homeobox 2), HB2-4 (homeobox 2 and homeobox 4), HB4 (homeobox 4), LG1 (liguleless 1), SPX
(SYGI, PHO81 and XPRI domain; PFAM entry PF03105 at www.sanger.ac.uk), VIMla (variant in
methlylation 1a), DHS 1 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS2 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS3
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS4 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS5 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS6
(deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS7 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS8 (deoxyhypusine synthase), CRF
(corn RING finger; RNF169), G1543a (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thaliana homeobox 17),
G1543b (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thalianahomeobox 17), GS3 (grain size 3), and GW2 (grain
weight 2); (3) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter that is
                                                      115

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
functional in the plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide selected from the group
consisting of DNA encoding a nucleotide sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1120, 1121, 1122,
1248,1257,1313,1314,1364,1387,1478,1489,1490,1491,1492,1493,1585,1597,1598,1599,1713,
1752, 1753, 1801, 1802, 1820, 1927, 1929, 1931, 1971, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2018,
2022,2023,2025,2027,2029,2031,2033,2035,2037,2039,2041,2043,2045,2047,2049,2051,2053,
2055, 2056, 2057, 2059, 2060, 2061, and 2063; (4) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant
cell, including a promoter functional in the non-natural transgenic plant cell and operably linked to at
least one polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2
or 3; and (5) a recombinant DNA construct transcribable in a plant cell, including a promoter functional
in the non-natural transgenic plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide including a
DNA sequence selected from SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064). It is clear that the polynucleotide to be
expressed using these recombinant DNA vectors in the non-natural transgenic plant cells, plants, and
seeds can encode a transcript that prevents or decreases small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript
of at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3 (including the specific miRNA targets identified
by name in this paragraph), or a transcript that suppresses expression of at least one miRNA target
identified in Tables 2 or 3 (including the specific miRNA targets identified by name in this paragraph),
or a transcript encoding at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3, or encodes DNA sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
Transformation Vectors and Protocols
          [00141]   The following sections describe examples of a base vector for preparing
transformation vectors including recombinant DNA constructs of this invention for transformation of a
specific crop plant. The recombinant DNA constructs are transcribable in a plant cell and include a
promoter that is functional in the plant cell and operably linked to at least one polynucleotide, which
encodes a transcript that prevents or decreases small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of at least
one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3 (including the specific miRNA targets identified by name
in this paragraph), or a transcript that suppresses expression of at least one miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 or 3 (including the specific miRNA targets identified by name in this paragraph), or a transcript
encoding at least one miRNA target identified in Tables 2 or 3, or encodes DNA sequence selected from
SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064. Also provided are detailed examples of crop-specific transformation
protocols for using these vectors including recombinant DNA constructs of this invention to generate a
non-natural transgenic plant cell, non-natural transgenic tissue, or non-natural transgenic plant.
Additional transformation techniques are known to one of ordinary skill in the art, as reflected in the
"Compendium of Transgenic Crop Plants", edited by Chittaranjan Kole and Timothy C. Hall, Blackwell
Publishing Ltd., 2008; ISBN 978-1-405-16924-0 (available electronically at
mrw.interscience.wiley.com/emrw/9781405181099/hpt/toc).          Such transformation methods are useful in
producing a non-natural transgenic plant cell having a transformed nucleus. Non-natural transgenic
plants, seeds, and pollen are subsequently produced from such a non-natural transgenic plant cell having
                                                      116

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
a transformed nucleus, and screened for an enhanced trait (e. g., increased yield, enhanced water use
efficiency, enhanced cold tolerance, enhanced nitrogen or phosphate use efficiency, enhanced seed
protein, or enhanced seed oil, or any trait such as those disclosed above under the heading "Making and
Using Transgenic Plant Cells and Transgenic Plants").
Transformation of Maize
         [00142]     A base transformation vector pMON93039 (SEQ ID NO: 2065), illustrated in Table 4
and Figure 2, is used in preparing recombinant DNA constructs for Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation of maize cells. A transformation vector for expressing each of the recombinant DNA
constructs of this invention is constructed by inserting a polynucleotide of this invention into the base
vector pMON93039 (SEQ ID NO: 2065) in the gene of interest expression cassette at an insertion site, i.
e., between the intron element (coordinates 1287-1766) and the polyadenylation element (coordinates
1838-2780). For example, a transformation vector for expression of a miR399 cleavage blocker is
prepared by inserting the DNA of SEQ ID NO: 1802 (see Table 3) into the gene of interest expression
cassette at an insertion site between the intron element (coordinates 1287-1766) and the polyadenylation
element (coordinates 1838-2780) of pMON93039 (SEQ ID NO: 2065).
         [00143]     For Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation of maize embryo cells, maize plants of a
transformable line are grown in the greenhouse and ears are harvested when the embryos are 1.5 to 2.0
mm in length. Ears are surface sterilized by spraying or soaking the ears in 80% ethanol, followed by air
drying. Immature embryos are isolated from individual kernels from sterilized ears. Prior to inoculation
of maize cells, cultures of Agrobacterium each containing a transformation vector for expressing each of
the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention are grown overnight at room temperature. Immature
maize embryo cells are inoculated with Agrobacterium after excision, incubated at room temperature
with Agrobacterium for 5 to 20 minutes, and then co-cultured with Agrobacterium for 1 to 3 days at 23
degrees Celsius in the dark. Co-cultured embryos are transferred to a selection medium and cultured for
approximately two weeks to allow embryogenic callus to develop. Embiyogenic callus is transferred to a
culture medium containing 100 mg/L paromomycin and subcultured at about two week intervals.
Multiple events of transformed plant cells are recovered 6 to 8 weeks after initiation of selection.
         [00144]     Transgenic maize plants are regenerated from transgenic plant cell callus for each of
the multiple transgenic events resulting from transformation and selection. The callus of transgenic plant
cells of each event is placed on a medium to initiate shoot and root development into plantlets which are
transferred to potting soil for initial growth in a growth chamber at 26 degrees Celsius, followed by
growth on a mist bench before transplanting to pots where plants are grown to maturity. The regenerated
plants are self-fertilized. First generation ("RI") seed is harvested. The seed or plants grown from the
seed is used to select seeds, seedlings, progeny second generation ("R2") transgenic plants, or hybrids, e.
g., by selecting transgenic plants exhibiting an enhanced trait as compared to a control plant (a plant
lacking expression of the recombinant DNA construct).
                                                       117

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
          [00145]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic maize plant
cells that are transformed with separate recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e., a construct
transcribable in a maize plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the maize plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent
or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated
cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (c) DNA encoding a
translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each
miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (e) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3.
          [00146]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic maize plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a maize plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the maize plant
cell and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of the miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a
miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native nucleotide
sequence of the miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is
deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA
precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of the miRNA target; (g) DNA
encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression the miRNA
target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
the miRNA target-wherein separate constructs are made for each of the miRNA targets enumerated in
Table 5.
          [00147]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic maize plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a maize plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the maize plant
                                                      118

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
cell and operably linked to each polynucleotide provided in Table 6, wherein separate constructs are
made for each polynucleotide.
         [00148]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic maize plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a maize plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding each miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 and 3.
         [00149]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic maize plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a maize plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide of SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
         [00150]     The regenerated transgenic maize plants, or progeny transgenic maize plants or maize
seeds, produced from the regenerated transgenic maize plants, are screened for an enhanced trait (e. g.,
increased yield), as compared to a control plant or seed (a plant or seed lacking expression of the
recombinant DNA construct). From each group of multiple events of transgenic maize plants with a
specific recombinant construct of this invention, the event that produces the greatest enhanced trait (e. g.,
greatest enhancement in yield) is identified and progeny maize seed is selected for commercial
development.
                                                      119

  WO 2010/002984                                                            PCT/US2009/049392
                                            Table 4
                                                                                     Coordinates of
  Function             Name                            Annotation                     SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                           2065
Agrobacterium      B-AGRtu.right     Agro right border sequence, essential for        11364-11720
    T-DNA              border                      transfer of T-DNA.
    transfer
    Gene of          E-Os.Actl      Upstream promoter region of the rice actin            19-775
    interest                                              I gene
  expression   E-CaMV.35S.2xAl-       Duplicated35S Al -B3 domain without               788-1120
    cassette             B3                             TATA box
                     P-Os.Actl        Promoter region of the rice actin 1 gene          1125-1204
                    L-Ta.Lhebl          5' untranslated leader of wheat major           1210-1270
                                            chlorophyll a/b binding protein
                     I-Os.Actl           First intron and flanking UTR exon             1287-1766
                                         sequences from the rice actin 1 gene
                     T-St.Pis4          3' non-translated region of the potato          1838-2780
                                   proteinase inhibitor II gene which functions
                                      to direct polyadenylation of the mRNA
      Plant          P-Os.Actl           Promoter from the rice actin 1 gene           2830-3670
  selectable         L-Os.Actl            First exon of the rice actin 1 gene          3671-3750
    marker
  expression         I-Os.Actl           First intron and flanking UTR exon            3751-4228
    cassette                             sequences from the rice actin 1 gene
                 TS-At.ShkG-CTP2       Transit peptide region of Arabidopsis           4238-4465
                                                          EPSPS
                 CR-AGRtu.aroA-        Coding region for bacterial strain CP4          4466-5833
                      CP4.nat                       native aroA gene.
                   T-AGRtu.nos       A 3' non-translated region of the nopaline        5849-6101
                                           synthase gene of Agrobacterium
                                    tumefaciens Ti plasmid which functions to
                                        direct polyadenylation of the mRNA.
Agrobacterium  B-AGRtu.left border    Agro left border sequence, essential for         6168-6609
    T-DNA                                          transfer of T-DNA.
    transfer
 Maintenance     OR-Ec.oriV-RK2      The vegetative origin of replication from         6696-7092
   in E. coli                                         plasmid RK2.
                     CR-Ec.rop      Coding region for repressor of primer from          8601-8792
                                   the ColE 1 plasmid. Expression of this gene
                                   product interferes with primer binding at the
                                    origin of replication, keeping plasmid copy
                                                       number low.
                  OR-Ec.ori-ColE1   The minimal origin of replication from the         9220-9808
                                                 E. coli plasmid ColE1.
                    P-Ec.aadA-         Promoter for Tn7 adenylyltransferase           10339-10380
                     SPC/STR                            (AAD(3"))
                   CR-Ec.aadA-      Coding region for Tn7 adenylyltransferase         10381-11169
                     SPC/STR         (AAD(3")) conferring spectinomycin and
                                                streptomycin resistance.
                    T-Ec.aadA-       3' UTR from the Tn7 adenylyltransferase          11170-11227
                     SPC/STR                  (AAD(3")) gene of E. coli.
                                              120

    WO 2010/002984                                                                PCT/US2009/049392
                                          Table 5: miRNA Targets
a miR156 target, a miR160 target, a miR164 target, a miR166 target, a miR167 target, a miR169 target, a
miR171 target, a miR172 target, a miR319 target, miR395 target, a miR396 target, a a miR398 target, a
miR399 target, a miR408 target, a miR444 target, a miR528 target, a miR167g target, a miR169g target,
COPI (constitutive photomorphogenesis 1), GA2ox (gibberellic acid 2 oxidase), GA20ox (gibberellic
acid 20 oxidase), HB2 (homeobox 2), HB2-4 (homeobox 2 and homeobox 4), HB4 (homeobox 4), LG1
(ligulelessI), SPX (SYGI, PHO81 and XPR1 domain; PFAM entry PF03105 at www.sanger.ac.uk),
VIM 1a (variant in methlylation 1a), DHS 1 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS2 (deoxyhypusine synthase),
DHS3 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS4 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS5 (deoxyhypusine synthase),
DHS6 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS7 (deoxyhypusine synthase), DHS8 (deoxyhypusine synthase),
CRF (corn RING finger; RNF 169), G1543a (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thaliana homeobox 17),
G1543b (maize orthologue of Arabidopsis thalianahomeobox 17), GS3 (grain size 3), and GW2 (grain
weight 2)
                 Table 6: Polynucleotides Expressed by Constructs of This Invention
SEQ ID NOs: 1120, 1121, 1122, 1248, 1257, 1313, 1314, 1364, 1387, 1478, 1489, 1490, 1491, 1492,
1493,1585,1597,1598,1599,1713,1752,1753,1801,1802,1820,1927,1929,1931,1971,2006,2007,
2008,2010,2012,2014,2016,2018,2022,2023,2025,2027,2029,2031,2033,2035,2037,2039,2041,
2043, 2045, 2047, 2049, 2051, 2053, 2055, 2056, 2057, 2059, 2060, 2061, and 2063
Transformation of Soybean
         [00151]   A base transformation vector pMON82053 (SEQ ID NO: 2066), illustrated in Table 7
and Figure 3, is used in preparing recombinant DNA constructs of this invention for Agrobacterium
mediated transformation into soybean cells or tissue. To construct a transformation vector for expressing
any of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, nucleotides encoding the at least one
polynucleotide are inserted into the base vector pMON82053 (SEQ ID NO: 2066) in the gene of interest
expression cassette at an insertion site, i. e., between the promoter element (coordinates 1-613) and the
polyadenylation element (coordinates 688-1002). For example, a transformation vector for expression of
a miR399 cleavage blocker is prepared by inserting the DNA of SEQ ID NO: 1802 (see Table 3) into the
gene of interest expression cassette at an insertion site between the promoter element (coordinates 1-613)
and the polyadenylation element (coordinates 688-1002) of pMON82053 (SEQ ID NO: 2066).
         [00152]   For Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation, soybean seeds are imbided overnight and
the meristem explants excised and placed in a wounding vessel. Cultures of induced Agrobacterium cells
each containing a transformation vector for expressing each of the recombinant DNA constructs of this
invention are mixed with prepared explants. Inoculated explants are wounded using sonication, placed in
co-culture for 2-5 days, and transferred to selection media for 6-8 weeks to allow selection and growth of
transgenic shoots. Resistant shoots are harvested at approximately 6-8 weeks and placed into selective
rooting media for 2-3 weeks. Shoots producing roots are transferred to the greenhouse and potted in soil.
                                                       121

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
          [00153]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic soybean plant
cells that are transformed with separate recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e., a construct
transcribable in a soybean plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the soybean plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent
or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated
cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (c) DNA encoding a
translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each
miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (e) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3.
          [00154]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic soybean plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a soybean plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the soybean
plant cell and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker
to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of the miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a
miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native nucleotide
sequence of the miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is
deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA
precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of the miRNA target; (g) DNA
encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression the miRNA
target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
the miRNA target-wherein separate constructs are made for each of the miRNA targets enumerated in
Table 5.
          [00155]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic soybean plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a soybean plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the soybean
                                                     122

    WO 2010/002984                                                                   PCT/US2009/049392
plant cell and operably linked to each polynucleotide provided in Table 6, wherein separate constructs
are made for each polynucleotide.
          [00156]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic soybean plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a soybean plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell
and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding each miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 and 3.
          [00157]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic soybean plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a soybean plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell
and operably linked to each polynucleotide of SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
          [00158]     The regenerated transgenic soybean plants, or progeny transgenic soybean plants or
soybean seeds, produced from the regenerated transgenic soybean plants, are screened for an enhanced
trait (e. g., increased yield), as compared to a control plant or seed (a plant or seed lacking expression of
the recombinant DNA construct). From each group of multiple events of transgenic soybean plants with
a specific recombinant construct of this invention, the event that produces the greatest enhanced trait (e.
g., greatest enhancement in yield) is identified and progeny soybean seed is selected for commercial
development.
Transformation of Canola
          [00159]     A base transformation vector pMON82053 (SEQ ID NO: 2066), illustrated in Table 7
and Figure 3, is used in preparing recombinant DNA constructs of this invention for Agrobacterium
mediated transformation into canola cells or tissue. To construct a transformation vector for expressing
any of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, nucleotides encoding the at least one
polynucleotide are inserted into the base vector pMON82053 (SEQ ID NO: 2066) in the gene of interest
expression cassette at an insertion site, i. e., between the promoter element (coordinates 1-613) and the
polyadenylation element (coordinates 688-1002). For example, a transformation vector for expression of
a miR399 cleavage blocker is prepared by inserting the DNA of SEQ ID NO: 1802 (see Table 3) into the
gene of interest expression cassette at an insertion site between the promoter element (coordinates 1-613)
and the polyadenylation element (coordinates 688-1002) of pMON82053 (SEQ ID NO: 2066).
          [00160]     Overnight-grown cultures of Agrobacterium cells each containing a transformation
vector for expressing each of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention are used to inoculate
tissues from in vitro-grown canola seedlings. Following co-cultivation with Agrobacterium,the infected
tissues are grown on selection to promote growth of transgenic shoots, followed by growth of roots from
the transgenic shoots, potting of the selected plantlets in soil, and transfer of the potted plants to the
greenhouse. Molecular characterization is performed to confirm the presence of a recombinant DNA
construct of this invention and its expression in transgenic plants.
                                                       123

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
          [00161]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic canola plant
cells that are transformed with separate recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e., a construct
transcribable in a canola plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the canola plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent
or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated
cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (c) DNA encoding a
translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each
miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (e) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3.
          [00162]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic canola plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a canola plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the canola plant
cell and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of the miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a
miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native nucleotide
sequence of the miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is
deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA
precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of the miRNA target; (g) DNA
encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression the miRNA
target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
the miRNA target-wherein separate constructs are made for each of the miRNA targets enumerated in
Table 5.
          [00163]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic canola plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a canola plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the canola plant
                                                      124

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
cell and operably linked to each polynucleotide provided in Table 6, wherein separate constructs are
made for each polynucleotide.
          [00164]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic canola plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a canola plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding each miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 and 3.
          [00165]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic canola plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a canola plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide of SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
          [00166]    The regenerated transgenic canola plants, or progeny transgenic canola plants or
canola seeds, produced from the regenerated transgenic canola plants, are screened for an enhanced trait
(e. g., increased yield), as compared to a control plant or seed (a plant or seed lacking expression of the
recombinant DNA construct). From each group of multiple events of transgenic canola plants with a
specific recombinant construct of this invention, the event that produces the greatest enhanced trait (e. g.,
greatest enhancement in yield) is identified and progeny canola seed is selected for commercial
development.
Transformation of Cotton
          [00167]    A base transformation vector pMON99053 (SEQ ID NO: 2067), illustrated in Table 8
and Figure 4, is used in preparing recombinant DNA constructs of this invention for Agrobacterium
mediated transformation into maize cells or tissue. To construct a transfonnation vector for expressing
any of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, nucleotides encoding the at least one
polynucleotide are inserted into the base vector pMON99053 (SEQ ID NO: 2067) in the gene of interest
expression cassette at an insertion site, i. e., between the promoter element (coordinates 388-1091) and
the polyadenylation element (coordinates 1165-1791).
          [00168]    Methods for transformation of cotton are known in the art, see, for example, the
techniques described in U. S. Patent Application Publications 2004/0087030A1 2008/0256667A1,
2008/0280361A1, and 2009/0138985A1, which are incorporated by reference. In an example of a cotton
transformation protocol, seeds of transformable cotton genotypes (e. g., nectarless, DP393, OOSO4,
07W610F, STN474, Delta Pearl, DP5415, SureGrow501, or SureGrow747) are surface sterilized, rinsed,
and hydrated in CSM medium (containing carbenicillin, cefotaxime, BRAVO, and Captan 50) for 14 to
42 hours in the dark. Meristematic explants are processed from seeds as described in U. S. Patent
Application Publications 2008/0256667AL. Cultures of Agrobacterium cells each containing a
transformation vector for expressing each of the recombinant DNA constructs of this invention are used
to inoculate the explants using sonication. The inoculum is removed and the inoculated explants
transferred to INO medium and incubated for 2 to 5 days using a 16-hour light photoperiod. Following
                                                       125

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
co-cultivation, explants are transferred onto semi-solid selection medium (modified Lloyd & McCown
Woody Plant Medium supplemented with 200 mg/L cefotaxime, 200 mg/L carbenicillin and 100-200
mg/L spectinomycin) with or without plant growth regulators or other additives to promote multiple
shoot formation and growth. The explants are cultured in a 16-hour light photoperiod. After 4 to 6
weeks on the selection medium those explants that have developed green shoots are transferred to plugs
and placed in liquid medium containing 0.25mg/L IBA for shoot growth and rooting under plastic domes
for 3 to 4 weeks. Tissues are assayed for molecular characterization by one or more molecular assay
methods (e. g., PCR, or Southern blots).
          [00169]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic cotton plant
cells that are transformed with separate recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e., a construct
transcribable in a cotton plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the cotton plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to prevent
or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated
cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (c) DNA encoding a
translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each
miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (e) DNA
encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3.
          [00170]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic cotton plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a cotton plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the cotton plant
cell and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of the miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a
miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native nucleotide
sequence of the miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is
deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA
                                                       126

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of the miRNA target; (g) DNA
encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression the miRNA
target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
the miRNA target-wherein separate constructs are made for each of the miRNA targets enumerated in
Table 5.
         [00171]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic cotton plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a cotton plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the cotton plant
cell and operably linked to each polynucleotide provided in Table 6, wherein separate constructs are
made for each polynucleotide.
         [00172]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic cotton plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a cotton plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding each miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 and 3.
         [00173]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic cotton plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a cotton plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell and
operably linked to each polynucleotide of SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
         [00174]     The regenerated transgenic cotton plants, or progeny transgenic cotton plants or cotton
seeds, produced from the regenerated transgenic cotton plants, are screened for an enhanced trait (e. g.,
increased yield), as compared to a control plant or seed (a plant or seed lacking expression of the
recombinant DNA construct). From each group of multiple events of transgenic cotton plants with a
specific recombinant construct of this invention, the event that produces the greatest enhanced trait (e. g.,
greatest enhancement in yield) is identified and progeny cotton seed is selected for commercial
development.
                                                       127

  WO 2010/002984                                                         PCT/US2009/049392
                                        Table 7
                                                                                  Coordinates of
    Function            Name                       Annotation                      SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                       2066
Agrobacterium T-    B-AGRtu.left    Agro left border sequence, essential for        6144-6585
  DNA transfer          border                 transfer of T-DNA.
 Plant selectable     P-At.Act7      Promoter from the Arabidopsis actin 7          6624-7861
     marker                                            gene
    expression        L-At.Act7         5'UTR of Arabidopsis Act7 gene
     cassette         I-At.Act7    Intron from the Arabidopsis actin7 gene
                  TS-At.ShkG-CTP2    Transit peptide region of Arabidopsis          7864-8091
                                                      EPSPS
                  CR-AGRtu.aroA-    Synthetic CP4 coding region with dicot           8092-9459
                    CP4.nno At               preferred codon usage.
                    T-AGRtu.nos   A 3' non-translated region of the nopaline        9466-9718
                                        synthase gene of Agrobacterium
                                   tumefaciens Ti plasmid which functions
                                   to direct polyadenylation of the mRNA.
 Gene of interest P-CaMV.35S-enh      Promoter for 35S RNA from CaMV                   1-613
    expression                    containing a duplication of the -90 to -350
     cassette                                         region.
                     T-Gb.E6-3b       3' untranslated region from the fiber          688-1002
                                      protein E6 gene of sea-island cotton.
Agrobacterium T-   B-AGRtu.right   Agro right border sequence, essential for         1033-1389
  DNA transfer          border                 transfer of T-DNA.
 Maintenance in   OR-Ec.oriV-RK2   The vegetative origin of replication from        5661-6057
      E. coli                                     plasmid RK2.
                     CR-Ec.rop       Coding region for repressor of primer          3961-4152
                                    from the ColEl plasmid. Expression of
                                    this gene product interferes with primer
                                       binding at the origin of replication,
                                       keeping plasmid copy number low.
                  OR-Ec.ori-ColEl   The minimal origin of replication from          2945-3533
                                           the E. coli plasmid ColE I.
                     P-Ec.aadA-      Promoter for Tn7 adenylyltransferase           2373-2414
                      SPC/STR                       (AAD(3"))
                    CR-Ec.aadA-               Coding region for Tn7                  1584-2372
                      SPC/STR     adenylyltransferase (AAD(3")) conferring
                                        spectinomycin and streptomycin
                                                    resistance.
                     T-Ec.aadA-   3' UTR from the Tn7 adenylyltransferase            1526-1583
                      SPC/STR              (AAD(3")) gene of E. coli.
                                          128

    WO 2010/002984                                                        PCT/US2009/049392
                                            Table 8
                                                                               Coordinates of
   Function           Name                          Annotation                  SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                     2067
Agrobacterium      B-AGRtu.right  Agro right border sequence, essential for          1-357
    T-DNA             border                   transfer of T-DNA.
    transfer
    Gene of      Exp-CaMV.35S-        Enhanced version of the 35S RNA              388-1091
    interest       enh+Ph.DnaK      promoter from CaMV plus the petunia
   expression                             hsp70 5' untranslated region
    cassette      T-Ps.RbcS2-E9     The 3' non-translated region of the pea       1165- 1797
                                    RbcS2 gene which functions to direct
                                         polyadenylation of the mRNA.
Plant selectable  Exp-CaMV.35S    Promoter and 5' untranslated region from        1828-2151
    marker                                   the 35S RNA of CaMV
   expression    CR-Ec.nptll-Tn5          Coding region for neomycin              2185-2979
    cassette                      phosphotransferase gene from transposon
                                  Tn5 which confers resistance to neomycin
                                                  and kanamycin.
                   T-AGRtu.nos    A 3' non-translated region of the nopaline      3011-3263
                                        synthase gene of Agrobacterium
                                 tumefaciens Ti plasmid which functions to
                                     direct polyadenylation of the mRNA.
Agrobacterium      B-AGRtu.left    Agro left border sequence, essential for       3309-3750
    T-DNA             border                   transfer of T-DNA.
    transfer
Maintenance in   OR-Ec.oriV-RK2   The vegetative origin of replication from       3837-4233
     E. coli                                       plasmid RK2.
                     CR-Ec.rop   Coding region for repressor of primer from       5742-5933
                                 the ColE 1 plasmid. Expression of this gene
                                  product interferes with primer binding at
                                  the origin of replication, keeping plasmid
                                                copy number low.
                 OR-Ec.ori-ColEI The minimal origin of replication from the       6361-6949
                                              E. coli plasmid ColE 1.
                    P-Ec.aadA-      Promoter for Tn7 adenylyltransferase          7480-7521
                     SPC/STR                         (AAD(3"))
                   CR-Ec.aadA-    Coding region for Tn7 adenylyltransferase       7522-8310
                     SPC/STR      (AAD(3")) conferring spectinomycin and
                                            streptomycin resistance.
                    T-Ec.aadA-    3' UTR from the Tn7 adenylyltransferase         8311-8368
                     SPC/STR               (AAD(3")) gene of E. coli.
                                               129

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
Transformation of Sugarcane
          Sugarcane transformation techniques are known in the art; see, for example, the procedures
describedfor sugarcane by Brumbley et al. in "Sugarcane" (available electronically at
mrw.interscience.wiley.com/emrw/9781405181099/hpt/article/k0701/current/pdf),          published in:
"Compendium of Transgenic Crop Plants", edited by Chittaranjan Kole and Timothy C. Hall, Blackwell
Publishing Ltd., 2008; ISBN 978-1-405-16924-0 (available electronically at
mrw.interscience.wiley.com/emrw/9781405181099/hpt/toc), and in PCT International Patent Application
Publications W02007/003023 (sugarcane) and W02008/049183 (sugarcane). In one example of
sugarcane transformaiton (see Example 3 of PCT International Patent Application Publication
W02007003023A2), embryonic sugarcane callus cultures are established from apical meristem and
primordial leafs of sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid). Eight-week old calli are co- bombarded with an
equimolar mixture of either UBI- 1::Bar::NOSpo lyA and UBI- 1::Oas::NOSpolyA or UBI
1::Bar::NOSpolyA and UBI-1::CPs::NOSpolyA expression cassettes (10 pg DNAI3/mg particle) by
particle bombardment as described previously (Sanford (1990) PlantPhysiol., 79:206-209). After
bombardment, calli are transferred to MS medium containing 1 mg/L PPT and 1 mg/L BAP to promote
shoot regeneration and inhibit development of non transgenic tissue. Two weeks later, calli are
transferred to MS medium containing 1 mg/L PPT and 1 mg/L Affi for shoot elongation and to induce
root formation. After two weeks, plantlets are placed into magenta boxes for acclimatization and 2
weeks later, shoots (10-15 cm) with well developed roots are transferred to potting soil and placed in the
greenhouse.
          [00175]    The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic sugarcane plant
cells that are transformed with separate recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e., a construct
transcribable in a sugarcane plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the sugarcane plant cell
and operably linked to each polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker to
prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 and 3; (b) DNA encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (c) DNA
encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript
of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or decrease
small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (e)
DNA encoding a miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native
nucleotide sequence of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3, wherein a miRNA recognition
site in the native nucleotide sequence is deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated
cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing
expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3; (g) DNA encoding double-stranded RNA
which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of each miRNA target identified in Tables 2
and 3; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
each miRNA target identified in Tables 2 and 3.
                                                     130

    WO 2010/002984                                                                 PCT/US2009/049392
         [00176]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic sugarcane plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a sugarcane plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the sugarcane
plant cell and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from: (a) DNA encoding a cleavage blocker
to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (b) DNA
encoding a 5'-modified cleavage blocker to prevent or decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the
transcript of the miRNA target; (c) DNA encoding a translational inhibitor to prevent or decrease small
RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (d) DNA encoding a decoy to prevent or
decrease small RNA-mediated cleavage of the transcript of the miRNA target; (e) DNA encoding a
miRNA-unresponsive transgene having a nucleotide sequence derived from the native nucleotide
sequence of the miRNA target, wherein a miRNA recognition site in the native nucleotide sequence is
deleted or otherwise modified to prevent miRNA-mediated cleavage; (f) DNA encoding a miRNA
precursor which is processed into a miRNA for suppressing expression of the miRNA target; (g) DNA
encoding double-stranded RNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression the miRNA
target; and (h) DNA encoding a ta-siRNA which is processed into siRNAs for suppressing expression of
the miRNA target-wherein separate constructs are made for each of the miRNA targets enumerated in
Table 5.
         [00177]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic sugarcane plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a sugarcane plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the sugarcane
plant cell and operably linked to each polynucleotide provided in Table 6, wherein separate constructs
are made for each polynucleotide.
         [00178]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic sugarcane plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a sugarcane plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell
and operably linked to a polynucleotide selected from DNA encoding each miRNA target identified in
Tables 2 and 3.
         [00179]     The above process is repeated to produce multiple events of transgenic sugarcane plant
cells that are transformed with each of the following recombinant DNA constructs of this invention, i. e.,
a construct transcribable in a sugarcane plant cell, including a promoter that is functional in the plant cell
and operably linked to each polynucleotide of SEQ ID NOS: 15 - 2064.
         [00180]     The regenerated transgenic sugarcane plants, or progeny transgenic sugarcane plants or
sugarcane seeds, produced from the regenerated transgenic sugarcane plants, are screened for an
enhanced trait (e. g., increased yield), as compared to a control plant or seed (a plant or seed lacking
expression of the recombinant DNA construct). From each group of multiple events of transgenic
sugarcane plants with a specific recombinant construct of this invention, the event that produces the
greatest enhanced trait (e. g., greatest enhancement in yield) is identified and progeny sugarcane seed is
selected for commercial development.
                                                      131

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
Further Embodiments
          [00181]    A miRNA decoy competes with the endogenous target gene to bind to that particular
miRNA and thus reduces the effect of the miRNA in the biochemical network or networks involving the
miRNA. Decoys include endogenous (native) miRNA decoy sequences, decoys created by manipulating
an endogenous sequence (e. g., by chemical or other mutagenesis or site-directed recombination), and
synthetic miRNA decoy sequences. A recombinant DNA construct can be designed to express multiple
miRNA decoys. The advantages of a miRNA decoy approach include the fact that no protein is
expressed, and because miRNAs often belong to multi-gene families (wherein each miRNA gene
produces a unique miRNA primary transcript) that a single miRNA decoy is useful for binding to a
mature miRNA that is derived from more than one miRNA gene or primary transcript.
          [00182]   However, an alternative to a miRNA decoy is sometimes preferred, as it is possible for
a miRNA decoy that binds to mature miRNAs from more than one miRNA gene to unintentionally affect
the expression of a non-target gene. Applicants have disclosed herein additional novel approaches for
manipulating a miRNA-regulated pathway by interfering with the binding of the mature miRNA to its
target. These approaches generally involve the in vivo (e. g., in planta) expression and processing of a
recombinant DNA construct of this invention, and are especially useful for regulating the expression of
single (or, where desired, multiple) target genes, and in manipulating gene expression in transgenic
plants, resulting in improved phenotypes such as increased yield or biotic or abiotic stress tolerance.
          [00183]   One approach is by using a "cleavage blocker" or "5'-modified cleavage blocker" that
is transgenically expressed in a eukaryotic cell and that binds to a miRNA recognition site of a target
gene's transcript in a manner that does not lead to cleavage, thereby preventing or decreasing miRNA
mediated cleavage of the transcript by competing with the miRNA for binding to the recognition site.
This method controls the rate of post-transcriptional suppression of miRNA target genes by protecting
them from being cleaved by miRNA-Ago complex, and decreases or prevents down-regulation of the
miRNA target gene. The invention includes analogous cleavage blockers that compete with other small
RNAs involved in silencing, e. g., si-RNAs, trans-actingsiRNAs, phased RNAs, natural antisense
transcript siRNAs, natural antisense transcript miRNAs, or indeed any small RNA associated with a
silencing complex such as RISC or an Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein.
          [00184]   Another approach is by using a "translational inhibitor" that is transgenically
expressed in a eukaryotic cell and that binds to and inhibit translation of the target gene's transcript,
thereby decreasing expression of the target gene. The nucleotide sequence of the translational inhibitor is
designed so that the hybridized segment formed between the translational inhibitor and the target gene's
transcript imparts to the transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the
vicinity of the hybridized segment. Translational inhibitors provide the advantages of reducing the
likelihood of transitive small RNAs forming (as can occur in miRNA-mediated degradation of a target
gene), and achievement of more controlled regulation of target suppression because the translational
inhibitor remains associated with the target gene's transcript (unlike miRNAs, which dissociate from the
cleaved transcript and can then bind another transcript molecule). Translational inhibitors can be based
                                                       132

    WO 2010/002984                                                                  PCT/US2009/049392
on sequences selected from any small RNA associated with a silencing complex such as RISC or an
Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein.
          100185]   One of ordinary skill in the art easily recognizes that the above procedures are equally
applicable to situations where the double-stranded RNA that mediates the target gene suppression is other
than a miRNA. Thus, various aspects of this invention include analogous recombinant DNA constructs
that are processed in vivo or in planta to provide RNA including single-stranded RNA that serve as an
"siRNA cleavage blocker", a "trans-acting siRNA cleavage blocker", a "phased small RNA cleavage
blocker", a "natural antisense transcript siRNA cleavage blocker", or a "natural antisense transcript
miRNA cleavage blocker" (or, in general terms, a "small RNA cleavage blocker"), according to whether
the RNase III ribonuclease cleavage that is inhibited is mediated by, respectively, an siRNA, a trans
acting siRNA, a phased small RNA, a natural antisense transcript siRNA, or a natural antisense transcript
miRNA (or, in general terms, any small RNA associated with a silencing complex such as RISC or an
Argonaute or Argonaute-like protein).
          100186]   All of the materials and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and used
without undue experimentation as instructed by the above disclosure. Although the materials and
methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments and illustrative
examples, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations can be applied to the materials and
methods described herein without departing from the concept, spirit and scope of the invention. All such
similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the
spirit, scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                                       133

    WO 2010/002984                                                       AttoPCT/US2009/049392 745)B
What is claimed is:
1.      A recombinant DNA construct in a transgenic plant cell comprising DNA that is
expressed in said transgenic plant cell and undergoes processing to an RNA comprising single
stranded RNA that binds to the transcript of at least one target gene in said transgenic plant cell
to form a hybridized segment of at least partially double-stranded RNA that imparts to said
transcript resistance to cleavage by an RNase III ribonuclease within or in the vicinity of said
hybridized segment.
2.      The recombinant DNA construct of claim 1, wherein said binding of said single-stranded
RNA to said transcript inhibits suppression of said at least one target gene by a mature miRNA.
3.      The recombinant DNA construct of claim 1, wherein the length of said hybridized
segment comprises at least 10 base pairs.
4.      The recombinant DNA construct of claim 1, wherein said binding is at a miRNA
recognition site in said transcript, said cleavage of said transcript occurs at said miRNA
recognition site, and said hybridized segment is formed at least partially within said miRNA
recognition site.
5.      The recombinant DNA construct of claim 4, wherein said hybridized segment comprises:
    a. at least one mismatch between said single-stranded RNA and said miRNA recognition
        site at positions corresponding to positions 9, 10, or 11 of said mature miRNA, or
    b. at least one insertion at a position in said single-stranded RNA at positions corresponding
        to positions 10-11 of said mature miRNA, or
    c. an A, G, or C (but not a U) at a position corresponding to the 5' terminus of said mature
        miRNA, but does not include (i) mismatches between said single-stranded RNA and said
        miRNA recognition site at positions of said miRNA recognition site corresponding to
        positions 9, 10, or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of said mature miRNA, or (ii) insertions at a
        position in said single-stranded RNA at positions of said miRNA recognition site
        corresponding to positions 10 or 11 (in 3' to 5' direction) of said mature miRNA.
6.      A method of modulating expression of a target gene in a plant cell, comprising
expressing in said plant cell the recombinant DNA construct of claim 1.
7.      The method of claim 6, wherein said binding of said single-stranded RNA to said
transcript inhibits suppression of said at least one target gene by a mature miRNA.
8.      A non-natural plant chromosome or plastid comprising the recombinant DNA construct
of claim 1.
9.      A non-natural transgenic plant cell having in its genome the recombinant DNA construct
of claim 1, or a non-natural transgenic plant or a non-natural transgenic plant seed or a non
natural transgenic pollen grain comprising said non-natural transgenic plant cell.
                                                   134

    WO 2010/002984                                                     AttoPCT/US2009/049392 745)B
10.    A non-natural partially transgenic plant comprising:
    a.  the non-natural transgenic plant cell of claim 9 and further comprising non-transgenic
       tissue: or
    b. a transgenic rootstock comprising the non-natural transgenic plant cell of claim 9 and
       further comprising a non-transgenic scion.
                                                135

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Ivashuta, Sergey I.
                      Wiggins, Barbara E.
                      Zhang, Yuanji
              <120> Recombinant DNA Constructs and Methods for Modulating Expression of a
              Target Gene
              <130>   38<U+2701>21(55745)B
<removed-apn>
              <160>   2067
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   687
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1
              atgagaataa ggagaagaga tgaaaaagag aatcaagaat acaagaaagg tttatggaca      60
              gttgaagaag acaacatcct tatggactat gttcttaatc atggcactgg ccaatggaac     120
              cgcatcgtca gaaaaactgg gctaaagaga tgtgggaaaa gttgtagact gagatggatg     180
              aattatttga gccctaatgt gaacaaaggc aatttcactg aacaagaaga agacctcatt     240
              attcgtctcc acaagctcct cggcaataga tggtctttga tagctaaaag agtaccggga     300
              agaacagata accaagtcaa gaactactgg aacactcatc tcagcaaaaa actcgtcgga     360
              gattactcct ccgccgtcaa aaccaccgga gaagacgacg actctccacc gtcattgttc     420
              atcactgccg ccacaccttc ttcttgtcat catcaacaag aaaatatcta cgagaatata     480
              gccaagagct ttaacggcgt cgtatcagct tcgtacgagg ataaaccaaa acaagaactg     540
              gctcaaaaag atgtcctaat ggcaactact aatgatccaa gtcactatta tggcaataac     600
              gctttatggg ttcatgacga cgattttgag cttagttcac tcgtaatgat gaattttgct     660
              tctggtgatg ttgagtactg cctttag                                         687
              <210>   2
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 2
              ctccaccgtc attgttcatc a                                                21
                                                      1

<removed-date>
              <210>   3
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 3
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tcctgagacc aaatgagcag   120
<removed-apn>
              ctgaccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat tcagctgctc atctgttctc aggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
              <210>   4
              <211>   748
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 4
              aaaattcatt acattgataa aacacaattc aaaagatcaa tgttccactt catgcaaaga    60
              catttccaaa atatgtgtag gtagaggggt tttacaggat cgtcctgaga ccaaatgagc   120
              agctgaccac atgatgcagc tatgtttgct attcagctgc tcatctgttc tcaggtcgcc   180
              cttgttggac tgtccaactc ctactgattg cggatgcact tgccacaaat gaaaatcaaa   240
              gcgaggggaa aagaatgtag agtgtgacta cgattgcatg catgtgattt aggtaattaa   300
              gttacatgat tgtctaattg tgtttatgga attgtatatt ttcagaccag gcacctgtaa   360
              ctaattatag gtaccatacc ttaaaataag tccaactaag tccatgtctg tgatttttta   420
              gtgtcacaaa tcacaatcca ttgccattgg ttttttaatt tttcattgtc tgttgtttaa   480
              ctaactctag ctttttagct gcttcaagta cagattcctc aaagtggaaa atgttctttg   540
              aagtcaataa aaagagcttt gatgatcatc tgcattgtct aagttggata aactaattag   600
              agagaacttt tgaactttgt ctaccaaata tctgtcagtg tcatctgtca gttctgcaag   660
              ctgaagtgtt gaatccacga ggtgcttgtt gcaaagttgt gatattaaaa gacatctacg   720
              aagaagttca agcaaaactc tttttggc                                      748
                                                        2

<removed-date>
              <210>   5
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 5
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
<removed-apn>
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tcctgatgaa caatgacggt   120
              ggagccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat ctccaccgtc atcgtccatc aggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
              <210>   6
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 6
              tgatgaacaa tgacggtgga g                                              21
              <210>   7
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 7
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tcctgatgaa catagacggt   120
              ggagccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat ctccaccgtc tacgtccatc aggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
                                                        3

<removed-date>
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
              <210>   8
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
<removed-apn>
              <400> 8
              tgatgaacat agacggtgga g                                              21
              <210>   9
              <211>   105
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 9
              tccagctgct catttggtct catgatcact gcggccgcaa tacagccata gatcacttga    60
              tgtcacgacc accgtcattg ttcatcagat ttctctctgc aagcg                   105
              <210>   10
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 10
              gaccaccgtc attgttcatc a                                              21
              <210>   11
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 11
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
                                                        4

              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tcccgatgaa caatgacggt   120
<removed-date>
              ggagccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat ctccaccgtc atcgtccatc gggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
<removed-apn>
              <210>   12
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 12
              cgatgaacaa tgacggtgga g                                              21
              <210>   13
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 13
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tccagatgaa catagacggt   120
              ggagccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat ctccaccgtc tacgtccatc tggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
              <210>   14
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
                                                        5

              <400> 14
<removed-date>
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca     60
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tcccgatgaa catagacggt    120
              ggagccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat ctccaccgtc tacgtccatc tggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
<removed-apn>
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
              <210>   15
              <211>   1065
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 15
              atggagttgt taatgtgttc gggtcaggcc gagtcaggtg gttcctcttc caccgagtct     60
              tcttcactca gtggtggact caggtttggt cagaagatct acttcgagga tggatccgga    120
              tccagaagca agaaccgggt caataccgtt cgtaagtcgt ctaccacggc gaggtgccaa    180
              gtggaaggtt gtagaatgga tctaagcaat gttaaagctt attactcgag acacaaagtt   240
              tgttgcattc actctaaatc atctaaagtc attgtctctg gtcttcatca aaggttttgt   300
              caacaatgta gcaggtttca ccagctttct gagtttgact tggagaaaag aagttgtcgc   360
              agaagactcg cttgtcataa cgaacgacga agaaaaccac aacccacaac ggctcttttc   420
              acttctcatt actctcgaat cgctccatct ctttacggaa accccaatgc tgcaatgatt   480
              aaaagcgttt tgggagatcc tactgcgtgg tcaaccgcaa gatcagtgat gcagcggcct    540
              ggaccgtggc agattaatcc agttagggaa acccatccac acatgaatgt tttatcacat    600
              ggaagctcaa gctttactac atgtccagag atgataaaca acaatagcac agattcaagc   660
              tgtgctctct ctcttctgtc aaactcatac ccaattcatc agcagcaact tcagacacca   720
              acaaatacat ggcgaccatc ttctggtttc gactcgatga tctcattctc cgataaggtt   780
              acaatggctc agccaccgcc catttcaacc catcagccgc ccatctcaac acatcagcag   840
              tacctcagcc aaacttggga agtcatcgcg ggcgaaaaga gcaattcaca ttatatgtct   900
              cctgtgagtc aaatctcgga gccagcagat ttccagataa gcaatggcac cacaatgggt   960
              ggatttgagc tgtatcttca tcagcaggtt ctgaagcaat acatggaacc cgagaacaca   1020
                                                        6

<removed-date>
              agagcttatg actcctctcc tcaacatttc aattggtctc tttga                   1065
              <210>   16
              <211>   1182
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 16
              atggactgca acatggtatc ttcgtcccag tgggattggg agcatttgat catgtccaat     60
<removed-apn>
              ccgtcaagga ctgaagatga cagcaaacag ctacctactg agtgggaaat tgaaaaaggt    120
              gaaggaattg aatctatagt tccacatttc tcaggccttg agagagtcag tagtggctct    180
              gccaccagct tctggcacac tgctgtatcg aaaagctcac agtcgacctc tatcaactca    240
              tcatctcccg aagccaaacg atgcaagctt gcatcagaaa gttcccctgg agattcttgc    300
              agcaacatag actttgtcca ggtgaaggct cccacagctc tcgaggtatc cgttgcctca    360
              gctgaatcag atctttgttt aaaactagga aagcggacat actctgaaga atactggggt    420
              agaaacaata atgaaatttc agcggtttct atgaagttgt taactccatc tgttgtcgct    480
              gggaaatcca aattgtgtgg tcagagcatg ccagtcccgc gttgccaaat tgatggctgt    540
              gaactggatc tctcatctgc taagggttat catcgtaagc acaaagtctg cgaaaagcat    600
              tcaaagtgcc caaaagttag cgtgagtggc ctggaacgtc ggttctgcca acagtgtagc    660
              aggttccatg ctgtctctga atttgatgag aagaaacgaa gctgccgaaa acgtctttct    720
              catcataatg cgaggcgtcg taagccacaa ggagtatttt caatgaatcc cgagagggtg    780
              tatgatcgaa gacagcatac aaatatgttg tggaatgggg tgtcccttaa cgcgagatct    840
              gaagaaatgt atgaatgggg taataacact tatgatacaa agcctagaca aacggaaaaa    900
              agctttactc tgagcttcca gagaggtaat ggctctgagg accagctggt tgctagtagc    960
              agccgtatgt tctctacatc tcaaacctca ggtgggttcc cagcaggaaa gtccaagttt   1020
              caacttcatg gcgaagatgt gggagaatac tcaggagtcc tccatgaatc tcaagatatc   1080
              caccgtgctc tctctcttct gtcaacctct tcggatcccc tggcccaacc acatgtgcag   1140
              ccattttctc tactctgttc atatgatgtt gtaccaaaat ag                      1182
              <210>   17
              <211>   1080
                                                     7

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 17
              atggactgga atttcaaact tagctctggt tatttatctg gattcgatca agaaccagat     60
              ttatcaccaa tggatggttc gatctcgttt ggtgggtcgt cacagtcaaa agcggatttt    120
              tcatttgatc taaaacttgg aagaaacatt ggaaactctt cctctgtttt tggtgataca    180
              gagcaagtga ttagtcttag taagtggaaa gatagtgctt tagctaaacc agaaggttca    240
<removed-apn>
              agaagctcga gttcaaagag aacaagaggg aatggtgttg gaaccaacca gatgccgatt   300
              tgtcttgttg atggatgtga ttctgatttt agtaattgta gagagtatca taagagacat   360
              aaagtttgtg atgttcattc aaaaactcct gtggttacta ttaatggtca taaacagagg    420
              ttttgtcaac aatgcagcag gtttcatgct ttggaggagt ttgatgaagg gaagagaagt    480
              tgtaggaaac gtcttgatgg acataatcga agacgacgga agccgcagcc tgaacatatc    540
              ggtcgtcctg ccaacttctt tacgggtttt caaggtagca aattgctaga gttttctggt    600
              ggttcacatg tgtttccaac tacatctgtg ttgaacccga gctggggaaa tagtcttgta    660
              agcgttgctg tagccgccaa tggttcgagt tatgggcaga gccagagcta tgttgttggt   720
              tcttctcctg caaagacagg gataatgttt ccaatctctt cttctccaaa cagtaccaga   780
              agcatagcaa aacaattccc tttcttgcaa gaagaagaaa gctcgagaac cgcatcgttg   840
              tgtgagagaa tgacgagttg catccatgac tctgattgtg ctctctctct tctgtcatcc    900
              tcctcgtcgt cagtccctca tttgcttcaa ccaccacttt ctttgtccca agaagcagtt    960
              gagacagttt tttacgggtc gggattgttt gagaatgcga gtgcagtctc tgatggatcg   1020
              gttatatccg gtaacgaggc tgtccgtctt ccgcagacat tcccgtttca ttgggagtag   1080
              <210>   18
              <211>   1065
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 18
              atggagttgt taatgtgttc gggtcaggcc gagtcaggtg gttcttcttc caccgagtct     60
              tcttcactca gtggtggact caggtttggt cagaagatct acttcgagga tggatccgga   120
              tccagaagca agaaccgggt caataccgtt cgtaagtcgt ctaccacggc gaggtgccaa   180
                                                     8

              gtggaaggtt gtagaatgga tctaagcaat gttaaagctt attactcgag acacaaagtt    240
<removed-date>
              tgttgcattc actctaaatc atctaaagtc attgtctctg gtcttcatca aaggttttgt    300
              caacaatgta gcaggtttca ccagctttct gagtttgact tggagaaaag aagttgtcgc    360
              agaagactcg cttgtcataa cgaacgacga agaaaaccac aacccacaac ggctcttttc    420
              acttctcatt actctcgaat cgctccatct ctttacggaa accccaatgc tgcaatgatt    480
              aaaagcgttt tgggagatcc tactgcgtgg tcaaccgcaa gatcagtgat gcagcggcct    540
<removed-apn>
              ggaccgtggc agattaatcc agttagggaa acccatccac acatgaatgt tttatcacat    600
              ggaagctcaa gctttactac atgtccagag atgataaaca acaatagcac agattcaagc    660
              tgtgctctct ctcttctgtc aaactcatac ccaattcatc agcagcaact tcagacacca    720
              acaaatacat ggcgaccatc ttctggtttc gactcgatga tctcattctc cgataaggtt    780
              acaatggctc agccaccgcc catttcaacc catcagccgc ccatctcaac acatcagcag    840
              tacctcagcc aaacttggga agtcatcgcg ggcgaaaaga gcaattcaca ttatatgtct    900
              cctgtgagtc aaatctcgga gccagcagat ttccagataa gcaatggcac cacaatgggt    960
              ggatttgagc tgtatcttca tcagcaggtt ctgaagcaat acatggaacc cgagaacaca   1020
              agagcttatg actcctctcc tcaacatttc aattggtctc tttga                   1065
              <210>   19
              <211>   2013
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 19
              atgataaatg tgatgaatcc aatgaaaggt ggaacagaga aaggtttaga tcctcagcta     60
              tggcatgcat gtgctggtgg tatggttcgt atgcctccta tgaactctaa agtcttttac    120
              tttcctcaag gtcacgccga aaacgcttac gattgtgtcg atttcggtaa tctccctatt    180
              cctcccatgg ttttgtgtcg tgttttagcc attaagtata tggctgatgc tgaatctgac    240
              gaggttttcg ctaaactgag attgattcct ttgaaagatg atgagtatgt tgatcacgag    300
              tatggtgatg gtgaagatag taacggtttc gagagtaata gtgagaaaac gccttcgttt    360
              gctaagactt tgactcagtc tgatgctaat aacggtgggg gtttctctgt tcctcgttat    420
              tgcgctgaga cgattttccc gaggttggat tataacgccg agccgccggt tcagaccatt    480
                                                     9

              cttgctaagg atgttcatgg tgatgtttgg aagttcagac atatttatag agggacgcct    540
<removed-date>
              cggcgtcacc ttcttacaac cggatggagt aattttgtaa accagaagaa gcttgtggcg    600
              ggagattcga ttgtcttcat gagagcggag aatggagatc tttgtgtagg tattaggagg    660
              gctaagagag gagggatagg taatggaccc gaatattcag cgggttggaa tccgatcggt    720
              ggaagttgcg gctactcttc tctgttaagg gaagatgaaa gcaatagttt gaggagaagt    780
              aattgttccc ttgcggatag gaaggggaaa gtgacggctg aatctgttat agaagcagcc    840
<removed-apn>
              actcttgcta ttagcggaag accgtttgag gttgtgtact atccgagagc tagcacttca    900
              gagttttgtg tcaaggcatt agatgctcga gctgccatgc ggattccgtg gtgctcaggt    960
              atgaggttta agatggcttt tgagacagag gattcgtctc ggataagttg gtttatgggg   1020
              actgtttcag ctgttaatgt ctctgatcct atccgttggc ctaactctcc ttggcggctt   1080
              ctacaggtgg cgtgggatga gccagattta ctccaaaacg tgaagcgagt taacccgtgg   1140
              ttggtggaat tggtatcaaa cgtacatccg atcccgctta cttcgttttc gccaccgagg   1200
              aaaaagatgc ggctacctca gcatccagat tacaacaatc tgatcaattc gattccagta   1260
              ccttcattcc caagcaatcc ccttattaga tcaagcccgt taagctctgt tctggacaat   1320
              gttcccgtgg gtttacaggg agccaggcat aatgctcatc agtactacgg gttatcatct   1380
              tcggatcttc accattacta cttgaataga ccacctcctc ctcctcctcc atcctctctc   1440
              caactttctc cttctctcgg tctccgaaac atcgatacca aaaacgaaaa aggattttgc   1500
              tttttgacaa tgggaacaac accatgcaat gataccaaat ctaaaaagtc ccatattgta   1560
              ttgttcggca agcttatact acccgaggaa cagctatcag aaaaaggctc aacggatacc   1620
              gcaaacatag agaaaacgca gatttcatca ggcgggtcga accaaaacgg cgttgcggga   1680
              agggagtttt cttcgtcaga tgaaggatca ccttgctcta agaaagttca tgatgcatca   1740
              ggtttggaaa cagggcattg taaagtgttt atggagtcag acgatgtagg tcgaacctta   1800
              gacctatcgg ttcttggttc atacgaagaa ttgagtcgga aactctctga catgtttgga   1860
              atcaaaaagt ctgagatgtt aagctctgtt ctctataggg atgcatcagg agccatcaaa   1920
              tacgcaggaa acgaaccttt cagtgagttc ttgaagacag ctcgaagatt gacaattctg   1980
              acggaacaag gaagtgagag cgttgtagta taa                                2013
                                                     10

              <210>   20
<removed-date>
              <211>   858
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 20
              atggattacg aggcatcaag aatcgtcgaa atggtagaag atgaagaaca tatagatcta    60
              ccaccaggat tcagatttca ccctactgat gaagaactca taactcacta cctcaaacca   120
              aaggttttca acactttctt ctctgctact gccattggtg aagttgatct caacaagatt   180
<removed-apn>
              gagccttggg acttaccatg gaaggctaag atgggagaaa aagaatggta tttcttctgt   240
              gtgagagacc ggaaataccc gaccggttta aggacaaacc gggcgacaga agccggttat   300
              tggaaagcca caggaaaaga caaagagata ttcaagggaa aatcacttgt gggtatgaag   360
              aaaactttgg ttttctataa aggaagagct cctaaaggag ttaaaaccaa ttgggttatg   420
              catgaatatc gtttagaagg caaatattgt attgaaaatc ttccccaaac agctaagaac   480
              gaatgggtta tatgtcgtgt tttccaaaaa cgtgccgatg gtacaaaggt tccaatgtca   540
              atgcttgatc cacacattaa ccgaatggaa ccagccggtt taccttcgtt aatggattgt   600
              tctcaacgag actccttcac cggttcgtcg tctcacgtga cctgcttctc cgaccaagaa   660
              accgaagaca aaagacttgt ccacgagtcc aaagacggtt ttggttctct gttttactcg   720
              gatcctctgt ttttacaaga caattattcg ctaatgaagc tgttgcttga cggtcaagaa   780
              actcaattct ccggcaaacc tttcgacggt cgtgattcgt ccggtacaga agaattggat   840
              tgcgtttgga atttctga                                                 858
              <210>   21
              <211>   972
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 21
              atggagacgg aagaagagat gaaggaaagt agtataagca tggtggaggc aaagttgcct    60
              ccgggattca gatttcaccc gaaggacgat gagcttgtct gcgattactt gatgagacga   120
              tcgcttcaca ataatcatcg accacctctt gtcctgatcc aagtcgatct caacaagtgt   180
              gagccttggg acatcccaaa aatggcatgc gtgggaggga aggattggta tttctacagc   240
              caaagagacc gaaaatacgc gacggggctg agaactaacc gagcaacggc caccggatat   300
                                                    11

              tggaaagcca ccggcaaaga cagaaccatt ctaagaaagg gtaagctagt tgggatgagg   360
<removed-date>
              aagacattgg ttttctatca aggtcgagct cctcgaggcc gtaaaaccga ttgggtcatg   420
              cacgaattcc gtctccaagg atctcatcat cctcccaatc attctctgag ctctccaaag   480
              gaagactggg tcttgtgtag ggtattccat aagaatacgg aaggagttat atgtagagac   540
              aacatgggaa gctgttttga tgagacagcc tctgcatcgc ttcctccact gatggatcct   600
              tacatcaact ttgaccaaga accctcttct tatctcagtg atgatcatca ctacatcatc   660
<removed-apn>
              aatgagcacg taccctgctt ctccaatttg tcacagaacc aaaccttaaa ctcgaaccta   720
              accaactcag tctctgaact caagattcca tgcaagaacc ctaacccctt gtttactggt   780
              ggttcagcct cagccacgct cacaggcctc gactcattct gttcttcaga tcagatggtt   840
              ctcagagctc tactcagtca gctcactaag attgatggaa gcctcgggcc taaagaatca   900
              cagagttatg gagaaggtag ctcggagagc ctcctgaccg acatcggtat tccaagcact   960
              gtttggaatt gc                                                       972
              <210>   22
              <211>   2484
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 22
              atgaatagac atttagatag tagcggtaag tacgttaggt acacagctga gcaagtcgag    60
              gctcttgagc gtgtctacgc tgagtgtcct aagcctagct ctctccgtcg acaacaattg   120
              atccgtgaat gttccatttt ggccaatatt gagcctaagc agatcaaagt ctggtttcag   180
              aaccgcaggt gtcgagataa gcagaggaaa gaggcgtcga ggctccagag cgtaaaccgg   240
              aagctctctg cgatgaataa actgttgatg gaggagaatg ataggttgca gaagcaggtt   300
              tctcagcttg tctgcgaaaa tggatatatg aaacagcagc taactactgt tgttaacgat   360
              ccaagctgtg aatctgtggt cacaactcct cagcattcgc ttagagatgc gaatagtcct   420
              gctggattgc tctcaatcgc agaggagact ttggcagagt tcctatccaa ggctacagga   480
              actgctgttg attgggttca gatgcctggg atgaagcctg gtccggattc ggttggcatc   540
              tttgccattt cgcaaagatg caatggagtg gcagctcgag cctgtggtct tgttagctta   600
              gaacctatga agattgcaga gatcctcaaa gatcggccat cttggttccg tgactgtagg   660
                                                    12

              agccttgaag ttttcactat gttcccggct ggtaatggtg gcacaatcga gcttgtttat    720
<removed-date>
              atgcagacgt atgcaccaac gactctggct cctgcccgcg atttctggac cctgagatac    780
              acaacgagcc tcgacaatgg gagttttgtg gtttgtgaga ggtcgctatc tggctctgga    840
              gctgggccta atgctgcttc agcttctcag tttgtgagag cagaaatgct ttctagtggg    900
              tatttaataa ggccttgtga tggtggtggt tctattattc acattgtcga tcaccttaat    960
              cttgaggctt ggagtgttcc ggatgtgctt cgaccccttt atgagtcatc caaagtcgtt   1020
<removed-apn>
              gcacaaaaaa tgaccatttc cgcgttgcgg tatatcaggc aattagccca agagtctaat   1080
              ggtgaagtag tgtatggatt aggaaggcag cctgctgttc ttagaacctt tagccaaaga   1140
              ttaagcaggg gcttcaatga tgcggttaat gggtttggtg acgacgggtg gtctacgatg   1200
              cattgtgatg gagcggaaga tattatcgtt gctattaact ctacaaagca tttgaataat   1260
              atttctaatt ctctttcgtt ccttggaggc gtgctctgtg ccaaggcttc aatgcttctc   1320
              caaaatgttc ctcctgcggt tttgatccgg ttccttagag agcatcgatc tgagtgggct   1380
              gatttcaatg ttgatgcata ttccgctgct acacttaaag ctggtagctt tgcttatccg   1440
              ggaatgagac caacaagatt cactgggagt cagatcataa tgccactagg acatacaatt   1500
              gaacacgaag aaatgctaga agttgttaga ctggaaggtc attctcttgc tcaagaagat   1560
              gcatttatgt cacgggatgt ccatctcctt cagatttgta ccgggattga cgagaatgcc   1620
              gttggagctt gttctgaact gatatttgct ccgattaatg agatgttccc ggatgatgct   1680
              ccacttgttc cctctggatt ccgagtcata cccgttgatg ctaaaacggg agatgtacaa   1740
              gatctgttaa ccgctaatca ccgtacacta gacttaactt ctagccttga agtcggtcca   1800
              tcacctgaga atgcttctgg aaactctttt tctagctcaa gctcgagatg tattctcact   1860
              atcgcgtttc aattcccttt tgaaaacaac ttgcaagaaa atgttgctgg tatggcttgt   1920
              cagtatgtga ggagcgtgat ctcatcagtt caacgtgttg caatggcgat ctcaccgtct   1980
              gggataagcc cgagtctggg ctccaaattg tccccaggat ctcctgaagc tgttactctt   2040
              gctcagtgga tctctcaaag ttacagtcat cacttaggct cggagttgct gacgattgat   2100
              tcacttggaa gcgacgactc ggtactaaaa cttctatggg atcaccaaga tgccatcctg   2160
              tgttgctcat taaagccaca gccagtgttc atgtttgcga accaagctgg tctagacatg   2220
              ctagagacaa cacttgtagc cttacaagat ataacactcg aaaagatatt cgatgaatcg   2280
                                                    13

<removed-date>
              ggtcgtaagg ctatctgttc ggacttcgcc aagctaatgc aacagggatt tgcttgcttg   2340
              ccttcaggaa tctgtgtgtc aacgatggga agacatgtga gttatgaaca agctgttgct   2400
              tggaaagtgt ttgctgcatc tgaagaaaac aacaacaatc tgcattgtct tgccttctcc   2460
              tttgtaaact ggtcttttgt gtga                                          2484
              <210>   23
<removed-apn>
              <211>   2526
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 23
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcccggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
                                                    14

<removed-date>
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
<removed-apn>
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    24
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
                                                    15

              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
<removed-date>
              <400> 24
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
<removed-apn>
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
                                                    16

              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
<removed-date>
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
<removed-apn>
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    25
              <211>    2529
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 25
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
                                                    17

              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
<removed-date>
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
<removed-apn>
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
                                                    18

<removed-date>
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
<removed-apn>
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtgtga                                                           2529
              <210>   26
              <211>   2526
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 26
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
                                                    19

<removed-date>
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
<removed-apn>
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
                                                    20

              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
<removed-date>
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
<removed-apn>
              <210>    27
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 27
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
                                                    21

              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
<removed-date>
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
<removed-apn>
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    28
              <211>    2526
                                                    22

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 28
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
<removed-apn>
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc cggggatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
                                                    23

<removed-date>
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
<removed-apn>
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    29
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 29
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
                                                    24

<removed-date>
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggtcca gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
<removed-apn>
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
                                                    25

              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
<removed-date>
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
<removed-apn>
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    30
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 30
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa acctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
                                                    26

              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
<removed-date>
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
<removed-apn>
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
                                                    27

<removed-date>
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
<removed-apn>
              <210>    31
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 31
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctggcatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
                                                    28

<removed-date>
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
<removed-apn>
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    32
                                                    29

              <211>   2526
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 32
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
<removed-apn>
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggcccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
                                                    30

              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
<removed-date>
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
<removed-apn>
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    33
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 33
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
                                                    31

              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
<removed-date>
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctggcatgaa gcctggtcca gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
<removed-apn>
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
                                                    32

<removed-date>
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
<removed-apn>
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
              <210>    34
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 34
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa acctggtcca gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
                                                    33

<removed-date>
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
<removed-apn>
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
                                                    34

              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
<removed-date>
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
<removed-apn>
              <210>    35
              <211>    2526
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 35
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca   480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa acccggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct   960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
                                                    35

              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
<removed-date>
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
<removed-apn>
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtg                                                              2526
                                                    36

              <210>   36
<removed-date>
              <211>   2433
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 36
              atgaagctgt caacatctgg attgggtcaa cagggtcatg aaggagagaa gtgtctgaat     60
              tctgagctat ggcatgcttg tgctggacca ttagtctctc ttccatcatc tggtagtcga    120
              gttgtttact ttccacaggg tcacagtgaa caggtagctg ctacaactaa taaggaagtt    180
<removed-apn>
              gatggtcaca tacccaatta cccaagccta ccaccacaat tgatatgcca gctccataat    240
              gttacaatgc atgcagatgt tgagacggat gaagtctatg ctcaaatgac acttcaacca    300
              ttgacaccgg aggagcagaa ggaaacattt gtaccgattg agttggggat accgagtaag    360
              caacctagta attatttttg taagactctc acagctagtg ataccagtac acatggaggg    420
              ttttctgttc ctagacgtgc tgctgagaaa gtgtttcctc cattggatta cacactgcag    480
              ccaccagctc aagaactgat tgcaagggat ctccatgatg ttgaatggaa gtttaggcat    540
              atctttcggg gacagcccaa acggcatctc ctaactactg gatggagtgt ctttgtcagt    600
              gccaagcgac tagtagctgg agattctgtc attttcatca ggaatgaaaa gaatcaactc    660
              tttttgggaa ttcgtcatgc cactcggccg cagactattg taccatcatc tgttttatct    720
              agtgatagca tgcatattgg actccttgct gctgctgcac atgcttctgc aactaatagc    780
              tgtttcactg ttttctttca tccaagggct agccaatctg agtttgtgat acaactttcc    840
              aagtacatta aagccgtttt tcacacgcgt atttcagttg ggatgcgctt tcgcatgctc    900
              ttcgagacag aagagtcgag tgtccgcagg tacatgggta ctataactgg tattagtgat    960
              ctagattctg ttcgttggcc aaactctcat tggcgatctg tgaaggttgg ttgggatgaa   1020
              tcgactgcag gggagagaca gccaagggtt tctttatggg agattgagcc tctgactacc   1080
              tttcctatgt atccatctct ttttcctctc agactaaaac gtccatggca tgctggcaca   1140
              tcatctttgc ctgatggaag gggtgatttg ggaagtggtc taacatggct aagaggggga   1200
              ggtggagagc agcaaggttt gcttcctcta aattatccat ctgttggttt gtttccatgg   1260
              atgcaacaaa ggctggatct cagtcaaatg gggactgata ataatcagca ataccaagca   1320
              atgttagctg ctgggttgca gaacatcggc ggtggagatc ctttaagaca gcagtttgta   1380
              cagctgcaag agcctcacca ccaatatctt caacaatcag cttcccataa ttctgatttg   1440
                                                    37

<removed-date>
              atgcttcagc agcaacagca gcaacaagcg tcacgccatc tcatgcatgc tcaaacacag   1500
              attatgagtg agaatcttcc gcagcagaat atgcgacaag aagttagtaa ccaaccagct   1560
              ggacagcagc aacagctaca gcaaccggac caaaatgcat atcttaatgc tttcaaaatg   1620
              caaaatggcc atcttcaaca gtggcagcag caatcagaga tgccatctcc ctcgttcatg   1680
              aagtcagatt ttactgactc aagcaacaaa tttgcaacaa ctgctagtcc ggcttctgga   1740
<removed-apn>
              gatggcaatc ttttgaattt ttctataacc ggtcagtctg tactccctga gcagttaaca   1800
              acagagggct ggtctccaaa agcatccaac actttttctg aaccgttgtc acttccacaa   1860
              gcctatcctg ggaagagtct tgctctagaa cccggaaatc cgcagaatcc ctctcttttc   1920
              ggtgttgatc ccgactctgg actcttcctc cccagtacgg ttccccgctt tgcttcttca   1980
              tcaggagatg ctgaagcttc ccctatgtca ctaacagatt caggatttca gaattcctta   2040
              tatagctgca tgcaagacac aactcatgag ttattgcatg gagctggaca gattaactcg   2100
              tccaaccaaa ccaagaactt tgtaaaggtt tataaatctg gttcggttgg gcgttcatta   2160
              gacatctccc gattcagcag ctaccacgag ctgcgagaag agttagggaa gatgtttgct   2220
              atcgaagggt tgttggaaga cccccttaga tcaggctggc agcttgtatt cgttgacaag   2280
              gaaaatgata ttcttctcct tggtgatgac ccatgggagt catttgtgaa taacgtttgg   2340
              tacataaaga tactatcacc agaagatgtg catcaaatgg gagatcatgg agaaggcagt   2400
              ggtgggttat tcccgcaaaa cccgacccat ctc                                2433
              <210>   37
              <211>   1347
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 37
              atgttggatc ttaacctcaa cgctgattct cccgagtcga ctcagtacgg tggtgactca     60
              tacttagatc ggcagacatc agacaactcc gccgggaatc gagtggaaga gtccggtaca    120
              tcgacgtcgt cagttatcaa tgccgatgga gacgaagact cttgctctac tcgagctttc    180
              actctcagtt tcgatatttt aaaagtcgga agtagtagcg gcggagacga aagccccgcc    240
              gcttcagctt ccgttactaa agagtttttt ccggtgagtg gagactgtgg acatctacga    300
              gatgttgaag gatcatcaag ctctagaaac tggatagatc tttcttttga ccgtattggt    360
                                                     38

<removed-date>
              gacggagaaa cgaaattggt aactccggtt ccgactccgg ctccggttcc ggctcaggtt    420
              aaaaagagtc ggagaggacc aaggtctaga agttcacagt atagaggagt tactttttat    480
              agaagaactg gtcgatggga gtcacatatt tgggattgtg ggaaacaagt ttatttaggt    540
              ggtttcgaca ctgctcatgc tgcagctaga gcttatgatc gagctgctat taaatttaga    600
              ggtgttgatg ctgatatcaa ctttactctt ggtgattatg aggaagatat gaaacaggta    660
<removed-apn>
              caaaacttga gtaaggaaga gtttgtgcat atactgcgta gacagagcac ggggttttcg    720
              cgggggagtt cgaagtatcg aggggttacg ttacacaaat gtggtagatg ggaagctagg    780
              atggggcagt ttcttggtaa aaaggcttat gacaaggctg caatcaacac taatggtaga    840
              gaagcagtca cgaacttcga gatgagttca taccaaaatg agattaactc tgagagcaat    900
              aactctgaga ttgacctcaa cttgggaatc tctttatcga ccggtaatgc gccaaagcaa    960
              aatgggaggc tctttcactt cccttctaat acttatgaaa ctcagcgtgg agttagcttg   1020
              aggatagata acgaatacat gggaaagccg gtgaatacac ctcttcctta tggatcctcg   1080
              gatcatcgcc tttactggaa cggagcatgc ccgagttata ataatcccgc cgagggaaga   1140
              gcaacagaaa agagaagtga agctgaaggg atgatgagta actggggatg gcagagaccg   1200
              gggcaaacaa gcgccgtgag accgcagcca ccgggaccac aaccaccacc attgttctca   1260
              gttgcagcag catcatcagg attctcacat ttccggccac aacctcccaa tgacaatgca   1320
              acacgtggtt acttttatcc acaccct                                       1347
              <210>   38
              <211>   1458
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 38
              atgctggatc tcaatctcga cgtcgactcg accgagtcta ctcagaacga acgagattcg     60
              attactgtta aaggggtttc tttgaatcag atggatgaat cggtgacgtc gaactcttct    120
              gttgttaatg ctgaagcttc tagctgtata gatggtgaag atgagttgtg ctctacacga    180
              acggtcaagt ttcaatttga gatactgaaa ggaggaggag aagaagaaga agaagatgat    240
              gatgaaagaa gtgctgtgat gatgactaag gagttttttc ctgttgctaa aggcatgaac    300
              tttatggatt cgagcgctca aagttcaagg agcaccgttg atatttcctt ccagaggggg    360
                                                    39

<removed-date>
              aaacaaggtg gagactttat aggtagcggg agcggtggtg gcgatgcttc acgggtgatg    420
              cagccaccat cacagccggt gaagaaaagc aggagaggtc ctaggtctaa gagttctcag    480
              tatagaggcg tcactttcta tcggaggaca ggcagatggg aatcgcatat ctgggattgc    540
              ggtaaacaag tttatttagg tggatttgat actgcccatg ctgcagctag ggcgtatgat    600
              cgagctgctg tcaaattccg gggtctggaa gctgacatca atttcgttat tggcgattat    660
<removed-apn>
              gaagaggatc tcaagcagat ggcgaatctt tccaaagagg aagttgtgca agtacttcgg    720
              cgacagagct ctggtttctc aaggaataat tctagatatc aaggagttgc tttgcaaaag    780
              attggcgggt ggggagctca aatggagcag cttcatggaa acatgggttg tgacaaggca    840
              gccgtacaat ggaagggaag ggaagctgct tccttaattg agcctcatgc atcccgaatg    900
              attcccgagg cagctaatgt taagctcgac ctcaacttgg gaatctctct ttcactagga    960
              gatggtccga agcaaaaaga tagggccctc cggcttcacc atgtccctaa caattccgta   1020
              tgtggaagga acaccatgat ggagaaccac atggctgcag cggcatgtga tacgcctttc   1080
              aatttcttga agaggggttc agaccatctt aataaccggc atgcccttcc ttctgcgttc   1140
              ttttcaccca tggaaagaac accagagaaa gggcttatgt tacgttctca tcaaagcttc   1200
              ccagccagga catggcaagg gcatgatcag tccagtggtg ggaccgccgt agcagctaca   1260
              gcaccgccac tgttttcaaa tgcagcatca tcaggattct cactctcagc tacacgccct   1320
              ccttcatcca cagctattca tcatccttct cagcccttcg tcaatctgaa tcagcccggt   1380
              ctctatgtta tccacccatc tgattacata tctcagcacc aacacaatct catgaaccgc   1440
              ccacaaccac caccatag                                                 1458
              <210>   39
              <211>   1734
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 39
              atgaattatt tcccagacga ggttatagag cacgtgtttg acttcgtagc ttctcacaaa     60
              gacaggaact cgatatctct ggtctgcaaa tcatggcaca agatcgagag gtttagtagg    120
              aaggaagtgt tcatcggaaa ctgctacgcg attaacccgg agaggttgat caggaggttt    180
              ccatgtctca aatccttaac tttaaaaggg aagcctcatt ttgcagactt caacttggtt    240
                                                    40

<removed-date>
              cctcatgaat ggggaggttt cgtgcatcct tggattgaag ctttggctag aagccgtgtg    300
              ggacttgagg agctgaggtt gaagcggatg gttgtaacag atgaaagctt ggaccttctt    360
              tcacgttctt ttgcaaattt caagtctttg gttcttgtta gctgtgaagg gtttaccact    420
              gatggcttag cttccattgc cgctaattgc aggcatcttc gtgagctgga cttgcaagag    480
              aatgagattg atgatcatag aggtcaatgg ctgaactgtt ttccagatag ctgcactact    540
<removed-apn>
              cttatgtcgt tgaatttcgc ttgccttaaa ggagagacca atgttgctgc tttagaaagg    600
              cttgttgcta ggtcaccaaa cctgaagagc ttgaagttaa accgtgcagt accgcttgac    660
              gcactcgcaa ggttaatgag ttgtgcgccg cagctagtgg acttaggagt agggtcttat    720
              gagaatgagc cagatcctga atcttttgca aaactcatga ctgccattaa gaaatacaca    780
              tcgttaagga gcttgtctgg ctttttagag gttgctccac tctgcctccc agcgttctac    840
              ccaatttgcc aaaaccttat ctctttgaac ctcagctatg cagctgaaat ccaaggcaac    900
              cacctcatta agcttattca gctttgcaag agacttcaac gattatggat attggatagt    960
              attggtgaca aaggacttgc ggttgtcgct gccacatgta aagagttaca agagcttaga   1020
              gtttttccct ctgatgtaca tggtgaagaa gataacaacg catctgtgac tgaggttgga   1080
              ctagtcgcca tttccgcagg ttgccctaaa cttcattcga ttctgtactt ctgcaaacag   1140
              atgacaaacg cagcgctcat agccgtggcc aaaaactgtc caaacttcat ccggttcagg   1200
              ctatgcattc tcgagccaca caaacctgac cacattacat ttcaatcact ggacgagggc   1260
              tttggtgcaa tcgtacaagc ttgcaagggt ctaagacggc tctctgtctc cggtctctta   1320
              accgatcaag tctttctcta catcggtatg tacgcggaac agctcgagat gctttcgata   1380
              gcttttgcgg gggacactga caaaggaatg ctctatgtgt tgaatggatg caaaaaaatg   1440
              aggaagctgg agataaggga cagtcctttt gggaacgctg cgcttcttgc tgacgtgggt   1500
              aggtacgaaa caatgcgatc cctttggatg tcgtcttgtg aagtaacact cggtggctgc   1560
              aagaggctcg cgcagaattc gccacggctt aacgtagaga tcatcaacga gaatgagaat   1620
              aatgggatgg aacagaatga agaagatgaa agagagaagg ttgataaact ttacctctac   1680
              cgaacagtgg ttgggactag aaaagatgca ccaccatatg ttaggattct ttag         1734
              <210>   40
                                                    41

              <211>   1728
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 40
              atgaattatt tcccagatga agtaatagag catgtattcg actttgtaac atctcacaaa     60
              gacaggaatg ctatatctct tgtatgcaaa tcatggtaca agattgaaag atacagtagg    120
              caaaaggttt tcattggaaa ctgttatgcc attaatccag agaggttgct tcggagattc    180
<removed-apn>
              ccatgtctaa agtctttgac tttgaaagga aaacctcatt ttgcggattt caatttggtt    240
              cctcatgaat ggggaggttt tgtgctacct tggattgagg ctttggctag aagccgtgta    300
              ggacttgaag agcttaggtt gaagaggatg gttgttactg atgagagtct tgagctgctt    360
              tctcgttctt ttgtcaattt taagtctttg gtccttgtta gctgtgaagg ttttaccact    420
              gatggtcttg cctctattgc cgctaattgc aggcatcttc gggatcttga tttgcaagag    480
              aatgaaatcg atgatcatag aggtcaatgg ttaagttgtt tcccagacac ttgcacgact    540
              cttgtcacgc taaactttgc gtgcctcgaa ggagaaacta atctggttgc tctagagagg    600
              cttgttgcta ggtctccaaa cctaaagagt ctgaagctaa atcgtgcagt accgttagat    660
              gcactcgcaa ggttaatggc gtgtgcgccg cagatagttg acttaggagt agggtcttat    720
              gagaatgacc cagattccga gtcttacttg aaactcatgg ctgtcataaa gaaatgcacc    780
              tcgttgagga gtttgtcggg ttttctagag gctgctcctc actgtctctc agctttccac    840
              ccaatatgtc ataacctcac ctccttgaat cttagttacg cagctgagat tcatggtagc    900
              caccttatta agcttattca gcattgcaag aaacttcagc ggttatggat tttggatagt    960
              ataggtgaca aagggcttga agttgtagct tctacatgta aagagttaca agagcttagg   1020
              gtttttccat ctgatttact cggtggaggc aacacagctg tgaccgaaga aggtctagtt   1080
              gccatctcgg caggctgccc taagctccac tctatactct acttctgcca acaaatgaca   1140
              aacgcagctc tcgtaaccgt tgccaagaac tgtccaaatt tcatccgttt ccgactctgc   1200
              atcctcgagc caaacaaacc cgatcacgtc acatctcaac ctctagacga aggctttgga   1260
              gcaatcgtca aagcctgcaa gagcctgaga aggctttctc tctcaggtct ccttacagac   1320
              caagtcttcc tctacatcgg aatgtacgcg aatcagctcg agatgctctc catagccttt   1380
              gcaggagata cagacaaagg catgctatat gtgttgaatg gttgcaaaaa gatgaagaaa   1440
                                                    42

              ctagagataa gggatagtcc gtttggggac acggcgcttc ttgctgatgt gagcaagtat   1500
<removed-date>
              gaaacaatgc gatccctttg gatgtcttca tgtgaagtca cactcagtgg atgcaaaagg   1560
              ctcgcagaga aagcgccatg gctcaatgta gagatcataa acgagaatga taataaccgg   1620
              atggaagaaa acggacacga ggggaggcag aaagtggata agttgtatct gtaccggact   1680
              gtggttggga caagaatgga tgcgccgcca tttgtgtgga ttctctaa                1728
<removed-apn>
              <210>   41
              <211>   1758
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 41
              atgggtctcc gattcccacc taaggtgttg gaacatatcc tctccttcat tgattccaac     60
              gaggaccgga actctgtttc tctggtctgc aagtcatggt ttgagacaga acggaagact    120
              aggaagcgag tctttgtcgg aaactgttac gcggtcagtc ctgctgcggt tacacgacgg    180
              ttcccggaga tgagatcttt gactttgaag gggaagccac acttcgctga ctataatctc    240
              gttcctgatg gttggggtgg ttatgcttgg ccgtggattg aagctatggc ggcgaaaagt    300
              tcgtctcttg aagagatcag aatgaagagg atggtggtga ctgatgagtg cttagagaaa    360
              attgctgctt cgtttaagga ttttaaagtc cttgtgttga cttcttgtga aggtttctct    420
              actgatggta tcgctgctat tgcagctact tgcaggaact tgagagtgtt ggaactacga    480
              gagtgtattg ttgaagattt aggaggagat tggcttagct attttccaga gagttcaact    540
              tctttggtct ctcttgactt ctcttgttta gattctgagg ttaaaatctc ggatttagag    600
              cgtcttgtga gcagatctcc aaacttgaag tctttgaagt tgaatccagc tgtgactcta    660
              gatggactcg ttagcttact tcgttgtgct ccacaactga ctgagctcgg cacaggttct    720
              ttcgcagctc aattgaaacc tgaagcgttt tcaaagttat cagaagcttt ttcaaactgt    780
              aagcaacttc agagcttatc tggtctctgg gatgtcctcc ctgaatatct tccagctctt    840
              tattctgtct gtcctggtct tacctcgttg aacttgagct acgctactgt ccgaatgcct    900
              gatcttgttg agcttcttag gcgatgctcg aaactgcaga agctatgggt gatggacttg    960
              attgaggaca aaggtcttga agctgttgcc tcatattgca aggaactgcg agaactgagg   1020
              gtgtttccat ctgagccaga tcttgatgca accaacatac ctctgacgga acaaggcctg   1080
                                                    43

              gtctttgtgt ctaaaggctg tcgaaagctt gagtctgttc tctacttctg tgtccagttc   1140
<removed-date>
              acaaacgcag ctttgtttac catagcaaga aaacgtccga atctcaagtg cttccgtctc   1200
              tgtgtgatag agccatttgc tcctgattac aaaacaaatg agccacttga taaaggattc   1260
              aaagccatag ctgagggatg cagggatctt cgacggctct ccgtctctgg tcttctctct   1320
              gacaaggcct tcaaatacat tgggaaacat gccaagaagg ttaggatgct atcaatagca   1380
              tttgctgggg acagtgattt gatgcttcat cacttgttgt cgggctgtga gagtttaaag   1440
<removed-apn>
              aagcttgaga tacgagactg cccttttgga gacactgcac tactggagca cgctgccaag   1500
              ctagagacca tgcgatccct ttggatgtca tcttgctttg taagttttgg tgcttgcaag   1560
              cttctaagtc agaaaatgcc aaggctcaat gtcgaagtca ttgatgaaca tcctccagag   1620
              tcaagacctg agagctctcc agttgagagg atatacatat acagaacagt cgcaggaccg   1680
              agaatggata cgcctgaatt tgtgtggacg atacacaaga atcctgagaa tggagtttca   1740
              catctagcca taaagtaa                                                 1758
              <210>   42
              <211>   1785
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 42
              atgcagaagc gaatagcctt gtcgtttcca gaagaggtac tagagcatgt gttctcgttt     60
              attcagctgg ataaggatag gaactcagtc tctctggtgt gcaagtcatg gtacgagatc    120
              gagcggtggt gcaggaggaa agtcttcatc gggaactgct acgccgtgag tccagcgacg    180
              gtgattagga ggttcccgaa agtgagatcc gtggagctta aaggaaaacc tcactttgct    240
              gactttaatt tggtacctga cggatgggga ggttacgtgt atccatggat tgaggccatg    300
              tcttcgtctt acacgtggct tgaagagata aggctgaaga ggatggtggt caccgacgat    360
              tgcttggagc tcatagccaa gtcttttaag aattttaagg ttcttgtgct ttcttcctgc    420
              gaaggcttct ccaccgatgg tctcgctgct atcgctgcca cttgcaggaa tctgaaagag    480
              cttgacttac gagagagtga tgttgacgac gttagtggcc actggcttag ccatttccca    540
              gatacataca cttctttggt atcactcaat atatcttgct tagcatctga ggtcagtttc    600
              tctgctctgg aaaggctggt gactaggtgt cccaatctca agtctctcaa gcttaaccga    660
                                                    44

              gctgttccac ttgaaaaatt ggctacttta cttcaaagag cacctcaatt ggaggaattg    720
<removed-date>
              ggcactggtg ggtacactgc agaagtgcga ccagatgttt actctggttt atctgtagcg    780
              ctctctgggt gcaaggaatt gaggtgctta tctggatttt gggatgctgt tcctgcctat    840
              cttccagcag tttattcggt ttgcagtcgg cttacaactt tgaatctgag ttatgcaaca    900
              gtccagagct atgatcttgt caagcttctt tgtcaatgcc ctaaactgca gcgcctctgg    960
              gtgcttgact acatcgagga tgctggtctt gaggtgcttg cttcaacctg caaggaccta   1020
<removed-apn>
              cgcgagctga gagtgtttcc gtccgagcct tttgtcatgg aaccaaatgt ggcattgacg   1080
              gaacaggggc ttgtctccgt ctccatgggc tgtccaaaac tcgagtcggt tctctacttc   1140
              tgccgtcaaa tgaccaatgc tgcattgata accattgcta ggaaccgtcc caacatgact   1200
              cgcttccgtt tgtgcatcat tgagccaaaa gccccagact atctgactct agagccactg   1260
              gatattggat ttggagccat agtagagcac tgcaaggatc tccgtcgcct ctctctatct   1320
              ggcctcttga ccgacaaggt ttttgaatac attgggacat atgccaagaa gatggaaatg   1380
              ctctcagtgg catttgcagg agacagtgac ttaggcatgc atcatgtttt gtccgggtgc   1440
              gatagcttga ggaaactaga gataagggac tgcccgtttg gagacaaggc gcttttggcc   1500
              aatgcttcaa agctggagac aatgcgatcc ctttggatgt cttcttgttc cgtgagtttt   1560
              ggagcctgca agttactagg acagaagatg ccaaagctga atgtggaagt catcgatgaa   1620
              cggggtgcac cggactcgag accagagagc tgccctgttg agagagtctt catataccga   1680
              acagtggctg gtcctcgatt tgacatgcct ggcttcgtct ggaacatgga ccaagactca   1740
              acaatgaggt tttccaggca aatcattact actaacggat tataa                   1785
              <210>   43
              <211>   1608
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 43
              atggatattg gtgttcatgt tcttgggtcg gttactagta atgaaaatga gtcacttggt     60
              ctaaaagagc ttataggaac taaacaagat agatccggat tcatcggtga ggattgcttg    120
              caacgaagct tgaagctagc aagaacgaca actagagcgg aagaagaaga aaacttgtct    180
              tcttctgttg cagctgctta ttgcaaaacg atgtcgtttc accaaggcat tcctctcatg    240
                                                    45

              agatctgctt ctcctctttc ctctgattct cgccgtcaag aacaaatgct tagcttctca    300
<removed-date>
              gataaaccag acgctcttga tttcagtaaa tatgtcggtt tggataatag cagtaataac    360
              aagaactctc tctcgccgtt tcttcaccag attcctccac cttcttactt tagaagctca    420
              ggaggatatg gttctggtgg aatgatgatg aacatgagca tgcaagggaa cttcacaggt    480
              gttaaaggac cttttacatt gactcaatgg gctgagttag agcaacaggc gttgatctat    540
              aagtacatca cagccaatgt ccctgttcct tctagtttgc tcatctctat caagaagtct    600
<removed-apn>
              ttttatcctt acggatcttt gcctcctagt tccttcggat ggggaacttt ccatctcggt    660
              ttcgcaggcg gtaacatgga ccctgagcca gggagatgcc gcagaacaga tgggaagaaa    720
              tggcggtgct caagagacgc cgttcctgat cagaaatact gtgaaagaca catcaacaga    780
              ggccgtcatc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa gtccaatctg gccaaaacca aaccgccgct    840
              gctgcatcca aagcggttac tacaccacaa cagcctgttg tcgctggtaa tactaacaga    900
              agcaatgccc gtgcatcaag caaccgcagc ctcgccattg gaagtcaata tatcaatcct    960
              tctacagaat ctttacctaa caacagagga gtttcgatat atccttccac cgtcaactta   1020
              caacccaagg aatctccggt tattcatcag aaacacagaa acaacaacaa cccttttgag   1080
              tttggacaca aatcctctga ttcgttactc aacccgaata ccgcaaagac ctatggatca   1140
              tcgttcttgg atttcagcag caaccaagag aagcattcag ggaatcacaa tcacaattct   1200
              tggcctgaag agctgacatc agattggaca cagctctcaa tgtcaattcc aatagcatca   1260
              tcatcccctt cctccacaca caacaacaac aatgctcaag aaaaaacaac actctcgcct   1320
              ctcaggctat cccgcgagct tgacctatcg atccaaaccg atgaaacaac aatcgagcct   1380
              actgtgaaaa aggtgaatac ttggatacca atctcatggg gaaactcctt aggaggtcct   1440
              ctaggtgaag tactaaacag tacaacgaat agtccaacat ttggatcttc tcctacaggg   1500
              gttttgcaaa agtccacatt ttgttcactc tctaacaaca gctccgtgag cagccccatt   1560
              gcagagaaca acagacacaa tggcgattac tttcattaca caacctga                1608
              <210>   44
              <211>   2385
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   44
                                                    46

              atggtacatt cagagtcatc aatacttagt tccttgcgcg gtggtgatgg cggtggtatt     60
<removed-date>
              ccttgttcta aggatgaact agcaataaat ggtagttaca ccgatcctat ggggcggagg    120
              aagtccaagc ggtttaaggt tgctgcggaa agtgagtttt cacctgattt tggatcgatt    180
              accaggcagc tcagatcgag aagaatgcag aaggagttca cagttgagac ttacgagacc    240
              aggaatgttt ctgatgtttg tgttctctct tctcaagctg atgttgagtt gattcctgga    300
              gaaattgttg cagaaagaga tagctttaag tcggttgatt gtaatgacat gtcggttggg    360
<removed-apn>
              ttaaccgaag gagctgaatc tcttggagtt aacatgcaag aacctatgaa agataggaat    420
              atgccagaga acacaagtga gcaaaatatg gtggaggtcc atcctccaag cataagcctg    480
              ccagaggaag atatgatggg gtctgtttgc aggaaaagca tcactggaac aaaggagctt    540
              cacggaagaa cgatctctgt tgggagagac ttatctccaa atatggggag caagttttca    600
              aagaatggaa agaccgctaa acgttctata tcggtggaag aggaaaactt ggttctggag    660
              aagtcagatt ctggagacca tttgggtcca tcaccagagg ttttggaact tgagaaatca    720
              gaggtttgga taattacaga caaaggggtt gtaatgcctt caccagtgaa gccttccgag    780
              aagaggaatg gagattatgg tgaaggatct atgaggaaga atagtgagag ggttgccctg    840
              gataaaaaga gattagctag taaatttcgg ttatcaaatg gtgggcttcc tagttgctca    900
              agcagtgggg atagtgctcg gtataaagtt aaggaaacaa tgcgtctttt ccatgaaact    960
              tgtaaaaaaa ttatgcaaga ggaagaagca aggcctagga aaagagatgg tggcaatttc   1020
              aaagtggttt gcgaggcttc gaaaattctc aagagtaaag ggaaaaatct ttatagtggt   1080
              actcagatta ttggaactgt gcctggtgtt gaggttggcg atgaatttca atatagaatg   1140
              gagctgaacc ttcttggtat acatagacca agtcaaagtg gtatcgacta tatgaaagat   1200
              gacggtgggg aactagttgc cacgagtatt gtatcctcgg gaggttataa tgacgtgctt   1260
              gataactctg atgtcttgat ctacacgggt caaggcggaa atgtggggaa aaagaaaaat   1320
              aatgaaccac ccaaagacca gcagcttgta acgggaaacc ttgcgttgaa aaacagtata   1380
              aacaaaaaga accctgtgcg ggtcataaga ggcatcaaaa atacgacatt acaatcatca   1440
              gttgttgcaa agaattatgt ttacgatgga ttgtatctgg tggaagagta ctgggaagaa   1500
              accgggtctc acggtaaact cgtcttcaag ttcaaactac ggcgtattcc tggacaaccc   1560
              gagcttccct ggaaagaggt tgcgaaatcg aaaaaatctg agttccggga tggtctttgc   1620
                                                    47

<removed-date>
              aatgttgata tcacagaagg gaaagagaca ttacccatat gcgctgtgaa caatttagac   1680
              gatgagaaac cgccaccgtt tatctacacg gctaaaatga tatatccgga ttggtgccgg   1740
              ccaattcctc caaagagctg cggttgcaca aacggctgct ccaagtcaaa aaactgtgcc   1800
              tgcattgtga aaaacggtgg aaagatacct tattacgatg gagccattgt tgaaattaag   1860
              cccctggtct atgagtgtgg cccacactgc aaatgcccac cttcttgcaa catgagagtc   1920
<removed-apn>
              tcacagcacg ggatcaagat caagctggag atcttcaaaa cggagtcaag aggttgggga   1980
              gtgagatcgc tggaatctat tcctatcggg agcttcatct gtgagtacgc aggagagctt   2040
              ctagaggata aacaagctga aagccttacc gggaaagatg agtatctttt tgatctcggg   2100
              gacgaggatg atccgttcac cataaacgca gcacagaaag ggaacatagg gaggtttata   2160
              aaccatagct gctcgccgaa tctgtacgca caggacgtat tgtacgacca tgaggaaata   2220
              agaatacctc acattatgtt ctttgcactg gacaatatac ctccacttca ggaactctcg   2280
              tacgactaca attataagat cgatcaggta tacgactcta atggtaatat caagaagaaa   2340
              ttttgctatt gtggttccgc tgagtgtagt ggtaggctct actaa                   2385
              <210>   45
              <211>   3111
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 45
              atggtgatca ttctcctatt ggtcttcttt gttggttctt ctgtgagcca accatgtcat     60
              cccaacgact tatctgcgct ccgggaattg gcaggagcgt tgaagaacaa gtctgttaca    120
              gaatcttggt taaatggttc acgttgttgt gaatgggatg gtgtgttttg tgaagggagt    180
              gatgtttctg gtcgagttac aaagttggtt ttacctgaaa aaggtttgga aggtgtgatt    240
              tcgaagtctt taggggagtt gactgagctg cgagtacttg atctatctcg taaccagctt    300
              aaaggcgaag taccagcgga gatttctaag ttagagcagc ttcaagttct tgatttgagt    360
              cataacctgt tatcagggtc tgttttggga gtggtttcgg gtttaaagct gattcagtcg    420
              ctgaacattt cgagcaattc gcttagcggg aagttatcgg atgttggagt gtttcctggt    480
              cttgtgatgc ttaatgtaag caacaatttg tttgagggtg agattcatcc tgaactctgt    540
              agctcatctg gtgggataca ggttcttgat ttatcgatga atcgtttggt ggggaatctt    600
                                                    48

<removed-date>
              gatggcttgt acaactgcag caaatctatt caacagctcc atatcgacag caacagattg    660
              acgggccaac ttccggatta tctttattcg atccgggagt tggagcaact atcactctct    720
              ggaaactact tatccggaga gttaagcaag aacttgagca atctctctgg tctgaagtct    780
              ctgttgatat cagagaaccg gttttcggat gtaattccag atgtttttgg taacctcact    840
              caattggaac acctcgacgt gagctccaac aagttctcgg gaaggtttcc gccaagttta    900
<removed-apn>
              tcccaatgct cgaagctgcg ggttcttgat cttaggaaca actcgttatc cggttctatc    960
              aatcttaact tcactggatt taccgatctt tgcgtgcttg atctcgccag taatcatttc   1020
              tctggacctc ttcctgattc ccttggccac tgtcccaaga tgaagatctt gagtttggcg   1080
              aaaaacgagt ttcgcggcaa aatccctgac accttcaaga atctgcagtc tctcttgttc   1140
              ctgtccttat ccaacaacag ctttgtggat ttttctgaga caatgaatgt gctgcaacat   1200
              tgcagaaacc tctccactct tattctctca aagaacttca tcggcgagga aataccaaac   1260
              aacgtcactg gtttcgacaa cctcgcgatt ttagcgctag gaaattgcgg tcttagaggt   1320
              cagattccga gctggctatt gaactgcaag aagctggaag ttcttgatct ctcttggaat   1380
              cacttttacg gaactatccc tcattggatt ggtaagatgg agagtttgtt ctacatagac   1440
              ttctcaaaca acactttgac cggagcaatc ccggtagcca taaccgagct caagaaccta   1500
              atccgtctaa acggaaccgc ttctcagatg accgactctt ctggaattcc tctctacgta   1560
              aagcggaaca agagctccaa cggtcttcca tataaccaag tttcaagatt cccgccatct   1620
              atctatttga ataataaccg tctcaacggg acgatcttgc cagagatagg acgtttgaaa   1680
              gagcttcaca tgctggactt gagcaggaac aacttcactg ggacgatacc tgattccatt   1740
              tcagggcttg acaatttgga ggttcttgat ttatcttaca atcatctcta cggttcgatt   1800
              cctctgtctt ttcagagtct cactttcttg tcgaggttca gcgtagcgta taaccgtctc   1860
              actggcgcga ttccatctgg aggtcagttc tacagcttcc cgcactcaag cttcgaagga   1920
              aacttaggac tttgtcgcgc gattgattct ccttgcgatg ttctgatgag taacatgttg   1980
              aatccgaaag gttcttcgcg taggaataac aatggcggaa agttcgggag aagcagcatt   2040
              gttgtactta ccataagtct agccattggg attactctac ttctttctgt tattctgtta   2100
              aggatttcaa gaaaagatgt ggatgatcga atcaatgacg ttgatgagga gactatcagc   2160
                                                    49

              ggggtttcga aagctctcgg gccatcaaag attgtgcttt tccatagctg tggatgtaaa   2220
<removed-date>
              gatctaagtg ttgaggagtt gttgaagtct acgaacaatt tcagccaggc taacattata   2280
              ggatgtggcg gatttggtct tgtgtacaaa gctaattttc ccgatggctc gaaagcagca   2340
              gtcaagaggc tttctggtga ctgtgggcag atggaacgtg aattccaagc ggaagttgaa   2400
              gcattgtctc gagcggaaca taagaatcta gtctctcttc aaggctactg caagcatgga   2460
              aacgataggc tgcttattta ctcgtttatg gagaatggaa gtttggatta ttggctgcat   2520
<removed-apn>
              gagcgggtag atgggaatat gactcttata tgggatgtga gattgaagat agctcaaggc   2580
              gcagcgcgag ggcttgctta cttgcataaa gtctgtgaac ctaatgttat acatagggat   2640
              gtgaagtcta gtaacatttt gttagatgag aagtttgaag ctcatcttgc ggattttggg   2700
              ttagcgaggt tgcttaggcc gtatgatact cacgtgacga ctgatttggt tgggacattg   2760
              ggttatattc ctcctgagta tagccagtct ttgattgcaa catgtagagg agacgtttac   2820
              agttttggcg ttgtgctttt ggagctagtt acgggtcgta gacctgtaga agtctgtaaa   2880
              gggaaaagtt gcagagattt ggtgtctcgg gtgtttcaaa tgaaggctga gaagcgtgaa   2940
              gctgagctta tcgatacaac aatacgcgaa aatgtgaacg agagaacggt tttggagatg   3000
              ttggagattg cttgcaaatg cattgatcat gagcctagaa ggagaccact gatcgaagaa   3060
              gtcgttactt ggcttgaaga tcttcctatg gagtctgttc aacaacaatg a            3111
              <210>   46
              <211>   1113
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 46
              atgggaagag cgccatgttg cgagaaggtc ggtatcaaga gagggcggtg gacggcggag     60
              gaggaccaga ttctctccaa ctacattcaa tccaacggtg aaggttcttg gagatctctc    120
              cccaaaaatg ccggattaaa aaggtgtgga aagagctgta gattgagatg gataaactat    180
              ctaagatcag acctcaagcg tggaaacata actccagaag aagaagaact cgttgttaaa    240
              ttgcattcca ctttgggaaa caggtggtca ctaatcgcgg gtcatctacc agggagaaca    300
              gacaacgaaa taaaaaatta ttggaactct catctcagcc gtaaactcca caacttcatt    360
              aggaagccat ccatctctca agacgtctcc gccgtaatca tgacgaacgc ttcttcagcg    420
                                                    50

              ccaccgccgc cgcaggcaaa acgcagactt gggagaacga gtaggtccgc tatgaaacca    480
<removed-date>
              aaaatccaca gaacaaaaac tcgtaaaacg aagaaaacgt ctgcaccacc ggagcctaac    540
              gccgatgtag ctggggctga taaagaagca ttaatggtgg agtcaagtgg agccgaggct    600
              gagctaggac gaccatgtga ctactatgga gatgattgta acaaaaatct catgagcatt    660
              aatggcgata atggagtttt aacgtttgat gatgatatca tcgatctttt gttggacgag    720
              tcagatcctg gccacttgta cacaaacaca acgtgcggtg gtgatgggga gttgcataac   780
<removed-apn>
              ataagagact ctgaaggagc cagagggttc tcggatactt ggaaccaagg gaatctcgac   840
              tgtcttcttc agtcttgtcc atcggtggag tcgtttctca actacgacca ccaagttaac    900
              gatgcgtcga cggatgagtt tatcgattgg gattgtgttt ggcaagaagg tagtgataat    960
              aatctttggc atgagaaaga gaatcccgac tcaatggtct cgtggctttt agacggtgat   1020
              gatgaggcca cgatcgggaa tagtaattgt gagaactttg gagaaccgtt agatcatgac   1080
              gacgaaagcg ctttggtcgc ttggcttctg tca                                1113
              <210>   47
              <211>   921
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 47
              atgccaactt tgtacaaaaa agcaggctcc tgcaggacca tggggaaggg aagagcacct     60
              tgttgtgaca agaccaaagt gaagagaggt ccatggagcc cagaagaaga cattaaactc   120
              atctctttca ttcaaaagtt tggtcatgag aactggagat ctctccccaa acaatctggg    180
              ctattgaggt gtgggaagag ttgtcgtcta aggtggatta actatcttag gccagatctg    240
              aagcgtggca acttcacttc agaggaggaa gaaacaatca ttaagcttca ccacaactat    300
              gggaacaagt ggtcgaaaat cgcttctcaa cttccaggta gaacagataa cgagatcaag    360
              aatgtgtggc acactcatct aaagaaaaga ctggctcaga gctcaggaac tgcagatgaa    420
              ccggcctcgc cttgttcgag tgattctgtt tctcgtggga aagatgataa gtcatctcac    480
              gtagaagatt ctttgaacag agagactaat cataggaatg agttgtctac atctatgtct   540
              tctgggggtt ccaaccaaca agatgatcca aagatagacg aactcaggtt tgagtatata   600
              gaagaagctt atagcgagtt taacgacatt attattcaag aggtagacaa acccgatctg    660
                                                     51

              ctggagatac catttgattc agatcctgac atttggagtt tcttagatac ttcaaactca   720
<removed-date>
              tttcaacaat ccactgcaaa tgagaacagc tcaggctcaa gagcaacaac agaagaagag   780
              tctgatgagg atgaggttaa gaaatggttc aagcacctag aaagcgaact cgggttagaa   840
              gaagacgata atcaacaaca atacaaagaa gaagaatcat catcatcatc actcttgaag   900
              aactacgagc tcatgataca t                                             921
<removed-apn>
              <210>   48
              <211>   708
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 48
              atgggaagat ctccttgttg tgaaaaagct cacacaaaca aaggagcttg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatcaac gtctcgtaga ttatatccgt aatcacggtg aaggttgttg gcgttctctt   120
              cctaaatccg ctggattgtt gcgttgtggt aaaagttgta gattgagatg gattaattac   180
              cttcgtcctg atcttaaacg tggtaatttt actgatgatg aagatcaaat catcatcaaa   240
              ctccatagct tactcggtaa caaatggtca ttgatagctg gaagattacc aggaagaaca   300
              gataacgaaa taaagaatta ttggaacact catattaaga ggaagcttct tagtcacggt   360
              attgatccac aaactcatcg tcagattaac gaatccaaaa cggtgtcgtc tcaagttgtt   420
              gttcctattc aaaacgatgc cgttgagtat tctttttcca atttagccgt taaaccgaag   480
              acggaaaatt cctccgataa cggagcttcg actagcggca cgacgacgga cgaggatctc   540
              cggcagaatg gggagtgtta ttatagtgat aattcaggac atataaagct gaatttggat   600
              ttaactcttg ggtttggatc ctggtcgggt cggatagtcg gagtcgggtc atcggctgat   660
              tctaaaccgt ggtgcgaccc ggtgatggag gcgcgtttgt cactgttg                708
              <210>   49
              <211>   711
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 49
              atgggaagat ctccttgttg tgaaaaagct cacacaaaca aaggagcttg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatcaac gtctcgtaga ttatatccgt aatcacggtg aaggttgttg gcgttctctt   120
              cctaaatccg ctggattgtt gcgttgtggt aaaagttgta gattgagatg gattaattac   180
                                                    52

<removed-date>
              cttcgtcctg atcttaaacg tggtaatttt actgatgatg aagatcaaat catcatcaaa   240
              ctccatagct tactcggtaa caaatggtca ttgatagctg gaagattacc aggaagaaca   300
              gataacgaaa taaagaatta ttggaacact catattaaga ggaagcttct tagtcacggt   360
              attgatccac aaactcatcg tcagattaac gaatccaaaa cggtgtcgtc tcaagttgtt   420
              gttcctattc aaaacgatgc cgttgagtat tctttttcca atttagccgt taaaccgaag   480
<removed-apn>
              acggaaaatt cctccgataa cggagcttcg actagcggca cgacgacgga cgaggatctc   540
              cggcagaatg gggagtgtta ttatagtgat aattcaggac atataaagct gaatttggat   600
              ttaactcttg ggtttggatc ctggtcgggt cggatagtcg gagtcgggtc atcggctgat   660
              tctaaaccgt ggtgcgaccc ggtgatggag gcgcgtttgt cactgttgta a            711
              <210>   50
              <211>   990
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 50
              atgggaagag ctccgtgttg cgacaagaca aaagtgaagc gagggccttg gtcgcctgaa    60
              gaagactcta aacttagaga ttacattgaa aagtatggta atggtggaaa ttggatctct   120
              ttccccctca aagccggttt gaggagatgt gggaagagtt gtagactgag gtggctaaac   180
              tatttgagac caaacataaa gcatggtgac ttctctgagg aagaagacag gatcattttt   240
              agtctcttcg ctgccatagg aagcaggtgg tcaataatag cagctcatct accgggacga   300
              acagacaacg acataaaaaa ctattggaac acaaagctaa ggaagaaact cttgtcttct   360
              tcctctgatt catcatcatc agccatggct tctccttatc taaaccctat ttctcaggat   420
              gtgaaaagac caacctcacc aacaacaatc ccatcttctt cttacaatcc gtatgctgaa   480
              aaccctaatc aatacccaac aaaatccctc atctccagca tcaatggctt cgaagctggt   540
              gacaaacaga taatttccta tattaaccct aattatcctc aagatctcta tctctcggac   600
              agcaacaaca acacctcgaa cgcaaatggt ttcttgctca accacaatat gtgtgatcag   660
              tacaagaacc acaccagttt ttcttcagac gtcaatggga taagatcaga gattatgatg   720
              aagcaagaag agataatgat gatgatgatg atagaccacc acattgacca gaggacaaaa   780
              gggtacaatg gggaattcac acaagggtat tataattact acaatgggca tggggatttg   840
                                                    53

<removed-date>
              aagcaaatga ttagtggaac aggcactaat tctaacataa acatgggtgg ttcaggttca   900
              tcttctagtt cgataagcaa cctagctgag aacaaaagca gtggtagcct cctactagaa   960
              tacaaatgct tgccctattt ctactcctag                                    990
              <210>   51
              <211>   708
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 51
              atgggaagat ctccttgttg tgaaaaagct cacacaaaca aaggagcttg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatcaac gtctcgtaga ttatatccgt aatcacggtg aaggttgttg gcgttctctt   120
              cctaaatccg ctggattgtt gcgttgtggt aaaagttgta gattgagatg gattaattac   180
              cttcgtcctg atcttaaacg tggtaatttt actgatgatg aagatcaaat catcatcaaa   240
              ctccatagct tactcggtaa caaatggtca ttgatagctg gaagattacc aggaagaaca   300
              gataacgaaa taaagaatta ttggaacact catattaaga ggaagcttct tagtcacggt   360
              attgatccac aaactcatcg tcagattaac gaatccaaaa cggtgtcgtc tcaagttgtt   420
              gttcctattc aaaacgatgc cgttgagtat tctttttcca atttagccgt taaaccgaag   480
              acggaaaatt cctccgataa cggagcttcg actagcggca cgacgacgga cgaggatctc   540
              cggcagaatg gggagtgtta ttatagtgat aattcaggac atataaagct gaatttggat   600
              ttaactcttg ggtttggatc ctggtcgggt cggatagtcg gagtcgggtc atcggctgat   660
              tctaaaccgt ggtgcgaccc ggtgatggag gcgcgtttgt cactgttg                708
              <210>   52
              <211>   1299
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 52
              atgaggagga ggaggtgcga tcttcaaccg aagagaacga gaatgtgcga tcttcaaccg    60
              aagagaacga gtatgtgcga tcttccaccg aagctggtag gggagaagat cctcacgagg   120
              attccgataa catctctgag agcggtgcga tccacttgca aattatggaa cgctttaacc   180
              aaagatcggg ttctgggtaa agcagcggcg cagtttttgg ggtttatgac gatggattca   240
                                                    54

              aaggtctgtt cagttagatt ccatctccgt cgcagcaagg aggaagaaga agacacgatg    300
<removed-date>
              gatctatcta taaagcaggt agatttgctt aatcaagtcg agatatctag agtgtatcac    360
              tgcgacggct tgttgttatg cgtggctaag gacaactcga gggtcgtggt ttggaaccct    420
              tatttggggc aaacaagatg gatcagaccc agaacagaat ccaacatagg agacagctat    480
              gctcttggat acgacatcaa ccgtaaccac aaaatcttga ggatggtgca gacaagaaac    540
              gtttccgttt acaggtacga aatctacgac ttgcgctcta attcatggag ggttctcgag    600
<removed-apn>
              gtcactccca acggggaaat ggaccctaat catcccctct acggcgtttc tgtgaaggga    660
              aatacctact tttttgcgca tgaggatagc agcagtggtg aaattgatga agatggcgac    720
              ataatcgatc ttgaagattt cttactctgt tttgatttta caacagagac atttggtctg    780
              cgtctgcctc ttccgtttca ctctactatc gatgcgactg tgaccctctc ttgtgttaga    840
              gaccagcagc tcgcggtgct atatcataat gagggtcttc acagtgatga tcggtttacc    900
              acagttgagt tttgggttac tactagtatt gagcccaact ctgtgtcctg gagcaagttt    960
              ttgacagtgg atatgagacc attggcactc actggtgttc ggtttgacaa tgatatgggt   1020
              gccaccttct tcattgacga ggatgagaaa gttgctgtgg ttttcgatct agacggatac   1080
              ctaagcaccg agagcgctcg ttaccacacc gcttttatca gtggaaagga tggattcttt   1140
              aaacctgtga ctctaggagt agctcccaat gtcggggaac cttgtcccag aaccgggcat   1200
              attccgacta catatcgtcc cccgcttgtc tgctcgtcta cttaccttcc gagtttagtg   1260
              caagtcaacc aacagcgcaa aaggaaagaa agacatgtt                          1299
              <210>   53
              <211>   1173
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 53
              atggttcaga tttccgatct tccacgggat ttgacagagg aggtgctctc taggattccg     60
              gtgacatcta tgagagcagt gagatttact tgcaaaaagt ggaacacctt atcgaaagat    120
              cggagcttta caaagaagca cctgcgtgga gcaagagcag cagcaaagaa gaagcagacg    180
              aaggagtttc aggtgatcat gatgattcaa tttagggttt atttatacag cgtcaacctc    240
              cttaatccat caatagagcg tataggtaaa cttattagcc tagacgttga agatcatgtc    300
                                                    55

              gacatatcta aaatctttca ctgcggcggt ttattgttat gtatcaccaa agacatatct    360
<removed-date>
              aggcttgtgg tttggaaccc ttattctggg caaacaaggt ggatcaaacc tagaaattct    420
              taccacagat tggacaggta cgctttagga tacgaagaga agaacaagtc gtgtcgttgc    480
              tacaaaatct tgagatttat ggatgattac gaggatgaca gggcactgcg cctaattcgt    540
              gagtttgaaa tctacgactt aaactctgat tcatggaagg ttgttaatgt cactcccgac    600
              tgggatgtag agttttatca ccgtggcctg tctctcaagg ggaatactta ctggtttgct    660
<removed-apn>
              caagagaagc ttccaccatt accacgcgga agagtgataa caatatcaga tatggctgat    720
              ttcttactct gttttgattt tacaagggag agatttggac cgcgcctgcc tctgcctttc    780
              cactcttttg ttgaagatac tgtgactcta tccagtgtta gagataagaa acttgcagtg    840
              ttatttcagc catgtagtgc atctaccgtg aagatatgga ttagtcgcaa gattgagccc    900
              aatgcagtgt cgtggaggaa ggttttctta gcggttgata tgaaatcact cactggtttt    960
              cagtttgaca ttaacgctgc aagtttcttt gttgacgaga agaaaaaggt cgccatggtt   1020
              ctggataaag acaggttcag ttataaattt actcgcaaca tagcttacat cattgggaag   1080
              aaggggtact tcgaaaaagt ggatcttgga gaatctacag tttcaagttg tgcctcactt   1140
              gtgtgctctt acgttccaag ctcagtgcaa atc                                1173
              <210>   54
              <211>   1005
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 54
              atgttggaag gtcttgtctc tcaagaaagc ttgtccttaa actctatgga catgtctgta     60
              cttgaaaggc ttaaatgggt acaacagcaa caacagcaac tgcaacaagt tgtgtcccat    120
              agcagtaata attcacctga acttcttcag atacttcagt tccatggaag caacaatgat    180
              gagttgttgg agagtagttt cagccaattt caaatgcttg gatctggttt tggaccaaac    240
              tataacatgg gttttggtcc tccacatgaa tccatttcaa gaacaagtag ctgccatatg    300
              gaacctgtgg atacaatgga ggttttgttg aagaccggtg aagaaaccag agccgttgcc    360
              ttgaagaaca agagaaaacc agaggttaag acaagggaag agcaaaagac agagaagaag    420
              atcaaagtag aggctgagac agagtcaagc atgaaaggaa aatcaaacat gggaaacact    480
                                                     56

              gaagcatctt cagacacttc aaaggagaca tcgaaaggag cttcagagaa tcagaaatta    540
<removed-date>
              gattatatcc acgtgagagc tcgtcgaggc caagccactg acagacacag cttagcagaa    600
              agggcgagaa gagaaaagat cagcaagaaa atgaaatatc tgcaagatat tgtgcctgga   660
              tgcaataagg tcacaggaaa agctggtatg cttgatgaga tcatcaatta tgttcaatgt   720
              ctccaaagac aagtcgagtt cctgtcgatg aaacttgctg tcttgaaccc ggaactagag   780
              cttgccgtgg aagatgtatc cgtaaaacag gcttacttta caaatgtagt tgcttcaaag   840
<removed-apn>
              caatcaataa tggttgatgt gccattgttt ccgttagacc agcaaggatc tctagatttg   900
              tctgcgataa acccgaacca aacgacatct atcgaagctc catctggaag ctgggaaact    960
              caatcacaga gtctctacaa cacatctagc ctcggttttc attac                   1005
              <210>   55
              <211>   1008
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 55
              atgttggaag gtcttgtctc tcaagaaagc ttgtccttaa actctatgga catgtctgta     60
              cttgaaaggc ttaaatgggt acaacagcaa caacagcaac tgcaacaagt tgtgtcccat   120
              agcagtaata attcacctga acttcttcag atacttcagt tccatggaag caacaatgat   180
              gagttgttgg agagtagttt cagccaattt caaatgcttg gatctggttt tggaccaaac   240
              tataacatgg gttttggtcc tccacatgaa tccatttcaa gaacaagtag ctgccatatg   300
              gaacctgtgg atacaatgga ggttttgttg aagaccggtg aagaaaccag agccgttgcc    360
              ttgaagaaca agagaaaacc agaggttaag acaagggaag agcaaaagac agagaagaag    420
              atcaaagtag aggctgagac agagtcaagc atgaaaggaa aatcaaacat gggaaacact   480
              gaagcatctt cagacacttc aaaggagaca tcgaaaggag cttcagagaa tcagaaatta   540
              gattatatcc acgtgagagc tcgtcgaggc caagccactg acagacacag cttagcagaa   600
              agggcgagaa gagaaaagat cagcaagaaa atgaaatatc tgcaagatat tgtgcctgga   660
              tgcaataagg tcacaggaaa agctggtatg cttgatgaga tcatcaatta tgttcaatgt   720
              ctccaaagac aagtcgagtt cctgtcgatg aaacttgctg tcttgaaccc ggaactagag   780
              cttgccgtgg aagatgtatc cgtaaaacag gcttacttta caaatgtagt tgcttcaaag    840
                                                    57

              caatcaataa tggttgatgt gccattgttt ccgttagacc agcaaggatc tctagatttg    900
<removed-date>
              tctgcgataa acccgaacca aacgacatct atcgaagctc catctggaag ctgggaaact    960
              caatcacaga gtctctacaa cacatctagc ctcggttttc attactaa                1008
              <210>   56
              <211>   798
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (509)..(509)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (513)..(513)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (526)..(526)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (537)..(537)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (543)..(543)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (552)..(552)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (568)..(569)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (588)..(588)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                     58

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (616)..(616)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (647)..(647)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (652)..(652)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (699)..(699)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (707)..(707)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (732)..(732)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (760)..(760)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (769)..(769)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (777)..(777)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 56
              gacttttggt gttttagagt gcattccaca aactctatgc ctcgtgtaat aaccctttgc    60
              attggttaga tccattctac aaccttccac ttgacacctt ggtatctgac ccgaaggacc   120
              cgacccgctt ccacgtaccc ttctgtttga cccgccggag gaagaagacc cggttccacc   180
              tccagcgtcc tcgaagtaga tcctctggcc aaacatgagc cctccactta aagaggatga   240
                                                    59

<removed-date>
              ctcagtggat gaaccacccg actctgtctg gcctggacca agaccaagac ccgagttgga   300
              acccctatcc attttggttt cctcttactc agacagaaag ggagtactca ctcatcattc   360
              tctctctctc tctctctctc tcttaaaacc taactgtctc ggtttaaagg aaaggacgaa   420
              aggagaagaa agcaaagaaa attttggctt ccctgatttt gactgttgtt gggtttagag   480
              aaagaagata gagagagacc caacagaanc aanaaaagag acgagngtgg taatagncaa   540
<removed-apn>
              agncagtaag anagttaagt aaaacggnnc ggacaaaaca taaactgntg tctgttaatt   600
              accacataac aaaaangaga gatagagagt gatgtagtag cagtttntaa tnttggagtt   660
              ggaagagact tgaacaaatg aacattggag aggtctttnt ttcatgnaca cattttaatt   720
              attttacttt anactgttca cattttcaac cttttagtan atttttttnt cctttcnatt   780
              ataaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                                                 798
              <210>   57
              <211>   1104
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 57
              gcggccgccc tttttttttt tttttagttc aaatgtgctt ttgttagatg tgaacaaaac    60
              aaagagatca tcactaaaaa caaacggctt aaagatcaag agccaaaagc attaaagtaa   120
              tacccaaaac aaaagtcatt ttctgccatc attgtctgat ttttaagtag catagataga   180
              acagacaagt cttagtagca atcttccata gataaggctc ttggtgcaga tgaacaagtt   240
              aagaaaaaga agtctttaaa gactcaaaga gaccagttga aatgctgagg ggaagagtca   300
              taagctcttg tgttctcagg ttccaggtat tgcctaagaa cctgctgatg aggactcaac   360
              tcgaatccac ccatcgtggc gccattgctt atctggaaat caactggctc agagatttgg   420
              ctcagttcca aaacaggagt tgtataatgc gcattgcttt tttcccctga cataaactcc   480
              catgtttggt tcaagtattg attctggatt gaaacgggtg gtgtctgagc cattgttacc   540
              ctatcagcag caatagaaga tggtcgccat gtattggttg gtgtctgaag tggttgttgt   600
              tcctgctggt ttgggtttgt gtagtttgac agaagagaga gagcacagct ggagtctgtg   660
              ctattagtaa agcttgagtt tccatatggg aaaacattca tcagctgatg gctttgccat   720
              ggtgcagaac ctcttgtggt tgaccaccta gtaggatctc ccaaaacgct tctaatggca   780
                                                     60

<removed-date>
              ttcccatata gagatggagc gatgttggag taatgaggag tcaagagagt ggttgttgct    840
              tgaggctttc ttcttcgttc gttgtggcaa gcgagccgtc ttctacaact tcgtttctct    900
              aagtcaaact ccgaaagctg gtgaaacctg ctacattgct ggcaaaacct ttggtgaaga    960
              ccagacacaa tgactttaga tgactttgag tgaatgcaac acactttgtg tcttgagtaa   1020
              taagttttag cattgcttag atccattcta caaccttccg gacgcgtggg tcgacccgga   1080
<removed-apn>
              atccggacgg aactggaggc gtac                                          1104
              <210>   58
              <211>   590
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (46)..(46)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (91)..(91)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (139)..(139)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (186)..(186)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (228)..(228)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (231)..(231)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (253)..(253)
                                                     61

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (327)..(327)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (331)..(331)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (354)..(354)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (391)..(391)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (481)..(481)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (483)..(483)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 58
              ctgccgcata cgtctttctc atcataatgc aaggcgtcgc aagtcncaag gagtctttcc    60
              atttaatcca gagagggtgt atgatcaaag ncagcataca aatgttgtgt ggggtaccac   120
              ttgtgataca aagccaacnc agagggaaag tggctttacc ttgagcttcc agagaggcaa   180
              tggatntaag gaagagcagt tgtttgctag tagcaaccac tctttatntg ngtatcaaac   240
              ctcaggcggg ttntcagcag ggaagaacaa gtttcaactt ggtgtgggag aatactcaga   300
              agtcctccat caatttcaag atttccnccg ngctttctct cttctgtcaa cttnttctgg   360
              tcccctggtt cacccacatg cacagcaacc nctgtctcta cttttttcat ttgatggtgt   420
              accaaaatag gcgagtaagt gatttggaat ttgtaaaacc agttagcttc agttagtgga   480
              nantaatcca aacctatcag atcagctgcc tccttttgta tgttgtattt atcattgttt   540
              tgttactcat tagtaagcaa agcaaactgt caacaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa              590
                                                    62

<removed-date>
              <210>   59
              <211>   973
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 59
              accaagtcca attcctcaac tttgctaaac ttacaagagc ttctctccaa aaatggatgg    60
              taagaaaaca caaggacaag ggtatctgaa aaagaaggct agtgtgtctt accttgtgga   120
<removed-apn>
              agaagaattg gagaatgata cagatggaga ggaggaagag aagaggaaag gtgtgaccga   180
              taggtttaaa ggatctagcg gcagcaatga tcgtggctca tcacggcttt gccaagtaga   240
              tagatgcaca gctgatctga aagaagctaa acagtatcac cggaggcaca aagtgtgtga   300
              agttcatgca aaggcatctt ctgtctatct cacaggcgtt aaacaacggt tctgtcaaca   360
              atgcagcagg ttccatgagc tcctagagtt tgatgaagct aaaaaaagtt gccggaagcg   420
              cttagctgga cacaacgaga ggcggaggaa gagctccggt gaaagtattg gagaagggtc   480
              aggtggtcga agaggaataa cagctcagat gatccagaat caagaaagat caagggtaga   540
              gatgacactt cctatgtcaa acacatcatt caagcgacca cagattaaat agagaagctg   600
              tctgctctct ctcttctgtc attataaaat tctcttagaa tctgaaattg tggtatccat   660
              caatgtcaaa aaagaaacag ctgagtcatg gtattgactc ctcctggtat agataaataa   720
              ctaataaata cccctcttct atctatgtat cgttgggggg ttacctatcc ccaaatgcta   780
              agactttggc ttaaccttga gtcgaaataa gtctactgtg tcatgtatgt tttcgaaaat   840
              gtatgatgtg ttcccctaat tggtaaaagg ttttccataa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   900
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   960
              aaagggcggc cgc                                                      973
              <210>   60
              <211>   738
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 60
              gaaatttgtg gtccaacaac ataggcacct tacttttgtt tggggggggg gcctctactt    60
              ctcttcccat gtcttcttct tccatctttc atgtgtgaga gagagagaga gagagagtag   120
              attctaaaga tgagtacgag aagaagtaga gcggaaggga agaggagttt aagagaaatg   180
                                                     63

<removed-date>
              agtgaggaag aggaagaaga tgaagaagat gaggagacat ttgaagggga agaagatgaa   240
              gatacttctg aagaagaggc cgtggaaaag aagcagaaag gcaaagctac cacaagtagt   300
              agcagtggta caggagcttg tcaagtggag agatgtactg cagatatgaa cagagccaaa   360
              caataccata aacgacacag agtctgcgag tttcatgcca aagctcctct tgttcggatc   420
              tctggtcttt accaacgttt ctgccaacaa tgtagcaggt ttcacgagct aagtgagttt   480
<removed-apn>
              gatgacacca agaggagttg caggagacgc ttagctggac acaatgagag aaggcgtaga   540
              aacacaactc aataaaaaaa agacatgtga atggtctcat gaactttagc ctttgcttgc   600
              tctcttctgt cagtctcttt gtaatctctc tgttttctcc atattgcttg taatctctag   660
              ctatctgcta aaacttaaga catcaataaa tgcatctttc ccaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   720
              aaaaaaaaaa aacatgtc                                                 738
              <210>   61
              <211>   808
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 61
              gacttggaga aaagaagttg tagaagacgt ctagcttgtc ataacgaaag aagaagaaag    60
              ccccaagcaa caacagcagc tcttttggct tctggttact ctagaatcgc tccatctctt   120
              tacggaagcg ttttgggaga tcctacaacg tggtcaaccg caagatctgt gatgggacgg   180
              tccgcaccgt gggatagcca tcaactgatg aacgttttgt cacagggaag ttcaaggttt   240
              agtataacat acccagagat ggtgaacaat aatagcacag actcaagctg tgctctctct   300
              cttctgtcaa actcaaacac aactcagcag cagcagcaga catcaaccaa tgcttacttg   360
              atggacgcag aaagggttac aatggctaag tcaccgcctg tttcagtaca caatcagtac   420
              tcgaaacaaa cctgggagtt catgtcaggc gaaaagagca attggccttg tgtgtcgtcc   480
              cctgttttgg gactgagaca aatctctgag ccagatgatg acctccagtt cctgatgagc   540
              aatggcacca caatgggtgg attcgagctg aacctacagc aggagcaggt tctgaggcaa   600
              tactcttcta ctcaaaattt tacttggcct ctttgagact ttctaccaag agcccttacc   660
              agtagaaggt tgctagttgc tactaagact tgatagtctc aagatcttat taaattatat   720
              atttttctat gctacttaaa acccgacaat ggccttgaat ctggatatta tttttaatgg   780
                                                     64

<removed-date>
              ttttggctct tgattttaaa aaaaaaaa                                      808
              <210>   62
              <211>   529
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 62
              ggcaggttgc atgccgtctc tgaatttgat gagaagaaac gaagctgccg taaacgtctt    60
<removed-apn>
              acgcatcata acgcgaggcg tcgcaagctg ccaggaatat ttccattgaa tccagagagg   120
              gtttgcaatc caagacatca tacaaatatg ttgtgggatg agatgtctct aaacacgaaa   180
              tctgaagaaa cgttagcatg ggatacaact tatgatacaa agcctacaca gatagaaagc   240
              ggctttactt tgagcttcca gagaggccat ggccgccctg atgagcaggt ggttgctggt   300
              agcagccgct ctttctctcc gtatcaaacc tctagcgggt tccaacttcc cagcaaaggt   360
              gtaggagaat actcaggagg cctcaatgaa tcgcaagatt tctacagtgc tctctctctt   420
              ctgtcaacgt ctttcggatt cacgtgggac caaacacaat cccatggtcg agtcacagcc   480
              aatacatggc actttcccta ctcattttat gtagatgcgt aaggaatgc               529
              <210>   63
              <211>   870
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (526)..(526)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (553)..(553)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (668)..(668)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (671)..(671)
                                                     65

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (819)..(819)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (850)..(850)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 63
              aacgatggag accgtctcgt cctcgtctgt taacgatgga aaccgtctcg tcctcggtcg    60
              tctatctagt ggcgggacaa tatggggaag aaaggaagag cttgtgtagt agtcttggtc   120
              ggagtcctcg tatgcaatat cacgctctct ctcttgcttg tgaggttcta ttcctcatga   180
              agctgtttta aagcatcctt caatccacat ccataccatg gcgcagcttc ggttcattaa   240
              cctcttgcca aaaatccacc tttcgttcca acactaattg ctgttaagtg ggcgagttca   300
              tggaggcgtg cagcgtttct tgtagattgg cataatttcg gatatacatt gctggcattg   360
              tctttaggaa gaaacaatgt ctttgtatcc ttataccgct gagcaataaa catcgatcat   420
              caagaagttt ttgctttgac cttctaacgt cagaacatca caagtgtaaa gactatcgca   480
              tctttcttct tgaggctctt ctccttgacg aaaccggtcc atcctntagt gaagacaaag   540
              ctctgactac ttntccagta acaaaggcat gagtaaccag aggaaatatg tggaaatgct   600
              tttttacctg attggagaaa tttcagagta aatgagagta acagattttt cacttttatt   660
              atttactnta naagtgacat accgtcataa cctaagtgtt ttataccatg gatgacgaga   720
              attaacttgg ataaagtgat atgtatcagt aatttagtat gtgtatccag gggcggatgt   780
              atggtacgac caacggagtc acgtgccccc tactaaatnt tgattttctt taagcaattg   840
              tattaaagcn aaagaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                    870
              <210>   64
              <211>   472
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 64
              aacgatggag accgtctcgt cctcgtctgt taacgatgga aaccgtctcg tcctcggtcg    60
              tctatctagt ggcgggacaa tatggggaag aaaggaagag cttgtgtagt agtcttggtc   120
                                                     66

<removed-date>
              ggagtcctcg tatgcaatat cacgctctct ctcttgcttg tgaggttcta ttcctcatga   180
              agctgtttta aagcatcctt caatccacat ccataccatg gcgcagcttc ggttcattaa   240
              cctcttgcca aagtaccagc acctgacatt ttcttggttc aaaatccacc tttcgttcca   300
              acactaattg ctgttaagtg ggcgagttca tggaggcgtg cagcgtttct tgtagattgg   360
              cataatttcg gatatacatt gctggcattg tctttaggaa gaaacaatgt ctttgtatcc   420
<removed-apn>
              ttataccgct gagcaataaa catcgatcat caagaagttt ttgctttgac ct           472
              <210>   65
              <211>   643
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 65
              gtcgaccacg cgtccgggga agataacatg tcgactacat ttacgatggt cggcggtgaa    60
              ggtcctaaca gttaccaaca acattctaaa catcagggag cattgcttga agcttcaaag   120
              gagaggatca acgaagccat ctccactaag ctcgacattg atttcacttc aggtctcatt   180
              agcgttgcag atttcggttg ttccactgga cctaacactt tcgccgccgt acaaaccgta   240
              atagatgccg tggaacacaa gtatcaaaaa gacattgagt tccaagtttt cttcaacgat   300
              tcttcaaaca acgatttcaa cactctcttc aggacacttc ctcctgctag aaaatatttt   360
              gcaactggag ttccagggtc tttctttggt cgtgttcttc ctaagaacag tttccatgtg   420
              ggagttgctt ctttcgcact ccatttcgta tccaagattc ctaagggagt tagagagcgc   480
              cattctccag tgtggaacaa ggacatacat tgcaccggat tctcaaaaga ggtagcgaac   540
              ttgtaccttg atcaatacaa gatagacgtg gggagtttat tgaacgcgag agctcaagag   600
              ctcgtcttcg ggggattgct attggttctt tggacattgg cta                     643
              <210>   66
              <211>   445
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 66
              aaacagttct catcaaacgt taagtattaa tcaagagaag aagagttaga agaagggata    60
              gatcatggca actactccaa aatggatcat ggtgggagga gaaggtcctg agagttacaa   120
                                                     67

              ccagaactcc tcgtatcaga gagcactgtt agaagcggca aaagaaaaga tgagcgaggc   180
<removed-date>
              tatcaaggcc aaactcagcc ttgatttgat ctatgatcgc ttcagtgtgg cagattttgg   240
              ttgtgcgagt ggacctaaca cttttgttgc agtccaaaac atcattgatg cagttgaaga   300
              caagtaccgc aaggaaaccg gacaaaaccc ggccgagaac atcgagttcc aagtcctctt   360
              caacgacttt accactaacg atttcaacac tctcttccag tcacttcctg cgggcagaag   420
              atactatagt gctggtgttc ctggt                                         445
<removed-apn>
              <210>   67
              <211>   688
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 67
              ctaatcgaaa aacagttctc atcaaatatc aaggatcaaa caagaaaaga tattggtcat    60
              ggcaactact ccacaatggg tcatgattgg aggagaaggt cctgagagtt acaaccaaca   120
              ctcttcgtat cagggagcat tgttggaagc cgcaaaagag aagatgaacg aggctatctc   180
              agccaaactc agcctcgact tgatttctgg tcgcttcact gttgctgatt ttggttgtgc   240
              gagtggacct aacacttttg tggcagtaca aaacataata gatgcagtag aagacaagta   300
              tctcaaggca accggacaaa accctgcgga gaacatcgag ttccaagtcc tcttcaatga   360
              ttctaccacc aacgatttca acactctctt ccaggcactt cctgcgggga gacgctacta   420
              tagcgctggt gttccgggtt ccttcttcgg ccgtgtcctc cctaagcata gtttccacat   480
              aggagtcatc agttatgctt tccatttcac ctccgaaaac cccaaaggga tcaccgaccg   540
              tgactctcct ctgtggaaca gagacatgca ttgcactggc ttttacgaag cagtcaagaa   600
              agcatatctt gatcagtact cggccgacac caagaatcta ttagacgcta gagctgagga   660
              gatcgtcccc gggggtttga tgttgctt                                      688
              <210>   68
              <211>   747
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (722)..(722)
                                                     68

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (724)..(725)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (727)..(730)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (732)..(733)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (735)..(735)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (738)..(740)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 68
              accgctatac gtgagtcgta ttgccgggta ccttacttcc tccgttaagg atgaatgggt    60
              tctctctaaa gttagtctga aaagcagcgt agttgtcggt agagagcaga cgaagttgct   120
              ctcttcttct accgcttccg tcgccggaga agtctcctct tctgctccga tcattgacgc   180
              ctttgcgacg gagcacgtgt cctgtttctc caatacctcc gctgcagctc atgccgatac   240
              gagctttcct acgtaccttc ccgctccgcc gctttcactg ccacgtcagc ctcgacgaat   300
              aggtggtgat gacgtggcgt ttggtcagtt tatggatatg ggatcttcag ggcagtttaa   360
              tgtcgacgaa gcagcaacgt tcttaccgta tctgcctccg acggttcttc atcctcctca   420
              gacgttcgaa ctgtacggtg gctcggccct gagttgctgg ccgtttgctc tctgatgatc   480
              gttgctatgc tggtttagtc tcgactctcg aaccatttgt ttgttgtgtt gtgttactcg   540
              catgtacgtg tgtttgtaat atctctatgc gtgttgtaac atgacttgta tgtcatttcc   600
              tagcagtagt agtactctcg gatcatttgc attatgtttt gtaatgtctt ttgcatgact   660
              ttttttatat taatttcttg tttgcttggt cattaaaatt aatcacagtt aacttaaaaa   720
              anannannnn annanaannn tcctgtt                                       747
                                                    69

<removed-date>
              <210>   69
              <211>   1242
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2)..(3)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (19)..(20)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 69
              gnnggctcga cgggcctann ttacgggccg ggggaattca agaaatcgac tcaattcttt     60
              tctccgatca aaataagaaa aaatcatttg agaaacacat gtttacgatt atttgatatt    120
              ttattccagg atcagatatt tgcttttctt ttgggggaca aaaaaaagat ggaaactatt    180
              ggtgggtttc acaaggaaga tgatgagcag atggatttgc ctcctggttt taggtttcat    240
              ccaacagacg aagaaattat aacccactat ctacacaaga aggttctcga caaagatttc    300
              tcggctaaag ctattggcga ggtggacttg aacaaagctg aaccacggga gttgccgtat    360
              aaagcaaaaa cgggtgagaa agaatggtac ttcttctgtg cgagggatag aaagtatcca    420
              accggtctga ggactaaccg ggcaactcaa gccggttatt ggaaggcaac cgggaaggat    480
              aaggagattt tccgaggaaa atcgcttgtt ggtatgaaga aaacacttgt tttctacaaa    540
              ggaagagctc caaaaggctt gaaaacaaac tgggtgatgc atgagtatag gcttgatggg    600
              aaactctctg ctcataactt gcccaatacc gctaagaatg agtgggtgat atgtagggtg    660
              tttcagaaga gtgctggagg gaagaagatc ccactttcgg ctctaatccg aatcggttcg    720
              tatggagggg actttagccc ttcccttatg ccttctttaa ccgatgcttc acctttcacc    780
              gataaaacca aaacagaacc ggtttacgtg ccctgcttct ccaaccaaac tgatcaagcc    840
              caaggaaacc cacttaactg cttcagcagc cctgacattt tccacaggat tccactctac    900
              caaactcaat ccctccaggt ctctggtaat ctacagagtc ccattcttgg tcaagaacat    960
              tcggtcctgc atgctatgat tgataacaac agaaggcaga gtctcaaagg gatgagtgtc   1020
                                                     70

              tcacaagaaa ccgcagtttc tactcacatg cacaccgata tttcgtcgga ttttgaatac   1080
<removed-date>
              ggtaaaagac gtgctcaaga agatccgtcg tcctctgctg gacctgttga tcttgaccct   1140
              ttctggaatt actgaagaag attcaagagt ctcgtgttca ctaatttact gtcataaaga   1200
              aagtaagaaa agttaccaaa aaaaaaaaaa aagggcggcc gc                      1242
              <210>   70
              <211>   1192
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 70
              gtcgacccac gcgtccgcaa aaccctttta ttcatctctt caaaaaccct tctcttctct     60
              cttacataac tttgattgtt tctaataaac tttattagga taaatggatt acgatgcatc    120
              aagaatcggt gaaatagtag aagatgaaga gcaaattgat ctgccacctg gattcagatt    180
              tcaccctact gatgaagaac tcataactca ctatctcaaa caaaaggtct tcaacacttt    240
              cttctctgcc accgccattg gtgaagttga tctcaacaag atcgagcctt gggagttacc    300
              aaggaaagct aagatagggg agaaagaatg gtatttcttt tgtgtgcgag accggaaata    360
              cccaaccggt ttaaggacaa accgggcaac tgaagccggt tactggaaag ccacaggcaa    420
              agataaagag attttcaagg ggaagtcact tgtgggtatg aagaagactc tggttttcta    480
              caaaggaaga gctcctaaag gagtaagaac caattgggtt atgcatgaat atcgattaga    540
              aggcatatat tctatccaac atctctccca gacagctaag aacgattggg ttatttgccg    600
              tgttttccat aaacgtgccg atggtacaaa ggttgatatg tcccatttaa tgttgcttga    660
              ttcacacgta aaccggattg aaccggtcgg attaccttcg ttgatggatt cttctcaacg    720
              agattccttc cctggttcgt ctactcacgt gacctgcttc tccgaccaag aaaccgaaga    780
              taaaagactc attcatctcg agtccaaaga cggttctggt cctctgtttt accctgatcc    840
              tctgtttcta acagacaatg attcgctaat gaaactgttg cttaacagtc acgaaaccca    900
              gttccccggt actggtactg acccctccgc tttagccggt atgggagaat cgggttgctt    960
              ttggaatttc tgaggtgtaa tatctgttgt agacttgtaa ttcatgtgtt cgtgtgagat   1020
              atgaagattc ttgttacatt ttttgtaaaa aataatgaag tcaatttatt ttgcaatgta   1080
              gaattagcat tttaatagat ttgttagtta aataatataa taaatacatt tgtctaaaaa   1140
                                                     71

              aaaaaaaaaa agggcggcgg ttttttttct gacagcaatc tagtttataa ct           1192
<removed-date>
              <210>   71
              <211>   695
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 71
              cagctacttc cgtcaacaca ctcccaatcc ttcacttcca gctaaagaca caagctgtga     60
<removed-apn>
              atctgttgtg acgagtggtc agcaccaagt agcatcactg aatcctccaa gagatgctag   120
              tcctgcagga cttttgtcca ttgcagaaga aactttagca gagtttcttt caaaggcaac   180
              tggaaccgct gttgagtggg ttcagatgcc tggaatgaag cctggtccgg attccattgg   240
              aatcattgct atttctcacg gttgcgctgg tgtggcagca cgcgcctgtg gcctagttgg    300
              tctcgagcct acaagggtcg cagagatcgt caaggatcgg ccttcgtggt tccgcgaatg    360
              ccgagctgtt gatgttatga acgtgttgcc aacagccaat ggtggaacca ttgagctgct    420
              ttatatgcag ctctatgcac caactacgtt ggccccaccg cgcgacttct ggctgctgcg   480
              ttatacatct gttttagaag atggcagcct tgtggtgtgc gagaggtctc ttaagagcgg   540
              tcctagtatg ccaccggttc aacattttgt tagagcagag atgcttccca gtgggtactt   600
              gatacggcct tgtgatggtg gtggttccat catacacatt gtggatcata tggatttaga   660
              ggcttggagt gtgcctgagg tcttgcgccc tctct                              695
              <210>   72
              <211>   813
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (749)..(749)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 72
              gtcgaccacg cgtccgggag accttggcgg agttcctttg caaggctaca ggaactgctg     60
              tcgactgggt tcagatgatt gggatgaagc ctggtccgga ttcgattggc atcgtcgctg   120
              tttcacgcaa ctgcagtgga atagcagcac gtgcctgtgg cctcgtgagt ttagaaccca   180
              tgaaggttgc tgaaatcctc aaagatcgtc catcttggtt ccgtgactgt cgaagtgttg   240
                                                       72

<removed-date>
              agactctgag tgttataccc actggaaatg gtggtactat cgagctcatc aacactcaga   300
              tttatgctcc cacaacacta gcagcagctc gtgacttttg gaccctgaga tacagtacta   360
              gtctagaaga tggaagctat gtggtttgtg agaagtcact cactgctgca actggtggcc   420
              ccaatggtcc actttcttcg agctttgtga gagctaaaat gctttcaagc gggtttctca   480
              tccgtccttg tgacggtggt ggttccatca tccacattgt tgatcatgtt gatttggatg   540
<removed-apn>
              tttcaagtgt tcctgaagtc ctgaggcctc tctatgagtc ttctaaaatt ctcgctcaaa   600
              aaatgacagt tgctgctttg agacatgtga ggcaaattgc tcaagagact agtggagaag   660
              ttcagttcag tggtggacgc cagcctgcag tcttaagaac ttttagccaa agactctgcc   720
              gggggtttca atgatgctgt gaatggttnt gcggatgatg gatggtctcc aatgagtagt   780
              gatggaggag aggatattac tataatgatc aac                                813
              <210>   73
              <211>   653
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 73
              cccctacagt tgagtcgtat tagcccggca taggacccct ttttctgaga accaacatcc    60
              ataatacctt tgtgaaggtg tacaagtcag ggtcttttgg acgatcacta gatataacga   120
              agtttagcag ctaccacgag ctgcgaagcg agcttgctcg catgtttggc ctagaaggcc   180
              agttagaaga ccctgtgaga tcaggctggc agcttgtatt tgtcgaccga gagaacgatg   240
              ttcttctcct cggcgatgac ccttggccgg agtttgtgag cagtgtgtgg tgcataaaga   300
              tactgtcacc acaagaagtg cagcagatgg ggaaaagagg ccttgagctt ctcaactcag   360
              ctcctccatc ctcgaacaac aacgtcgtcg agaagctccc gagcaataac gggaactgcg   420
              atgactttgg gaaccggtca gacccgagga accttggtaa cggtattgca tccgttgggg   480
              gttcgttcaa ctactagaga agaaaaaccc ttttcttggt aatcaagtta ttatgtttat   540
              caaaaatagt atttcatctt cttagtttta attactagta agctaaactg tctttattac   600
              ttacaaaagg gagctttgcg ttggcctttg tggagacaaa aaaaacaact aaa          653
              <210>   74
              <211>   506
                                                     73

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (502)..(503)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (505)..(505)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 74
              cccacgcgtc cgcggacgcg tgggataatg agctgagaga agagttgggt aaaatgtttg    60
              acatcaaagg gttgttggaa gacgccttta gatcaggctg gcagcttgta ttcgtggaca   120
              aggaggatga cattcttctt ctcggcgatg atccttggga gtcatttgtg aatagcgttt   180
              ggtacataaa gatactgtcg ccagatgatg tgcacaaaat gggtgaacat ggggaaggat   240
              cctccttccc acagaacctc acccatttct gattgatcta tctcatttgg gggcatcatc   300
              acaatgtttc ccttgctttt atctgtttga atgtgtctgt atgaacgtat catttcgcaa   360
              gttgggtctt agaaacttaa aaagacactt ggtctggacg cactgtctta aaaacatatg   420
              tttctttggt agcaacatta actcgtcttg ctgtaataat tagactcttc tgttactgta   480
              atgcccctgt gctactcttt annana                                        506
              <210>   75
              <211>   1353
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (635)..(635)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (660)..(660)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (667)..(667)
                                                     74

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (697)..(697)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (712)..(712)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (717)..(717)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (721)..(721)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (730)..(730)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 75
              gtacgacgat caaaacaaaa ataaaatact ttaattcaac tcaattccac aaaaattata    60
              tatttttttc tttcttcctc tcctcctcag atcgttcctc ttcatctcct tcaatcactc   120
              ttaagactct tccgagacgg tgtgttcgct ctttgattga atggaaagtg aagacatgca   180
              ttcgaaacct gacggtggga atcagatcgt ttcagaggcg gttcatcatc actccataaa   240
              tagtttaaac ccttggcaac gtgctgctgc tgctgcctgc aacgcaagtt ctttagtgga   300
              ggaagctgga gataagtcta tagcgttgga gagccaagac aattgggaat caacgaacgg   360
              gtccaagtca ccatctagta gagatgaaaa tggtaacaag gaatcaccac aagtcacatc   420
              ctctccccaa gaatcagctg gagattacag tgaaaaaagt caagaacttg tgcatgttgg   480
              cgtcacagga cctcctcacc ctcaacttgt tagccacaca gttggatggg catcctcaaa   540
              tccataccag gatccttatt atgctggaat gatgggagcc tatcccatgg cttatgttcc   600
              atatggtggg atgcctcatt caagaatgcc actgnctcct gaggtggcac aggaaacagn   660
              tttatgntaa tgctaaacag taccaggcca ttctgangcg taggcaagca cncgccnagg   720
              nagagcttgn aatgagctaa tcaaatccag aaagccttat ctccatgaat ctcggcatca   780
                                                    75

<removed-date>
              gcatgctatg gaggaggcct aggggcacct ggaggacggt ttgcaaagaa aactaacacc    840
              gaagcttcac agccaaaacc tggagaaaag aacaatgcta ctcagtcccc gacgtcatct    900
              cactctgacc aacctgaagc ctggaatgat gagtgtagaa aacagtctga agagatgcaa    960
              agctcagctt ctaagagaag ggaagaagca gaagaccgtt cagggcaaca atggaacagc   1020
              atttcctcaa accatacttc tcaagctcgt ctagccatca aatgacatct ccactggcaa   1080
<removed-apn>
              ctcattcttg gctttctctt tgttggctta tttggtagca gccattgaag agtcctctgt   1140
              acaaatactt ctgtgttttt cttcttttgg gatatgtcaa atgttactgc tttcttttgt   1200
              caactctctt tagcacattt ttgaatccaa aactatgtgt ttaaaactaa attccaaagt   1260
              gtgcaaactg aaaaaaagag taattgaata cccacaaaat ctttcaagac tttcttggaa   1320
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaacat gtc                                1353
              <210>   76
              <211>   1250
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 76
              gaaaacttgc tcagatcgtt catcttccaa gcggaagcgt ctccttccat caccgtagac     60
              gccttccgtg acggtctcta ctcgctcttt ccctgaatgg aaactgaaga catgcattca    120
              aaatctgaaa gtgggaatca gatcgtttca gaggctcatc atcatacatc atcaacgtcc    180
              attaacagtt taaacccttg gctgcgtgct gctgcttcct gcaatgcaaa ctcttctgtg    240
              gaagaagctg gagataagtc gatagcattg gagaaccaaa ccaatttgga atcatcaaac    300
              gggtccaagt caccatctaa ccgagatgaa aatggtaaca aggagtcaca agtcacagcc    360
              tctccccaac agtcagctgc ggattacagt gaaaaaagcc aagaacttgt gcatcctggc    420
              agtacaccac ctcctcaccc tcaacttgtt agccacactg ttggatgggc atcctcaaat    480
              ccataccagg attcatatta tgctggaatg atgggagcct atcccttgac ttatgttcca    540
              cacggtggga tgcctcattc aagaatgcaa ctgcctcctg agatggcaca agaacctgtt    600
              tacgtgaatg ctaaacagta ccaggcgatt atgaggcgaa ggcaggcacg cgccaaggct    660
              gagctagaga agaagcttat caaatccaga aagcgttatc tacatgaatc tcggcatcag    720
              catgctatga ggaggcctag gggtactgga ggacggtttg caaagaaaac taacaccgaa    780
                                                     76

<removed-date>
              gcttcacagc aaaaagatgg agaaaagaga aatgcttgtg ctactcagtc cccgacgtca    840
              tctcattctg atcagcatga aggttgtagt gatgagtata gaacaaatca gtccgatgag    900
              atgcagagtt cagcttataa gataagggaa gaagcagact gttcagggca gcagtggaac    960
              aacatttcct caaaccatcc ttctcaacct cttttagcta tcaagtaacc tctacgctgg   1020
              caaatcattc ttggctctat ctttgttggc ttatgtgtta gcagccattg aagagttatc   1080
<removed-apn>
              tcagttttct tctttcttgt tttgtacaaa cactagtgtg cttatgttag aatgcttctt   1140
              tgtcaacacc ctttaggttt aataacaaac ttgaagtttt gaatccgaaa ctatgtgatt   1200
              gagaactaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaatgaa gaaaaaagag agtaatggag              1250
              <210>   77
              <211>   736
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 77
              gataaaaatt gctttttttt ttcttcttcc tctgactgaa accaactcag atcgttcctc     60
              ttcgcctccg ggacggtcta ttcgctcttt tgattgaatg gaaactgaag acatgcaatt    120
              caaaatctga cagtaggagt cagaacacta gtgcaagttc ttttgtggaa gaagctggag    180
              acagaccacc accatctagt agagatggaa atggtaacaa agagacacaa gtcacaacct    240
              ctccccaatc agctggtgat tacagtgaaa aaagtcaaga acttgtggat ccttgcatta    300
              caacacctca acttgttagc cacacagttg tataatcttt gatctagctg ataaaatttc    360
              aataatttta tgacaacaca agaaccagtt tacgtgaatg ctaaacagta ccaggcgatt    420
              ctgaggcgaa ggcaggctcg tgccaaggca gagttagaga agagaaatgc ttgtcgtact    480
              cagtccccaa catcatctag ctctgatcag cctgaagctt ggaatgataa gaatagaaca    540
              caatccaagg agatgcagag cacagcttgt aagagaaggg aagaagcaga ctgctcaggt    600
              cagcaatgga acatcatttc cttaaatcat ccttctcaag ctcgtctagc aatcaagtga    660
              cgttgtctag aggcaactca ttcttggctt ttctctttgt tggctttttt tgctacttgt    720
              gctcttttct ttttgc                                                    736
              <210>   78
              <211>   1093
                                                     77

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 78
              ggaggtttag tcttttaagc catagccaat actacactta tttgcagaga cagagagaga     60
              gagggagaca gaagaaacag ccatgttttg aggaaggaga catgcatcat catcatcatc    120
              tcaagcttat tacttaactt ctatttctct ccatcttttg ccacatccaa acaccctctt    180
              ttgcttgaat cagtgacaga caatgcaagt cccaacaaat tcaaacattc aaggatctca    240
<removed-apn>
              atcctttagc ttaacaaaga acctgatgat gccctgcaag atgaagcatt cgggtttaca    300
              gctgcaagat caagattcat cctcaacaca atctactgaa gaatcaggcg gtggttacat    360
              agtaagccca cagggaaagg ctattgcaag ttataccaaa tcaacaacca cctcgtccat    420
              ggtgtctcac gattctgtgt ttcctcctac ttatttcaat ggcttcttgg ctcctgaata    480
              tgcatcccaa tcaacggtgc tgcctcatgt agagatgatg ggtttggtta cttcaagagt    540
              gccattgcct cataactatc aagagaatga accaatgttc gtcaatgcca aacagtacca    600
              tgccattctt cgtcgcagga agcatcgtgc taagcttgaa gctcagaaca aactcatcaa    660
              aagccgtaaa ccgtaccttc atgagtctcg ccatcttcat gctttaaaga gagcaagagg    720
              ctccggtggg cgtttcctca atacaaagaa gcttcaagaa tcatcatcaa actccctctg   780
              ttctagttcg gccacaccca gctccagttc agaccgtgac aacatgttcc agaacccacc   840
              gttcagattc tcagggtatc catcaacaca ccatgtctca gctctcatgt cagggacgtg    900
              agagtcataa tcttgctcca gttgaaaagg ggaagtcata cttggctata aaagtgttat    960
              ttgcttcttt acaaagtttc tgccttttaa aaattatgtt gtttttctat catctcatca   1020
              tctgcaactt cactcaactc tacattgaag taactttcat attcaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1080
              aaaaaaaaaa aaa                                                      1093
              <210>   79
              <211>   933
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (50)..(50)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                     78

<removed-date>
              <400> 79
              ctcccgtcgt cttcctcgtc tttacctccg gttccgccgc cgggaacggn cgggcgatga    60
              ccaaacggtc atcatcgagc agctgttcaa cgcggcggag cttatcggga acaataacaa   120
              caacggcgac cacaccgctc tcgcgcaagg gatattggcg cggctcaatc accatcctca   180
              gctacaacaa caataacaat aacaagaacc ctccgtttca aagagcggct tctcacataa   240
              ccgaatctct ctcactcatc aacagctcat acccaccgtt aatctcacca gagaatctga   300
<removed-apn>
              tccttcgaat cgctgcgtac agaacattct ccgaaacgtc gccgtttctt caattcgtca   360
              acttcacagc gaaccagtcg attctcgagt catgcaacga cgagctgggg tttgatcgga   420
              tccacattat cgacttcgac gttggatacg gaggacaatg gtcgtcgttg atgcaagagc   480
              ttgcttcaag gagaagaaac agagcatcgt ctttgaaaat aacggttttt gctcctcctc   540
              cgtcgacggt ttccgacgag ttcgagctca gattcacgga ggagaacctc agaagcttcg   600
              ccggggaagt caagattccg tttgagatcg agctgttgag cctcgagctt cttctgaacc   660
              cagcttattg gcctgtctct ctccgttcgt cggagaaaga agctgtcgcg gtgaatcttc   720
              ccgttaactc cgtcgtgtcc ggttaccttc cgttaatact ccgttttctc aaacagatct   780
              ctccaaacgt cgtcgtttgt tcggacagag gatgtgaccg taacgacgcg ccgtttccta   840
              acgctgtgat ccacgcgctt cagtaccaca ccactctgct tgagtctctt gatgctaatc   900
              aagggcacga ggatgagagt gttgagaggt ttt                                933
              <210>   80
              <211>   738
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (174)..(174)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (681)..(681)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 80
              gcggccgccc tggttttttt tttttatcca attcccatat atccaagcat tatgtgaact    60
                                                     79

<removed-date>
              tatgtaatac atattaccag atcgaggaaa aattaattcg atttaagttc ctgagaaatt   120
              ttcttagcct aatataacaa gacgttgaaa gagaaatgaa caaacgaaaa gccngtaatt   180
              aatttaatga ccaagaacat atgagacttt aaaggtacat tttaccctga aattgtttct   240
              tgtaagttaa agattcaagg tctcatgaga ggaggttgga agccattggt ctgcagccaa   300
              ttctgatgag aagtaggagt agaattaaaa atctgattgt gattatgagg agagaatcct   360
<removed-apn>
              gatgatgctg cagcatttgc caacacttgg ttcgcggtgg tccgaccttc aaactggtgg   420
              ttctcggtca ccggaaacag cgagaatcct cctccgcggt gaatgttact gctgcccgga   480
              aattggtgaa cagaattggg gatatagtta accattccgg tttgacctaa tccgagaatc   540
              tcattagagt ggagggaatc ttgttggttc atcttgagcc gcatatcttg acccttatgc   600
              ttcgaattaa ccgagtttcc caaactcaaa tcgaggttat gatcctgttg aataggattc   660
              cctgatgact cggcattcag ntcttcgtcg tatatgcttg aataaagtta gtcacagcat   720
              ctttgccatt acatttga                                                 738
              <210>   81
              <211>   465
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 81
              cgacaccgag gttgaagctg ctagagctta cgataaagct gcaatcaaat gtaatggcaa    60
              agacgctgtg actaactttg atccaagcat atacgacgac gaattgaatg ccgagtcatc   120
              agggaatcct attcaacaag atcataacct cgatttgagt ttgggaaact cggttaattc   180
              gaagcaaaag ggtcaagata tgcggctcaa gatgaaccaa caagattctc ttcatcctaa   240
              tgagattctt ggattgggtc aaaccggaat ggttaaccat atcccaaatt caaatctcca   300
              atttcggggc agcagcaaca ttggtggcgg aggaggattc tcactatttc cggtggctga   360
              gaaccaccgg tttgatggtc ggaccacgac gaaccaagtg ttggcaaatg ctgcagcatc   420
              atcaggattc tctcctcatc atcacaatca gatttttaat tccac                   465
              <210>   82
              <211>   407
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
                                                     80

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(1)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (370)..(370)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (376)..(376)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 82
              nttagatgaa ggtttggtgc tattgttcgt gaatgcaaag ggctaaggcg attgtcaata    60
              tcgggtcttc tcaccgacaa ggttttcatg tatattggta aattcgcgaa acaacttgag   120
              atgctttcaa tagcatttgc tggagatagt gatgcgggaa tgatgcatgt tatggaagga   180
              tgcaataatc tgaggaagct ggagattaga gatagcccat ttggtgatgc tgcactcctg   240
              gagaatgtta ccaagtatga tacaatgcga tccctttgga tgtcatcatg caatgtcaca   300
              gaaaagggat gccaaatcct tgcatcaaag atgccaatgc ttaatgtgga ggttataaat   360
              gaggtagatn agagcnatga aatggatgag aaccatggaa tccccaa                 407
              <210>   83
              <211>   679
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 83
              gatttggagc catagtagag cactgcaaag atctccggcg gctctcccta tcggggctgt    60
              tgaccgacaa ggttttcgaa tacattggga catatgcaaa gaagatggag atgctgtcag   120
              tggcgtttgc aggagagagt gacttgggaa tgcatcatgt gttgtcaggg tgcgatagtt   180
              tgaggaagct tgagataagg gactgcccgt ttggagacaa ggcgctattg gccaatgctt   240
              cgaagctgga gacaatgcga tctctttgga tgtcttcttg ttcggtgagt tttggagcct   300
              gcaagttatt aggacagaag atgccaaagc tcaatgtgga agtcattgat gaaagaggtc   360
              cgccggactc gagaccagag agctgccctg ttgagagagt gtttatatac cgaacagtgg   420
                                                     81

              cgggtcctcg gtttgacatg cctggcttcg tgtggaacat ggaccagcaa cactcaacca   480
<removed-date>
              tgagggtttg ccaggcaaat ggtcactact aaaaaataaa cgaggaacac gagagagaga   540
              gagagagaga gagctccatt aatttaatcc tgagctgctt catatgacta ccaagctaat   600
              gagcaaagaa tgagtgaaga gagagggagg acatagagag aaagagatcc gagagacctt   660
              tgttgtatgt ttgtttgtc                                                679
<removed-apn>
              <210>   84
              <211>   541
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 84
              ccctctcgtg cggtgcgata gcctgaggaa actagagata agggactgcc cgtttggaga    60
              caaggcgcta ttggccagtg cttcgaagct ggagacaatg cgatctcttt ggatgtcttc   120
              ttgttccgtg agttttggag cctgtaagtt attattacat aagatgccaa agctcaatgt   180
              ggaagtcatc gatgagcggg gtccacctga ctcgagacct gagagctgcc ctgttgagag   240
              agtggtttat ataccgaaca gtagcgggtc ctcggtttga catgcctgac ttcgtctgga   300
              acatggacca acagtcatca atgagtgttt aacgaaaaac taaacgagct acattctttc   360
              attaaatcct tgctcatcat ctccccatat aaatcgttcc agtttaggaa catgggagag   420
              aaagaggggt tggccttcat tagtttattt ctggggctgc ttcatataac aacctagctc   480
              atgagcaacg agtaagagga aaagagagga tccgagaggt tccaagagac ctttatatat   540
              a                                                                   541
              <210>   85
              <211>   470
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 85
              agccggtggc tatccaaagc acgctttact tcatgttaac ggagcccgaa gggatattgt    60
              cctacgacat ggtctcaggg cagtggaagc agtacatcat accgggtcca ccggacctga   120
              gcgatcacac gctagcggag tgcggggaga ggttgttgct ggtgggtctt ctgacgaaaa   180
              acgctgccac gtgcgtgtgc atatgggagc tgcagaagat gacgctgctg tggaaggagg   240
              ttgacagaat gccaaacata tggtgcttgg agttttacgg aaaggcacgt gaggatgaat   300
                                                     82

<removed-date>
              tgtctaggca acaaagggtg tctgatgatg ttgtccttga ggtcccagac agatgaaccg   360
              tctgattacc tacaatgctg ttactaggga atgggccaag gtccctggtt gtaccgttcc   420
              tcgtgggaga aaaaggcttt tggatcgctt gcggaacggc gtttcattcc              470
              <210>   86
              <211>   575
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 86
              gacttcaaaa cagaatcaaa tatccacttt ctctctctct ccctccacta gagaaaagct    60
              tgaaccaaag caaattcata ttttgattct ccttcaatgg cttccatgtc caccgccttc   120
              cccaaaacaa ctcctttcct ctctcatcct ctcaccaaat ccgattccct gatcgcaacc   180
              accgtttcat ttccctccag cgcgagatct cgcagcctcc gaagagccac cctccgcgta   240
              cgatccgcgc tgatcgagcc agacggcggg aagctggtgg agcttgtggt cccggagacg   300
              cgacgaaggg agaagaagca cgaggcggcg gatttgccga gagtgaaact gacggcgatc   360
              gatttgcagt ggatgcacgt gttgagcgaa ggctgggcaa gtccgcttag agggtttatg   420
              cgggaagctg agttccttca aactcttcat ttcaattcgc ttcgtctcga cgacggatcc   480
              ggcgtcaata tgtctgtacc tatcgttctc gccatcgatg atgaaaagaa agctctaatc   540
              ggagaatcta aacgtgtcgc gcttgtttga ttccg                              575
              <210>   87
              <211>   458
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 87
              ttaattatta caagattttt gattaatcaa tgtgcttgta agagacacaa caacaagaca    60
              acttcctcaa tggcttcttc agccgccatc gtcttctccg gttctccttt tcgatcatca   120
              ccaatcaata accatcgtgt ttccctctac gcctctagac ccgtctctct ccgtcgacgc   180
              ggagcttttt cccaccgcgg tctcgccgtg aaagcggctc tgatcgagcc ggacggaggg   240
              aagctcatgg acctcgtcgt cgaggaatcg aagcggcgcg tgatgaaacg caaggcggag   300
              acggttcccg taaggatcat gctgaatcgc gtggatctcg agtgggtaca cgtgctcagc   360
                                                       83

              gaaggctggg cgagcccgct ccgaggcttc atgagacagt cagagttcct ccaaacactt   420
<removed-date>
              catttcaact cgatccggct cgaagacggc tccgtcgt                           458
              <210>   88
              <211>   499
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 88
<removed-apn>
              caattgaatt tggtaacaaa cattttctct caaatctcaa ctcggaagcc tgagagagag    60
              agagaacctt cgatggcttc catgtctgcc gtcctcagca aatccccttt cctctctcag   120
              cctctctcca aatctccatc ctccgatctc cccttctccg ccgcaaccgt ctctttcccc   180
              tcgaaatcgc accgtcgcgg cggagtaatc cgcgccggac tcatctcccc cgacggcggg   240
              aagctcgtgg agctcgtggt ggcggagccg cgacggcggg agaagaagca cgaggcggcg   300
              gagctgcccc gcgtggagct cacgtcgatc gacgtgcagt ggatgcacgt gctgagcgaa   360
              ggctgggcaa gtccgctcgg aggcttcatg agagaatccg agttcctcca aactcttcat   420
              ttcaactcgc ttcgtcttga cgacggatcc gtcgtcaaca tgtccgtgcc tatcgtgctc   480
              gctattgacg acgagcaga                                                499
              <210>   89
              <211>   445
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 89
              ccaaccattc cccccctcca tctgctttct cgcgggcaaa taaaaacgtg tagaacgacg    60
              gtgtagtagg cagatctact ccttgtgccg ctacgctagc ccgctaccga agatcgggcc   120
              cgtttcaacc ggttcgttgg tctgagcgga gctaagatgg ggcgcatttc attttttggt   180
              cctttcgtct gattggagaa gtgcccattc cggtatcgct ccccggcctc caaatacgca   240
              ccgacacaga acgtgttcgt acgcacgtac acatgttggg tacgggccct acttcggcaa   300
              gaaggtggac ccggagccag gaaggtgccg gcgtacggac ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc   360
              caaggaggcc gccccggact ccaagtactg cgagcgccac atgcaccgcg gccgcaaccg   420
              ttcaagaaag cctgtggaag cgcag                                         445
                                                     84

              <210>   90
<removed-date>
              <211>   745
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 90
              gacactctct ctcttcccta tgcatttaaa cggtgaagaa cagagcaaag agactttatt    60
              ctcttgttaa agtttttttt tctttttggg aggtgggttt tgtttcttaa ggtctctagt   120
              ttcaaaagct gtctcctttt tctcgaatgg aagaagagaa acacagttta cagagtaaca   180
<removed-apn>
              agatgcagag ccctaaaaca gaggaggggg atgagtggag gaggaagaag tggccgtgta   240
              tgaaagctgc tcagttacaa gagtttagaa tgcaagcttt ggtttataga tacatagaag   300
              ctggtgttcg cgtgccgaat catcttgtgg tgcctatttg gaatagtctt gctctctctt   360
              cttcttcttc ctccagttac cttatccacc acaactatcc ctcctcttcc aatgcagtgt   420
              tgaatgataa ggtggatcct gaacccacaa ggtgcaggag aacagatggg aagaaatggc   480
              ggtgtagcaa caaagtcctc ctgtttcaga agtactgtga acggcacatg catagaggcc   540
              gtaagcgttc aagaaagctt gtggaatctt cttcttctta tgacgttgct tcgtcgtctg   600
              cttcaaccaa acgagacaac actgatggtc tgaacagtag tactgagagt cggagtgttt   660
              ctcatggggc aatgtcagtt tctagtaatg ctcaggttgt caccatggct tcactgccta   720
              gtgcaagagt ctgtgataca tccct                                         745
              <210>   91
              <211>   879
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 91
              gactaaaaaa acgttcgaat cggtgaagag gtttggctaa tcgctcgagg tttgacctga    60
              gatcacaaca gaatcaatct ctactcgaaa cccttccgag tcaccatcac gatgtggaga   120
              agaatcgtct cttccggtct caaaacccta gccgccgatg tcgccgtcgc ttctccttct   180
              cgtcgatcga ttcccgccgc cgcgagaccc gtcggcttcc acctctctgc cgatcgatca   240
              tccgtttctg ctcccgcctc cttcatcact cgccatttca gctcggaacc agtagtaggg   300
              acctctgcga ctaagaaggt ggaggatgtg atgcccattg ctactggtca tgagaaggaa   360
              gagcttgaag ctgaacttga ggggaggagg ttgcttgaca ttgacttccc cgaaggtcct   420
                                                     85

              tttggaacaa aggaagctcc tgctattgta aaatcctact atgacaagcg gattgtgggt   480
<removed-date>
              tgccctggtg gggaaggaga ggaggagcac gatgttgtgt ggttttggct ggagaaagga   540
              aagtcttttg agtgtccggt ctgcactcag tactttgagc tggaagtggt tggtcctggt   600
              ggacctcccg atggtcacgg tgatgaagac gatgagcacc atcactgaga gactaacgtt   660
              ttgttttcag ggttttcaaa agttctactt ctacatttct ttgttggaat aaacaaatgg   720
              ttttcgatcc ttttgaaaca caccccaggc atcggagttc taaatgcccc aactcttatg   780
<removed-apn>
              accgtggttt cccccttttt tgtaacactc ttgaatctga atcggtcttg cctcttgagc   840
              agaatgttca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa                          879
              <210>   92
              <211>   585
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 92
              tactcgtgca tgcgctttgc cagaaaggcc ttatgggtaa cacaaagctt cttgaagaga    60
              ttttagatag tagccaagcg aatgcgccct tggatatagt cacttgcacc attctgatgg   120
              atagttgttt taagagtggg gatgtggttc aagcccttgg ggtttggaag gagatgtcgg   180
              agaagaacgt ccgtgctgat tcggttgtgt acaatgtcct tatccgtggc ttatgttcga   240
              gtggttacat ggtagatgct tatgggatca tgtgtgacat ggtgaagaaa ggagttagtc   300
              ctgatgtttt tacttacaat actctcataa gcgccttgtg caaggaggga aagtttgatg   360
              aggcatgtgg tatccatggc accatgaaac gagctggtgt tgctcctgat cagatctcat   420
              acaaagtcat cattcaaggt ctatgtatcc acggagatgt ggctagggcg aacgagtttc   480
              ttttgaccat gctaaagagc tctctgcttc cggaggttct gctatggaac gtggtgattg   540
              atggctatgg aagatgtggg gatactagca gcgctttatc tgttc                   585
              <210>   93
              <211>   752
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 93
              aattaagtca catcagtttt caattaaaga tactgttaca ctcatacaaa aagatggcaa    60
              acttgagtac actcgttggt tgcattgcca tcatcttctt cactgtcgtt gcacctgcct   120
                                                     86

<removed-date>
              cctcagccac tcattctgtc gaatggtcgc ttgggaagga ctatagctcc ttggctactg   180
              gaaaacctta tgccattggc gatacaatcg tgttcaacta cggtgcgggt cacacggtgg   240
              acgaagtgag tgaaagtgac tacaaaagtt gcacattggg gaactcaatt tcttccgaca   300
              gtagcggaac cacaagcata gctctcaaga cagctggttc tcactacttc atttgcgcta   360
              tccccggcca ctgtgccggc ggcatgaagc tctctgtcaa cgtaggtgca gcagcctctt   420
<removed-apn>
              cagacggtgg cggtgacact ggtgacggta ccaccgccaa aactacacct tctccgacgt   480
              tagaaggcgg aaaggctgct cctactgctt ctgccactcc tgtgttgaag ccgttccagg   540
              ctttggttgt gacttgtgta gttgcgttat tatatgcttc ggctctttct tagttgcctt   600
              taagtgtatt ggtgtggttt gactcgtctg aaagtcaggc tagaggcagt gctattagcc   660
              ctatttttat tgttacatgc ttcttgttgt gatttagtta ttctatggta ttaattacat   720
              gtgctaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aagggcggcc gc                                 752
              <210>   94
              <211>   662
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 94
              aaggaatcat tcgattacta cttttgaacg acaccgtttt ggattgccta gacctctctc    60
              tctctcccat ggccaccgtc gggcttcttc ggtctctccg ccgccgagaa gtctacgtag   120
              tttctgtctc ttcggcgtat agattcagtt atgctagcgc cggcgggagg acgacggagc   180
              tccggttacc cggagtcaaa gatataaacg ccgttgcgtc tggtaaaggc ggagtaggaa   240
              agtcttcgac tgctgtgaac ttagctgttg cattggccaa caaatgtgaa ctgaagatcg   300
              gattgcttga tgcggatgtg tatggacctt ctgttcctat catgatgaac atcaatcaaa   360
              agcctcaagt caaccaagat atgaaaatgg ttccagtgga gaactatgga gttaaatgca   420
              tgtccatggg actccttgtt gataatgatg caccacttgt gtggagaggt cctatggtaa   480
              tgagtgctct tgctaagatg actagaggag ttgattgggg agatctcgat cttcttgttg   540
              ttgatatgcc tcctggaacc ggtgatgctc agattaccat cttccaaaat cttaaactct   600
              caggggctgt aattgtatca actccacacg atgttgcgct cgctgatgct aatccaggga   660
              tc                                                                  662
                                                     87

<removed-date>
              <210>   95
              <211>   749
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (608)..(608)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 95
              agcgactgca aaagttgact tgctctttcg ttgcaactca tatctcttct tccaaagaac    60
              ggtcgctgaa aggtgaatca gatagaaccg agttgcagat ctgtttcata aaaggaaatc   120
              agtgatggct gatgaaggtg tgtcagcgat ggttgaggga gttgtgtcct ttggaatgga   180
              gaaactctgg gacctcctga gtcgagaatc tgagcgattg cagggagtgc acgagcatgt   240
              tgatgatcta aaacgccaga tgagaaagtt acagtcattg ttgaaagatg cagatgccag   300
              gaaacataaa aatgaagcta gtgagaagct tcttggaaga tgtcaaagac attgttttcg   360
              atgcagaaga tataatcgaa tcctttcttt tgaaagaatt tagtggaaac caaaaaggga   420
              tcaagaggcg tgtgaaaaga ctttcttgtt tcttagtgga ccgcctatgt ctttctaggg   480
              acattgaagg cataactaag agaatagtca aggttgttgg acaaatgcag agctttggaa   540
              tacagcatag cgtcaacaaa ccaccgcctc tacaaaagag acagaggcag atccaacaaa   600
              catatccnaa gagatctcaa aaggatcttg tgggggtgga acagagtgtt aatgaattgg   660
              ttggtcattt ggtggagaat gatagcatcc aagtagtttc catatctggg atgggtggta   720
              ttgggaaaac cactcttgcc agacaagtc                                     749
              <210>   96
              <211>   1503
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 96
              gtctctctct accattattc taacaagtga aagacgaaga agagataatc agacccaaaa    60
              atggcgactc tttcgtcctc tctattatct tcttctcctc tatgcaaatc cagattctct   120
              ccatcgagaa ctgacttcat ctctttctcc cctcgaagaa ctctctccgt cgcctcgccg   180
                                                     88

              gcgattctct ctctctccgt caaacatcat cgctgcagaa actctttcca agtgagatca    240
<removed-date>
              gtagctagtc cggcggagac ggcgtcggag ttcgatgaga tggtcctccg ggacgaagag    300
              gaagtattac atgcttggag ggaaaggagg agtggggaaa actagctgcg cagcttcttt    360
              ggctgtgagg tttgctaaca atggtcaccc aactcttgtt gtctccactg atccagctca    420
              ttccttgagt gactcctttg ctcaggactt gactggagga atgcttgtgc ctgttgaagg    480
              acctgaagct cctttgtttg ctcttgaaat aaaccctgag aaggctagag aagagtttcg    540
<removed-apn>
              cagtgcctct caggcgaatg gagggactgg ggttaaagat tttatggatg gtatgggact    600
              tggcatgctt gttgaacagt tgggggaact taaacttggt gagttgcttg acacaccacc    660
              tcctggattg gatgaagcca ttgccatttc taaagtcatt cagtttttgg aatcacctga    720
              gtataacatg ttcaccagga tcgtgtttga cactgcacca acgggtcata cgctgaggct    780
              actctcctta ccagacttcc ttgacgcctc cataggtaaa atcttgaagc ttaggcagaa    840
              aataacctca gctacctcag caatcaaatc agtctttggg aaagaagata acaagcctga    900
              tgctgctgac aaattggaac ggctaagaga gaggatggtt aaagttagag agctttttcg    960
              tgacacagag tcaacagagt tcgtcattgt caccatcccc acggtaatgg ctgtcagcga   1020
              gtcttctaga ttaagtgctt cattgaagaa agaaagtgtc cccgtcaaaa gacttgttgt   1080
              taatcagatt ctccctccat cctcctctga ctgcaaattt tgttccataa aaagaaagga   1140
              ccaaatgcga gctcttgata tgatcaggga ggattcagaa ctctcaggct tgacattaat   1200
              gcaggctccg cttgtagaca tggagatcag aggcgttcct gctctgcgct tcttgggaga   1260
              tatcatttgg aaatgagaag aagaagaagc aaagttcagt tgtattgaga tagtagtgtt   1320
              gtttactaca acttacatta catagttttg gaataaatat tgcaattctt ggggaccaaa   1380
              agcttcaaga tatttacaat agttatgctt agaagaaaat atttatagaa caatgtttat   1440
              gacactctaa ttagccataa aaatgaactt ggaaacaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagggcggc   1500
              cgc                                                                 1503
              <210>   97
              <211>   667
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400>   97
                                                     89

              aaaaatgaaa agtactctaa cacttgtgag cggactatca tttaaaacag gaaactggta    60
<removed-date>
              tgacaatgac taggagcttg cgattctctg cgatgatgat gttggtgtta tcatcttctc   120
              cagcactggc aggctctacg atttctccag ctccagcatg aagtcggtaa tagagagata   180
              cagagatgcc aaatgtgaca ccaattcgga aatgaaccca gcttcagaaa tcaagttttg   240
              gcaaaatgag gctgcgattc tgaagcgaca gctacataac ttgcaagaaa accaccggca   300
              aatgatgggt gaagagctct ctggactaag tgtggaagat cttcagaaac tggagaatca   360
<removed-apn>
              gcttgagatg agccttggcg acgtacgaat gaaaaaggag caaatgttag tcgaagaaat   420
              aaaagaactc aaccgagagg gtaatctcgt gcaccaagag aatttagagc tccacaagaa   480
              agtaaacgta atgcaccagc agaacatgga gttacataag aaggtttcag aggttgagag   540
              tgtgaaaagc gcagacaaaa cttctcttct cacaaatggt ctagacatgg gaggtaactc   600
              gagcgaacat gtccatcttc agctcagcca accccagcag catgatgaga cacgttccaa   660
              agctatc                                                             667
              <210>     98
              <211>     471
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>     misc_feature
              <222>     (459)..(459)
              <223>     n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 98
              agaataagat aaaactcgtt tttcttgatc agatttgttg atggtcatct aaaacttata    60
              acctctcttt ttgtgtgtgt ctttattaat ttaatttaat tttacgtttt ggagaaatga   120
              agttctgtaa gaagtatgag gagtacatgc aaggacaaaa ggagaagaag aatctacctg   180
              gcgttggctt caagaagctc aagaaaattc tgaagagatg cagaagaaga gatcatcaga   240
              ttgcttcaat caatcaccaa catggcaaca actgtcctcg tgaatgcaca gtttgtgatg   300
              gaaccttctt cccggagctt ctcaaggaga tggaagatgt tgtgggatgg tttaacgaga   360
              atgctcagaa gcttctcgag ttacatttag cttctcgttt caaaaggtgt catacttggc   420
              tcaaaggcaa caacaatcgc aaaaggagcc atctcggtnt gatccaagaa g            471
                                                       90

<removed-date>
              <210>   99
              <211>   747
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 99
              attcccgggc ggccacgcgt ccgcttcaat aattttaata gatagtcccc acatgttaga    60
              actaaagctg gaaactcgcg cacgttatgc gcattttata gcaaacaccg cctcactttc   120
<removed-apn>
              aaactgtgga gggcaaagaa gaaggatgga gaaaagggaa gaaggaagga agactcatgt   180
              taaaagaggg ttgtggaaac ctgaagaaga catgatactt cgaagctata tcgacactca   240
              tggagaagga aactgggcag acatctctcg tagatccggt ccgaattcaa actctccaca   300
              tacgttatga tacttcgaag ctatatcgac actcatggag aaggaaactg ggcagacatc   360
              tctcgtagat ccggattgaa gagaggaggc aaaagctgtc ggttgagatg gaagaactac   420
              ctaagaccaa acatcaaaag aggaggcatg acggctcaag aacaagacct catcatccgc   480
              atgcataagc ttatcggcaa ccgatggtca ttgatcgcgg gtcgccttcc gggtaggact   540
              gacaacgaag tcaagaacta ctggaatacc catttgaaca agaaatccag ttccaggaaa   600
              caaaatgcaa ctgaatcagt ggaagccact ccatgggtcg acaagccagt tatgtctaca   660
              gaagtgagag gaagccatgg aggaggagag ggagaagagg gcactaccac tacctggatg   720
              gaggagacca acttcttcgc ccgcata                                       747
              <210>   100
              <211>   784
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 100
              gaatcatcgt cctcgatctt tacatgtcag ctaatttcgt cgcagcatat ataacaaagt    60
              tcttttccct tttgtagttg agatcgtcca gttcttcagg aacaaaagaa gcttctttct   120
              tttggtctgc aagaatggct gcaaatactt cagcttgtcc agcttttatg aaagcaacct   180
              ctaacggagt tttccaagga gataacccta tagacttcgc gttgcctctt gccattcttc   240
              agattgtcat cgttatcatt ctcactcgtc tccttgctta ccttttaaga ccccttagac   300
              agcctcgtgt cgttgcagaa gtcattggtg ggattatgct tggaccgtct cttcttggcc   360
              gttccaaggc ttttctagac gctgtgttcc caaagaatag cctaaccgtt ctagaaactc   420
                                                     91

<removed-date>
              tggctaacct tggccttctc ttcttccttt tcctcgccgg tttggagatt gacaccaaat   480
              ctcttcgcaa cacggggaaa aaggctttgg ggattgcact ggctggtatc tcactgccct   540
              ttgctcttgg cattggttct tcgtttgttc tcagagcaac aatctccaaa ggagtagaca   600
              gtgtggcctt tctcatcttc atgggtgtgg ctctctccat cactgccttc cctgtgttgg   660
              ctcgtatctt ggctgagctc aagcttctaa ccactgagat tggacgactc gccatgtcag   720
<removed-apn>
              cagctgcggt caacgacgtg gctgcttgga ttctcctcgc tctagccatt gctctctctg   780
              gatc                                                                784
              <210>   101
              <211>   458
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (446)..(446)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (457)..(457)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 101
              aaaaatctcc ataacacatt tctcgttctt tgtagctcgc ttcatcttat ctttctgtct    60
              ctagagatgg agggcgttag ggcttctctt gcttgcgctc ttcttctttt tgtagtctct   120
              tcaatagctt ctgcagccat tgtcgaacac accttcaacg tacaaaactt aaccatctct   180
              cggctgtgca aacggcaagt gataacggtt gttaatggaa gcctgcctgg accaacggta   240
              cgcgtcaagg agggtgactc gctcgttata catgtcatta acaattcccc tcacaacatc   300
              acaattcatt ggcacgggat attccataga ctgacggttt gggcggatgg accgagcatg   360
              ataacgcaat gcccaatcca gccagctggt catcgctacg cttacaggtt caacatcaca   420
              ggccaagaag gtaccttggg gggggnacgc acattcnc                           458
              <210>   102
              <211>   440
              <212>   DNA
                                                     92

              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
<removed-date>
              <400> 102
              atttaccagg acgaacagat aatgaaatca agaactattg gagaacccat tacaagaaga    60
              aagataaatc tttttcgaaa caagacaaat ttaaaagatc ccggaaacaa ctaggtatgc   120
              aaccgcaacc acataatcaa cgatctcaga tggtatctcg aaaccacatg aatcacgaca   180
              acgagcaaaa catagcttcc tctttctctt acccgactag tgtcattcac gaccaatttc   240
<removed-apn>
              atatgcctca aagtgttaca gcaacctcaa gcgatcactc catgaccgat gaaggtaact   300
              tgtggggcag cttgtggagt ctaaacgatg aagatcgtcc acaccgattt ggtggtggct   360
              gggaacagag aatagctgct gatatttctg agaagtttaa tggtgacaga attgaggctc   420
              cgccgtgtgg atcagggtag                                               440
              <210>   103
              <211>   853
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (13)..(13)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (25)..(25)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 103
              atttttggtt atnagtttgg tagtnaaata taggttgtta gttagtataa acgaaacatc    60
              ctaccggaac cctcttcctt ccttgcaaaa taaaacacat ccaattcctc ttccctgagc   120
              ttgaagagaa gaagcgatta aagagagaga gagggagaga tgggaaggtc accatgctgt   180
              gagaaagctc acatgaacaa aggagcttgg accaaagaag aagaccagct tctcgttgat   240
              tacatccgca aacacggcga aggttgctgg cgatctcttc ctcgagccgc agggttgcag   300
              agatgtggta agagttgtag gttgagatgg atgaattatc taagaccaga tctcaagaga   360
              ggtaatttca ctgaggaaga agacgaactc atcatcaaac tccatagctt attcggtaac   420
              aaatggtcgt tgatagctgg gagattacca ggaagaacag acaacgagat caaaaactat   480
                                                     93

              tggaacactc acatcaagag gaagcttctc agccgcggga tcgacccaaa cacccaccgt   540
<removed-date>
              ccgatcaacg gatccgcaac ccctccttcc aaaacgacga ctccgtctct tctacacgac   600
              gagccggttc aattcgattt agccaaaccg gatcaacatc aaacggttaa accggaacca   660
              acggtgctat accgcgaaga gggtgattat aataacaata actgcacgag cagcgaaacg   720
              acgtcggaag aggattgtgt actcaattta gaactctctg ttggtccggc tactacgagg   780
              agttaccggt acgagtcaac ccggaaggca aatcttgact cgatcgagtc cactggacgg   840
<removed-apn>
              tggggatccg agt                                                      853
              <210>   104
              <211>   1111
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (173)..(173)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 104
              gtgaaaagga gaatgtgaag agagggcaat ggactcctga agaagacaac aaactggctt    60
              cttacattgc tcaacatggt actcgtaatt ggcgtctcat ccctaaaaac gctggattgc   120
              agagatgtgg aaagagttgt agactacggt ggacaaacta tttgcgtcct ganctgaaac   180
              atggtcaatt ttctgaggct gaagaacata tcatcgtcaa gtttcactct gttcttggta   240
              accggtggtc gttgattgcg gcccagcttc ctggtcgaac agacaacgat gtgaaaaatt   300
              attggaacac aaagctgaag aagaagttgt cgggaatggg aatagatccc gtaacccaca   360
              agcctttctc gcatctaatg gcagagataa ccactacact caatcctcct caagtctcac   420
              acctcgctga agctgccctc ggatgtttca aggacgagat gcttcacttg ctcaccaaga   480
              aacgtgttga cctaaaccaa atcaacttct ccaaccctaa ccctaacaac tttaaccgaa   540
              ccgttgataa cgaagctggt aagatgaaaa tggatggttt ggagaatggt aatgggataa   600
              tgaagctatg ggacatgggg aatggattct cctatggatc ttcttcgtca tcgtttggaa   660
              atgaagacaa aaatgatgga tctgcgtctc ctgcggttgc ggtgtggagg ggtcagggtg   720
              gaatacgtac agcggtggct gaaactgcgg cagcggagga ggaagagagg aggaaattga   780
                                                     94

              agggagaagt ggtggaccaa gaggagaatg gatctcaagg aggaagagga gatggaatgt    840
<removed-date>
              tgatgatgag gagccagcat gatcaacatc aacatcatgt gtttaatgtg gacaatgtct    900
              tgtgggattt acaagctgat gatctcatta atcatgtggt ttgattcatt ttggatcaca    960
              ttggtagtta acatttggtt atgactgatt aggtgttatc tgttttcaga gattgaataa   1020
              gttttttgct ttctataaaa aaattattta gtaatgaaaa attgtaaata cataatttct   1080
              tttataatat ttccatcttc caaaagaaaa a                                  1111
<removed-apn>
              <210>   105
              <211>   802
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 105
              agaccagaag tgaaagttct attaagatcc agattaccca accagaagta tcagtcgaaa     60
              cataatctcc tagcccctcg tcagatgaaa ccagagacat tacgtttccc caaccccaac    120
              catcaaagtc catcaaatca gagaagagat actcagactg aattttatca aaatcgattt    180
              taagatctcc caacaacgaa ggagaaccag cttgatgatc aatcacgttt tccttcacag    240
              taagaagact ggtactacca atactactct gattctgaaa tgtcagagcc tttgggcacc    300
              taatcgcctt tggacgtata acacatactt tattcatgtt gttgttgttg gaatgttttc    360
              gacttttctg ttggttggtt tgtgattttg gaagtctttt gcggaggttt gagttccagt    420
              ggttctttat ttcattgtct gttcgccctg gaagcctccc agctatcaac gaccatctgt    480
              ttccaaggag attatggagg cggattataa gttcttcttc atcagatgag atgtttccgc    540
              gctttatgcc tggtctcaag tagttcttcc accgaagtct gcagcttttg ccacacctct    600
              tgagaccagc ttggtttggg agtgtgctcc attttccttc gccgtggaac atgatatagt    660
              ctttaaggat cttgtcttct tgatcggtcc cagctcctct gtttaactcc tctttcttcc    720
              ccctactcct ttctctcttt ctcatcatct ctcttgttgt tgtgtggttg gtagacttgt    780
              ctttagcgtt gtgttgagaa tc                                             802
              <210>   106
              <211>   430
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
                                                     95

              <400> 106
<removed-date>
              ttcgaaacca taatacttca cacatgtttc ataatagagt aaatggcgaa aacgacaatc    60
              tggagagaag ctaaagcata gacagaggaa agggttctgg tcacctgtat agaagacgag   120
              aagctaagca gattcatcct ctctcatggc cattcttgct ggaccactgt tcccatcaaa   180
              gctgggttac aaaggaatgg gaagagctgc agactaagat ggattaatta cctaagacca   240
              ggattaaaga gggatatgat tagtacagaa gaggaagaga ttatcttgac atttcactct   300
<removed-apn>
              tccttgtgta acaagtggtc gatgattgcg aaatacttac cgggaagaac agacaacgag   360
              ataaagaact attggcactc tcatttgaaa aagagatggc tcaagtctcc atctatttcc   420
              tcttcttctg                                                          430
              <210>   107
              <211>   750
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Canola (Brassica napus or Brassica rapa)
              <400> 107
              gaaagaagac aattttcgat ggttggttca aaaaaacgaa gaagaagaag aagacaattt    60
              tggatcttcc agaggatttg gttgaggatg agataatatc taggctgccg atttcatctc   120
              tgaggtcagt gagatcaacc tgcaaaaagt ggaacacttt atgtaaaaat cggatcttat   180
              ttggtaaagc agcaaagaag cagttcttga tgatggactc gaggaggatt tgtttgatga   240
              acttggatct cagcaaagac aatggcgacc catctataaa acaggtaagc gtacttgatc   300
              aaaaattcca gatacctatg gtgtttcaga gtgatggctt gctactatgc gtccttaagg   360
              attactctag gcttgtggta tggaaccctt acttagggca aatgaggtgg atcgaaccca   420
              gaaacagttt ccatagttca gacaggtttg ctcccggaca cgacagcaac tttaactaca   480
              agatcctgag gatctccagt gagattcatc cagttacaga aagaaaagtt tttagggttc   540
              gaactctacg atttcacctc gagttcttgg aaggttcttg atgatgtcac tcccaagcgg   600
              cggcagataa ggtctggtca acagggcgag tctttgaagg gaaacgctta ttttcttacg   660
              agtgttagag gttccttccg cgggtttgga tttcacaaca gagaggttcg gaccgcctcg   720
              gcctcggccg ccgttcattc ttacgatgga                                    750
              <210>   108
              <211>   903
                                                     96

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (5)..(5)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (47)..(47)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (730)..(730)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (786)..(786)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (805)..(805)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (807)..(807)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (814)..(814)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (823)..(823)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (834)..(834)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (841)..(841)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                     97

<removed-date>
              <400> 108
              ttganaagct ttcgcctgca ggtaccggtc cggaattccc gggtcgnccc acgcgtccga    60
              acgacttctc cggtggtaat cttgcaatga ccacaccttc tagttgtcta gacgaaccag   120
              ggtttctaca gtcctctgaa aacctcggtt ctgagaacca acaatccaat aatacctttg   180
              tgaaggtgta caagtcaggg tcttttggac gatcactaga tataacgaag tttagcagct   240
              accacgagct gcgaagcgag cttgctcgca tgtttggcct agaaggccag ttagaagacc   300
<removed-apn>
              ctgtgagatc aggctggcag cttgtatttg tcgaccgaga gaacgatgtt cttctcctcg   360
              gcgatgaccc ttggccggag tttgtgagca gtgtgtggtg cataaagata ctgtcaccac   420
              aagaagtgca gcagatgggg aaaagaggcc ttgagcttct caactcagct cctccatcct   480
              cgaacaacaa cgtcgtcgag aagctcccga gcaataacgg gaactgcgat gactttggga   540
              accggtcaga cccgaggaac cttggtaacg gtattgcatc cgttgggggt tcgttcaact   600
              actagagaag aaaaacccct tttcttggta atcaaggtat tattgtttta tcaaaaatag   660
              tatttagatc ttctttagtt tttaattact aagtaagcta aactgtcttt attactttcc   720
              aaaaagggan gctttgcgtt tggcctttgt gggagaccaa aaaaaaacta aaactattgt   780
              aataanctct tattctttgc ggtcngnata ctgnaaatat aanaactttt tggncttttt   840
              nttaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag gggggccctt tttagggtcc cagcttactc   900
              cct                                                                 903
              <210>   109
              <211>   670
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 109
              cccacggttt ggaggtgaga gagagagaga gaagtagggt tggtcaatcg tagcatcccc    60
              ggtgtgagat agccgttttt ccggattcat tatggtgagg aagaagagaa ctgatggtcc   120
              atctgaagga ggtgaagggt ctggttcccg tgctgctcca gcctcaggtg gtggacgtgg   180
              tggttatcag caggggagag gaggaggcgg aggaggacag cagcaaggtg gaagaggcta   240
              tagtcctcag tctcaacagg gaggtcgtgg tggtggtcgt ggatatggcc aaccacaaca   300
              gcagcagtac ggtggtccta gagaaggcca tccaccacaa cagcagcagc agcagcagta   360
                                                     98

              cggtggacca agaggtggcc aaccaccaca acagcagcag tacggtggac caagaggagg   420
<removed-date>
              tcaaccacca caacagcagc agtacagtgg accaagagga ggccagccac catcacagca   480
              acagtatggt ggttcaagag aaggccagcc accacaacag cagcaccaac agtacggtgg   540
              accaagagga ggacctcctc gtggtggtgg ccgtggaagg tgcatcctct gctggactgc   600
              cgcagagaca atcagttccc gagctgcatc aagctacctt accaacttat caagcggtgt   660
              cttctcagcc                                                          670
<removed-apn>
              <210>   110
              <211>   305
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 110
              cagttttcag gtttcccaat cccaactcag actaaccgag ctatgcttgt tcatggtcag    60
              tccaatgaca tgcatggagg tggggagttg caccatttct ctgtccatat ctgagacatt   120
              ggatcttttg gtgctgtttc aatgtttccc acctaaaggg gaagtcatcc ttggctacta   180
              ctactagttc tcttgcttgt tgttactttt ttatgtttca atttcacttt atgtatgtgt   240
              taaaatatca caacaagaac aagaaccacc gcaatcttca gtttggaaca cacttttaat   300
              cttcc                                                               305
              <210>   111
              <211>   405
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 111
              aaccatatcc caaattcaaa tctccaattt ccgggcagca gcaacattgg tggcggagga    60
              ggattctcac tatttccggt ggctgagaac caccggtttg atggtcggac cacgacgaac   120
              caagtgttgg caaatgctgc agcatcatca ggattctctc ctcatcatca caatcagatt   180
              tttaattcca cttctacttc tcatcaaaat tggctgcaga ccaatggctt ccaaccttct   240
              ctcatgagac cttcttgaat atctaatatt tttatctttc atttttatat atgtgaaaca   300
              aattcgggga aaaatgaacc tttaaaacca cccctatggt cttgggtcac taaaattaat   360
              tatcggcttt tcgtgttaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaac tccga                   405
                                                     99

              <210>   112
<removed-date>
              <211>   740
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 112
              cggttcggat ccggttaacg tagaccggca atggatggct acttcttcat cgcctgctca    60
              aatggagtat ttaacctcgg gtttgatact cgggtcgggt caaacccatt tcccgattca   120
              aacaagtgct caccctttct ccgaccatca tcatcatcct caagagtttt ccttcgttcc   180
<removed-apn>
              cgaccatctg atttctccgg caggatccaa cggcggtgga gcgttcaatc ttgatttcaa   240
              catgtcgtcg accacctccg ccgccggaac cgccgggttc agtggtttca acagggggac   300
              ccttcagtcc aattcatcaa accatcatca gcagcagtct tttctcgcta atctgcagag   360
              gttttcatca tcagaaggtg gtggaggtcc acagttcttg ttcggtgcac tgcctgcaga   420
              gaatcaccac cccaacagtc accagtttca gctttattat gaaaatggat gcagaaactc   480
              agaccaaaag ggcaaaggca agaactgatg atactgttac catttgcatc ttttgtttga   540
              gtttctttgt tttttttctt ttcttgcttt tatttatcac ccaaatgtca aatctcgctc   600
              ctcttggttt atctttcgga tcatcatcat cctctcaatg tgtgtgttaa atctgtttga   660
              tacgatggtc taatttggaa atcttttcag attgggtttg taatgttgta tttgtgataa   720
              tagaattttg tttgggcttc                                               740
              <210>   113
              <211>   416
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 113
              cccacgcgtc cggttgaatg gttgcaaaaa gatgaggaag ctagcagatt agggatagtc    60
              cgtttgggga cgcggcgctt cttgctgatg tgaacaagta tgaaacaatg cgatcccttt   120
              ggatgtcgtc atgcgaagtc actcttgggg gatgcaaaag gcttgcacgg aaagcgccat   180
              ggctcaatgt acagatcatt aacgagaacg ataataaccg gatggaggag aatggatatg   240
              agggaagaca gaaggtggat aaactttatc tctaccggac tgtggttggg acaagggttg   300
              atgcgccacc atttgtgtgg attctctagt ttttttttcg ttccgaccaa acatggaact   360
              ggttcaatgc ttctgagatc tgattggcgg cttacgttcg tggcctttcc aaatta       416
                                                     100

<removed-date>
              <210>   114
              <211>   688
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 114
              cccacgcgtc cggcctgaga gagaagcttc aatggcgtcc atggctgcag ccctcaacaa    60
              aactcctttc ctctctcagc cactcaccaa atctccatcc tccgatctcc ccatcgccgc   120
<removed-apn>
              cgtttctttc ccgtcgaaac ctcgccgtcg aaacatcacc gttcacgccg ggctgatcac   180
              gcccgacggc ggaaagctcg tagagcttat cgtggaggag ccacgacggc gggagaagaa   240
              gcacgaggcg gcgacggagc tgccgcgcgt ggagctgacg gcgatagaca tgcagtggat   300
              gcacgtcttg agcgaaggct gggcgagccc actcggaggg ttcatgagag agtccgagtt   360
              cctccaaact cttcatttca actcgcttcg tcttgacgac ggatcggttg tcaacatgtc   420
              ggtgcctatc gtcctcgcta tagacgacga gcaaaaggct agtatcggcg agtctaagcg   480
              cgtcgcgctt gttgattccg acggtaatcc cgtcgctatc ctcaccgaca ttgagattta   540
              caagcatccc aaggaagagc ggatagctag aacttggggt acgaccgctc caggtttgcc   600
              ttacgtagat gaagccataa ccaacgcagg aaactggctc atcggtgggt gacctttgag   660
              ggtctagagc cagtcaagtc aatgatgg                                      688
              <210>   115
              <211>   485
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 115
              cccacgcgtc cggcttgtaa gagacacaac aacaagacaa cttccctcaa tggcttcttc    60
              agccgccatc gtcttctccg gttctccttt tcgatcatca ccaatcacta gccatcgtgt   120
              ttccctccac gcctctagac ccgtctctct ccgtcgaggc ggagtctttt cccgccgcgg   180
              tctcgccgtg aaagcggctc tgatcgagcc ggacggaggg aagctcatgg acctcgtcgt   240
              cgaggaatcc aaacggcgcg tgatgaaacg cgaggcggag acggttcccg taaggatcat   300
              gctgaatcgc gtggacctcg agtgggtgca cgtgctcagc gaaggctggg cgagcccgct   360
              ccgaggcttc atgagacagt cagagttcct ccaaacactt catttcaact cgatccggct   420
              cgaagacggc tccgtcgtca acatgtcggt tccgatcgtt ctcgcgatcg acgacgagca   480
                                                     101

<removed-date>
              gaaaa                                                               485
              <210>   116
              <211>   497
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 116
              aacaaacatt ttctctcaaa tctcaactcg gaagcctgag agagagagaa ccttcgatgg    60
<removed-apn>
              cttccatgtc tgccgtcctc agcaaatccc ctttcctctc tcagcctctc tccaaatctc   120
              catcctccga tctccccttc tccgccgcaa ccgtctcttt cccctcgaaa tcgcaccgtc   180
              gcggcggagt aatccgcgcc ggactcatct cccccgacgg cgggaagctc gtggagctcg   240
              tggtggcgga gccgcgacgg cgggagaaga agcacgaggc ggcggagctg ccacgcgtgg   300
              agctcacgtc gatcgacgtg cagtggatgc acgtgctgag cgaaggctgg gcaagtccgc   360
              tcggaggctt catgagagaa tccgagttcc tccaaactct tcatttcaac tcgcttcgtc   420
              ttgacgacgg attccgtcgt caacatgtcc gtgcctatcg tcctcgctat tgaccaccaa   480
              cagaaggcta gtatcgg                                                  497
              <210>   117
              <211>   517
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 117
              gacttttgaa cgacaccgtt ttggattgcc tagacctctc tctctctccc atggccaccg    60
              tcgggcttct tcggtctctc cgccgccgag aagtctacgt agtttctgtc tcttcggcgt   120
              atagattcag ttctgctagc gccggcggga ggacgacgga gctccggtta cccggagtca   180
              aagatataat cgccgttgcg tctggtaaag gcggagtagg aaagtcttcg actgctgtga   240
              acttagctgt tgcattggcc aacaaatgtg aactgaagat cggattgctt gatgcggatg   300
              tgtatggacc ttctgttcct atcatgagga acatcaatca aaagcctcag gtcaaccaag   360
              atatgaagat ggttccagtg gagaactatg gagttaaatg catgtccatg ggactccttg   420
              ttgataaaga tgcaccactt gtgtggagag gtcctatggt aatgagtgct cttgctaaga   480
              tgactagagg agttgattgg ggagatctcg atcttct                            517
                                                     102

<removed-date>
              <210>   118
              <211>   654
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 118
              gaacaatttg acttttgctt cctttttact tttgttttcc gccgacatca ccatcttctt    60
              tctttctcct tcttcctctg tttttcttct ataaagccaa cacgagacgc aagtgagaga   120
<removed-apn>
              gatagaataa gataaaactc gtttttcttg atcagatttg ttgatggtca tctaaaactt   180
              ataacctctc tttttttttg tgtgtgttta ttaatttttt ttttgacgtt ttggagaaat   240
              gaagttctgt aagaagtatg aggagtacat gcaaggacaa aaggagaaga agaatctacc   300
              tggcgttggc ttcaagaagc tcaagaaaat tctcaagaga tgcagaagaa gagatcatca   360
              gattgcttca atcaatcacc aacatggcaa caactgtcct cgtgaatgca cagtttgtga   420
              tggaacgttc ttcccggagc ttctcaagga gatggaagat gttgtgggat ggtttaacga   480
              gaatgctcag aagcttctcg agttacattt agcttctcgt ttcaaaaggt gtcttacttg   540
              gctcaaaggc aacaacaatc gcaaaaggag ccatctcggt ttgatcacag aaggcaaaga   600
              cttggttagc tacgccctca tcaactcggt cgccattaga aaaatcctca aaaa         654
              <210>   119
              <211>   778
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Field mustard (Brassica rapa or Brassica campestris)
              <400> 119
              actcaccttc tctcactcaa gggtccaaaa agtgtttttc tcttttgtgt tcttctcttt    60
              tctctttttt gagagaagag atgggaaggg ctccttgttg tgagaagata ggactcaaga   120
              gagggagatg gactgccgag gaagatgaga tcctcactaa ctatatccaa accaatgggg   180
              aaggttcttg gcggtctttg cctaagaaag ctggattgtt gagatgtgga aagagctgta   240
              gactaaggtg gataaactat ttgagaaggg acttgaaaag aggaaatatt acagccgagg   300
              aagaagaaac catcgtcaag ttgcattccc ttctcggcaa cagatggtcg catattgcaa   360
              cacatctacc aggaagaaca gacaatgaaa ttaaaaacta ttggaattca catctcagcc   420
              gcaaaatcta tgccttcact accgtcaccg gggatgagca cagtctaaag gttgacgatt   480
              tagtcctgaa taaatcttct tcttcttcct tgggagccaa gaacacgaac aagaccaaga   540
                                                     103

<removed-date>
              agaagaaagg aagaactagt aggtcatcca tgaagaaaca caagcaaatg gtgacggcct   600
              cacaatgtct cccacaacct aaagagctag agagtgagat cagtgaggga tggaacagcg   660
              ggaactacga aggaaagtcg ttgggagcgt atgaatggtt ggatggtgag atagagcggc   720
              tcatgagtag tttcgtctgg gaatgtgcta gtgaaagagg gctgtgatta gcatgaat     778
              <210>   120
<removed-apn>
              <211>   704
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 120
              ccgggttaac ggcggtgacg gtgccgaggt gtcaggtaga ggggtgccac ttggcgctgc    60
              taaacgcgaa ggattaccac cggaggcaca aggtgtgtga gatgcactca aaggctccca   120
              aagttgtggt cttaggcatg gaacagaggt tctgccagca gtgtagcagg tttcacgtgg   180
              tgtcagagtt tgataattca aagaggagtt gtaggaggag actagctggt cacaacgaga   240
              gaagaagaaa gagctcccat gattctgttg caaggaattc ttcaaaagga gggtgtgctc   300
              tctctcttct gtcatcaaga agtgattctt ggctttctcc ttctgatctc tccataagat   360
              gcagtgccgc attgcgtgaa ttgatagccg aaaaccgggc agccatcatg gccagacaat   420
              ttgtttcaga tagagattgg cataatcatc accatgcagt ggaagacttc aaggagatcc   480
              aacctgagtc caattacttc ccacaacaaa tgtttcccca gacacaatga aggatccatg   540
              tgtaaaagag cttgagatct taatgctggt tacttgaccc aaaggtttag ggaaacaaga   600
              tttcaaagag agtagacatt tatggggaat gcctaaagaa aggactttgt gtctgaagtt   660
              ttcaattctt taatttgcta aaaataaaag tttggacttc ttta                    704
              <210>   121
              <211>   895
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 121
              ccaccactca caatggagat caagagtaga gagaggatac aagtgtcaat tgaaaaggtg    60
              aggagagaca gcacagttga agttgaagat gaagaagagg aggatgaaag tgtggttggt   120
              ggtgagggtg gtcttgcaga agatgagaag aagaaaggtg gtggagggag tgggagaaga   180
                                                    104

              gggtcaagtg gattttttcc accttcttgt caggcagaga tgtgtggtgc tgatttgact   240
<removed-date>
              gttgcaaaga ggtaccatcg ccgccataag gtgtgtgagc ttcattccaa ggctccttct   300
              gtgatggttg caggactgag gcagaggttt tgccagcaat gtagcaggtt ccaagagctg   360
              gcagagtttg atgaagctaa aagaagctgc cggagacgct tggccagaca taacgagcgg   420
              cgccggaaaa gcaatgctga aacttgcaat gaaggatgca gtggaagcaa agggcagcac   480
              cctacagaaa gccactgcag aaatgctgat gtctggggaa gaattcagat gaacattgca   540
<removed-apn>
              aagaattctg gctacaactc cttccatatt agatgaatcc aatgtgttca ccggcatgct   600
              ccctctcttc tgtcaatgga tcttcacagt ttacatgcca aggcatataa taaaggcccc   660
              tttctttatg ttacgagaat aagcatctaa accagaatga agaactccca acatctaaag   720
              gtggtgtcgt atgtataata ctagttcatt tcccttaagc tctatattat atgtacttag   780
              ccagtttctt ctgtatctgt gtgccttgga atatatgtat tctattgtgc ccccccttaa   840
              aatggtgtac ccctatgccc ccttgattag aataaaatct attgcttctt tgact        895
              <210>   122
              <211>   781
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 122
              gaccctatgt ggtcctcgct cattaattct ctcatatcat tcattccttt ttatatcaac    60
              tatttatatg gtcatgtttt ccttatgtag cggcggagcc ttttttttct tctcataacc   120
              ttcttctgga gctctgtgga agttactatg gacacaagca ggtctgaggg aaaaagggtc   180
              atgaggtaca aagaagaaga tgatgataat gatgatgaag aagaagaaga ggtggtgagt   240
              gagatgggtt ttgaagaaga tggaaggagg aataagagag taataagaga tctctatgga   300
              aagagagggt ccaaaggtgg aggctcaata acaccttctt gccaagtgga caattgtgat   360
              gctgatctga gtgaagctaa gcagtaccac agaagacaca aggtttgtga gtaccatgcc   420
              aaggctcctt ccgtacacat ggcagggctg caacaaaggt tttgccaaca atgtagcaga   480
              ttccatgtgc tatcagaatt tgatgactca aagaggagtt gtagaacgcg gttggctggg   540
              cataatgaga ggcgtcgcaa atatgcagtt gactagctac catggacaat gatttcttct   600
              atgggatgga cattaataat cattgaggca agcatgtgat taatgaaatt aaatttccca   660
                                                    105

              ttcaaatctt cataaatcat tgttgctggt ctctaaggat gctctctatc ttctgtcaag    720
<removed-date>
              attttcatat gcaaagattt ttctgttagt taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg    780
              c                                                                    781
              <210>   123
              <211>   1031
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 123
              ccacgcgtcc gtacggctgc gagaagagac agaaggggct ccaaacggtc ctagctcaac     60
              aacaagcata tccttcatca ttgtcaccac ccctttgcac aatggagagg gagagagcat    120
              tgtttgagag ggtgagaaag aatagcacag tggaagagga agtggaaaat gaagtagagg    180
              aggaggatga aagtggcgtt agtattactg aagaagagaa gaagaaaggg gttggtagta    240
              gtggtgggag aagagggtca agtggaggta gtggaggggt ttctccacct tcatgtcaag    300
              cagagaggtg tggtgctgat ttaactgatg caaagaggta ccatcgccgc cacaaggtgt    360
              gtgagtttca ttcaaaggca cctgttgtgg tggttgcagg gctaaggcag aggttttgcc    420
              agcaatgtag caggttccat gacctggcag agtttgatga atccaagaga agctgccgcc    480
              gccggttggc cggacacaac gagcggcgcc ggaaaagcaa cccggaagct tccaatgagg    540
              gcagcaccaa aggccatcac cctaaggaaa caacacactg caggcttgca aatgagaggg    600
              agagaattca gatgaaccta ccagggagtt ccggctacaa gtctttcaac atcagatgaa    660
              gccaaagtgt tcacaaagct ctctctcttc tgtcaccctt tggtttctta caacccaagg    720
              tatataataa aaaccccttt gtattgtatg ttcacatgag caagaatcaa aaatcccaaa    780
              aacttccaac agccaaagcc tgatgtctta atatgcaatg taagctagct agtttcctga    840
              gctctgtttt tcttatttgg atagagtgcc ttttttttct gtttgcctta tcaccattgt    900
              tatcctatag aagcaccctt cttgattggg gtgtgctctt atcttccatt gggttagaat    960
              aaaaagatat tgcttctttt gggtaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagcggcc   1020
              gctttagagg a                                                        1031
              <210>   124
              <211>   666
              <212>   DNA
                                                    106

              <213>    Glycine max
<removed-date>
              <400> 124
              caaagatggt ggtgaggagt gacaggttga agagggatgt ggcagattgt ggtgacaaca    60
              accaaaacgg gtacgtggag caagagaaga agataaaagg ggtggtgagt tgtgctggga   120
              agaaaggtgg tggtggcaat aataatagca tatatgcggt gttgtcaacg ccgatcttca   180
              tgaggccaag cagtaccaca ggaggcacag ggtgtgtgag tatcatgtaa aggctcaggt   240
<removed-apn>
              tgtgcttgtt gatgaggtta gacaacggtt ctgtcagcaa tgtagcagat tccacgaatt   300
              agctgaattt gatgacacaa aaagaagttg ccgcagcagt ttggccggac acaatgaacg   360
              gaggagaaag aactcagatc agtctcaagc agaagggtca agccgcaaca aagggacagg   420
              gcaccctcaa ttgaaggaca ttacttgtgg tcaggctgat gagaggggga gaattcagat   480
              aacaatccac gaaaatgctg cttacaaaca tttccagata agatgagata tgctttgatc   540
              tgaagtttgc tctctctctt ctgtcatcca ggggatgtat ttgtatttgt caaactattc   600
              ctgtgtcaca ctcatgctga agattgcatt tagataaata acttacaaaa aataaaacta   660
              acataa                                                              666
              <210>    125
              <211>    641
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Glycine max
              <400> 125
              gccccccccc caggtgtgcg aggcgcactc caagggcccc cgtcgtgctc gtcgccggcc    60
              tccgccagcg cttctgccag caatgcagcc ggttccacga gctgtcggag ttcgacgacg   120
              tcaagcgcag ctgccgcctg cgtctggccg gccacaacga gcggcgccgg aagagctcgg   180
              ccgacgcgca cgccggcggc ggcaataatg gattccgcca acacgccgac cagaacggcc   240
              gcggcgaccc ggccgggaac cacttccaga tcagataaag catgctctct ctcttctgtc   300
              atgcagcagg atatgctagc atcatcacta ccgatagata tttatgcgtc tatcgtctac   360
              ccgccccgaa aaccctagtt atatatatat atatatatat atatatatat atatatatat   420
              agacatatgc tgattgtaac ctaattagcc tgcagccagt taagcaggga ctgcctactc   480
              tgctaggagg acgtgtgtaa tcatgtggcc tgcgcaaaca gtaatttgtg ctggctgctg   540
              tgtattcatg ctgctctgat aatcgtgtcg tggtaataat atatcctatt tattctacta   600
                                                    107

<removed-date>
              ctagtaatat ataccgattc tccaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a                       641
              <210>   126
              <211>   933
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 126
              aatttcagaa ttaatgtata cacccactca ctctagttag ctagtactaa agggagcatc    60
<removed-apn>
              agcatcagca ctcagtagcc agcagcagca atgggttctg cttcagtcac caaagcacca   120
              ccctcttcct cctcatcacc caactcttct tctactgagt cccttgatgg cttgaagttt   180
              ggccagaaaa tctactttga ggaagtgagt gttgctgcag cagcagcaac aacaactcaa   240
              gggggcaaca aaacgagagg tggggtttct gcttcaaaga agggaagggg tggctcagtg   300
              caagctccta ggtgtcaggt tgcgggctgc aaagtagatc tgagtggtgc taaggcttac   360
              tattctaggc acaaagtttg tgccatgcac tccaagtccc ctactgtcac tgttgctggt   420
              ttggagcaaa ggttttgcca acagtgtagc aggtttcatc tgctttctga atttgatcaa   480
              ggaaaacgta gctgccgcaa gcgacttgct ggccataatg agcgccgacg aaagccccca   540
              ccaagctcca tattaacctc tcgctatggc agactctctg tgccctattt ttgataacaa   600
              tggtcgagac gatggctttc tgatggaatt tgcttcatac cccaagctta ctttgagaaa   660
              tacattgcca actcaaagat caactgaagc cggctcctgg ggaaccatgc tgcaacactc   720
              acctggcaag gaggttcaga cactccctct gaatttttcc tgcaaggatc agggagtagt   780
              ggtggaacaa gcttccttaa ttcaaaacat cccttagtgg aaagttacac tggagtcact   840
              gactcaaact gtgctctctc tcttctgtca agtcaaaccc tgggtttcag aaacacagcc   900
              ccagcaacaa agtttgaact gaacaacaac ttg                                933
              <210>   127
              <211>   2655
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 127
              tccggtccga attcccggtc gccccgcgtc cggttgagaa gaaaaaagaa aaaaagaaaa    60
              aagagagggt acaatctgtc tctcgtagct ggcttggctc cattattctt ggtttttgga   120
                                                     108

              cagacaaggg tgtgtttggt tctctgacta cactcactca ctccttctct cttctctctc    180
<removed-date>
              agtgtacctg actctgccac cttccctacc cttccacccc ctcttttgtc ttccacttta    240
              ctctcccatt acaactcctt tcatgaactt ctatttccaa cttcaaccac ctctttctct    300
              ctcacttaac tttcccttat caaaacaaac cacaatgaat aataatacta acgataacaa    360
              tacactctag acacctcacc ttatcactcc atcacctatg gcttcagacg caaaactctc    420
              atcttctgag tccctcaacg gtttgaaatt cggccaaaaa atctattttg aggatgtggg    480
<removed-apn>
              ttttgctact cccgctacct ctcttacttc ttctgctact actgctacca ctgttacttc    540
              ttcttcttct tcctcttcaa gaaaaggaag aggtggttct gttcaaccag ctcaacctcc    600
              aaggtgtcaa gttgaagggt gcgaagtaga tctgagtaat gcaaaaactt actattctag    660
              acacaaagtt tgtggcatgc actctaaatc ccctacagtc attgttgctg gtcttcaaca    720
              aaggtttttt ttttggagct gggatggctt tctgttgact gttccaagag tattttgtgt    780
              cttcttttta tctcatggct cttccactgt tgtctaaggc aaaagttact cttttcctta    840
              atatgaaaaa caatactctt ctgaatatgc taagataaaa tacatattat gagaaagata    900
              gtaaacagat atttaagatg gatttcttag catccaatct ccctgcattt cagatgtact    960
              atccgatgga tacacattgt agtttatctc ctttatttaa gcttgatgac ttctcttttg   1020
              aattattctg atgtctttca ctaaagagta aatacaatgc tatccctttt ggtaatagag   1080
              aagataaaga actttattgg tattgttttg gtcttatttt actaatatgt taaagctgaa   1140
              ttctaagtat aatggagcca caggatgtta cttgagcaat gtttgagaat tgcttcagta   1200
              aaacagggct aaaggaacat gttagatgct cacatgatgt gcattactgc aagatgtgag   1260
              aattattact acatcatatg gaataccctt tttcttgggt ttatacatat ttgcttatgt   1320
              tctgtaatct tagcaatgat gacaaaatca aatcagttag aaattccgtc tcatttgcat   1380
              gtgcatttaa tcaaacaaga gatgcgttta agtgcttcca atttgtggca acaacagctt   1440
              ggcatgctaa ggaaacagta gacttgtcat gttagtattt ctagtcttgg cacttgggta   1500
              tgcttgtact cattcacctc tctttgacat aaaaaattgg aaccatttat atttgtaaaa   1560
              gctaatatca tgtttcatag ccttgcacag gtttcatcag cttcctgagt ttgatcaagg   1620
              aaaaagaagt tgccgcaggc gactagctgg ccataatgaa cgtcggagaa agcccccacc   1680
              cagctccctc ttgacctctc gctatgctag actttcttca tctgcttttg atcatagtgg   1740
                                                    109

<removed-date>
              cagaggtggc aactttctga tggaattggc ttcataccca aaacttagtc tgagaaattc   1800
              acttccaact cctaggtcat ccgagctagc gcctggaaat caaacctcca ccctcagctg   1860
              gcacgggaac tcggagacat catctgacct tttcttgcaa ggttcggtgg gtgggacaag   1920
              cttcgccggc ccgggacatc ctccagggga aagttacact ggggtcacca cctcgagctg   1980
              tgctctctct cttctgtcaa atcaaacatg gggttctaga aacccagcac caagtcttgg   2040
<removed-apn>
              gttgaataac atggtaaatt tccacgggac gcccatgaca cagcctgctg catcatctca   2100
              tggtgcatca atccatcaac ttccaaatac cccgtggtgt ttcaagggca ttgattctgg   2160
              taactgttcg cccgaggggg tccctgatct aggtctcggt cagatttcgc agcctctcag   2220
              tagccaactt cacggtgagc tggacctgtc ccaacaaggc aggagacatt atatggatct   2280
              agaacagtcc agggcatatg aatctgctca ttggtcactt taatgcactt gtttttgttt   2340
              ttgttttttt gtcaggtttg taataaaatg tagcacaaac ctgtgcctac ttggttactg   2400
              accagattga tgataactat ttcttgtttt ggtttgttca aactgataag caaggtgggt   2460
              agccttgcct catttgtgga actttctggc ggcgaatgaa atcacccgac tgtgttttgt   2520
              tagtgtctta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaataa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaggta cggtgtcttc   2580
              tgccattgct gtcacctctt tgctgtttgc tacccctgct ccaagttatt tgatattatc   2640
              ttttgactat ctgtc                                                    2655
              <210>   128
              <211>   1591
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 128
              tacgtaggcc ccccccccac tcctttcatg acttcaactt caacaaccac ctctttctct     60
              ctcacttctt ctcttgctct tatcaaaaca aaccactatg aataatacta acgataataa    120
              tagttacaac aatacactct agcttctagc ctgctacctt tccttatcac cagcaccaat    180
              ggcttcagac gccaaactct cctcttctga gtccctcaac ggtttgaaat tcggccaaaa    240
              aatctatttt gaggatgttg gtcttgctac tccagccacc tctcttactt cttcttcttc    300
              ttcttcttct gctgctactg ttacttcttc ttcttcttca aggaaaggaa gaggtgggtc    360
              tgttcaacca gctcaacctc ccaggtgtca agttgaaggg tgcaaagtag atctgagtga    420
                                                    110

<removed-date>
              tgcaaaagct tactattcta gacacaaggt ctgtggcatg cactctaaat ccccttcagt    480
              cattgttgct ggtcttcaac aaaggttttg tcaacagtgt agcaggtttc atcagcttcc    540
              tgagtttgat caaggaaaaa gaagttgccg taggcgacta gctggccata atgaacgtcg    600
              gagaaagccc ccaacaagct ccctcttaac ctctcgctat gccagacttt cttcgtctgc    660
              ttttgataat agtggcagag gtagcaactt tctgatggaa ttgacttcat acccaaagct    720
<removed-apn>
              tagtctgaga aattcacttc caactcctag atcatctgag ctagctcctg gaaatcaaac    780
              ctccacactt agctggaatg gcaactcaga gacatcatct gaccttttct tgcaaggttc    840
              ggtgggtggg acaagcttcg ccagcccggg acatcctcca ggggaaagtt acattggggt    900
              caccgacacg agctgtgctc tctctcttct gtcaaatcaa acatggggtt ctagaaacac    960
              agcaccaagt cttgggttga gtaacatgat aaatttcaac gggacaccct tgacacaact   1020
              tgctgcatca tctcatggtg catcaatcca tcaacttcca aatacctcgt ggtttttcaa   1080
              gggcattgat tctggtaact gttcgcccga ggtggtccct gatctaggtc tcggtcagat   1140
              ttcacagcct ctcaatagcc aacttcatgg tgagctggac ctgtcccaac agggcaggag   1200
              gcattatatg gatctagaac agtccagggc atatgaatct gctcattggt cactttaatg   1260
              cacttgtttt tttttgtcag ctttgtaata acatgtagca gaaacctgtg cctacttggt   1320
              tacttaccag attgatgata actattgctt gttgttttgt tttgttttaa ctgataagca   1380
              aggtgggtag ccttgcctca tttgtggaac tttcaggcac cgaatgaatc tcacctgaga   1440
              gtgtgttttg ttagtagtgt cttaagcaca ggtatggtgt tttttgccat tgccgtcacc   1500
              tctggaatta tttgtgattg ggaggacagc ctctttgatg tttgctaccc ccgccccatt   1560
              ttatttgaaa ttatcttttg actatctgtc c                                  1591
              <210>   129
              <211>   1587
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1568)..(1568)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                    111

              <400> 129
<removed-date>
              gaattattct ggtgtctttc actaaagagt aaatacaatg ccatcccttt tggtaatata     60
              gaagataaac aacttcattg gtattgtttt ggtcttattt tactaatacg ttaaagctga    120
              attccaagta tcatggagcc gcagaatgtt acttgagcaa tgtttgagga ttgcttcagt    180
              aaaacagggc tcaaggagca tcttatactg ctaatatgcc atctcattca atgccaaaca    240
              agctcacatg atgtgcatca tatggaatac ccttgttctt gggtttatac atattgctta    300
<removed-apn>
              tgttctgcaa tctttgcaat gatgactaat tcaaataagt tagaaattcc atctcatttg    360
              catctgcatt taatgaaaca acaaatattt taagtgcttc caatttgtgg caacaacagc    420
              atgtcatgct aaggtaacag tagacttgtc atgttagcat ttcttaagtc ttggcacttg    480
              ggtatgcttg tactcattca cctctctttg acataaattg gaatcattta tatttgtaaa    540
              agataatatc atgtttcata gtcttgcaca ggtttcatca gcttcctgag tttgatcaag    600
              gaaaaagaag ttgccgtagg cgactagctg gccataatga acgtcggaga aagcccccaa    660
              caagctccct cttaacctct cgctatgcca gactttcttc gtctgctttt gataatagtg    720
              gcagaggtag caactttctg atggaattga cttcataccc aaagcttagt ctgagaaatt    780
              cacttccaac tcctagatca tctgagctag ctcctggaaa tcaaacctcc acacttagct    840
              ggaatggcaa ctcagagaca tcatctgacc ttttcttgca aggttcggtg ggtgggacaa    900
              gcttcgccag cccgggacat cctccagggg aaagttacat tggggtcacc gacacgagct    960
              gtgctctctc tcttctgtca aatcaaacat ggggttctag aaacacagca ccaagtcttg   1020
              ggttgagtaa catgataaat ttcaacggga cacccttgac acaacttgct gcatcatctc   1080
              atggtgcatc aatccatcaa cttccaaata cctcgtggtt tttcaagggc attgattcyg   1140
              gtaactgttc gcccgaggtg gtccctgatc taggtctcgg tcagatttca cagcctctca   1200
              atagccaact tcatggtgag ctggacctgt cccaacaggg caggaggcat tatatggatc   1260
              tagaacagtc cagggcatat gaatctgctc attggtcact ttaatgcact tgtttttttt   1320
              tgtcagcttt gtaataacat gtagcagaaa cctgtgccta cttggttact taccagattg   1380
              atgataacta ttgcttgttg ttttgttttg ttttaactga taagcaaggt gggtagcctt   1440
              gcctcatttg tggaactttc aggcaccgaa tgaatctcac ctgagagtgt gttttgttag   1500
              tagtgtctta aacacaggta tggtgttttc tgccattgcc gtcacctctg gaattatttg   1560
                                                    112

              tgattggnag gacagcctct ttgatgt                                       1587
<removed-date>
              <210>   130
              <211>   2906
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 130
              tacggctgcg agaagacgac agaagggggg gaattcgcat tttgtaaatg atatagtcaa     60
<removed-apn>
              aactaattta cacttaccat ttgctatttg ctaagtacat attttctttg cttgtttaag    120
              tttttggtct agcaggaaat acagctgaca tggggataga acaagtgcat ttaatgtcgt    180
              ctttgaaaaa ttagtcgatg gttttcccat agggattagc agttcagttc atagattctg    240
              aaaatttggg gatgtttctt aaactctagc ttcttaatgt gttctttaat cattggtcta    300
              ccccatttat acagtttgca gatcacagtg acctacggct gcgagaagac gacagggggg    360
              aattcgcatt ttgtaaatga tatagtcaaa actaatttac acttaccatt tgctatttgc    420
              taagttcagc tacgtaggcc ccccccccgt ttttggtcta gcaggaaata cagctgacat    480
              ggggatagaa caagtgattt aatgttgtct ttgaaaaatt aatcgatgtt ttcccttagg    540
              aattagcagt tcattcatag attctgtaaa atttggggat gtttcttaaa ctctagcttc    600
              ttaatgtgtt ttttaatcat tggtctaccc catttataca gtttgcagat cacagtgacc    660
              atttgtgtat gaatttctaa ggtcttgtca tggagtgtaa tgcaaaatct ctcgggcaat    720
              gggactggga gcacttattc ttcttcaata caaaagcagc tgaaaatcca aggttacaac    780
              caactgattg tagcagtgaa gcagatcggg aaatcaacgt tggaatgttg catccatcag    840
              gtggtagtgc ttgttctggc tctgaactaa tacatgcttc ttcatcaagg agctcaaaat    900
              cagcttccaa caattcatca tcaaatgggg atagcaaggc atctatattg actctggaag    960
              gttctcatga tgattccact gggaagaaag aattgtgcaa tggagagcca attgaaactt   1020
              ctcctgcagc agtgccctct cctgtctctg gtgaaccgtt gctcactcta aagcttggta   1080
              aacgattgta ctttgaggat gtctgtaccg gaagtgattc caagaaacca tcttcctttg   1140
              acattcccat ttcatcagga aagaaacata aaaccagtag tcagacttta cagcatccaa   1200
              gctgccaggt ggaaggctgt ggccttgacc tctcatctgc taaagattac catcgcaaac   1260
              accgagtttg tgaagctcat tccaaatccc ctaaggtggt tataactggt ttggaacgcc   1320
                                                    113

              gattttgcca gcaatgtagc aggttccatg ctctgtcaga gtttgatgac aaaaaaagaa   1380
<removed-date>
              gctgtaggcg acgtctttca gatcacaatg caaggcgccg caaacctcag cctgactcaa   1440
              tccaattaaa tccatcagct ttgtcttcat caccctatga tgggaggcaa atagtgagtc   1500
              catttgcatt ttcaaggact gccacaaatt tagcttggca agatatgcac ccccagacaa   1560
              aagaatttct cccgaagcct gcaaaagcct tcaataagat accgagtatt gtctccatgc   1620
              tttctgatga ttccagtggc cttctaacat ctagaggcat agcaacgaag agtactgttc   1680
<removed-apn>
              cagatgttgc aggtatggaa gatcccatta ggttgtctga tccaaacggt acacaagatg   1740
              ttaaccgtgc tctctctctt ctgtcaacga attcttcatc ttcatggggt gcatatgaga   1800
              ctaagtccct ttctttggaa cactccactc gggcaacaca ctcaatcact cagcatcact   1860
              taccacttcc ttcctcggca gagtattggc acactgatca tcaacaacat tcaagcatgt   1920
              gtatctcatt cacggattgc gatagcagca atcgctttca agactttcag ctgttgagct   1980
              caccctatga atcacctttt ccttgcaacc aactggatta acaacactat gcttctactt   2040
              caacaaaatt tctagggtgc tgtctttcat ttgcttgctt tttcaaatgg agattaatta   2100
              aaactgcatg ttgattgcag ttcgaatggt gtaagacctg ttctcttgaa aactcccaag   2160
              acattttcat tttgtaccag actgcgctca tttcaatttt aactttaatt tctacttaaa   2220
              aaaaaaaaaa agaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ataccttagc ttcttaccta tgttacgcac   2280
              atctccctac ttcataatac tatttactca catcccaaaa caaatattgc atttgatttt   2340
              ttaatataaa ttaattattc tttttcatca tccccctatg gtaaaacagg atcattcccc   2400
              tcccttggaa aatctatggc ctgtcttgct ccctggttaa gtttcccagt taattatttt   2460
              gggaggcata ttatacaaat catgataatt cccccccatt tttgaatgat catatcaggt   2520
              tgggaatttg tttcccttta gtttcaaact gtctagtatt agcttatttc aacttttgtt   2580
              aaccaaaaga atttagtaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaatgg gtaaatgata   2640
              taggggaagc tgatttacac ttaccacttg ctatttgcta agtacatatt ttctttgctt   2700
              gtttaagttt ttggtctagc aggaaataca gctgacatgg ggatagaaca agtgatttaa   2760
              tgttgtcttt gaaaaattaa tcgatgtttt cccttaagaa ttagcagttc attcatagat   2820
              tctgtaaaat ttggggatgt ttcttaaact ctagcttctt aatgtgtttt ttaatcattg   2880
              ggctacccca tttatacagg tattgc                                        2906
                                                    114

<removed-date>
              <210>   131
              <211>   1811
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (54)..(54)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (57)..(57)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (59)..(59)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (69)..(69)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (95)..(95)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (113)..(113)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (146)..(146)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (185)..(185)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (188)..(188)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                           115

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (195)..(195)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (205)..(205)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (223)..(223)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (226)..(226)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (230)..(230)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (233)..(233)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (259)..(259)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (275)..(275)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (289)..(289)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (291)..(291)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (296)..(296)
                                           116

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (304)..(304)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (317)..(317)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (323)..(323)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (338)..(338)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (343)..(343)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (351)..(351)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (379)..(379)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (384)..(384)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 131
              tttttttttt ttttttttct tttttttttt tttttttttc cacaaatgag gcanggntnc    60
              ccaccttgnt tatcagttaa aacaaaacaa aacancaagc aatagttatc atnaatctgg   120
              taagtaacca agtaggcaca ggtttntgct acatgttatt acaaagctga caaaaaaaaa   180
              caagngcntt aaagngacca atgancaaat tcatatgccc tgnacngttn tanatccata   240
              taatgcctcc tgccctgtng ggacaggtcc agctnaccat gaagttggnt nttganaggc   300
                                                    117

              tgtnaaatct gaccganacc tanatcaggg accacctngg gcnaacagtt nccaaaatca    360
<removed-date>
              atgcccttga aaaaccacna ggtntttgga agttgatgga ttgatgcacc atgagatgat    420
              gcagcaagtt gtgtcaaggg tgtcccgttg aaatttatca tgttactcaa cccaagactt    480
              ggtgctgtgt ttctagaacc ccatgtttga tttgacagaa gagagagagc acagctcgtg    540
              tcggtgaccc caatgtaact ttcccctgga ggatgtcccg ggccggcgaa gcttgtccca    600
              cccaccgaac cttgcaagaa aaggtcagat gatgtctccg agttcccgtg ccagctgagg    660
<removed-apn>
              gtggaggttt gatttccagg cgctagctcg gatgacctag gagttggaag tgaatttctc    720
              agactaagtt ttgggtatga agccaattcc atcagaaagt tgccacctct gccactatga    780
              tcaaaagcag atgaagaaag tctagcatag cgagaggtca agagggagct gggtgggggc    840
              tttctccgac gttcattatg gccagctagt cgcctgcggc aacttctttt tccttgatca    900
              aactcaggaa gctgatgaaa cctgtgcaag gctatgaaac atgatattag cttttacaaa    960
              tataaatggt tccaattttt tatgtcaaag agaggtgaat gagtacaagc atacccaagt   1020
              gccaagacta gaaatactaa catgacaagt ctactgtttc cttagcatgc caagctgttg   1080
              ttgccacaaa ttggaagcac ttaaacgcat ctcttgtttg attaaatgca catgcaaatg   1140
              agacggaatt tctaactgat ttgattttgt catcattgct aagattacag aacataagca   1200
              aatatgtata aacccaagaa aaagggtatt ccatatgatg tagtaataat tctcacatct   1260
              tgcagtaatg cacatcatgt gagcatctaa catgttcctt tagccctgtt ttactgaagc   1320
              aattctcaaa cattgctcaa gtaacatcct gtggctccat tatacttaga attcagcttt   1380
              aacatattag taaaataaga ccaaaacaat accaataaag ttctttatct tctctattac   1440
              caaaagggat agcattgtat ttactcttta gtgaaagaca tcagaataat tcaaaagaga   1500
              agtcatcaag cttaaataaa ggagataaac tacaatgtgt atccatcgga tagtacatct   1560
              gaaatgcagg gagattggat gctaagaaat ccatcttaaa tatctgttta ctatctttct   1620
              cataatatgt attttatctt agcatattca gaagagtatt gtttttcata ttaaggaaaa   1680
              gagtaacttt tgccttagac aacagtggaa gagccatgag ataaaaagaa gacacaaaat   1740
              actcttggaa cagtcaacag aaagccatcc cagctccaaa aaaaaaaggg ggggggggcc   1800
              tacgtagctg a                                                        1811
                                                    118

              <210>   132
<removed-date>
              <211>   2249
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (403)..(403)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 132
              gcctccctct ccctctctct ctctgtcctc ccctagtatc aagttcaact ttcaatatat     60
              tatccacacc tcctgtctgc acaaatccac agtttcatct tcttaagtgc caaataaggt    120
              atgctttgta gggttccttc tttaatatta catacaagcc tctgtctttc tgtccccccg    180
              ttttctttct atttttaaaa acacaagaga ggggagaaaa aatttggttc ctttatttga    240
              ctgtccagtg gcaattttgg tggtgaaggg aagaacaact taattgtaac tccggtttcc    300
              ttggacctct ttcaacttgg ctgctgttgt tagtcattat tacgtatttt caacactctc    360
              tctggtgaag aaaggtgagc aaagaaagac aaagaggggc tgnaaaagtg taagtgtttt    420
              ggttattaat cgctttaatg tgtttttact tccataaatg gttcaccttc ttttttttct    480
              gagtgtgtag tccaatgttt ctccccactt aaattttctc ttttcaatat gcaattgata    540
              ctatttgaca tctatttgct tcattatatt ctgtagcaac ttaattgtaa ctccgatttc    600
              cttggaactc tttcaacttg gctgctgttg ttagtcatta ttacgtattt tcaacactct    660
              ctggtgcaga gggccatctt ggtgtggtat acagaaaggt gagcaaagaa agactgaaaa    720
              agtgcaagtg tttatggatt ggaatttgaa agcaccttct tgggatttga gtgaagtgga    780
              tcaggcaaac ttacccaaca tggaaacaat ggaaggctca agcagatatg gaatgtatag    840
              aactaagggg gaattttctg ttgacttgaa gcttggccaa gtgggaaatt ctggcaggga    900
              atcatcagtg ttgactaagt ccaaagatgg tggtgctgtt ggagtctcca aaatgatatc    960
              ctcatcttct tcagggtcag ctaagagagc tcgttccctt agcaacggga cacaaacagt   1020
              gtcatgcctt gtggacgggt gccactctga tctcagtaac tgcagagact atcataggcg   1080
              ccataaggtc tgtgaagtcc attccaagac tgcacaggtc acaattggag gccagaaaca   1140
              aaggttctgc cagcagtgta gcaggttcca ttcactggag gaatttgatg aggggaaaag   1200
              gagctgcagg aagcggttag atgggcacaa ccgacggaga agaaagccac aaccagaagt   1260
                                                    119

<removed-date>
              tgttctaacg cggtctgcta gttttttgtc gaattaccac caaggcacac aattgctatc   1320
              tttctcaagt tcacatgtgt acccatccac tactgtggtg aatcctactt tgggtggagt   1380
              tgttacttct ggtgatgtaa ggcttcatgg gcagaaccac caccaccacc aaatgcattt   1440
              ggttgataaa caggacctgt ttcttggatc ttctccaacc ggttacaagg aagggaagca   1500
              tttggcattc atgcaaggtg accacaccct caacaaccag agcccacatc ttccaggtgc   1560
<removed-apn>
              ttccgtgggc ccggcccaga tgtttcttag gaccagcccg tattcagaaa gcggtggatt   1620
              gagatgcaaa atgttctgcg atagcctaac aggttcggcc cacggcaaca cctctcgtgc   1680
              tctctctctt ctgtcatcac caccacagcc gcacagtcct ggaaatggat taaaccaaat   1740
              ggtgaaccct cactcgccac ttatgcaacc cttgggcctg agcctgcatg ataacagcct   1800
              gggctccgtg gacccggttt tgggccccaa cgggagtgac cattcctcat caatgcatca   1860
              cataggttct aatggatccc aggtgaatga ggcccctcca ctatttccct ttcaatggga   1920
              atagacttca attataagga ctcgtccttt ggttgttgat tctttccctc gtactatttc   1980
              aatgttcaat ttatctttta atgaaggcaa tgaactatat ccatcacgtt taacaaaatg   2040
              gtgtggaaat ttttcatgtc tttaaaagtg ttgctgtgta ctatcaaaaa ctatattccc   2100
              gtcacctttt tgtctttttt tattctttga agcagcacca catttcaatg agaaactcta   2160
              cttgctcata caatgacatg tgccagtgcg taacttacaa aacgcacaaa aaaaattatt   2220
              gaagtaatgg tcctgatcgg acgcgtggg                                     2249
              <210>   133
              <211>   1223
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 133
              tttttttttt tttaatttaa ccaataatat aatgaagata gaaagtagaa acatgtaaag     60
              cttccaaact ccggaaacga atgatatggg atgcctttct aacagcctaa attttacaag    120
              ttatttattt attataagcc tgcaaggtaa atagtagtat gatgaagcat ggagatgtgc    180
              gtaacaatag taagaagcta aggtattaaa agttgttgcc agtggagaca tggtaggttg    240
              gttatgtaga aactaaatga gcgcagtctg gtacaaacac cattcgggaa atggagcgag    300
              ttccatgcag ttttagttaa tctccattta aaaataacat gcagactaga aatcttgttg    360
                                                    120

<removed-date>
              tagtagaagc atagtgttgt taatccagtt ggttgcacgg aaaacctgat tcatagggtg    420
              agctcaagag ctgaaagtct tgaaagcgat tgctgctatc gcaatccgag aatgagatac    480
              acatgcttga attttgttga tcagtgtgcc aatactccga ggaaggaagt ggtaaacgat    540
              gctgagtgat tgagtgtgtt gtccgagtgg agtgttccag agaaagggac ttggtctcat    600
              atggacacca tgatgaattc gttgacagaa gagagagagc acggttaaca tcttgtgtac    660
<removed-apn>
              catttggaac ttccatacct ggaacaatac tcttcgttgc tatgcctcta gatgttagaa    720
              ggccactgga atcatcagaa agcatagaga ctatactcgg tatcttattg aaggctttgg    780
              caggcttcgg gaggaattct tttgtttggg ggtgcttgct gctgtgcata tcttgccaag    840
              ctaaatttgt agcagtcctt gaaaatgcaa atgggctcat tatttgcctc ccatcatagg    900
              gagatgaaga caaagctgat ggatttaatt ggattgagtc aggctgagtt ttgcggcgcc    960
              ttgcattgtg atctgaaagt cgttgcctac agcttctttt tttgtcatca aactctgaca   1020
              gagcatggaa cctgctacat tgctggcaaa atcgacgttc caaaccagct ataaccacct   1080
              taggggattt ggaatgagct tcacaaactc tgtgtttgcg atggtaatct ttagcagatg   1140
              agaggtcaag gccacagcct tccacctggc agcttggatg ctgtacagtc tgaggggggg   1200
              ggggccctac gtagctgact cga                                           1223
              <210>   134
              <211>   1279
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 134
              aacaaaacca aaaggataaa tcttgatatt tttgtttcta tgtatgtctt cttttagtga     60
              gtgaagaagg agaaggaaaa aaactttaaa tggattggaa cttcaaactc agctccggtt    120
              atttctctga attcgaccaa gaatctgtac cggatttaac cccagtcgat gcatcgatct    180
              cgttcggtag gtcatcctca tcaccaagaa gattgcagcc aaaagaagat ttcccatttg    240
              atctgaaact tggaagaaac atcgtaaact cctcttcttc ctccttctct gcttatggta    300
              agacagagaa agtgataagt cttagtaagt tgaaagagag cgcctctgag gcttcaagaa    360
              gctccaagag gacaagaggg aacaaccaga tcccgaattt gctgggtgaa ggaagggatt    420
              ccgaatttgg cacccgtaga gggttcctaa aagaactagg gcctgggaag gcccttcaaa    480
                                                    121

<removed-date>
              aatccccggg ggtacaatca atggcaataa acagaggttt tgtcaacaat gcagcaggtt    540
              tcatggtttg gaagagtttg atgaaggtaa gaaaagttgt aggaaacgtc ttgatggaca    600
              caatcgaaga agacggaagc ctcagcccga ccataccgat cgtactgcaa ctttcttcca    660
              aggtagcaaa ttgctggatt tttctagctc tccacacgtg tttccaacta catctgttgt    720
              gagtccgagc tggggaaacg gtcttgtaag cgtagctatg cccaatggtt caagttacgg    780
<removed-apn>
              gcagaaccag agctatgctg gctcctgtcc tgcaaggaca ggcattacgt tcccgatatc    840
              ttcttctcca aacagcagag ggaaacagtt ccctttcttg caagaagaag aagacagctc    900
              gagaatgacg agttgcatcc atgactctga ttgcgctctc tctcttctgt catcatcatc    960
              ctctcatttg cttcagccac agccaccact ttctttgtcc caagagaccg ttttttatgg   1020
              gtccggattg tttgagaatg cgagtgcagt ctctgatgga tccggtaatg aggctgtacc   1080
              tcttccgcaa acgttccctc cgtttcactg gtagatagaa tcagaaagat gtatgtctgc   1140
              gtcgtctcgt tctctattct cttctctttc tctctagttt ttcaaacttt tgtaatttat   1200
              aagcagtaca ctgttgtagc atgacgcaag tttcaacaat tatgtttaaa gcagaacttt   1260
              actaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa                                                1279
              <210>   135
              <211>   1785
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 135
              attgttcaat tggactttta cccattcttt ttttcacttg gcatgttaat ttaagtttgg     60
              ttaattcccc ttagtgtctc actatttata tatgtgcaat atttaataca agctcatgcc    120
              ttggtcactg cttaattttt tgttgctctc catgcaattg tgaaccatat ggtataacac    180
              atagaaggac tttgaagaag tagaagtggg gagggggaag ttgaattttg ttattcttta    240
              ttttattttt tttgttatgg actggaattt gaaagcacct tcttgggatt tggtggatca    300
              tgtggataag gcaacaacct tacaacaaaa cataggaaca aaggcggcgc cgtacgcccc    360
              ccccccctat agaatgaaag gggagttttc tgttgacttg aagcttggtc atcatcatgt    420
              ggggaattct ggcactgaat cagcactagc caacaagtcc aaagatgctg ctgctgctag    480
              tggtgctgct gcttctgcag gagtttccaa aatggcatct tcaccttcag ggtcttctaa    540
                                                    122

<removed-date>
              gagagctaga accataagca gcacatcact cacagtgtca tgccttgttg atgggtgcaa    600
              ttcagatctt agcaattgta gagattacca taggcgccat aaggtgtgtg aactccattc    660
              caagacccca gaggtcacaa ttggtggctt caagcaaagg ttctgccaac aatgtagcag    720
              gttccattcg ctggagcaat ttgatgaaag aaaaagaagc tgcagaaaac gtttagatgg    780
              acacaataga aggagaagaa agccccagcc agaacctctc tcgcgacctg gtagtttttt    840
<removed-apn>
              gtcgaattac caaggcaccc aattgctacc cttctcaagt ccacacgtat atccttccac    900
              tgccatggtt agcccagctt ggagtggtgc acttgtgact tcctctgcag atgctaggtt    960
              gcacaaccac aaccaccacc accaccaaca agaccttttt ctcggatctt ctcacaaaga   1020
              agggaagcaa gtagcattct tacacaacaa ccatccctcc acagctgcag cactcagcag   1080
              ccaaaccccg ccaccttttc catcctcttc cgttcgccac acccttctca ggaccgaccc   1140
              tctatcagaa acttgcggcg gagctagaag caaaatgttc tgtgaaagct taacaacaac   1200
              aacaactaac aataattcgg tgcatgacac tactccttgt gctctctctc ttctgtcatc   1260
              atcacagacg cacacaccag ggaatggctt gaaccaaatg gtgcagcctc ctccctcaat   1320
              gtccctcatg cagcccttag gcctgagctt gcaggataat aacagcttag agtctgtgga   1380
              tcattgttcc tccatgtata gcttggcttc tgatcatgga tcccagtgca atgaagcagc   1440
              ccctcaactg tttccctttc aatgggaata gatattaatt actttatctc aaggattatt   1500
              caccactttg tttgttcatt cctaatgaat tctttccccc caaggactag ttaattcatt   1560
              ctgatttcac cctcccttta taatgaaggc aatgcctatg gacaatcatg gtatttctat   1620
              ttgtatctta gggagagaaa aaaaagctca acaattttac ataagattca tactgggagt   1680
              tgtaagagga aagtgtatat gtgtaatcct ttagtgggaa taacgttacg tgtaacccac   1740
              aaaatttagt caacatttta taactttaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                   1785
              <210>   136
              <211>   1679
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 136
              cccggtcgac cctcagctac gtaggccccc ccccccgacc tactttttta ctcgaacaag     60
              ttctttctcc tctcagagag aaacatcaaa atggggcttg caccttctat gcccattttc    120
                                                    123

<removed-date>
              ttggaggctt tatccgcagc tatcagaatt taagagattc aagattagta cataactatg    180
              tgtgttaggt ttaggtttgg ctttggcatc ttaaaaggga cataaagcaa accatagttt    240
              tgttggttgg ttatggattg ggatgggaaa gagtttgctt gggatccacg tgggttggag    300
              ctggctaatg gtgaaggcca gaagagtgaa gcagcttcag tggatttgag gcttggtgag    360
              gaaaaaacag ccccagatgt tgttgctaag gacacaaaag actcaaaaac cgtgtcatcg    420
<removed-apn>
              ccatccgggt cgtcgaaaag atcccgcctt cagaatggat tacagaacat gtgttgttct    480
              gttgatggat gcaattctga tctcagtgat tgcagagagt atcataggcg ccatagggtc    540
              tgcgaaaagc actccaaaac cccggttgtg atggtggggg ggaaacaaca gaggttctgc    600
              cagcaatgca gcaggtttca ttcgcttggg gagtttgatg aggttaagag gagttgtagg    660
              aaacggcttg acgggcataa caggcgccgg aggaaacctc agccaccctc tcttttcatg    720
              gctgctgaga agttcatgta caattacaaa ggacctagaa tcctacactt tggtagccct    780
              gaggcttatg ccaaccctat tatgagagac atgtggcctg ctgctgccaa aactggagct    840
              gaatctggtc atgattctcc tcgactttta tacagaattg acaagcataa gcaagataag    900
              ggacatcctc tttggcaaga aaatgaccct aaagtaggca gtggtgatga agcaatgccg    960
              ggaactccca tttgtcagcc tattcatggc accatcgccc catcaatggg tggaaagagc   1020
              aaccgaaagc tctctacaga tgcaaaacct ggatcctttg actcaggttg tgctctctat   1080
              cttctgtcaa cacttcaatc acaaagtcca gagttgagta tggtgcaatc tagcatcacc   1140
              tgccctgtgc aatctccatc aggatctgtg cattttgatg ctgtgaatga gtatgcatgc   1200
              tcagaaacgg aaagagataa gcctagtggt caagtattgg ttttcgatgc aaaaacaacc   1260
              aaccttcatt acaacggaat gctgcaaatg gatctcgatg gatttgttga aaatgaggac   1320
              ccactagcac ttcctttctt gtgggagtag gtagctaact aagtggttat gtctttgttg   1380
              ggaaattatg gattcaaaac cttgtgtgtg tactgtgtac tccaatgatt aaagcttaaa   1440
              cttgttgaag ctttcaataa gggtcctttg ttgctgtcaa tcttgttgtg gtagcacaat   1500
              tgattatgct gcggaggatg aaatggattg tatgcgaact atgttctttc agttgtcatg   1560
              agatcagttt gaacagttca gaagttattt tctttgatga aagattttta atttccatga   1620
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaatag ataaaaaaaa aaaaactcga gacagtctct ctctctctc    1679
                                                    124

<removed-date>
              <210>   137
              <211>   1611
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 137
              atgagacgaa tgaagaaaga tattgaagat gaggtgcttc ccaatgatat gagtggggca     60
              cagttgaatg atgagagtta tgaaggaagt gctggcattg ttctgaagaa ggggccatgg    120
<removed-apn>
              acatcaactg aagatgatat tttggtggat tatgtcaaga agcatgggga ggggaactgg    180
              aatgctgttc agaagcacac cgggctgttt cgttgcggaa aaagttgtcg gctgcggtgg    240
              gccaatcacc taaggccaaa tttaaagaaa ggggcgtttg ccgcagaaga ggagcggctg    300
              attgctgaac ttcatgccaa aatgggaaac aaatgggcac gcatggcagc tcatttgcct    360
              ggtcggacag ataatgagat aaagaactac tggaacaccc ggatcaaaag gcgtcaacgg    420
              gctgggttgc cactttatcc tccagaagtg agtttgcatg ctttgcaaga gagtcagcat    480
              agccaaagca ctggtggact taatggtggc gataaaatgc atcctgattt cttgcagaaa    540
              aacagttatg agatacatga tgctatattt gacagtctaa aggataatca gggaatctta    600
              ccttatgtgc atgagctttc tgatatttct gtttatggca ataagctaaa aggtcttgat    660
              tcttctcagt attgtagttt tgtgccacca acatcaccta agcgtaagcg tcttaaagag    720
              tcaacaatac catttattga ttcctgtgct atgaaaaaaa aggatttata tccatttgat    780
              caaattcaag acaataattc tgataagatt gcacaatcat ttggaatgca agcacccctt    840
              gatcctggtc tctcctcgca cagttcaatg tgttacagcc attcactttc aaatggcaac    900
              tcctctactt ctaagcctta tgaggctatg aagttggagc tcccttcact ccaatatcca    960
              gaactcgatt taggtagctg gggttcatct cctccacctt ctttgctcga gtcagttgat   1020
              gatttccttc agtctcctac agcaattagt acactggagt cagattgttc ttctccacaa   1080
              aatagtggcc ttctggatgc tttactttat caggcaaaga ctatgagcag ttcaaagaac   1140
              cattgttctg ataagagttc aaattcttct actgcaaccc ctggtgacag agctgacagc   1200
              tctattttga atgtgtacga gacagaatgg gaagattatg ctgaccctgt atctcccttt   1260
              ggtgccactt caatattgaa tgagtgccca gctcttagag ccaatgcaaa ttcattgaac   1320
              ggacagctgc cagttcagac ctttactggc aaccttccga aattagaatc tgttgaccag   1380
                                                    125

              gtttggactc ctaacaatga aaatctaacc ttgtccctgt tgaatattac tcgtccagac   1440
<removed-date>
              ttcttgcttg cttcagattg gtatgaccta ggttctggac attgcaagaa ccaaaccatc   1500
              acaactgatg ctgcaacggc ctttcttgga gatgatttag ccactgacct caagcatatg   1560
              actgctggaa tttctaaaac tatgtttgaa aatccattcc agcccctcta a            1611
              <210>   138
              <211>   1578
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 138
              atgagtcaaa tgacaaatga ggtcgacaac aatgtgcatt atgatgatca gactgggtca     60
              cagttaaatg atgatggtaa tggagtaggt gttgttctga agaaagggcc atggacagct    120
              gctgaagatg ctcttctggt gaactatgtc cagaagcatg gagaggggaa ctggaatgct    180
              gttcagaatt actcaggcct gtctcgttgc ggaaaaagct gtagactgcg atgggccaat    240
              cacctaaggc caaatttaaa gaaaggagca tttaccgcag aagaggagcg gatgattgct    300
              gaactccacg ccaaaatggg aaacaaatgg gcacgcatgg cagcgcactt gcctggtcgt    360
              acagataatg aaataaaaaa ttactggaac acccggatga agaggcggcg acgggctggc    420
              ttgccacttt atcctcctga agtacttttg caagcatttc aagagagaaa gcatggccaa    480
              ggtactggtg aaattagcga tggtgatgga gggcatcgtg atttcttgaa gaaaaacaat    540
              tacgagatac atgatgcaat atttgacagt ctgaaggaaa atcaaggaat cttacctttt    600
              ttgcctgacc ttcctgctat ttctgctaat agctttcttc caaatggtct tggttctcct    660
              ccatattgta atttattgcc atcaacattg ccaaaccatg atcatcttca agagtcaaca    720
              atgtctttta ttggttccag tgaattgaac agcaatcgat tttatccatt tgaccatatt    780
              aaggataata cttctgataa gatttcagaa tcatttggat tgtattctcc ccttgatcgt    840
              ggtgtctcac atggttcaat ttgttacagc cattcactat cgaatggcaa ttcctctact    900
              tctaagccga cttctgaggc tgtgaagtca gagctccctt cactccaaat tccagaaacc    960
              gaattcggta gttggggtac ctctccccca cctccattga acgagtctct tgatgttttc   1020
              attcattctc ctcaaccacc taatgcacta gactcgggtt cttcttcacc acttaatagt   1080
              ggcttgcttg atgcattact ttatcaagca aacactcttg gttgttcaaa gaataattct   1140
                                                    126

              tctgacaaga gttcaaattc ttcaattgca actcctggcg acagagctga gtgttctgct   1200
<removed-date>
              ttgaacatgt acgagacaga atgggaggat tatgctgacc ctttatctcc ctttggagca   1260
              acttcaatcc tgaatgagca tcctgttgtt agcaccaatg gaaactcatg ggatgaatgg   1320
              gaactttttc agacctttag tggcaacaat gagagattgc agtcaattga ccaagtttgg   1380
              acccctaaga gtgaaaatca atccatgtct ctgttgaatt tcactctgcc agatgtcttg   1440
              ataacttcag attggcacga gctgtattct gaccacgaca gcacgaacca agccatcatg   1500
<removed-apn>
              actgaagcta gtgatgatat cagtggacaa ataacattgt acttgaaact ttggacagca   1560
              tgcagctcaa tgcagtga                                                 1578
              <210>   139
              <211>   1554
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1346)..(1346)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 139
              atgccagcag tgaactctaa ggtttattac ttccctcagg gtcatgctga gcatgcatgt     60
              ggaccagtta acttcaggac ttgtcctaag gttccacctt ttgttccatg tagagtgact    120
              gctgtcaaat acagggctga tcctgagacc gatgaagtct atgccaaact caagctcatt    180
              cctctgaatg ccaatgatgt tgattatgat cgtgatgttg ttggtggggc tgaaactcag    240
              gacaagcctg cttcatttgc aaaaaccttg acccaatctg atgccaacaa tggtggggga    300
              ttttctgttc ctaggtattg tgcagagaca attttccctc gtttggacta ctcagttgac    360
              cctcccgttc aaaacatcct tgccaaggat gttcatggag aaacatggaa attcagacac    420
              atttataggg gcacgccaag gcgacatttg ttgactactg ggtggagtac ttttgtgaat    480
              cacaagaagc ttgttgctgg ggactcaatt gtgtttttga gggcagaaaa tggggatttg    540
              tgtgttggga ttcgacgagc gaagaaggga atttgtggtg gacttgagac ttcctcaggg    600
              tggaatcctg caggaggaaa ttgtcatatt ccttatggtg gattttcgcc cttttttagg    660
              gaggatgata atagaatctc gagaaatggc aatagcaatg ggttaaaccc tagtgtgagt    720
                                                    127

              atgatgggaa agggaaaagt caggccagaa gcagtttctg aagcttcaaa tcttgcagcc    780
<removed-date>
              aataagaaac ccttcgaggt tgtttactac cctcgagcaa gtactcccga gttttgtgta    840
              aaggcctccc tagttgaagc agcactacag attaggtggt gttctggaat aaggttcaag    900
              atggcctttg aaacagaaga ctcctcacgg ataagttggt ttatgggaac tatatcttcg    960
              gctcaggttg ctgatcccct taactggcct aactcacctt ggaggcttct ccaggttaca   1020
              tgggatgaac cggatttact tcaaaacgtg agaagggtga gcccgtggct ggttgaattg   1080
<removed-apn>
              gtgtcaaaca tgcctgccat tcatttttcc cctttctcac caccacggaa gaaattgaga   1140
              ttgcctcaac aaccagattt cccccttgat ggccagattc ctttgtcgac atttcccagc   1200
              aaccttctag gtcctagtaa caccaaccaa tttggttgtc tacttgaaag tacacctgct   1260
              ggcatgcagg gagccaggca tgctcattat ggtctatcct tatcggatct ccacctcagt   1320
              aaattgcagt caggtctatt ttcgantggt ttcccgtctc ttgatcacgc tgctacgcca   1380
              atgagggtct caaatagcat aacattacaa aagcccaacc ttagtgagaa cgtctcttgc   1440
              ttactgacta tggcaaattc tacccagtct tcaaagaaat tggatgttgg gaagacacct   1500
              tcgctcgtgc tttttggcca aaaaattctc actgagcagc agatctctcc caag         1554
              <210>   140
              <211>   1879
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 140
              aggttttccc aggtcatgat cgttgtaaca gcgtctgccc tagtgaatta gtaatacgac     60
              ctcccctata ggggagaatt ggggtaccag ggggcccccc ctcgggattt tagtaatcag    120
              ctgccccccc cccccccccc cgaaggtgag tggtgagtct gtgagagaag ctgttacttt    180
              ggctgctagt aatcaacctt ttgaggtagt ttactatcct cgggctaata ctccagagtt    240
              ttgtattagg acttctgctg tgagaggggc tatgaggatt cagtggtcct ctgggatgag    300
              gttcaagatg ccctttgaga ctgaggactc ttccaggata agctggttca tggggactat    360
              tgcttctgtt cagcttcttg atcctatccg ctggcctaat tcaccctgga ggcttcttca    420
              ggttacttgg gatgagccag atttgctaca taatgtgaag cgagtaagcc catggttggt    480
              tgagttggta tcaaacgtgc caatcatcca tctggcaccc ttctctccac caaggaagaa    540
                                                    128

              gcttaggttt ccacaacacc cagagtttcc ccttgacttt caatttccga taccatcatt    600
<removed-date>
              ttcaggcaac ccctttgggt ctagcactag cagccccttg tgttgtctat ctgataatgc    660
              tcctgcaggc atacagggag ccaggcatgc tcaaattgga atatctttat cagatctcca    720
              ccttaacaat aagctgcagt tggggttgct tccgactaac gtccaccagc ttaatttgca    780
              cactgggatt tgtaatggca acatcaccaa ccatggtaag agtaaagaaa gtctatcatg    840
              cttgctgacc atgggaaatt ctaacaagag tttggagaaa tctgatcatg tgaagagaca    900
<removed-apn>
              ccaatttttg cttttcggtc aaccgatact caccgagcaa caaatctcta gatcttctag    960
              tgatgtgttg tctcaaaatt ttactgtgac ggatgatgag aataaggaga agaaggagaa   1020
              gggatttctt agtgactccc agtcttcagt ttcaccagga aagtcatctt ctaccgccga   1080
              gttctcttgg caagttggtt cggataccag tcattgcaag gttttcatag agtcagagga   1140
              tgtgggacgg acccttgact tgtcctgtct tggttcatat gaagagttgt acatgagact   1200
              ggctaacatg tttggaatag aaaggtctga tatgttgagt catgttctct accgtgactc   1260
              agctggtgct cttaagcaaa ctggagagga acccttcagt gagttcatga agacagcaaa   1320
              aagattgaca attctgacgg attcaaacaa caaagatagt agaagggttt ggatcacagg   1380
              aattcgaaat gctgaacatg gattggatgc tgcatcaaat aagacaggtc ctctcagtat   1440
              atttgcttaa tatggtgtgg catgtcatgg catcggagat attgttttta gatatgaaat   1500
              gttgaaggac acagttatta ctctgttgtt agagatgcta atatgaactg aaaattcaat   1560
              caatattggc gtctttgttt tcgatgccca tgtgtagaaa ataatgattt ttcctgtata   1620
              atggacaatt gctattctaa tattaattat taattaaccc agatttggtt ccccaaaaaa   1680
              aaaaaaaaaa aaccgcagag cgaatttgct attcttttag ttgttgtcgc gtctacacgt   1740
              cactagttct ggcaaatttt gagtatagtg tggtgactgt gagcacacag gaaaactgtg   1800
              gtaatcagtt caagccatgc tctgccattt attggcgtca tggatagtgt atttatgcga   1860
              tgtggattaa gttttgatt                                                1879
              <210>   141
              <211>   1611
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400>   141
                                                    129

              attcggctcg agagatgtta aggaatggtt gtggtgttgg tgggaatttg agtggaagag     60
<removed-date>
              taaaagtgag ggctgaggat gttgttgaag ctgtgactct tgctgctagt aacaaggctt    120
              ttgaggttgt gtattaccca agagccagta ctcctgagtt ttgtgttaag gcttcttctg    180
              tgggggctgc tatgaggatt cagtggtgtt ccgggatgag gttcaagatg gcctttgaga    240
              ctgaggatgc tacaaggata agttggttca tgggaaccat tgcttctgtt caggttgttg    300
              accccatctg ctggcctaat tccccatgga ggcttcttca ggttacttgg gatgagccag    360
<removed-apn>
              atttactaca aaatgtgaag cgtgttagcc cgtggctggt tgaattggta tcaaacattc    420
              cactcatcaa ttttacaccc ttctctccac caagaaagaa gcttcggcca caacacccag    480
              acttccccct tgatgttcaa tttccaatac caatgctttc aggcaaccag catgggccta    540
              acagcccctt gtgtggtttt tcggataatg ctcctgcagg gatacaggga gccaggcatg    600
              ctcaatttgg aaaatctcta tcagatctcc accttaacaa taataaactg cagttgggga    660
              tgcttccaac taatatccat caacttggag gagtgtatac tgggatttca agtggtaaca    720
              tgatgaccaa acatgataag agcaaagaaa gcttatcgtg ctttctgacc atggggaaat    780
              ctagtaagag tttggagaaa tctgatgatg ttaagaaaca ccaatttttg cttttcggtc    840
              aaccaattct cactgagcaa caaatttcta gctgttctag agatgtgttg tctcgcggaa    900
              aaagatcgct aggtgatgag aaggacaaag cgaaatgcgt tttggatgac tcgcaatcta    960
              ctctctcaca gcagttttca ccaggaaaag cttcttctgc tgagttcttt tggcaacttg   1020
              gcttggatac tggtcattgc aaagttttct tggaatcaga agatgtagga aggaccctag   1080
              acctatcgca gtttggttct tatgaagagc tctataggag acttggcaac atgtttggga   1140
              ttgaaaggtc tgagattttg aaccatgtgc tctattatga tgcagctggt gctgttaagc   1200
              aaactggaga agaacctttc agtgacttca tgaagacagc aaaaagattg acaattctga   1260
              cagattcagg cagcaaaaat atcaaaaggg cctttattac aggaactcgt aatggtgaac   1320
              atggactaga tccatcaaac aaaacaggcc ctctgagcat atttgcttaa aatatgctat   1380
              agatagcatc tgagacattg ttgagatctg agtagttgaa ggacagtctt aactctattt   1440
              acctctgcaa agactgaaca tgaactgaat cttttatcat ggttgttaca attgtttact   1500
              aaaaacaagt attttatcaa ggttggcatt gttggttatt agtgtacaaa taataatgat   1560
              gctattatca tgatcaacta atattgtaat attaaccaag atttggaccc c            1611
                                                    130

<removed-date>
              <210>   142
              <211>   2276
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 142
              ccacgcgtcc gttaggcttg ttcctttgac cagaaacgag ggtgattttg aggatgatgc     60
              tgttggaggc atcaatggat ctgaaaataa agataaatcc ccttcttttg ccaaaacctt    120
<removed-apn>
              gacacagtct gatgccaaca atggtggggg cttttctgtt cccagatatt gtgctgagac    180
              aatttttcct cggttggact attccgcgga ccctcccgtt cagaacatcc ttgccaagga    240
              tgttcatggt gagacatgga aatttaggca catttatagg ggcacgccgc gccggcactt    300
              gttaactacc gggtggagta gctttgtgaa tcacaagaag cttgtggcgg gggattcaat    360
              tgtgtttttg agggcagaaa aggatgatct gcgtgttgga attcggcggg ctaagagggg    420
              gattggaatt ggtggaggac ctgaggctcc tgcagggtgg aattcaggtg gggggattcg    480
              tcctatgcct tatggagggt tttcagcttt tttgagagag gaagatagcc agctcttgag    540
              aaatgggttg agtccaaatg caaaggggaa agtgaggcct gaagcagtta ttgaggctgc    600
              aactcttgct gccaatatgc agccatttga ggttgtttac tatccccggg caagtgcccc    660
              agagttttgt gtgaaggcca atttagttag agccgcattg caggttaggt ggtgtcctgg    720
              aatgaggttc aagatgccct ttgaaacaga ggactcctcg cggataagct ggtttatggg    780
              aaccatctct tctgttaact ttgctgatcc aagatggccc aactctcctt ggagacttct    840
              ccaggttaca tgggatgaac cagagttact tcaaaatgta aaaagggtga gcccgtggct    900
              ggttgaaatt gtatcaaaca tgcctaccat tcatctttcc cattactcaa cacaacaaaa    960
              gaagccaaga ttccctcaac acccggattt ttcttttgat ggtcagattt cattgccagc   1020
              atttcccagc aactttctag gtccaagcaa tccgtttggt tgtctagctg aaagtactcc   1080
              tgctggcata cagggagcca ggcatgctaa ttatggtata tccctatcaa atctccactt   1140
              caataaactg cagtcaggcc tatttcaagc tggtttccct ccacttgatc acactgcttc   1200
              cccagtattg agagtctcct ccaacaatgc agcaacaatg caaaaggtcg gcacgggtga   1260
              caacgtctct tgcttactgt ccatgtcaac tgctactcaa ccttcaaaga aagtggatga   1320
              tgtgaaggca ccccaattgg tgctttttgg ccaaacaatt ctcaccgaac agcaaatttc   1380
                                                    131

<removed-date>
              tttgaacacc tctgctaaga cagatcctac tcgaaataat tcatttgatg gaaatgctga   1440
              taaaatgtgc aagttttcag atggttttgg ttatgctctt cacccacaag gctcttctct   1500
              tgagaggtta cagtggtaca aggatcaaca aaaagaaacc atggctagtt tggagacagg   1560
              tcactgtaaa gtttttatgg aatctgaaga cattggtcgg actatggatc tcacaatgct   1620
              tggatcttat gatgaattgt atagaaagct ggcagacatg tttggcatag aaaaatctgt   1680
<removed-apn>
              ggtgctaagt cacatgcttt accgtgatac aactggggca gtcaagcaca ttggagatga   1740
              agcattcagc gaatttacca aaactgcaag gaggttgacc attctaatgg attccaacag   1800
              cgatggtaga ggaatctaga ggaagaaata aacaattatc atttcaattg tacagctggt   1860
              tgatcaattt ctctggagag tctcatctaa tttatggata ttaatgtttt tctcgaaggg   1920
              cctatttgga tttgtttttt ttcttttagt gatgatagct cgtggttttc cttctctttt   1980
              tggatcataa catggtttac ttgaggcttt tgtttaataa ttctgatgtg aaaaaaggtg   2040
              ggggagagaa gagaaagggt agtgatcata tatccctatg aatacgattg gttcatagga   2100
              gtttcctgta tacaatggtt tttaagtgta aaaaaagcta cctaggctta atggttattg   2160
              agacagtagt tacctatttt tttgttctgt gtttttacca ctgtagttac ctatttcatt   2220
              ttcttgtgac tttcgtatgc aaaaggaaag aaggggaaag gggggggggg gtaggt       2276
              <210>   143
              <211>   735
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 143
              acgaggagca gttatggttc tggagggctt gggcttgggc catacggggc cttttcgggt     60
              tttatgaggg aggagagtgg gagggcgaag gtgagtggtg aatcagtgag agaagcagtt    120
              actttggcgg ctagtaacca agcgtttgag gtggtttatt atcctcgagc gaatactcct    180
              gagttttgta ttaggacctc ggctgtgaga ggggctatga ggattcagtg gtgttccggt    240
              atgaggttca agatgccttt tgagactgag gattcttcca ggacgagctg gttcatgggg    300
              actattgctt ctgttcaggt tcttgatcct attcgctggc ctaattcacc ttggaggctt    360
              cttcaggtac acactatttc aattcatgct tgtctttgcc aatattctaa agttcgaatt    420
              ttcatcgcaa caggttagtt gggatgagcc tgatttgcta cataatgtga agcgagtgag    480
                                                    132

<removed-date>
              cccatggttg gttgagttgg tatctaacgt gccaatcatc catctggcag ccttctctcc    540
              accaaggaag aagcttaggt tcccccttga cgttcagttt ccgataccat cgttttcagg    600
              caaccccttt gggtcttcta gctctagcag ccccttttgt tgtctctctg ataacgctcc    660
              tgcaggcata cagggagcca ggcattctca aattggaata tctttatcag atctccacct    720
              taacaataag ctgca                                                     735
<removed-apn>
              <210>   144
              <211>   1739
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 144
              ggattttctc cctttttgag ggaggatgat aatagaatct tgagaaatgg caatagcaat     60
              ggattgaacc ctagtgtaag tatgatggga aagggaaaag tgaggccaga agcaattatt    120
              gaagctgcaa atcttgcagc caataagaaa ccctttgagg ttgtttacta ccctcgggca    180
              agtactcccg agttttgtgt gaaggcctca ctagttgaag cagcaatgca gactaggtgg    240
              tattctggaa taaggttcaa gatggccttt gaaacggaag actcctcgcg aataagttgg    300
              tttatgggaa ctatatcttc ggttcaggtt gctgatcccc taaactggcc taactcacct    360
              tggaggcttc tccaggttac atgggatgaa ccagatttcc cccttgatgg ccagattcct    420
              ttgccgacac ttcccaacaa ccttctaggt cccaacaaca ccaaccaatt tggttgtcta    480
              ctcgaaagta ctcctgctgg catgcaggga gccaggcatg ctcattatgg tctatcctta    540
              tcggatctcc accttagtaa attgcaatca ggtctatctt cggctggttt cccgcctctt    600
              gatcacgctg ctacgccaat gaaggtctca aataacaaga cattgcaaaa gcctagcatc    660
              agtgagaacg tctcttgctt actatctatg acaaattcta ctcggtcttc aaagaaattg    720
              gatgctggga agacaccttc gctcatgctt tttggccaaa aaattctcac tgagcaacag    780
              atctctccga gcagctctgt tgatacactc tccccagttc ttaccagaaa ttgttcgaca    840
              gatggaaatg tcaataaagt gactaatttt tttgatggtt ttggatcagc tcttcatcag    900
              caaggtttac acgaacactc ctcttgtgag aggttccagt ggtgtaagga taatcaccaa    960
              gaaattgagg ccaatatgga gactggccat tgtaaagttt ttatggagtc cgaagatgta   1020
              ggccgaacta tggacctatc gttgcttcga tcttacgatg aattacatag aaagttggca   1080
                                                    133

<removed-date>
              gacatgtttg gcatagaaaa atctgaaatg ttaagtaggg tgctttactg cgattcagtt   1140
              ggggctatca aacacattgg tgatgagcca ttcagtgact tcacaagaac agccaaaagg   1200
              ttgactattc taatggattc tggcagcaac aatgtaggag tgtagtgggg cagaataaac   1260
              tattctttta attgtacaga tagttcacga agtctcattt tctaaccttt ccctcttcct   1320
              ggtgcaatgg aaggagacaa cctaatttat tttttgaata tcaaactcta cataaatgtt   1380
<removed-apn>
              tctattccat ctcaaagggg atttttggat ttttgaattt tggttagagt gatcataact   1440
              tgtgtttccc tttttctttt tgtttttttc tgtcaactat ctctttatct ttgcctactt   1500
              gagtttcctt ttaaaatttt gttggggaaa aaggtggagg acaaagagag aagtttgaaa   1560
              tcctataaat atgattggtt tgtaagcagg taaaaatgta tttgatctga atactagttg   1620
              aaacaaaagg agagtcattc ttgcttttat gtattcactt gttcaaagat tgtaccattt   1680
              tcttcttgtt gttgccttat aaattatttg ctattacaat ttaatcttgc attgaatgc    1739
              <210>   145
              <211>   1570
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 145
              ggttatcttt ccagggggtt tttacaccag tcccacgggc cgtttgtaaa ataaggccgg     60
              gcccaggggg aaatggtaaa tacggactcc acctataggg gcggaattgg ggattgggta    120
              ccgggccccc cctcgagtca gctacgtagg cccccccccc aattcatgct tgtctttgcc    180
              aatattctaa agtttgaatt ttcatcgcaa caggttagtt gggatgagcc tgatttgcta    240
              cataatgtga agcgagtgag cccatggttg gttgagttgg tatctaacgt gccaatcatc    300
              catctggcag ccttctctcc accaaggaag aagcttaggt tcccccttga cgttcagttt    360
              ccgataccat cgttttcagg caaccccttt gggtcttcta gctctagcag ccccttttgt    420
              tgtctctctg ataacgctcc tgcaggcata cagggagcca ggcattctca aattggaata    480
              tctttatcag atctccacct taacaataag ctgcagttgg ggttgcttcc aactaaagtc    540
              caccagctta atttgcacgc cgggatttct aatgctaaga gtaaagaaag tctatcatcc    600
              ttgctctcca tgggaaattc taacatgact ttggagaaat ctgatcatgt caagagacac    660
              cattttttgc ttttcggtca accgatactc accgagcaac aaatctctag atcttctagt    720
                                                    134

<removed-date>
              gatgtcgcca cggatgatga gaataaggaa aagaagaaga agggatttct tagtgactcc    780
              cagtcttcag tttcaccagg aaatttatct tctactgccg agttctcttg gcaactcggt    840
              tctgatacca gtcattgcaa ggttttcatg gagtctgaag atgtaggacg gacacttgac    900
              ttgtcctgcc tttcttctta tcaagagttg tacatgagac tcgctaacat gtttggaata    960
              gagaggtctg atatgttgag tcatgttctc tactgcgact catccggtgc tcttaagcaa   1020
<removed-apn>
              attggagagg aacccttcag tgagttcatg aagacagcaa aaagattgac cattctgacg   1080
              gattcaaaca acaaagatag tagaaggtgg gagaaagaaa attaatgaaa tatgtatagg   1140
              atgtgcttcc ggggaagata ctattgtatg tgcaagtgta actgttcctt cctctttgtg   1200
              acttcaaagt ctgttttgca gggtttggat cacaggaact cgaaatgctg aacatggatt   1260
              ggatgctgca tcaaataaga caggtcctct cagtatattt gcttaatatg gtgtggcatg   1320
              gcatcggaga cattgttttt agatatgaaa agttgaagga catagttatt actcagttgt   1380
              aagagatgct aatatgaact gaaaattcca tcaatattgg cgtctttgtt ttcgatgtcc   1440
              atttgtagaa aataatgatt tttcctgtat gatggacaat tactattcta atattaatta   1500
              attaattaac ctaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaataaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagtctcc   1560
              tgcagcagaa                                                          1570
              <210>   146
              <211>   1154
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 146
              ggaccttggc gcatgcttca ggttaattgg gatgaacctg aagtcttgca gaatgcaaag     60
              cgagtcagtc cttggcaggt tgaacttgtt tcccttccat ttgcacttca tacagtatac    120
              tcccctaaca aaaggcttag atctgaccag ggttctgggc tgttaagtaa tagggaggga    180
              gaccccttct ttcctatgac agggttccct aactcgacaa tggaacacat gacagggttc    240
              cctaactcga cagtgggaca catggataaa tcattgttga gttatgatac ttttcctgct    300
              ggcatgcagg gagccaggca tgatctattt tctccatcaa gtttttccaa ctttttaaat    360
              gataagtcct atctgtatat gggtagtggt tcatttggga acaatccagt gcaaagtttg    420
              ggaactgtga caacagagct aaacatgagc agttctcaat cggatgactt gtcaccacat    480
                                                    135

<removed-date>
              agccagagta gttttcattc ctttgccaga gagtttgctg ggacccggaa ctgtgacacc    540
              aaagttgctt ctggttcaat tctgctattt ggtaagatca tacagcctgc tgaaagtgat    600
              ttgcatgatg gtgattgcat ggaacgtgat ggcagcaggg gcagcaataa acttaagaca    660
              gttgaggcat gctatttttc aaagtagtta tgcagcagaa tgcagttaaa tacttgtaca    720
              ggaaatcaag gctggcaggt aaaacaggaa gctgtctagg gcttgtagtg gtaaagtgat   780
<removed-apn>
              gtttccgggt catcatatgt tggtcttact acaaacttga atgatgaact aacatcatga   840
              tatttgatca gttgtatgat attaatatct gacatattat tgtgtatatt ttcaaataca   900
              ttcttaaaag gcaattgtac ttgcctttta aaaaaaatgc ccatgcttgc gcaggtaaca    960
              acctccgtac tcgtatatct ttatttgatg aggtaattgt agcctgaaag aatgcttgca   1020
              atactcttta actctgtcta gcatggttgc tgcgtagcac atacttcatg gtatgttgag   1080
              gcagtatcat acctcactca tataatattt agcttgcatt tatgtacgac gtcaatgaat   1140
              aacacgtctc tgcc                                                     1154
              <210>   147
              <211>   3041
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 147
              attcggctcg aggaaaaaaa cagaataggc tctgtaacta acgtggtgag gccaggaaga     60
              aggaagtgtg tgtttgtttg ttttactcaa aacgcgcgtt cggagtcccg ttcaacgcaa   120
              tttctgttag aaaaagcttt ggtgttgaac gtcgtggttt gcttcaaagc caaaccaatc    180
              tgtagcagct caattatccc tccacgatcc gacgaaaaaa gccgacacac actcataact    240
              tgtttttctg gcttctcaag atacggcgtt tactttttca gatccgacga aaaaggcgag    300
              aacgaattca caaggatcag ttgtggagac agcaatttat tgacaacaat ttagagagat    360
              atttcaagtt tgaattgatc cgtcagcaaa attcgaaatc agaaactatg agcaactagg    420
              attctctttc tctttcccag cggaaatata acctacaacc actctgtgag gttgctttga   480
              attgttgtgg atacatgtga tcaaatatat gatttttaat gtaagaaaga ggctcataaa   540
              aatacaacta agtgaaagtt gttgagtgag atgattacat tcatggacac aagggagaat   600
              caaagaggtg gagagttgtt tggatcctca gctatggcat gcatgtgcag gtggtattgt    660
                                                    136

<removed-date>
              acaaatgcca gcagtgaact ctaaggttta ttacttccct cagggtcatg ctgagcatgc    720
              atgtggacca gttaacttca ggacttgtcc taaggttcca ccttttgttc catgtagagt    780
              gactgctgtc aaatacaggg ctgatcctga gaccgatgaa gtctatgcca aactcaagct    840
              cattcctctg aatgccaatg atgttgatta tgatcgtgat gttgttggtg gggctgaaac    900
              tcaggacaag cctgcttcat ttgcaaaaac cttgacccaa tctgatgcca acaatggtgg    960
<removed-apn>
              gggattttct gttcctaggt attgtgcaga gacaattttc cctcgtttgg actactcagt   1020
              tgaccctccc gttcaaaaca tccttgccaa ggatgttcat ggagaaacat ggaaattcag   1080
              acacatttat aggggcacgc caaggcgaca tttgttgact actgggtgga gtacttttgt   1140
              gaatcacaag aagcttgttg ctggggactc aattgtgttt ttgagggcag aaaatgggga   1200
              tttgtgtgtt gggattcgac gagcgaagaa gggaatttgt ggtggacttg agacttcctc   1260
              agggtggaat cctgcaggag gaaattgtca tattccttat ggtggatttt cgcccttttt   1320
              tagggaggat gataatagaa tctcgagaaa tggcaatagc aatgggttaa accctagtgt   1380
              gagtatgatg ggaaagggaa aagtcaggcc agaagcagtt tctgaagctt caaatcttgc   1440
              agccaataag aaacccttcg aggttgttta ctaccctcga gcaagtactc ccgagttttg   1500
              tgtaaaggcc tccctagttg aagcagcact acagattagg tggtgttctg gaataaggtt   1560
              caagatggcc tttgaaacag aagactcctc acggataagt tggtttatgg gaactatatc   1620
              ttcggctcag gttgctgatc cccttaactg gcctaactca ccttggaggc ttctccaggt   1680
              tacatgggat gaaccggatt tacttcaaaa cgtgagaagg gtgagcccgt ggctggttga   1740
              attggtgtca aacatgcctg ccattcattt ttcccctttc tcaccaccac ggaagaaatt   1800
              gagattgcct cagcacccag atttccccct tgatggccag attcctttgc cgacatttcc   1860
              cagcaacctt ctaggtccta gtaacaccaa ccaatttggt tgtctacttg aaagtactcc   1920
              tgctggcatg cagggagcca ggcatgctca ttatggtcta tccttatcgg atctccacct   1980
              cagtaaattg cagtcaggtc tatcttcgac tggtttcccg cctcttgatc acgctgctac   2040
              gccaatgaag gtctcaaata acaagacatt gcaaaagcct agcatcagtg agaacgtctc   2100
              ttgcttacta tctatgacaa attctactcg gtcttcaaag aaattggatg ctgggaagac   2160
              accttcgctc atgctttttg gccaaaaaat tctcactgag cagcagatct ctccaagtag   2220
                                                    137

              ctctggtgat acactctccc cagttcttac cagaaattgt tcatcagatg gaaatgtcga   2280
<removed-date>
              taaagtgact aatttttctg atggttctgg atcagctctt catcaggaag gtttacgcga   2340
              acactccttc ttgtgagagg ttccaatggt gtaaggataa ccaccaagaa actgaggctg   2400
              gtttggagat tggtcactgt aaagttttta tggagtctga agatgtgggt cggactatgg   2460
              acctctcgtt gcttcggtct tatgatgaat tacatagaaa gttggcagac atgtttggca   2520
              tagaaaaatc tgaaatgtta agtcacgtgc tctatcgtga ttcaactggg gctgtcaaac   2580
<removed-apn>
              gcattagtga tgaatcattc agtgacttca caagaacagc caaaaggttg actattctaa   2640
              tggattctgg cagtaacaac gtaggagtgt agtgaggcaa aataaactat tcttttaatt   2700
              gtataaatgg ttcatgaagt ctcattttct aacctttccc cctcctggtg caatggaagg   2760
              aggcagcctg atttagtttt tgaatatcaa actctacata aatgtttcta ttccatctca   2820
              aaggggatgt ttggattttt gaattttggt tagagtgatc ataatttgtg ttttcatttt   2880
              ttttttgtca ctatctcttt atttttgcct acttgagttt tcttttcaaa ttttgttggg   2940
              gaaaaaggtg gaggataaag agagaagttt gagatcctat aaatatgatt ggtttgtatg   3000
              cagtaaaaaa atatacagta ttcaatctaa atattagtga a                       3041
              <210>   148
              <211>   2632
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 148
              ccacgcgtcc gcctttcttt cactcacaga gatctaaaag cacaaaaaac aaaaaccagc     60
              tcgtgcttgt actttgcgcg atgaatctcc tttgaagaaa acagaaactt caaaaagcac    120
              attattttct cttttgaaca cactctgttt tttttgttgt ttccatgaag gaaggtgaaa    180
              aggtattgga tccgcagcta tggcacgcgt gtgcaggtgg catggttcag atgccgcaaa    240
              tgaactccaa agtcttctac ttcccacagg gtcacgccga acacgcccac accaacattc    300
              atctgaggct tccaccattc attttatgca acgttgaagc agttaagttc atggcgaacc    360
              cagaaaccga cgaagtgttc gcgaagctga gtttgcttcc tctcagaaac tcggaactcg    420
              gtgctgactc ggacggtgct ggtggtgatg acgtggcaga accttcttgt tgtgaaaagc    480
              ctgcgtcttt cgctaagact ctgactcaga gcgacgccaa caatggtggg gggttttcgg    540
                                                    138

              ttccgcggta ctgcgcggag acaattttcc cgcgtctgga ctacacggcg gagccgccgg    600
<removed-date>
              tgcagacggt ggtggcgaaa gacgtgcacg gcgagacctg gaggttccgg cacatctacc    660
              gagggacgcc acgtaggcac ttgctgacca cagggtggag cagtttcgtg aaccagaaga    720
              aactcgtggc tggggattcc gttgtgtttc tgagggctga gaatggtgat ttgtgtgttg    780
              ggattcggag ggcaaaaaag ggaattagcg agggttcagg ttcaggttca tcatctgtgt    840
              ggagttcagc ttctgggtct ggaaatggaa attgtgggat tgggccttat gggccttttt    900
<removed-apn>
              cttttttctt gaaagaagaa aacaaaatgt taaggaatgg ttgtgtgttg gtgggaattt    960
              gagtggaagg gtgaaagtga gggctgagga tgttgttgaa gctgtgactc ttgctgctag   1020
              taataagcct tttgaggttg tgtattaccc aagagctagt actcctgagt tttgtgttaa   1080
              ggcttctgct gtgagggctg ctatgaggat tcagtggtgt tctgggatga ggttcaagat   1140
              ggcctttgag actgaggatg cttcaaggat aagttggttc atgggaacca ttgcttctgt   1200
              tcaggttgtt gaccccatcc gctggcctaa ttccccttgg aggcttcttc aggttacttg   1260
              ggatgagcca gatttactac aaaatgtgaa gcgtgttagc ccgtggcttg ttgagttggt   1320
              atctaacatt ccactcatta atttcacacc cttctctcca ccaagaaaga agctgcggcc   1380
              acaacaccca gacttccccc ttgatgttca atttccaata ccaatgtttt caggcaacca   1440
              gcttgggcct aacagcccct tgtgtggttt ttcggataat gctcctgcag ggatacaggg   1500
              agccaggcat gctcaatttg gaaaatctct atcagatctc caccttaaca ataaactgca   1560
              gttggggatg cttccaacta atatccatca acttggagtg tataatgaga tttcaaatgg   1620
              taacatgatg accaaccatg ataagagcaa agaaagttta tcatgctttc tgaccatggg   1680
              gaaatctacc aagagtttgg agaaatctga tgatgttaag aaacaccagt ttttgctttt   1740
              tggtcaacca attctcactg agcaacaaat ttctagctgt tctggagatg tgttgtctca   1800
              ccgaaaaaga tcggtaagtg atgataagga caaagcgaag tgccttatgg atgactcgca   1860
              atctacactc tcacagcagt tttcaccagg aaaagcatct tctgctgagt tctcttggca   1920
              acttggcttg gatactggtc attgcaaagt tttcttggag tcggaagatg taggaaggac   1980
              cctagaccta tcgctgtttg gttcttatga agatctgtat aggagacttg ccatcatgtt   2040
              tgggattgaa aggtctgaga ttttgaacca tgtgctctac catgatgcag ctggtgctgc   2100
              taagaaaacc ggagaagaac ccttcagtga cttcatgaag acagcaaaaa gattgacaat   2160
                                                    139

<removed-date>
              tctgacggat tcaagcagca aaaacattaa aagggccttt attacaggaa ctcgtaatgg   2220
              tgaacatgga ctagatgcat caaacaaaac aggccctctg agcatatttg cttaaaatat   2280
              gctatagata gcatctgaga cattgttgag atctgagtag ttgaaggaca gtcctaactc   2340
              tatttacctc tgcaaagact gaacatgagc tgaatctttt atcatggttg ttactattgt   2400
              gtactaaaaa caatatctat caaggttggc ttagttgttt attagtgtac aaataatgat   2460
<removed-apn>
              gccattatca tggtcaactg ttattgtaat attaaccaag atttggaccc catttggcaa   2520
              cttgcttctt ttcttttcct tatttttttg ttcattgtgc tctcacactc acatgctgct   2580
              gcctacgtgt ctccacgtca ccagtgctca ataaattgtg caaagttggt at           2632
              <210>   149
              <211>   1094
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 149
              cggacgcgtg ggcagcccta gaatgttcct gttccagaag gcttccgctt ctcatgtcca     60
              gcttctgatt gggtcaaaga agtactttca gttccatctt ccccgtgacg cagttaacat    120
              tgccgaggcc tcagacgcaa ccatagccaa actagtcctg gaatcagacc cacgcaccct    180
              ctccgaagcc ctaaccaagc ccagaatcca ctggacccca gagctagtaa acaaaaccct    240
              taagcgcctc tggaaccacg ggcccaaggc cctcctattc ttcaaacacc tcgaccgcca    300
              cctcccttcc tacacccact ccccctcctc cttcgaccac gccgtcgaca tcgcggcccg    360
              catgcgcgac ttcaactccg cctgggccct cgtgggccgc atgcgctccc tccgcctcgg    420
              cccgtctccc aaaaccctcg ctatcctcgc cgtccgctac gcctccatcg gcaagcccca    480
              ccgcgccgtc cgcaccttcc tctccatgca cgagcacggc ctccaccaag atctccactc    540
              cttcaacacc ctccttgaca tcctctgcaa atcgaaccgc gtcgaaaccg ctcacgacct    600
              cctcagaact ctcaaatcta ggttcagacc cgacaccgtt agttacaaca ttctcgcgaa    660
              cggttattgc ttgaaaaaac gcacgccgat ggcgctgcgg gttttgaagg agatggtaca    720
              gcgtgggatt gagcctacga tggtcacgta taacaccatg ctgaaggggt attttaggag    780
              taatcagatt aaggaggctt gggagtttta cttggagatg aagaagagga agtgtgagat    840
              tgatgttgtg tcttacacca ctgtgattca cgggtttgga gaggcgggtg aggttaagaa    900
                                                    140

<removed-date>
              agcaaaaagg gtttttgatg agatggtgaa ggagggtgtg gctcctaatg ttgctactta    960
              caatgctttg attcaggttt tttgtaagaa ggatagtgtg cagaacgcag tgggcggttt   1020
              tgaggagatg gtgagggagg ggggtggtgt tccccgaagt ggttactttc aatgttggta   1080
              taccaggttt gggg                                                     1094
              <210>   150
<removed-apn>
              <211>   706
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (689)..(689)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 150
              ctctttctaa acatttggat ttcaaaggga ttacatccga ccttgttact ctgaacatcc     60
              tcatcaactg tttctgccat ctgggtcaga tcactctttc cttttctgta ttggccacga    120
              ttctcaaacg gggttatcac ccagatgtaa taaccctcac cacactcatc aaaggcctct    180
              gtcttcgtgg ggaggttaag aaagcactga aatttcacga tgatgtcgtt gccctagaat    240
              tccagttaga ccgaattagt tatgggacat taatcaatgg tttgtgtaaa ataggagaaa    300
              caaaggctgc catacagttg atgaggaatc tggaagaacg ctccattaag cctgatgtgg    360
              taatgtacaa tataataatt gatagcttat gcaagaataa acttgtaggg gaagcttgta   420
              atttgtactc tgaaatgaat gcgaaacaaa tttatcctaa tgttgtcacc tacacgactc   480
              tgatctatgg cttttgcatc atgggttgtt tgaagaagcg gttgctttgt taaatgaaat   540
              gaaattgaaa aacatcaacc cagatgtcta tacctttagc atattgattg atgcattagg    600
              taaggaagga aagatgaaag cagcttaaat agtgttggct tgtatgatga aagcatatgt    660
              aaaaccctga tgttgtcact tacaacagnt ctagtggatg gatact                   706
              <210>   151
              <211>   1093
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                    141

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (201)..(201)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (233)..(237)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (239)..(253)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 151
              gtcaaaatgc ggcaaagtgg actatgcaca tcaagcattt ttggcaatag ataaacctga     60
              tactgttgca tggactgcaa taatatgtgc tcatgcttac catggcaaag cttctgaagc    120
              tttaaggctt tttaaagaga tgcaggggtc tggtgtaagg ccaaatgtgg tcactttcat    180
              aggtttgtta aatgcttgcg ntcattcagg tttagttaaa gagggagagc agnnnnngnn    240
              nnnnnnnnnn nnnaaatatg gtgtgaaccc aacaattgat cattacaatt gcatgattga    300
              tatatactct cgtgctggac tgctgcagga ggctcttgag gtgataagga gtctgccatt    360
              tgaacctgat gttatgagtt ggaagagttt attaggagga tgttggagcc atcggaatct    420
              tgagattggg atgattgctg ctgacaacat ctttcgcctg gacccactag actctgctac    480
              ttatgtgatc atgttcaact tgtatgcttt ggctgggaag tgggatgaag cagcacaatt    540
              tagaaagatg atggctgaaa ggaacttgag gaaggaagtc agttgcagct ggattattgt    600
              gaagggtaaa gtccaccgtt ttgtggtagg tgatagacac caccctcaaa cagaacaaat    660
              atactcaaaa ttaaaagaac tcaatgtttc tttcaaaaag ggtgaggagc gccttctcaa    720
              tgaagaaaat gctctatgtg actttactga acgaaaagat caacttcttg atcatagtga    780
              aagactagct atagcctatg gtctcatatg cactgcagct gataccccca ttatggtatt    840
              caaaaataca cgatcatgca aagactgcca tgaatttgca aaaagagtct cagtagtaac    900
              tggtcgtgaa ttagttgtga gagatggcaa caggtttcat catattaatt caggggaatg    960
              ttcttgccgt gattattggt gatcttaact tcgttctttt caaggcctca gcagcttggt   1020
              tttcttaatg ctgcctcagt tacagtgttg aatgatctat aattctatat atatacacaa   1080
              ttggatatgc aga                                                      1093
                                                    142

<removed-date>
              <210>   152
              <211>   1320
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 152
              gaattcggct cgagttctca cttgaacttt gaacttcttt tttctctatt atcatctttc     60
              tttttttctt catctcttat atttcacctt tattaccttt atcgaaggaa aaatgagcaa    120
<removed-apn>
              cataagcatg gtagaggcaa agctgccacc agggttcagg tttcatccaa gagatgaaga    180
              acttgtgtgt gattacttga tgaagaaggt ggcacacaat gattcccttc tcatgataaa    240
              cgttgacctt aacaagtgtg agccatggga tattcctgaa acagcttgtg tgggagggaa    300
              ggagtggtat ttctatacac aaagagaccg taagtatgca acagggctac gcacaaatcg    360
              tgccactgct tcagggtatt ggaaggccac agggaaggac aggtctatcc tccgcaaggg    420
              cacccttgta gggatgagga agactttggt gttctatcaa gggagggcac ccaaaggaaa    480
              taaaactgag tgggtcatgc atgagtttcg aattgaagga cctcatggac ctccaaaaat    540
              ttcttcttcc aaggaagatt gggttttgtg tagggtgttc tacaaaaaca gagaagtttc    600
              agccaaacct agaatgggta gctgctatga ggacacagga tcttcatctc ttcctgcatt    660
              aatggactct tacataagtt ttgaccaaac tcaaacccat gcagatgagt ttgagcaagt    720
              gccctgcttc tccattttct ctcagaacca aacaagcccc attttcaacc acatggccac    780
              tatggagcct aagttacctg ccaaccatgc aactaatgca tatggaggag caccaaattt    840
              gggttattgc ttagaccctt tatcatgtga cagaaaaatg ttaaaagctg ttttgaatca    900
              gatcacaaag atggaaagga atccacttaa ccaaagccta aaagggtcac caagcttagg    960
              agaaggaagt tcagagagtt acttatctga agtggggatg ccccacatgt ggaacaatta   1020
              ctgatgtggg acttcagtcc ttaaaccctc ttcccctgtg ccaccatggg aaaaaaaatg   1080
              aagaaaaaaa cctagaaaaa aatgcttaag ggggaagata aaatcaatcc attgttttaa   1140
              gtcatggtga atatttatgt tttacttgtg gtgttttagc tattaatgta tacccatcca   1200
              tgatgtgtcc caatatatta ggaaaatggg acttgtaatc gaaacttata aatatttgta   1260
              gttaatttta gttagtggat gatttttttt tcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag ggcggccgcc   1320
                                                    143

              <210>   153
<removed-date>
              <211>   1323
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 153
              cgattaaacc ccattacacc tcacaaaatt tctcacttca actttgaact tcttttctct     60
              attattatta tctttctctt tttcttcatc tcttatcttc cttcaccttt ttattgaaag    120
              aaaaaaaaaa tgagcaacat aagcatggta gaggcaaagc tgccaccagg attcaggttt    180
<removed-apn>
              catccaagag atgaagagct tgtgtgtgat tacttgatga agaaggtgca acacaatgat    240
              tcccttctct tgatagatgt tgaccttaac aagtgtgagc catgggatat tcctgaaaca    300
              gcatgcgttg gagggaagga gtggtatttc tacacacaaa gagaccgtaa gtatgcaaca    360
              gggttacgca caaatcgtgc cactgcctca gggtattgga aggccacagg gaaggacagg    420
              cctatcctcc gcaagggcac ccatgtaggg atgaggaaga ctttggtgtt ctatcaagga    480
              agggcaccca aagggagaaa aactgagtgg gtcatgcatg agtttcgtat cgaaggacct    540
              catggacctc ctaaaatttc ttcttccaag gaagattggg ttttgtgtag ggtgttctac    600
              aaaaacagtg aagttttagc caaacctagc atgggtagct gctatgagga cacgggatct    660
              tcaactcttc ctgcgttaat ggactcttac ataagttttg accaaactca aacccatgca    720
              gatgagtttg agcaagtgcc ctgcttctcc attttctctc agaaccaaac aaaccccatt    780
              ttcaaccaca tgaccactat ggagcctaag ttccctctca accatgcaac tacaacatat    840
              ggaggagcac caaatttggg ttattgctta gaccctttat cttgtgacag aaaaatgtta    900
              aaagctgttt tgaatcaaat cacaaagatg gaaaggaatc cacttaacca aagtctaaaa    960
              gggtcaccaa gcttaggaga aggaagttca gagagttatt tatctgaagt ggggatgccc   1020
              cacgtgtgga attactgatg tgagacttta gtacttaaac cctctcctcc acctatgcca   1080
              ccatgaaatt ttttttttta aaaaaaaaac aagaaaaaaa aaggtataag ggggaagata   1140
              aaatcaatcc attgttttaa gtcatggtga gtacttatgt tttacctgtg gtgttttagc   1200
              tattaatgta tacccatcca tgatgtgtcc ctatatatta ggaaaatggg acttgtaatt   1260
              taaacttata aatatttgta gttaatttta tttagtggat gatttttttt tcttctttgt   1320
              taa                                                                 1323
                                                    144

              <210>   154
<removed-date>
              <211>   912
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 154
              atgagcaaca taagcatggt agaggcaaag ctgccaccag ggttcaggtt tcatccaaga    60
              gatgaagaac ttgtgtgtga ttacttgatg aagaaggtgg cacacaatga ttcccttctc   120
              atgataaacg ttgaccttaa caagtgtgag ccatgggata ttcctgaaac agcttgtgtg   180
<removed-apn>
              ggagggaagg agtggtattt ctatacacaa agagaccgta agtatgcaac agggctacgc   240
              acaaatcgtg ccactgcttc agggtattgg aaggccacag ggaaggacag gtctatcctc   300
              cgcaagggca cccttgtagg gatgaggaag actttggtgt tctatcaagg gagggcaccc   360
              aaaggaaata aaactgagtg ggtcatgcat gagtttcgaa ttgaaggacc tcatggacct   420
              ccaaaaattt cttcttccaa ggaagattgg gttttgtgta gggtgttcta caaaaacaga   480
              gaagtttcag ccaaacctag aatgggtagc tgctatgagg acacaggatc ttcatctctt   540
              cctgcattaa tggactctta cataagtttt gaccaaactc aaacccatgc agatgagttt   600
              gagcaagtgc cctgcttctc cattttctct cagaaccaaa caagccccat tttcaaccac   660
              atggccacta tggagcctaa gttacctgcc aaccatgcaa ctaatgcata tggaggagca   720
              ccaaatttgg gttattgctt agacccttta tcatgtgaca gaaaaatgtt aaaagctgtt   780
              ttgaatcaga tcacaaagat ggaaaggaat ccacttaacc aaagcctaaa agggtcacca   840
              agcttaggag aaggaagttc agagagttac ttatctgaag tggggatgcc ccacatgtgg   900
              aacaattact ga                                                       912
              <210>   155
              <211>   962
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (876)..(876)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 155
              cgccttgaag gcaaatttgc ttaccactac ctttctcgca actccaaaga tgagtgggtc    60
                                                    145

              atatcacgtg tgtttcagaa gagtaacacc gccaccaaca atggaggctc cgtcatgtct   120
<removed-date>
              gcttctagta actccaagaa gacaagaatg aacagcacca cctctcttat ccatgaacca   180
              agttcaccct cagttttcct tccacctctt ctagacactt caccctacac catcacagct   240
              aacttcaccg accgtcacaa tggttcctat gacagcatca ccaaaaagga gcacgtgtcc   300
              tgtttctcca caatagctgc agcaacaact gctgttgtct cccccaacaa cttcaacaat   360
              gcaggctttg acctttcacc ttctcagcct cttgcaaccg acccatttgc caggtttcag   420
<removed-apn>
              aggaacgttg atttttctgc ttttccaagt ttgaggtcac tacaagacaa ccttcagttc   480
              cctttcgtct tttccacggc tgcaccgccc ttctccggcg gcggttccgg cgactttctc   540
              agttggccgg tgccggagga gcagaggctg atagatggtg tttccaacat gccactggga   600
              gtgtcggagc ttgattgcat gtggagctac taattcagct tttgttgatt ttgtccagag   660
              ttgactactt ggattagact tttagacttt gattatgtca cattttgtta tgtgttatgt   720
              gttatgtttt ctttattgcc taatgtggct tgtactatag tactagtact tggtttgtgt   780
              gctgctgttg attatgtgtg atgttttcct taatggcctt gtatgagggt tgaacaatct   840
              acttcggttg ttttttgttt tttattacta gccgtntagg gttagtttga tgtaaggtta   900
              gttttggtat tgtgtttgag ctatggtaca cttagaattt atgtccaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   960
              aa                                                                  962
              <210>   156
              <211>   1363
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 156
              gaattcggct cgagcggctc gagctcttct aaaacttacc aacacaacaa aatcgagttt    60
              ccaataaaga gttttgttga aatggaaaac gttccggcgg tgtgtaagga agatgatcag   120
              atggatttgc ctcccggatt tcgattccac ccgacggatg aagagctcat aagccattac   180
              ctctacaaga aggtcattga caccaagttc tgcgccaggg caattggaga agtggacctc   240
              aacaagtccg agccttggga tttgccatgg aaagccaaaa tgggagaaaa agagtggtac   300
              tttttctgtg tgagagacag aaaatacccc actggcttga gaaccaacag ggccacagaa   360
              gctgggtact ggaaggccac agggaaagac aaagagattt tcagaggaaa atctttggtt   420
                                                    146

              ggaatgaaga aaactctggt tttctacaga ggtcgagcac ccaaaggaga gaaaagcaat    480
<removed-date>
              tgggtcatgc acgagtaccg actcgaggga aaattctctg ctcacaacct cccaaaaact    540
              gcaaagaacg agtgggtgat ttgcagggtg tttcagaaga gttcagctgg gaagaaaact    600
              catatctcgg ggataatgag gttggactct tttgctaatg aattgggttc ttctgctctg    660
              ccaccccttt cagattcttc gccttctatt ggcaacacta aacctctgaa tgattcggct    720
              tacgtgccct gcttctccaa tccaattgat gttcaaagaa accaagaagg tgtcttcgat    780
<removed-apn>
              tccttcacca actctatgta tggggtttct tcaaatccta tggacattct tcccagaatg    840
              ccaccttctg gctccttcta ctccactcaa ggtgttcaag ctgcgcctaa ttttgcattt    900
              cctggttctg tttacactct tcaggaccac accatcctga gagctttgtg tgaaaacaat    960
              ggttacaagc cagagaggga catgatcagt gtttcgcagg aaacgggtct aactactgac   1020
              atcaacgctg aaacctcttc aaattttgat gtgggttgga ggccctttga gaatcacaat   1080
              catgcatctg tttctgttgc cccattggat cttgatggtt tgtggaatta ctaaaagttt   1140
              aaataaaagg aacaattaca gtgaaaagtg aaattaaccc cacttttgag ctgaaaggaa   1200
              gaggaacaac aagagcctcg ggtggggttg atactgttgt tgtttctctg aatagatttt   1260
              atctaagaca tgtaattact gaagcatatg ttgttaagtg taagaattaa gaaatgttgt   1320
              gaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ccg                     1363
              <210>   157
              <211>   1598
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 157
              aaacagcagt atttatggcc ttgttttcct ctctctctat tctcctcatc atattcacat     60
              ctccatctac acttccttca tttccatccc cttctctctt ttaaacctca cgcacaacga    120
              aatcgtgatt ctgttgttct tttgaaatgg aaaacgctcc ggtggtgtgt aaggaagatg    180
              atcagatgga tttgcctccc ggatttcggt tccacccgac tgatgaagag cttataagcc    240
              attacctcta caagaaggtc attgacacca agttctgcgc cagggctatt ggagaagtgg    300
              acctcaacaa gtctgagcct tgggatttgc catggaaagc caaaatggga gaaaaggagt    360
              ggtacttttt ctgtgtgaga gacagaaaat accccactgg cttgagaacc aacagggcca    420
                                                    147

              ccgaagctgg gtactggaag gccacaggaa aagacaaaga gattttcaga ggaaaatctt    480
<removed-date>
              tggttggaat gaagaaaact cttgttttct acagaggtcg agcacctaaa ggtgaaaaaa    540
              gcaattgggt catgcacgag tacagactcg aggggaaatt ctctgttcac aacctcccaa    600
              aaactgcaaa gaacgagtgg gtgatttgca gggtgtttca gaagagttca gctgggaaga    660
              aaactcatat ctcggggata atgaggttgg actcttttgc tgatgaattg ggttcttctg    720
              ctctgccacc tctctcggat tcttcgcctt ctatcggtaa cactaaacct cttaatgata    780
<removed-apn>
              cggcttacgt gccctgcttc tccaatccaa ttgatgttca aagaaaccaa gaaggtgtct    840
              ttgattcctt caccaactct atctatgcgg tttcttcaaa tcctatgggc attcttccca    900
              gaatgccacc ttctggctcc ttctactcca ctcaaggtgt tcaagctgcg cctaatttgg    960
              catttcctgg ttctgtttac acccttcagg atcacaccat cctgagaacc ttatgtgaaa   1020
              acaatggtta caagccagag agggacatga tcagtgtttc gcaggaaacg ggtctaacta   1080
              ctgatatcaa cgctgaaacc tcttcaaatt ttgatatggg taggaggccc tttgagaatc   1140
              acaatcatgc atctgtttct gttgccccat tggatcttga tggtttgtgg aattactaaa   1200
              agtttaaata aaaggatcaa ttacagtgaa tagtgaaatt aaccccactt ttgagctaga   1260
              aggaagagga aaaagaagag cctcggatgg gattgatgct attgttgttt aatttctctg   1320
              tatagatttt atctaagaca tgcatgtact gaagcatatg ttgttaagtg taagaaatgt   1380
              tgtggaatga attaggctgg tttggtctgt tgacacttta ggcttgtgcg tggctggcat   1440
              gagcatgagc atgagcatga gcatgattaa tttgtttcag tttggattaa aaataatagt   1500
              agaatgggac tggtggatta aaattagaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1560
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaagg gcggccgc                           1598
              <210>   158
              <211>   1834
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 158
              ggctcgagca caattttcag ttccatgtct tcccatgatt ttcacccttt ttctctctct     60
              cactttctgt ggacttttct gtggtttcct tttcagtgaa ataaaaaaaa aaccactctg    120
              gcttattact gtctatatag attcttctga atccagttct ttctaaacca aaccaaaaaa    180
                                                    148

              acattccctc tccaaccaag ttttgttttt tttttttttt catgtgaaaa ttgaaatcgc    240
<removed-date>
              aaccgcaatt taaaaccttg gtgtatgttc ttatattgaa attgaaattc ttggctaggg    300
              aagcaaaagg gtagtaattg gttttagagt aagtgagaat ggaaaacgtt tcggttcttt    360
              tgtgtaataa ggaaaaggat cagatggatt tgcctcctgg gtttaggttt cacccaacag    420
              atgaagagct tattagtcat tacctttaca gaaaggtcac tgacaccaac ttctcagcta    480
              gagccattgg agaggtggac ttgaacaggt ctgagccttg ggatttgcca tggaaggcca    540
<removed-apn>
              aaatgggaga gaaagagtgg tactttttct gtgtgaggga cagaaaatac ccaactggtt    600
              tgaggactaa tagagccact gaatcaggat actggaaggc tacagggaaa gacaaagaga    660
              ttttcagagg gaaatctctt gtgggtatga agaaaacttt ggttttctac aaaggaaggg    720
              ctcccaaggg agagaaaact gattgggtca tgcatgagta taggcttgat ggtaaattct    780
              cttttcacaa cctccccaaa actgcaaagg taataataat aataactaat aacaactttg    840
              attttggctt gatcatgttg cttcctatgt tccacttttt attctcttat tagtattagt    900
              actttgtttg ctttgtttga ttttcagtgc tgtgtttatt attgtgttgc agaatgagtg    960
              ggtgatttgc agggtttttc agaagagttc aggtgtgaaa aggactcata tttctgggat   1020
              gatgatgttg gactcttatg gaaacgaaat ggtttattct tcttctgctt tgccacctct   1080
              cactgattcc tcaccttcca ttggcaacaa caccaaagca ctgagtgtga ctgattctgc   1140
              ttacgtgccc tgcttctcca atccaattga tgttcctaga ggaatctttg attccttgaa   1200
              caacatcaat atcagcatca acagcaacac cctttatgga gtttcttcaa accattcatt   1260
              ttacaatact cagggggttc aacttcaggc tccaccaact ttgccattac ctagttcttc   1320
              aaaccattac cttagagcct ttcttgaaaa ccaaggaaat ggatcgaaca tgagcaacaa   1380
              tggttttgag ccagagaggg aaatggtcag tgtctcacag aaaacaagtc tttctactga   1440
              tgtgaaggct gaaatctctt cattgggtaa aaggcacttt gagaatcaaa acaacccaat   1500
              tgcttcagca gctgcagttg caccaatgga ccttgctacc ttgtggaact actgatctca   1560
              aataaagaat tgccattgga aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaggcca actttttcag ctgaaaaagt   1620
              atagcctcat aatttaccat atttactgtc tggttttgat ttttatgttg tccttcttgt   1680
              tgttattgtt gtttgtttgt ttgtctgtat agattttaac taaaagattt gctgaataat   1740
              agtgaagcat gtattttgta ctgttaagtg ttaagttatg ctgttttggt ccaaaaaaaa   1800
                                                    149

<removed-date>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aagg                               1834
              <210>   159
              <211>   1280
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 159
              cgggtgaaaa ttgaaatcgc aaccgcaatt taaaaccttg gtgtatgttc ttatattgaa     60
<removed-apn>
              attgaaattc ttggctaggg aagcaaaagg gtagtaattg gttttagagt aagtgagaat    120
              ggaaaacgtt tcggttcttt tgtgtaataa ggaaaaggat cagatggatt tgcctcctgg    180
              gtttaggttt cacccaacag atgaagagct tattagtcat tacctttaca gaaaggtcac    240
              tgacaccaac ttctcagcta gagccattgg agaggtggac ttgaacaggt ctgagccttg    300
              ggatttgcca tggaaggcca aaatgggaga gaaagagtgg tactttttct gtgtgaggga    360
              cagaaaatac ccaactggtt tgaggactaa tagagccact gaatcaggat actggaaggc    420
              tacagggaaa gacaaagaga ttttcagagg gaaatctctt gtgggtatga agaaaacttt    480
              ggttttctac aaaggaaggg ctcccaaggg agagaaaact gattgggtca tgcatgagta    540
              taggcttgat ggtaaattct cttttcacaa cctccccaaa actgcaaaga atgagtgggt    600
              gatttgcagg gtttttcaga agagttcagg tgtgaaaagg actcatattt ctgggatgat    660
              gatgttggac tcttatggaa acgaaatggt ttattcttct tctgctttgc cacctctcac    720
              tgattcctca ccttccattg gcaacaacac caaagcactg agtgtgactg attctgctta    780
              cgtgccctgc ttctccaatc caattgatgt tcctagagga atctttgatt ccttgaacaa    840
              catcaatatc agcatcaaca gcaacaccct ttatggagtt tcttcaaacc attcatttta    900
              caatactcag ggggttcaac ttcaggctcc accaactttg ccattaccta gttcttcaaa    960
              ccattacctt agagcctttc ttgaaaacca aggaaatgga tcgaacatga gcaacaatgg   1020
              ttttgagcca gagagggaaa tggtcagtgt ctcacagaaa acaagtcttt ctactgatgt   1080
              gaaggctgaa atctcttcat tgggtaaaag gcactttgag aatcaaaaca acccaattgc   1140
              ttcagcagct gcagttgcac caatggacct tgctaccttg tggaactact gatctcaaat   1200
              aaagaattgc cattggaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaggccaact ttttcagctg aaaaagtata   1260
              gcctcataat ttaccatatt                                               1280
                                                      150

<removed-date>
              <210>   160
              <211>   2385
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 160
              atgtcctgca aggatggtag cagaaacgga atcggaatgg ataacgggaa gtatgtccgt     60
              tacacgcctg agcaggttga agccctagaa aggctctatc acgattgccc caaacctagt    120
<removed-apn>
              tccattcgcc gccagcagct cattcgcgag tgccccattc tctccaacat cgaacccaag    180
              caaatcaagg tttggttcca gaacagaaga tgtagagaga agcagagaaa ggagtcgtcg    240
              cggctccaag ctgtcaatag gaagctgact gctatgaaca agctgctgat ggaagagaat    300
              gataggttgc agaagcagac taagcagcag ccaaccaaag acacaagctg tgaatcagct    360
              gtgacgagtg gtcagcagca caatttgaca actcaacatc ccccacggga tgcaagtcct    420
              gcagggcttt tgtccattgc agaagagact ttagcagaat ttctttctaa ggctactgga    480
              actgctgttg agtgggtcca aatgcctgga atgaagcctg gtccggattc cattggaatc    540
              gttgctattt ctcacagttg cactggagta gcagcaagag cttgtggttt agtgggacta    600
              gaacccacta gggttgcaga aatcctcaaa gatcggcctt tgtggtttca ggattgccga    660
              gctgttgatg ttctcaatgt gctgcccaca gcaaatggtg gaaccattga gctgctttat    720
              atgcagctat atgcaccaac cacattggct cctgctcgag acttctggtt gttgcgctac    780
              acttctgttt tagaagatgg cagcttagtg atctgtgaga ggtcacttaa aaatactcaa    840
              aatggtccaa gcatgcctcc tgtgcagcat tttgttagag cagagatgct gcctagtggg    900
              tacctgatca gaccatgtga aggaggcggt tccatcatcc acattgttga tcatatgaat    960
              ttagagccat ggagtgtgcc agaagtgcta cgtccactgt acgagtcatc aacggtactg   1020
              gctcagaaga catctatcgt ggccctacgc catctaaggc agatttcaca tgaagtttct   1080
              cagtccaacg tcactgggtg gggtaggaga ccagcagcac tacgagctct tagccaaaga   1140
              ttgagccggg gtttcaatga ggcactcaat gggtttactg atgagggatg gacaacgatt   1200
              ggcaatgatg gtgtagatga tgttactatt ctagtgaact catcccctga caagttaatg   1260
              ggtctgaatc tttcctttgc caatggattt ccgtctgtca gtaatgcagt gctatgtgcc   1320
              aaagcatcga tgctattaca gaatgtgccc cctgccattc tccttaggtt tctgcgggag   1380
                                                    151

<removed-date>
              catagatcag aatgggcaga caataatatg gatgcttaca cagctgctgc tattaaagtt   1440
              ggcccttgca gcttatcagg atctcgtgtt ggaaactatg gaggtcaagt tatactcccc   1500
              cttgcacaca caattgaaca tgaggaggtc attaaattgg aaggaattgc tcattctcct   1560
              gaagacacaa taatgcccag agaaatgttt cttttgcaac tttgcagtgg aatggatgag   1620
              aatgctgttg gcacctgtgc tgaacttata tctgctccaa ttgatgcttc ctttgctgat   1680
<removed-apn>
              gatgcccccc ttttaccttc tggatttcgc atcattcctc ttgaatctgg aaaggaagct   1740
              tccagcccca atcgcaccct tgaccttgca tctgctctag acattggttc cagtggaaac   1800
              cgagcttcaa atgaatgtgc tggaaattcc agctatatga gatctgtgat gacaatagct   1860
              tttgaatttg catttgaaag ccatatgcaa gagcatgtag catctatggc acgtcaatat   1920
              gttcggagca ttatatcatc ggtccaaagg gtagcattag cactttctcc ttctcatttg   1980
              agttcacatg cagggcttag gtcaccattg ggtactcctg aagcgcaaac ccttgctcat   2040
              tggatttgca acagttatag gtgctacttg ggtgtggagc tacttaaatc taataatgag   2100
              gggaatgaat ctttgctcaa gtccttgtgg catcactcag atgcaatatt gtgctgcact   2160
              ctaaaggcat tgccagtgtt cactttctcg aaccaggctg ggcttgacat gctggagacc   2220
              acccttgttg cattacaaga tacaccttta gagaaaatat ttgatgatca tggacgaaaa   2280
              atactttttt cagagtttcc ccagattatt caacaggtgg tatttgtctt tcaagcatgg   2340
              ggcgacctgt ctcgtacgaa agagttgttg cttggaaggt gctga                   2385
              <210>   161
              <211>   2960
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 161
              gaggggaatg aatctttgct caagtccttg tggcatcact cagatgcaat attgatcgtt     60
              ctatggttgg cagatcggtg aagcggcgga gcaaatggtt gcagagattc catacatgac    120
              tcgatcttag tttagttagg agcagcggtg gaaagcctaa tagaacaagt atgtcctgca    180
              aggatggtag cagaaacgga atcggaatcg gaatggataa cgggaagtac gtgcgttaca    240
              cgcctgagca ggttgaagcc ctagaaaggc tctatcacga ttgccccaaa cctagttcca    300
              ttcgccgcca gcagctcatt cgcgagtgcc ccattctctc caacatcgaa cccaagcaaa    360
                                                    152

<removed-date>
              tcaaggtttg gttccagaac agaagatgta gagagaagca gagaaaggag tcgtcgcggc    420
              tccaagctgt caataggaag ctgactgcta tgaacaagct gctgatggaa gagaatgata    480
              ggttgcagaa gcaggtgtct caactcgtct atgaaaatgg ctattttcgt caacacaccc    540
              agattactac gcaggcaacc aaagacacaa actgtgaatc agttgtgacg agtggtcagc    600
              agcacaattt gataactcaa catcccccac gggatgcaag tcctgcaggg cttttgtcca    660
<removed-apn>
              ttgcagaaga gactttagca gaatttcttt ctaaggctac tgggactgct gttgagtggg    720
              tccaaatgcc tggaatgaag cctggtccgg attccattgg aatcgttgct atttctcatg    780
              gttgcactgg tgtggcagct agagcctgtg gtctagtggg actagaaccc actagggttg    840
              cagaaatcct caaagatcag cctttgtggt ttcgcgattg ccgagctgtt gatgttctca    900
              atgtgctgcc cacagcaagt ggtggaacca ttgagctgct ttatatgcag ctatatgcac    960
              caaccacatt ggctcctgct cgagacttct ggttgttgcg ctacacttct gttttagaag   1020
              atggaagcct agtgatctgc gagaggtctc ttaaaaatac tcaaaatggt ccaagcatgc   1080
              ctcccgtgca gcattttgtt agagctgaga tgctgcctag tgggtacctg atcagacctt   1140
              gtgaaggagg tggttcgatc atccacattg ttgatcatat ggatttagag ccatggagtg   1200
              tgccagaggt gctacgtcca ctgtacgaat catcaacagt actggctcag aagacaacta   1260
              tggcggccct acgtcatcta aggcagattt cacatgaagt ttctcagtcc aacgtcactg   1320
              ggtggggtag acgaccggca gcactacgag ctcttagcca aagattgagc aggggtttta   1380
              atgaggcact caatgggttt actgatgagg gatggacaac aattggcaat gatggtgtag   1440
              atgatgttac tattctagtg aattcatccc ctgacaagtt aatgggtctg aatctttcct   1500
              ttgccaatgg atttccgtct gttagtaatg cagtgctatg tgccaaagca tcgatgctat   1560
              tacagaatgt gccccctgcc attctcctaa ggttcctgag ggagcataga tcagaatggg   1620
              cagacaacaa tatggatgct tacacagctg ctgctattaa agtcggccct tgcagcctat   1680
              caggatctcg tgttggaaac tatggaggtc aagttatact ccccctagca cacacaattg   1740
              agcatgagga gtttttggaa gtcattaaat tggaaggaat agctcattct cctgaagaca   1800
              caataatgcc tagagaaatg tttcttttgc aactctgcag tggaatggat gagaatgctg   1860
              ttggcacctg tgctgaactt atatctgctc caattgatgc ttcgtttgct gatgatgccc   1920
                                                    153

              ccctcctacc ttctggattt cgcatcattc ctcttgaatc tggaaaggaa gcttccagcc   1980
<removed-date>
              ccaatcgcac acttgacctt gcatctgccc ttgacgttgg tcccagtgga aaccgagctt   2040
              caaatggatg tgctaattcc agctgtatga gatctgtgat gacaatagca tttgaatttg   2100
              catttgaaag ccatatgcaa gagcatgtag catctatggc acgccaatat gttcggagca   2160
              ttatatcatc agtccaaagg gtagcattag cactttctcc ttctcatttg agttcacatg   2220
              cagggcttag gtcaccattg ggtactcctg aagcgcaaac ccttgctcat tggatctgca   2280
<removed-apn>
              acagttatag gtgctacttg ggtgtggagc tacttaaatc taacaacgag gggaatgaat   2340
              ctttgctcaa gtccttgtgg catcactcag atgcaatatt gtgctgcact ctaaaggcat   2400
              tgccagtgtt cactttctcg aaccaggctg ggcttgacat gcttgagacc accctagttg   2460
              cattacaaga tataacttta gagaaaatat ttgatgatca tggacgaaaa attctctttt   2520
              cagagtttcc acagattatc caacagggtt ttgcatgtct tcaaggtggc atttgtcttt   2580
              caagcatggg gcgacctgtc tcatatgaaa gagttgttgc ttggaaggtg ctgaatgaag   2640
              aagagaatgc tcattgtatt tgctttatgt ttgtgaactg gtcttttgtt tgacatcttg   2700
              ttctgagtac acttgggctt attgtatcca agtgttagat aaagttttac tctaagactc   2760
              ttgtgtgctt tgttggttgg tgttttactg tatttgcact aaatacttgg attgcacttt   2820
              aaatgactat ttgtgttatt attagcttat gtaacttgtt tccttattca aaaaaaaaaa   2880
              aaaaatttat gcaatattaa gaagtgttgc agctttttat gtgggaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2940
              agaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                               2960
              <210>   162
              <211>   2925
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 162
              ctaggcttca gaccgtgaac cgcaaactca ctgcaatgaa caagttgttg atggaggaga     60
              atgatcggtt gcagaagcag gtgtcacagc ttgtttgtga gaatggtttt atgaggcagc    120
              aattgcatac tccatcggca acaactactg atgctagttg tgattcggtg gttaccactc    180
              ctcagcatac cctgagagat gctagtaacc ctgctggact cctatcaatt gcagaggaaa    240
              ctttgacaga gttcctttca aaggctacag gaactgctgt agattgggtc cagatgcctg    300
                                                    154

              ggatgaagcc tggtccggat tcggttggga tctttgccat ttcacaaagt tgcagtggag    360
<removed-date>
              tggcagctcg agcctgtggt cttgttagtt tagaacctac aaagattgca gagatcctta    420
              aagatcgtcc atcttggttc cgtgactgtc ggagcctaga agtttttact atgtttcctg    480
              ctggaaatgg aggaaccatt gaacttgttt acacacagac atatgctcca acaacactgg    540
              ctcctgctcg ggatttctgg actctgagat ataccacaag tttggaaaat ggcagtcttg    600
              tggtttgtga gaggtccctg tctggttctg gaactggccc taatccagct gctgctgctc    660
<removed-apn>
              agtttgtaag ggctgaaaca ctccctagtg gctacttgat ccgaccatgt gaaggtggag    720
              ggtcaatcat tcacatagta gaccacctaa atctcgaggc atggagtgtg ccagaagtgt    780
              tgcggccact ttatgaatca tccaaggtgg ttgctcagaa aatgacaatt gcagcgcttc    840
              gctatatcag gcaaatagct caggaaacaa gtggtgaggt tgtttatgga ttgggtaggc    900
              agcctgctgt tctgcggact ttcagccaga gattgagcag aggcttcaat gacgctgtaa    960
              atggattcaa tgatgatggg tggactgtat tgaactgtga tggtgctgag gatgtaatta   1020
              ttgctgttaa ttcaaccaag aatttgagtg gcacttctaa cccagcaagt tcccttacat   1080
              tccttggagg aattctctgt gcaaaagctt ctatgttgct tcaaaatgtc cctcctgcag   1140
              ttttggttcg ttttctgagg gagcaccgct cagagtgggc tgatttcaat gttgatgctt   1200
              attctgctgc atcactgaaa gctggcacct atgcctatcc agggatgagg cctacaagat   1260
              tcactggcag tcaaataatt atgcctcttg gtcatacaat tgaacatgaa gagatgcttg   1320
              aagttattag gttggaaggt cactctcttg ctcaagaaga cgcttttgtt tctagggaca   1380
              ttcatctctt acagatatgt agtgggattg atgagaatgc tgtgggggct tgttcagagc   1440
              tcgtatttgc tccaattgat gaaatgttcc ctgatgatgc tccattggtt ccttctggtt   1500
              tccgcattat cccattagat tcaaaaccag gtgacaaaaa ggatgctgtt gctacaaatc   1560
              ggaccctgga tttgacatct ggttttgaag ttggtcctgc aacaactgct ggtgcagatg   1620
              catcatcaag tcaaaacact cgatcggtgt tgactattgc cttccagttc ccttttgaca   1680
              gcagtctgca agacaacgtc gcggtcatgg cacgccaata tgtccgcagt gtgatttcct   1740
              ccgtgcagag ggttgccatg gctatatctc catctggtat aaacccatca attggagcta   1800
              aactttctcc tggttctcca gaggctgtta cactagctca ctggatctgc caaagttata   1860
              gttactattt agggtccgac ttactgagat cagattctct tgttggtgac atgatgctga   1920
                                                    155

<removed-date>
              aacaactgtg gcatcaccag gatgccattc tatgctgttc actgaagtca ttgccagtgt   1980
              tcatatttgc aaatcaagct ggccttgaca tgttggaaac aaccctagtt gccttacaag   2040
              atatcacatt ggataaaata tttgatgagg ctggacgcaa ggcattgtgt acagactttg   2100
              ccaagttaat ggagcagggt tttgcttatc tgccagctgg aatctgcatg tcgacgatgg   2160
              ggcgccatgt gtcatatgac caagccattg catggaaagt tcttactggg gaagacaaca   2220
<removed-apn>
              ctgttcactg cttggctttc tctttcataa attggtcatt tgtatgaaaa atccaattcg   2280
              tgtgccctgc tttttcccac ttgaacataa aaatgaaagg gttaaaaggg agacaagaca   2340
              agtttggggg gaaaaagaag tcgtaaattt ttgtataaca catcaggatc aggtttgcat   2400
              ttaattcgat ttaatttatt tcttatttag tgcagagacc aaattgaatt aatcttgtaa   2460
              attatttagt gctagagtga agttgagact tttgaatgac acatgttgag tactttgttt   2520
              ttgtctctag tatctttcac tcgagttgag ctcatacaca gaagaacttg tgtgatgaca   2580
              aagcgcgtgt aatgtttctt acacaatcac agttctgact tgtgtgtcca atgtagtact   2640
              ttgtttttgt atgtagtatg atcatatctt tcaactcgag ttaaatatta gcacacaaaa   2700
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2760
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggggggcc cccccttttg   2820
              ggtctcgtcc ccccggaatt taattccggc ccggtccctg ggggggtccc agttttcctt   2880
              ttaggggggc gttttaaagc tgggggaaaa aagggaaata gttgt                   2925
              <210>   163
              <211>   4113
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 163
              agaacacata gtttatatca ccgtgtagta aatattcagt atagtataga ctatagagtg     60
              gtaaataatc aattttgcga ataatgcacc atatttgtag acgtcctaat aatatctgag    120
              tatgcaaaat gatattggtc tgtcaattgt attcagggaa atgaagtggg gcctatacga    180
              cacgaggagc aaagagagat gggaaccgtt agtaacattg gcttcccttc agtattcaga    240
              gttcctctag attcacaagt actatcaaag catatgaaga ataaatcatc gtgcgatttt    300
              atggttcctt ctaatcataa ctactctgtt aggctgagtc caatatgttg taagctatca    360
                                                    156

<removed-date>
              gaaagtggga ttgaggagaa ccacacgagc acgagcacgg gcgagaggcc ctctaagatc    420
              aaggacagga tggaggagta caatatagct atgaagaaaa tgatgaggaa cccttatgag    480
              tatcaccatg atctgggtat gaattatact cttataacgg acaatttgat tgttggctcc    540
              caaccacaga aacctgaaga catagatcac ctcaaaaagg aagagggtgt ggcatacatt    600
              ttaaacttgc aacaagataa cgatgttgag tattggggag tagacttgca gtcaataata    660
<removed-apn>
              agaaggtctc gtgaacttga aattagccac acaaggagac cggcaaaaga ctttgatcca    720
              gattccttgc aaaatgaact acctaaagca gtctcatcct tagaatgggc aatttctgag    780
              ggaaaaggaa gagtttatgt gcattgtacg gctggacttg gaagagctcc agcggtggca    840
              attgcttatt tgttctggtt ttgtgacatg aatctaaatg aagcatatga tatgctaact    900
              tcaaagagac cttgtggacc aaataaaaga gcaatacgtg gagctactta cgatttggct    960
              aagaatgatc cgtggaagga gccatttgag aatcttccag aatatgcatt tgaggatata   1020
              gcagattggg aaaggaactt gattcaagat cgtgtccgct cccttcgtgg aacttgataa   1080
              cttcggtttc tacatattag agattcctac atagattacc acccttgctg ggatggcgcc   1140
              agttgccatg atactgctca agatggagat tttttcaagc agattcatgc taatatgaac   1200
              atatagttta taataacgtg tacgaaatat tcagtatagt atatttgccc tagtcccccc   1260
              ccccctaggc ttcagaccgt gaaccgcaaa ctcactgcaa tgaacaagtt gttgatggag   1320
              gagaatgatc ggttgcagaa gcaggtgtca cagcttgttt gtgagaatgg ttttatgagg   1380
              cagcaattgc atactccatc ggcaacaact actgatgcta gttgtgattc ggtggttacc   1440
              actcctcagc ataccctgag agatgctagt aaccctgctg gactcctatc aattgcagag   1500
              gaaactttga cagagttcct ttcaaaggct acaggaactg ctgtagattg ggtccagatg   1560
              cctgggatga agcctggtcc ggattcggtt gggatctttg ccatttcaca aagttgcagt   1620
              ggagtggcag ctcgagcctg tggtcttgtt agtttagaac ctacaaagat tgcagagatc   1680
              cttaaagatc gtccatcttg gttccgtgac tgtcggagcc tagaagtttt tactatgttt   1740
              cctgctggaa atggaggaac cattgaactt gtttacacac agacatatgc tccaacaaca   1800
              ctggctcctg ctcgggattt ctggactctg agatatacca caagtttgga aaatggcagt   1860
              cttgtggttt gtgagaggtc cctgtctggt tctggaactg gccctaatcc agctgctgct   1920
                                                    157

              gctcagtttg taagggctga aacactccct agtggctact tgatccgacc atgtgaaggt   1980
<removed-date>
              ggagggtcaa tcattcacat agtagaccac ctaaatctcg aggcatggag tgtgccagaa   2040
              gtgttgcggc cactttatga atcatccaag gtggttgctc agaaaatgac aattgcagcg   2100
              cttcgctata tcaggcaaat agctcaggaa acaagtggtg aggttgttta tggattgggt   2160
              aggcagcctg ctgttctgcg gactttcagc cagagattga gcagaggctt caatgacgct   2220
              gtaaatggat tcaatgatga tgggtggact gtattgaact gtgatggtgc tgaggatgta   2280
<removed-apn>
              attattgctg ttaattcaac caagaatttg agtggcactt ctaacccagc aagttccctt   2340
              acattccttg gaggaattct ctgtgcaaaa gcttctatgt tgcttcaaaa tgtccctcct   2400
              gcagttttgg ttcgttttct gagggagcac cgctcagagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   2460
              gcttattctg ctgcatcact gaaagctggc acctatgcct atccagggat gaggcctaca   2520
              agattcactg gcagtcaaat aattatgcct cttggtcata caattgaaca tgaagagatg   2580
              ctggaagtta ttaggctgga aggtcactct cttgctcaag aagatgcttt tgtttctagg   2640
              gacattcatc tcttacagat atgtagtggg attgatgaga atgctgtggg ggcttgttct   2700
              gagcttgtat ttgctccaat tgatgaaatg ttccccgatg atgctccatt gattccttct   2760
              ggtttccgca ttatcccatt agattcaaaa ccaggtgaca aaaaggaagt tgctacaaat   2820
              cggaccctgg atttgacatc tggttttgaa gtgggtcctg caacaactgc tggcacagat   2880
              gcatcatcca gtcaaaacac tcgatcagtg ttgactattg ccttccagtt ccctttcgac   2940
              agcagtctgc aagacaatgt cgcagtcatg gcacgtcagt atgtccgcag tgtgatttct   3000
              tccgtgcaga gggttgccat ggctatatct ccatctggta taaacccatc tgttggagct   3060
              aaactttctc ctggttctcc agaggctgtt acactagctc actggatctg ccaaagttat   3120
              agttactata tagggtctga cttactgaga tcagattctc ttgttggtga catgatgctg   3180
              aaacaactgt ggcatcacca ggatgcaatt ctatgctgtt cactgaagtc attgccagtg   3240
              ttcatatttg caaatcaagc tggccttgac atgttggaaa caactctagt agctttacaa   3300
              gacatcacat tggataaaat atttgatgag gctggacgca aggcattgtg tacagacttt   3360
              gccaagttaa tggagcaggg atttgcttat ctgccagctg gaatctgcat gtcgacgatg   3420
              ggacgccatg tgtcatatga ccaagccatt gcatggaaag tgcttactgg agaagacaac   3480
              actgttcact gcctggcttt ctctttcata aattggtcat ttgtatgaaa atccaattcg   3540
                                                    158

<removed-date>
              cgtgccctgc tttttcccac ttgaacataa aaatgaaagg gttaaaaggg agacagtcaa   3600
              atttggaggg aaaaagaagt cctaaatttt tgtataacac atcaggatca ggtatgcatt   3660
              taattcgatt taatttattt cttatttagt gcagaaacca aattgaatta atcttgtaaa   3720
              ttatttagtg ctagagtgaa gttcagactt gaatgacaca tgttgagtac tttgtttttg   3780
              tctctactat ctttccctcg accttaagct catacacaga agaacttgtg tgatgacaaa   3840
<removed-apn>
              gcgcgtttgt aatgtttatt cttacacaat cacagttctg acttgtgtgt ccaacgtagt   3900
              actatatatt cttactggag tactttgtct ttcaactcga gttaagcatt agggtacatt   3960
              tgtatctgaa gtactatgca tttgtacaac ctatctgtat tttaagattg ctaaagttat   4020
              aaactgaagt gttaaatcaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaatct ttcggggggc aaatcgttcc   4080
              ccagaatcaa ggtctgtctt atttgccatc cac                                4113
              <210>   164
              <211>   1018
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 164
              tcgtctcttt cttcttctct ctctctctct cacaatctcg agattggtgt gtgtgtgtgt     60
              tgggggagat aaagaccact gttgcccact caggtttctc ttccaagttt ggattttgag    120
              ggaacttaca gcatctaatg aaggagagtg gaggctctct tggagaagag agcaccccca    180
              ccaccaacag cagtgaagaa gaagaaccaa ttaactagtt cctttccttc tttctctcac    240
              ccattcccat ttttaaccta atagtagtgt aggtttaaag aaatatagtg tgttagagtg    300
              atggcacttt ctatgcacaa ggactcagcc aacaaccaga tggactcgag caagtatgtg    360
              aggtacacac cagagcaggt tgaggctttg gagagggtat atgctgaatg ccctaagccg    420
              agttccttaa gaagacaaca actcatcaga gagtgcccca tcctctccaa cattgaaccg    480
              aaacagatca aagtttgggt ttcaaacaga aggtgtcgtg agaagcagag gaaggaagct    540
              tctcggctgc agacagtgaa cagaaagctg actgcaatga acaagctttt aatggaggaa    600
              aatgaccgtt tgcagaagca ggtttctcat ctggtttatg agaatggtta catgaagcaa    660
              cagatacaca ctgcttctgc aggtactacc acagacaata gctgtgagtc tgtggttatg    720
              agtggtcaaa accaacagca aaacccaaca cctcagcatc ccaataggga tgctaacaac    780
                                                     159

<removed-date>
              ccagctggtc ttctcgccat agctgaggag accctggcag agttcctttc caaggctact    840
              ggaactgctg tcgactgggt ccagatgatt gggatgaagc ctggtccgga ttctattgga    900
              atcgttgctg tttcccgcaa ctgtagtggc gtggcagcac gagcctgcgg ccttgtgagc    960
              ctagagccca ctaaagttgc tgagatacta aaagatcgac agtcgtggta tcgtgact     1018
              <210>   165
<removed-apn>
              <211>   3404
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (3150)..(3150)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 165
              ccacgcgtcc gctctttctc ctttcttttt ctctctttct ctacaatctc gagattggtg     60
              tgtggagcgt ccgaaagacc actgtttccc ccctttagtt tctcttctaa gttggatttt    120
              gaaggaactg agcagcatct aatgaaggag agtggaggct ctcttggaga agagagcctg    180
              cccgagacta acaccaagaa cagtgaagaa gaagaaccaa ttaactagtt cctttttttc    240
              tttctttctt tctcactcac tccctccctc ccaatcccat tttcttcaaa tagtgtgcgt    300
              gtgtgtgtta agagaagaat agggtgtgtg tgtttagagt gatggcactt tctatgcaca    360
              aggactcagc caacaaccag atggattcaa gcaagtatgt gaggtacaca ccagagcagg   420
              ttgaggcttt ggagagggtc tatgctgaat gccctaagcc aagttccttg aggaggcagc   480
              aactcatcag agagtgcccc atactttcca acattgaacc caaacagatc aaagtttggt    540
              tccagaatag aaggtgtcgt gagaagcaga ggaaggaagc ttctcgcttg cagacagtga    600
              acagaaagct gactgcaatg aacaagctgt taatggagga gaatgaccgt ttgcagaagc    660
              aggtttctca tctggtgtat gagaatggtt acatgaagca acagatacac actgcttctg    720
              ctggtactac cacagacaat agctgtgagt ctgtggtaat gagtggtcaa aaccaacagc    780
              aaaacccaac acctcagcat ccggctcgag gattatttgt ttgtttcagt cttctcgcca    840
              tagctgagga gaccctggca gagttccttt ccaaggctac tggaactgct gtcgactggg   900
              tccagatgat tgggatgaag cctggtccgg attctattgg aatcgttgct gtttcccgca   960
                                                    160

<removed-date>
              actgtagtgg cgtggcagca cgagcctgcg gccttgtgag cctagagccc actaaggttg   1020
              ctgagatact aaaagatcga cagtcgtggt atcgtgactg tcgatgcgtg gatgtgttaa   1080
              gtatagtccc cactgggaat gggggcacca tcgagctcct gtacatgcag acatatgcgc   1140
              ccacaacttt ggctgcagca cgggacttct ggacactgag atacacgaca agtttggaag   1200
              atggaagtct tgtgatatgt gagagatcat tgacttcttc aactggtggc cccacagggc   1260
<removed-apn>
              ctgctgcttc aaacttcgta cgagctgaaa tgcttcccag tggctatcta attagatcct   1320
              gtgagggtgg tggatccatt attcacattg ttgatcatgt tgatttagat gtctggagtg   1380
              ttcctgaagt acttagaccc ctgtatgaat caccaaaatt cttggctcag aaattgacta   1440
              ctgctgcctt gcgacatgta agacaaattg cacaagaatc aagtggagaa gttcagtatg   1500
              gtgggggtcg tcagcctgct gtcttgagga catttagtca aaggctttgc aaagggttca   1560
              atgatgctgt caatgggttt gtggatgatg gttggtcact gatgggtaat gatggggtgg   1620
              aagatgtgac catagccata aactcatctc caaacaaatt tttgggctcc aattacaacg   1680
              catcaatgtt tccagcattt ggaggtgggg tcttgtgtgc caaggcatca atgctcctgc   1740
              agaatgttcc tcctgctttg cttgttcggt ttttgaggga gcatcgatca gagtgggctg   1800
              attatggagt tgatgcatac tctgccgcat gccttaaagc tagtccctat gcagttcctt   1860
              gtgcaagacc tggaggcttc cccagcaccc aggtcatttt accccttgct catactattg   1920
              agcacgagga gttcctggag gtagttcgaa tagagggtca tgcattttct cctgaggacg   1980
              tagcgttggc acgtgatatg tatctattgc agctgtgcag tggagttgat gaaagtgcag   2040
              ttggggcatg tgctcagctt gtgtttgcac ctattgatga gtcatttgct gatgatgctc   2100
              tcttactgcc ttctggtttc cgtgtcattc cattgcttcc tttgccggat ggcttggctt   2160
              catctaggac ctgggtctta gcatcaacac tgggcgcagg atctggtaat gcccgctcag   2220
              ctggccacac gtgactcgaa taactacaac cttaggtcgg tcctcacaat tgcattccaa   2280
              tttacctttg agaaccattt gcgggacaat gtggctgtta tggctcgcca gtatgtgcgt   2340
              aatgttgtgg cgatctgttc agagggttgc catggcaatt gctccctcta ggatcagtac   2400
              acagttgggg ccaaagtcac ttcctggtcc accagaggcc cttaccttag caagatggat   2460
              ctgcaaaagc tacagtctcc acacctgcac agagcttttt agcgttgagt ccacatctgg   2520
                                                    161

              tgatgcaatc ttgaagcaac tttggcacca tccagatgca atattgtgct gttctgtaaa   2580
<removed-date>
              aacaaatgca tctccagtgt tcacctttgc aaaccaagct ggacttgaca tgcttgaaac   2640
              cactcttgtt gctcttcaag acataatgct ggataaagtt cttgatgaag ctggcaggaa   2700
              gtttctctgc attgagttct ccaagataat gcaacaggga tttgcatatc tgccagcagg   2760
              aatatgtgta tcaagtatga atcgaccagt gtcttatgag caggccattg cttggaaagt   2820
              tctcgatgat gatgattcca atcactgcct tgccttcgta ttcatgaact ggtcttttgt   2880
<removed-apn>
              ctgatggggg aaccatcatt tagatacttt attatatcta ttaatttata ttttgagtac   2940
              tttactaaga tattgtcaca ccaacaacga atgtaactaa tgactggatt tcatgaactc   3000
              atggttgtgt gtgccattag attagctttg ctttatgctt ttaccaagga tgtacctttc   3060
              ttactatata aactccttgt tgaagtatag cctacttatt cctaaaaaaa aaaaataaaa   3120
              aaaaaaataa aaaaaaatta aaaaaaaaan ataaaaattg aaatactgaa aaaaaaaaaa   3180
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gaaaaggggc gccccccaaa tatggacccc cccaacccga   3240
              aaataaatcc ggaaccggaa cctgaaggcg tcccattttt ccttatagga attaaaatta   3300
              aacctgggca aaaccatggc cttacctttt cccgggggaa aatggtttcc cgttccaatt   3360
              cccaaaaaaa atccgacccg aaaccttaaa ggcaaaagcc gggg                    3404
              <210>   166
              <211>   2319
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 166
              atgtcctgca aggatggtag cagaaacgga atcggaatgg ataacgggaa gtatgtccgt     60
              tacacgcctg agcaggttga agccctagaa aggctctatc acgattgccc caaacctagt    120
              tccattcgcc gccagcagct cattcgcgag tgccccattc tctccaacat cgaacccaag    180
              caaatcaagg tttggttcca gaacagaaga tgtagagaga agcagagaaa ggagtcgtcg    240
              cggctgcaag ctgtcaatag gaagctgact gctatgaaca agctgctgat ggaagagaat    300
              gataggttgc agaagcagac tacgcaggca accaaagaca caaactgtga atcagttgtg    360
              acgagtggtc agcagcacaa tttgataact caacatcccc cacgggatgc aagtcctgca    420
              gggcttttgt ccattgcaga agagacttta gcagaatttc tttctaaggc tactgggact    480
                                                    162

              gctgttgagt gggtccaaat gcctggaatg aagcctggtc cggattccat tggaatcgtt    540
<removed-date>
              gctatttctc atggttgcac tggtgtggca gctagagcct gtggtctagt gggactagaa    600
              cccactaggg ttgcagaaat cctcaaagat cagcctttgt ggtttcgcga ttgccgagct    660
              gttgatgttc tcaatgtgct gcccacagca aatggtggaa ccattgagct gctttatatg    720
              cagctatatg caccaaccac attggctcct gctcgagact tctggttgtt gcgctacact    780
              tctgttttag aagatggaag cctagtgatc tgcgagaggt ctcttaaaaa tactcaaaat    840
<removed-apn>
              ggtccaagca tgcctcccgt gcagcatttt gttagagctg agatgctgcc tagtgggtac    900
              ctgatcagac cttgtgaagg aggtggttcg atcatccaca ttgttgatca tatggattta    960
              gagccatgga gtgtgccaga ggtgctacgt ccactgtacg aatcatcaac agtactggct   1020
              cagaagacaa ctatggcggc cctacgtcat ctaaggcaga tttcacatga agtttctcag   1080
              tccaacgtca ctgggtgggg tagacgaccg gcagcactac gagctcttag ccaaagattg   1140
              agcaggggtt ttaatgaggc actcaatggg tttactgatg agggatggac aacaattggc   1200
              aatgatggtg tagatgatgt tactattcta gtgaattcat cccctgacaa gttaatgggt   1260
              ctgaatcttt cctttgccaa tggatttccg tctgttagta atgcagtgct atgtgccaaa   1320
              gcatcgatgc tattacagaa tgtgccccct gccattctcc taaggttcct gagggagcat   1380
              agatcagaat gggcagacaa caatatggat gcttacacag ctgctgctat taaagtcggc   1440
              ccttgcagcc tatcaggatc tcgtgttgga aactatggag gtcaagttat actcccccta   1500
              gcacacacaa ttgagcatga ggagtttttg gaagtcatta aattggaagg aatagctcat   1560
              tctcctgaag acacaataat gcctagagaa atgtttcttt tgcaactctg cagtggaatg   1620
              gatgagaatg ctgttggcac ctgtgctgaa cttatatctg ctccaattga tgcttccttt   1680
              gctgatgatg cccccctcct accttctgga tttcgcatca ttcctcttga atctggaaag   1740
              gaagcttcca gccccaatcg cacacttgac cttgcatctg cccttgacgt tggtcccagt   1800
              ggaaaccgag cttcaaatgg atgtgctaat tccagctgta tgagatctgt gatgacaata   1860
              gcatttgaat ttgcatttga aagccatatg caagagcatg tagcatctat ggcacgccaa   1920
              tatgttcgga gcattatatc atcagtccaa agggtagcat tagcactttc tccttctcat   1980
              ttgagttcac atgcagggct taggtcacca ttgggtactc ctgaagcgca aacccttgct   2040
              cattggatct gcaacagtta taggtgctac ttgggtgtgg agctacttaa atctaacaac   2100
                                                    163

<removed-date>
              gaggggaatg aatctttgct caagtccttg tggcatcact cagatgcaat attgtgctgc   2160
              actctaaagg cattgccagt gttcactttc tcgaaccagg ctgggcttga catgcttgag   2220
              accaccctag ttgcattaca agatataact ttagagaaaa tatttgatga tcatggacga   2280
              aaaattctct tttcagagtt tccacagatt atccaacag                          2319
              <210>   167
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1033)..(1033)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1035)..(1035)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1037)..(1037)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1042)..(1042)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1047)..(1047)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1049)..(1049)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1051)..(1051)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                    164

              <222>   (1055)..(1056)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1153)..(1153)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1183)..(1183)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1200)..(1200)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1290)..(1290)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 167
              ccacgcgtcc gcactcctga gctagctagg gtttccactt tccccatttc ctctctccca    60
              cgtcttcgtc tttctagaaa agcaaaaaac aattcacact ttcacagtgc caaagattct   120
              cttctgccaa tttcacttca cacatccatc catccatcca tccatgtctt gaaacgatgc   180
              ttcgcagatc aagcatagtc gattccaatt cgcgcaagct catggacgga gatcgctgat   240
              acggcgaacc agatcgttgc acgagattcg tcacgtgaca ctcgatctta gttaggacta   300
              gtgctagaaa gcagaagcta cttggttctt ttgaaggttt gatttggatg tggaaataat   360
              gtcctgcaag gatggtagca gaaacggaat cggaatggat aacgggaagt atgtccgtta   420
              cacgcctgag caggttgaag ccctagaaag gctctatcac gattgcccca aacctagttc   480
              cattcgccgc cagcagctca ttcgcgagtg ccccattctc tccaacatcg aacccaagca   540
              aatcaaggtt tggttccaga acagaagatg tagagagaag cagagaaagg agtcgtcgcg   600
              gctgcaagct gtcaatagga agctgactgc tatgaacaag ctgctgatgg aagagaatga   660
              taggttgcag aagcaggtgt ctcaactcgt ctatgaaaat ggctattttc gtcaacacac   720
              ccagattact acgcaggcaa ccaaagacac aaactgtgaa tcagttgtga cgagtggtca   780
              gcagcacaat ttgataactc aacatccccc acgggatgca agtcctgcag ggcttttgtc   840
              cattgcagaa gagactttag cagaatttct ttctaaggct actggaactg ctgttgagtg   900
                                                    165

<removed-date>
              ggtccaaatg cctggaatga agcctggtcc ggattccatt ggaatcgttg ctatttctca    960
              cagttgcact ggagtagcag caagagcttg tggtttagtg ggactagaac ccactagggt   1020
              tgcagaaatc ctnananatc gncctgnant ntctnntgat ttgccgagct gttgatgttc   1080
              tcaatgtgct gcccacagca aatggtggaa ccattgagct gctttatatg cagctatatg   1140
              caccaaccac atnggctcct gctcgagact tctggttgtt gcnctacact tctgttttan   1200
<removed-apn>
              aagatggcag cttagtgatc tgtgagaggt cacttaaaaa tactcaaaat ggtccaagca   1260
              tgcctcctgt gcagcatttt gttagagcan agatgctgcc tagtgggtac ctgatcagac   1320
              c                                                                   1321
              <210>   168
              <211>   645
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 168
              atgaatcatc gaccaccttt ccaagaccac atgatgctca tgtctcagtt attccctgct     60
              gatgcataca ctcaaattat ttctcaacaa ggagagacta ataagaagcc aagacgccgt    120
              cgtaacaaga agaacaaagg aggagaaaac ggtgcctcgg aagccaacaa gaagaggaag    180
              cttagtgagg tgcaagttaa tttacttgaa caaaactttg gaaatgaacg caaacttgag    240
              tccgaaagaa aggataggct ggcaatggag cttggtttgg accctcgaca agttgctgtg    300
              tggtttcaaa acagaagagc ccgttggaag aacaaaaagt tggaagaaga gtactccagc    360
              cttaaaaaaa atcatgaagc caccttgctt gagaaatgtt gcctggagag tgaggtgttg    420
              aagctcaaag agcaactttc tgaggcagag aaagagattc agaggctgct agagagtgcc    480
              gagagagtcc caagcaacag ttctagttcg tcacagtcac aatcaatgga agcggtggac    540
              ccaccattct ttggggaatt tggagttgat ggatatgagg atgatgtgtt ttacgtgcct    600
              gagacccatt acatcaacgg catggaatgg attaatctgt atatg                    645
              <210>   169
              <211>   1584
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400>   169
                                                    166

              atgggtacaa taactggcat aagtgatttg gattctgttc ggtggccaaa ttctcattgg     60
<removed-date>
              cgctctgtca aggttggttg ggatgaatca acagctggag agagacaacc acgagtgtct    120
              ctgtgggaaa ttgagccatt aacaacattc ccgatgtatc catcattatt tcccctcaga    180
              ctgaaacgtc catggcatcc tggcacctca tctttgcatg atgggagaga tgaagctact    240
              aatgggctaa tgtggatgag aggtggacct gtagaccaag gtctcaattc cctaaatttt    300
              caaggagctg gtatgttgcc ctggatgcag cagagactgg atccaacttt actaggaaat    360
<removed-apn>
              gatcagaatc aacagtacca agccatgttg gcagctggtt tacagaactt aggtagtgga    420
              tatctcatga agcaacaaat gatgaatttt cagcagcctt accactatct tcaacaatct    480
              ggaaacagta attctccttt gcaacttcag cagcagcaac caattcaaca atctgtgtct    540
              tctaacatgc tgcagccaca agctcacgtg ttgacagaga acttctctca gcacctcctt    600
              cagaaaccac ataacaatca agaagtccaa gcacaacagc agcaacatac ttatcaagac    660
              tcgctcttaa ttccgagtga tcaactccat cagagacaac actctggcat tccttcacca    720
              tcatattcaa aaccggattt cttggattcg agcatgaagt tccctgcttc agtttctccc    780
              gggcaaaaca tgcttagttc actttgtcct gaaggaagtg gcagtctctt gaatttatcg    840
              aggagcagtc tgtccttgct gactgaacag ttaccgcaac agcaatggac tcaaaaatat    900
              gcacctgtgc aggtcaacac ctatggaggc actgtgtcac atgcacaata ttctggaaaa    960
              gattctgcaa tggtgctacc acattgtaac tcggatgccc aaaattctac gctttttggt   1020
              gtcaatattg attcatctgg ccttctcccc atcacagtcc ctggttacac cacctcgtct   1080
              gctgacacta attcatcaac aatgccatta gcggattctg gtttccaggg ttctctatat   1140
              ggttgcatgg attcatcgga gttgttgcaa agcgcagggc atgttgaccc agaaaaccag   1200
              agtcaaacct ttgtcaaggt ttacaaatca gggtcagttg ggcgctcact tgacatatcc   1260
              aggttcagca gctatcatga actacgcgag gagttggctc agatgtttgg aattgagggg   1320
              aagttagaag accctcttag atcaggctgg cagcttgtgt tcgttgacag ggagaatgat   1380
              gttcttctcc ttggagatga tccgtgggaa tcattcgtca ataatgtttg gtatatcaaa   1440
              atactttcac ctgaagacat tcagaaaatg ggggaacaag cggtagaatc ccttgcatta   1500
              ggttcaggac aaaggctaaa tggcactggt gccgagtctc aggacatagt ttctggacca   1560
              ccatcaattg gctcacttga gtac                                          1584
                                                    167

<removed-date>
              <210>   170
              <211>   2208
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 170
              ctttagcaaa gtatgttaaa gctgtatatc atactcgagt ttcagttggt atgcgcttca     60
              ggatgctgtt tgaaacagag gaatctagtg tgcgtcgata catgggcaca ataactggca    120
<removed-apn>
              ttagtgactt ggattctatt cggtggccaa attcccattg gcgctcagtc aaggttggct    180
              gggatgaatc cacagcagga gagaggcaac ctcgagtgtc tttatgggaa attgagccat    240
              taacaacatt tccaatgtat ccatctccat ttccccttag gcttaagaga ccgtggcctc    300
              caggactgcc tttgttccat gcaggcttga aggatgatga ttttggaata aattcttcac    360
              taatgtggct tcgagacaca gacagaggtc ttccatctct taattttcag ggtattggtg    420
              ttagtccttg gatgcagcca aggcttgatc cctcaatggt gaattatcaa tcagatatgt    480
              accaagctat ggctgccgct gcacttcagg atatgtggac ttcaaatcct tccaaacagc    540
              atcctacttc ctcaattcag tttcagcaac cgcagaactt ccccaaccag acttctccct    600
              taatgcaaac tcaattgttg cagcagtctc catctcagca ggcttttcca aatagtcaag    660
              aaaatccaca tccgtctcca tctcaatctc aggctcaaac tcaaacacac tttcagcagc    720
              atctacagca tcagcactca ttcaataatc agaatcagca tcatcttctg ccgcagcagc    780
              agcaacaacc acaacaaccg cagttgcaac agcaacaagt ggtagatcat ccacagattt    840
              caagtgttgt ctcttacaat gtctcagttt ggttcagcag ctcagtctca atcaccaccc    900
              atgcaagcta tctcttcact tggccatcag caaagctttt ctgattcaaa tggaaacccc    960
              acgactactg ctattgtttc tcccctgcat agtatattgg attcatttcc tcaggatgac   1020
              acatctcacc ttctcagcct tcctagatcc acttcttggg ttcctgttca acattcgact   1080
              gcatggccac cctccaagcg tgttgtggtg gatcctctcc tttcttctgg agcatctcaa   1140
              tgtgttctgc ctcaagtgga gcagttaggg cagccacata gtaccatggc tcaaaatggc   1200
              attgcattgc cagcctttcc tggtagggag tgtacaatag aaggaagcaa tgatccacaa   1260
              aatcatcttt tgtttggtgt caatatagag ccctcgtcac ttctaatgca taatgggatg   1320
              tcaagtctta agggagtcag cagcaacagt gactcaccca ccataccttt tcaatcatct   1380
                                                    168

<removed-date>
              aattacctga acaccacagt acctgattct tcattgaatc ctggaatgac acacaatatt   1440
              ggtgaatcgg gcttcctgca aactccagaa aatggggggc aaggaaaccc aactaacaaa   1500
              acctttgtga aggtttacaa gtcagggtcc tttggaagat ccttggacat cactaaattc   1560
              accagctacc ctgagctacg cagtgagctt gctcgtatgt ttggcctgga aggtgagttg   1620
              gaggaccctg tgagatcagg ctggcagctt gtattcgttg accaagagaa tgacgttctt   1680
<removed-apn>
              ctccttggtg atggcccgtg gccggaattt gtaaatagtg tagggtgcat caagatactt   1740
              tcccctcagg aagtgcagca aatgggcaac aatggccttg agcttcttaa ctctgtcccc   1800
              attcagaggc tctctaacgg cgtctgtgac gactacgcag gccgtgagga cccaagaaat   1860
              ttaagcactg ggataacaat tgtggggtct ttaaactact gaatgatgtg acaatcaata   1920
              ctatgaatct cttctctctc ttgtattatt actcctactt ctccactctt tgtcaatggt   1980
              gggatgtact gcctagttgt agtttatagg ctacttataa gccttttgtt ttttttgtct   2040
              gttttcctgt tttttgctgc ctaggaccat tcataagata aacaatgtaa accatatggc   2100
              atcttgtcaa tgtgctatct acaatatatt gattacttaa tctgttagga gttcaatgcc   2160
              cagaaagtta caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag taaaaaaaca aaaaagaa                2208
              <210>   171
              <211>   2640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 171
              attaagtggg tggccctcga attttgaaca ggaatccaag agcttgttct aggattcctg     60
              ttcaaaattc aagtgggtgg ccctcgaagc gtgttgcgga ggatcctctc ctttcttccg    120
              gagcctctca atgtgttcta cctcaggtgg agcagctagg gcaaccacag agtaccatgt    180
              ctcaaaatgc tatttcttta ccaccttttc ctggtaggga gtgctcacta gaccaagaag    240
              ggagcaatga tccacaaaac catctcttat ttggcgttaa tatagagccc tcgtcccttg    300
              tcatgcctaa tggaatgaca agccttaagg gggactgagg aaacaatggc tataccatta    360
              gcgaagtatg ttaaagctgt gtatcatact cgagtttcag ttggtatgcg gttcaggatg    420
              ctgtttgaaa cagaggagtc aagtgtgcgg agatacatgg gtacaataac tggcattagt    480
              gacctggatc ctgtccggtg gcaaaactca cattggcgct ccgtcaaggt tggctgggat    540
                                                    169

<removed-date>
              gaatccactg ctggagacag gcaacctaga gtgtctcttt gggaaattga gccattaact    600
              acatttccta tgtatccatc tccattcccc cttaggctta aacggccatg gcctccagga    660
              ctgccttcat tccatggcat gaaggatgac gattttggcc cgaattcacc tctgttgtgg    720
              ctccgagatc ctgatagagg gcttccgtct cttaattttc aggggattgg gattaatcct    780
              tggatgcagc caagatttga tcccaccatg ttgaatatgc aaacagacat gtaccaagct    840
<removed-apn>
              gcggctgttc aggacatgag gagtttagat ccttccaaac agcattctgc ttccttactt    900
              ccatttcagc aaccacagaa cttcccaaac aggactgctg ctttaatgca ggcccagatg    960
              ttgcagcagt cacaacctca gcagattttt ggaaatactc aagagaatca acattcccca   1020
              caatctcagg ctcatcttca gcaacatcta caacatcaac actcgttcaa tagtcagcat   1080
              catcatcacc accagcaaca acaacagcga cagcaacatc aagtggtaga taatcaacag   1140
              atttctagtg cagtctctac aatgtctcag tttgtttcag ctcctcaacc tcaatcacca   1200
              cctatgcaag ttatctcttc catgtgccaa cagcaaaact tttctgattc aaacgggaac   1260
              actgtgacta ctattgtttc tcccctgcac agtatcttgg gttcttttcc ccaggatgaa   1320
              acatctcacc tcctgaacct tcctagaaca agctcttgga ttcctgttca aaattcaagt   1380
              gggtggccct cgaagcgtgt tgcagtggat cctctccttt cttccggagc ctctcaatgt   1440
              gttctacctc aggtggagca gctagggcag ccacagagta ccatgtctca aaatgctatt   1500
              tctttaccac cttttcctgg tagggagtgc tcaatagacc aagaagggag caatgatcca   1560
              caaaaccatc tcttatttgg tgttaatata gagccctcgt cccttctcat gcctaatgga   1620
              atgtcaagcc ttaagggggt ctgtggaaac aatggctcct caaccttgcc atatcaatct   1680
              tctaattatc tgaatactac cacacggact gattcttcat tgaatcatgg aatgaccccc   1740
              aacataggcg actcgggttt cctgcagtgt ctggaagagg caggacaagg aaacccactg   1800
              aacaaaacct ttgtgaaggt ttataagtca gggtcctttg gaaggtcatt ggatatcact   1860
              aaattcagca gctaccatga gctgcgtggt gaactcgctc gaatgtttgg ccttgaaggc   1920
              gagttggagg accctgtgag atcaggctgg cagcttgtat ttgtagaccg agagaacgat   1980
              gttcttctcc ttggtgatgg cccctggccg gaattcgtaa atagcgtatg gtgcataaag   2040
              atactttctc ctcaggaagt gcagcagatg ggcaacaatg gccttgagct gttgaactcg   2100
                                                    170

              tttccaattc aaaggctctc taatggcatc tgtgatgact atgtgagccg tcaagaccca   2160
<removed-date>
              agaaatttag gcactgggat aacaaccgtg gggtctttag actactaaat agtcttcact   2220
              tcttctatca catgtaatat tattaccctt acttctcaac cctttctttg tgtacggtgg   2280
              gaagcacctt tgcctaagtg tagtttacat agcctactct ttagcctttg gatgttttcc   2340
              tgttttttcc tgctaggaca tttcataaac taatactgta actatatggc atctagtcat   2400
              tgtgctagcc acaatatata cgatacttaa tccgttagga aatcaatgcg tgagatatgt   2460
<removed-apn>
              tctcttaact tgtacagaac tttttctttc tagtttggtt ttattttggc ttaaatgttt   2520
              gggggtgcat gatttgacta tgaagcatac taggcaatgg agtggaggtg atgttgaact   2580
              tggttgacct ttaatgtcta tcaaaatatt tatttatttt gttgggaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2640
              <210>   172
              <211>   2182
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 172
              ggctcgaggt ccgcaggtat atgggtacaa taactggcat aagtgatttg gattctgttc     60
              ggtggccaaa ttctcattgg cgctctgtca aggttggttg ggatgaatca acagctggag    120
              agagacaacc acgagtgtct ctgtgggaaa ttgagccatt aacaacattc ccgatgtatc    180
              catcattatt tcccctcaga ctgaaacgtc catggcatcc tggcacctca tctttgcatg    240
              atgggagaga tgaagctact aatgggctaa tgtggatgag aggtggacct gtagaccaag    300
              gtctcaattc cctaaatttt caaggagctg gtatgttgcc ctggatgcag cagagactgg    360
              atccaacttt actaggaaat gatcagaatc aacagtacca agccatgttg gcagctggtt    420
              tacagaactt aggtagtgga tatctcatga agcaacaaat gatgaatttt cagcagcctt    480
              accactatct tcaacaatct ggaaacagta attctccttt gcaacttcag cagcagcaac    540
              caattcaaca atctgtgtct tctaacatgc tgcagccaca agctcacgtg ttgacagaga    600
              acttctctca gcacctcctt cagaaaccac ataacaatca agaagtccaa gcacaacagc    660
              agcaacatac ttatcaagac tcgctcttaa ttccgagtga tcaactccat cagagacaac    720
              actctggcat tccttcacca tcatattcaa aaccggattt cttggattcg agcatgaagt    780
              tccctgcttc agtttctccc gggcaaaaca tgcttagttc actttgtcct gaaggaagtg    840
                                                    171

              gcagtctctt gaatttatcg aggagcagtc tgtccttgct gactgaacag ttaccgcaac    900
<removed-date>
              agcaatggac tcaaaaatat gcacctgtgc aggtcaacac ctatggaggc actgtgtcac    960
              atgcacaata ttctggaaaa gattctgcaa tggtgctacc acattgtaac tcggatgccc   1020
              aaaattctac gctttttggt gtcaatattg attcatctgg ccttctcccc atcacagtcc   1080
              ctggttacac cacctcgtct gctgacacta attcatcaac aatgccatta gcggattctg   1140
              gtttccaggg ttctctatat ggttgcatgg attcatcgga gttgttgcaa agcgcagggc   1200
<removed-apn>
              atgttgaccc agaaaaccag agtcaaacct ttgtcaaggt ttacaaatca gggtcagttg   1260
              ggcgctcact tgacatatcc aggttcagca gctatcatga actacgcgag gagttggctc   1320
              agatgtttgg aattgagggg aagttagaag accctcttag atcaggctgg cagcttgtgt   1380
              tcgttgacag ggagaatgat gttcttctcc ttggagatga tccgtgggaa tcattcgtca   1440
              ataatgtttg gtatatcaaa atactttcac ctgaagacat tcagaaaatg ggggaacaag   1500
              cggtagaatc ccttgcatta ggttcaggac aaaggctaaa tggcactggt gccgagtctc   1560
              aggacatagt ttctggacca ccatcaattg gctcacttga gtactgagaa aattgaaaca   1620
              tgtattcctt cagaccccat ggtcaagaga atttctctac atgtttttat tacttaagtt   1680
              ggaatatgtt gtgtatgatc tgttcccccc tctcaccctc attattacta tcagcatttg   1740
              aagaaaaata tacatttatg attaaaaaaa aaccttagga catgcttctg tgccaatttg   1800
              aacttggggc actgcaagct agagttagtg ttactgctat tttagcataa tattttattc   1860
              aacttttgca tgaactaatg tactctagat aggaaactag agaaggctgt ttatgctttt   1920
              gaactgtcta tgtattctaa aatgccatca cttcccagtt aaggggtcga acttttacct   1980
              caaaaaatgt atgagtagta ttttactata ttgccattga aaccatcaac ccaccatacg   2040
              acatgtctct taaatgctac tattttgtag ctctataaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2100
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2160
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gg                                            2182
              <210>   173
              <211>   2409
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400>   173
                                                    172

              actgtcatgc catcctcagt tctatctagt gatagtatgc acattgggct tcttgcagct     60
<removed-date>
              gctgctcatg ctgcagcaac taatagctgc tttacagtgt tctataaccc aagggctagt    120
              ccatctgaat ttgtcatacc gctttcaaaa tcgatatcaa agctgtgtac catacacgcg    180
              tttctgttgg tatgcgtttc aggatgcttt ttgagactga agaatcaagt gtccgcaggt    240
              acatgggtac aataactggc ataagtgacc ttgatcctgt tcgttggccg aattctcatt    300
              ggcggtctgt taaggttggt tgggatgaat cgacagcagg agagagacag cctcgggtat    360
<removed-apn>
              cattatggga aattgagcct ttaacaacat ttccaatgta tccatctcta tttcccctca    420
              gattgaaacg gccatggcat cctggcacct cttcttttca tgatggcaga gatgaagcaa    480
              ctaatgggct tatgtggcta aggggtggac ctggagacca agctctcaat tccctgaatt    540
              ttcaaggttc tggtttgttg ccatggatgc agcagagaat ggatccaaca ttacttggaa    600
              atgatcataa tcagcaatac caagccatgt ttgcatctgg tttgcagaac ttaggtagtg    660
              gatatctcat gaagcaacaa atgatgaatt ttcagcagcc ttaccactat cttcaacaat    720
              ctggaaacag taattctcct ttgcaacttc agcagcagca accaattcaa caatctgtgt    780
              cttctaacat gctgcagcca caagctcacg tgttgacaga gaacctctct cagcacctcc    840
              ttcagaaacc acataacaat caagaagtcc aagcacaaca gcagcaacat acttatcaag    900
              actcgctctt aattccgagt gatcaactcc atcagagaca acactctggc attccttcac    960
              catcatattc aaaaccggat ttcttggatt cgagcatgaa gttccctgct tcagtttccc   1020
              ctgggcaaaa catgcttagt tcactttgtc ccgaaggaag tggcagtctc ttgaatttat   1080
              ccaggagtgg tcagtccttg ctgaccgaac agttacccca acagcaatgg actcaaaaat   1140
              atgcacctgt gcaggtcaat gcctatggaa gcactgtgtc acatccacaa tattccggaa   1200
              aagattctgt aatggtgcta ccacattgta actcagatgc ccaaaattct actctttttg   1260
              gtgtcaatat cgattcatct ggccttctcc tccccaccac cgtccctggt tacaccacct   1320
              cgtccgctga cactaattca tcaacaatgc cattagcgga gtctggtttc cagggttctc   1380
              tatatggttg catgcaagat tcatcggagt tgttgcaaag tgcagggcat actgacccag   1440
              aaaaccagac tcaaaccttt gtcaaggttt acaaatcagg gtcagttgga cgctcacttg   1500
              acatatcccg gttcagcagc tatcatgaac tgcgtgagga gttggctcag atgtttggaa   1560
              ttgaggggaa gttagaagac cctcttagat caggctggca gcttgtgttc gtcgacaggg   1620
                                                    173

<removed-date>
              agaacgatgt tcttctcctt ggagatgatc cgtgggaatc atttgtcaat aatgtttggt   1680
              atatcaaaat actttcacct gaagacattc agaaaatggg ggatcaagcg gtagaatccc   1740
              ttgctctagg ttcaggacaa aggctaaacg gcactggtgc tgagtctcag gacattgttt   1800
              ctggaccacc atcaatcggc tcacttgagt actgagaaaa ctgaaacatg tattccttca   1860
              gaccaccatg gtcaagagaa tttctctaca tgttttatta cttaagttgg aatatgttgt   1920
<removed-apn>
              gtatgatctg ttcccccttt cagccctcct tattattact atcagcattg aagaaaagta   1980
              tacatttatg attaaaaaaa aacccttagg acatgcttct gtgccaattt gaacttggag   2040
              cactgcaagc tagagttagt gttaatgcta ttttagcata atatttgatc aaacttttgc   2100
              atgaactaat gtactctaga taggaaacta gagaaggctg tttatgcttg agctgtcttt   2160
              gtattctaca atgccattag ttcccagtta aggggtcgaa cttttaactc aaaatgtatg   2220
              agtagtattt tactatattg ccattgaaac catcaaccca ccatacgaca tgtctcttaa   2280
              atgctactat tttgtagctc tataaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2340
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2400
              aaaaaaagg                                                           2409
              <210>   174
              <211>   2295
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2269)..(2269)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2276)..(2276)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 174
              attcggctcg agtattattc tgagtgtggt gcaagccacc tatgtactat ttttccttta     60
              cttatgcaaa agctaccttt gtactatttt tcctttactt ctgcacaagc cacctttgtt    120
              ttgtccgcag gtacatgggt acaataactg gcataagtga cctggatcct gttcgttggc    180
                                                    174

              cgaattctca ttggcgatct gttaaggttg gttgggacga atcaaccgct ggagagagac    240
<removed-date>
              agccacgggt atcattatgg gaaattgagc ctttaacaac gtttccaatg tatccatctc    300
              tatttcccct cagattgaaa cgaccctggc atccgggcac ctcttctttt catgatggca    360
              gagatgaagc aactaatggg cttatgtggc tgaggggtgg acctggagac caagctctca    420
              attccctgaa ttttcaaggt tctggtttgt tgccatggat gcagcagaga atggatccaa    480
              ctttacttgc aaatgatcat aatcagcact accaagccat gtttgcatct ggtttgcaga    540
<removed-apn>
              acttagggag tggagattta atgagacaac aaataatgaa ttttcaacag ccttcaatta    600
              tcttcaacaa tcaggaaacc ccaatcctcc tttgcagctt cagcaaccgc aagcaattca    660
              gcaatccgta tcttctaata atattctaca gccacaagcc caagtaatgg cagagaacct    720
              gtctcagcac ctccttcaga aatcacacaa caatcgagaa gaccaaacac agcagcagca    780
              gcagcagcgg cacacttatc aagatacagt tttacttcaa agtgatcagc tccatcagag    840
              gcaacactct ggtctacctt caccgtcata ttcaaaacca gatttcttag attcaagcat    900
              gaagttccct gcttcagttt caccaggaca aaacattctt ggttcacttt gtcctgaagg    960
              gagtggtaat ctcttgaatt tatccagaag tggtcagtcc atgctgactg aacagttacc   1020
              tcaacaatca tgggccccaa aattcacacc gttgcaggtt aatgcttttg gcaactcaat   1080
              gcaacatgtg cagtattctg gaaaagatac cgcaatggtg ccaccacatt gtaactcgga   1140
              cacccaaaat cctattctat ttggggtcaa catcgattca tctggtcttc tgctccctac   1200
              gactgtcccg cgttatacta ctgcatcagc ggatagtgat gcatcagcaa tgccattagg   1260
              agagtctgga ttccagtctc ctttatatcc ttgtggtcaa gattcatcag agttggtgca   1320
              aagtgcaggg caagttgacc ctcaaaacca gacacgaaca ttcgtcaagg tttacaaatc   1380
              agggtcagtt gggcgctcac ttgacatctc ccggttcagc agttatcatg agctgcggga   1440
              ggagttggca cagatgtttg gtattgaggg gaaattagaa gaccctctta gatcaggctg   1500
              gcagcttgta ttcgtcgaca gggagaacga tgttcttctc cttggagacg atcccgtggg   1560
              aatcatttgt caataatgta tggtatatca aaatactttc acctgaagat atccataaaa   1620
              tgggagaaca agccctggaa tcccttggtc caagtccagg acagaggctg aatagcactg   1680
              gtgcagattc tcatgaaatt gtttcaggac taccatcaat tggctccctt gaatactgag   1740
              agaattttaa catgtatttt tctctcaggt cctacggtta agaagactat tacatatcca   1800
                                                    175

<removed-date>
              catgtttagt acttctgttt gaacactact tttcgacctt gcatatctga atcaatatat   1860
              actgtattgt ctgtttcact ttcaaaaaca tcgttattat ttcgtagagg attgttgaga   1920
              ttttcaggac aaaaaatcta tattatatat atgatgagaa agaaacctag gacaaacttt   1980
              tgtgccaatt tgtaacttgt gctctgaaag ctagaaatag tgttactact atgtaaaaaa   2040
              aaaaaaaaaa atttgatcaa acttttgcat gaactaatgt tctttagata ggagcccaaa   2100
<removed-apn>
              aaaggctgtt tatgcttgag ctgtctttgt attctacaat gccattagtt cccagttaag   2160
              gggtcgaact tttaactcaa aatgtatgag tagtatttta ctatattgcc attgaaacca   2220
              aaaaaaaagt aaaaaaataa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aagagggcng cgccgntctt   2280
              ataagagata tcaag                                                    2295
              <210>   175
              <211>   2280
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 175
              ataatcctag ggcaagccca tctgaatttg tcattccttt ggccaagtac gttaaagctg     60
              tgtatcatac acgagtttct gttggcatgc gatttaggat gctatttgag acagaagaat    120
              caagtgttcg ccgatacatg ggtaccataa ctggtattag tgatttagat ccagtccgct    180
              ggccaaattc acactggcgt tctgtgaagg ttggctggga tgagtccact gcaggggaga    240
              ggcagccaag agtttccttg tgggagattg aacctttgac aacattccca atgtatccat    300
              ctccattccc cttaaggttg aggcgccctt ggccatcggg cttaccttct ttatatggtc    360
              tcaaggatgg agacatgggc attggttctc cattcatgtg gctccaaggt gggcttgggg    420
              atcaaggaat gcaatcttta aacttccagg ggcttggtgt tacaccatgg atgcaaccta    480
              gacttgatcc ttctatacca ggtctccagc cagagttata ccaagcaatt acttcttctg    540
              cattccagga aatgaggaca atggatcttt caaaatcttc gcaatctctt ttgcagtttc    600
              agcagacttc aaatgttccc agtgctcatg cttctgaggt acagaggcaa ttgttaccac    660
              agtctcagct tcaaaacacc cttctacaca attttcaaga aaaccaggtg cctgctcagt    720
              cacaacttct gcaacagcag ttgcatcgtt accacccgta tagtgatcag cagcaacagc    780
              agcagcaact taaaaacttg cctgttcagc agcagttacc aaatgtcatc tctcctatgt    840
                                                    176

<removed-date>
              ctaagtttgc atcaggtacc cagtctcaat ctcctcccat gcaagcccta gcttcacatt    900
              gtcagcagca gagctttcct gaacctatga ggaatcatat ttccggttct gatgtttccc    960
              ctatccagag tctactaggg tcattctccc aggatggaac atcccagtta cttaacttga   1020
              gtggatccaa ttctgttatg tcttctgctg ccatactgcc caagcaaata actgccgagc   1080
              ctcctcagct tccatctgct gcttctcagt gcatattgcc tcaggtggaa aacttgggaa   1140
<removed-apn>
              catcacaatc aaatgtgtct gaacttgctg ctttgcctcc atttcctgga agagaacatt   1200
              ctgcatacca tggcgctgct gatcctcaga gcaatctttt atttgggatt aacattgatc   1260
              cctcttctct tatgctgcaa agtggcatgt caaacctgag aaatataggc aaagtgaacg   1320
              attcattatc gttgccattt tctacttcga attgtggtgg tgctacaggc actgatttcc   1380
              ccttgagttc aaacatgaca acttcaagtt gtgtggatga atcaggcttc ttgcagtgtt   1440
              ctgaaaatgt agaccaagca aatataccaa ctggaacctt tgttaaggtt cacaagtcag   1500
              ggtcctttgg caggtcactg gacatttcca agttcagcag ctatgatgag ctcattagtg   1560
              agcttgctcg catgtttggc cttgaaggcc aactagagga ccctaagact cagagatcag   1620
              gctggcagct tgtatttgtt gaccgggaga atgatgttct tcttcttggt gatgatcctt   1680
              ggcaggagtt tgtgaacaat gtgtggtaca taaaaatact atctccacta gaagtgcaac   1740
              aaatgggcaa aggtcttagt ccttctactt ctgccccagg taacaaactt tctactcctg   1800
              ccaactcttg tgataattat gtgagtcaac aagagttgag aagttcgaga aatggcatgg   1860
              catcaatggg atcttttcac tactaggaca ctctcccatg taaggaaata ttagttgaga   1920
              aattatggtg gcagaatttt atgttacaag ttttcttatg tatggattgg cccagcattc   1980
              ttgtacacat taatggttga catgtagtga ttttgcaagg tctaaataga tcaacagcaa   2040
              atgactgtaa attataatag gtggcctttt ttctgtaatg gttagttgct tatagcagtt   2100
              attaattatt actgtatctt aaaaaggcca cacattaatg gttgacatgt agtgattttg   2160
              caaggtctaa atagatcaac agcaaatgac tgtaaattat aataggtggc cttttttctg   2220
              taatggttag ttgcttatag cagttattaa ttattactgt aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag   2280
              <210>   176
              <211>   1427
              <212>   DNA
                                                    177

              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1327)..(1327)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 176
              atcaaaaact tcctctcctc agatcgttcc tcttcgtctc cttcaatcac tcgtaagact     60
<removed-apn>
              cttccgagac ggtgtgttcg ctctttgatt gaatggaaag tgaagacatg cattcgaaac    120
              ctgacggtgg gaatcagatc gtttcagagt cggttcatca tcactccata aatagtttaa    180
              acccttggca acgtgctgct gctgcctgca atgcaagttc tttagtggag gaagctggag    240
              ataagtctat agctttggag aaccaaaaca attgggaatc aactaatggt tccaagtcac    300
              catctcataa agatgaaaat ggtaacaagg aatcaccaca agtcacatcc tctccccaac    360
              aatcagctgg agattacagt gaaaaaagtc aagaacttgt gcatgttggc gtcacaggac    420
              ctcctcaccc tcaacttgtt agccacacag gatgggcatc ctcaaatcca taccaggatc    480
              cttattatgc tggaatgatg ggagcctatc ccatggctta tgttccatat ggtgggatgc    540
              ctcattcaag aatgccactg cctcctgagg tggcacagga accagtttat gtgaatgcta    600
              aacagtacca ggcgatactt aggcgaaggc aggcacgcgc caaggcagag cttgaaatga    660
              agctaatcaa atccagaaag ccttatctcc atgaatctcg gcatcagcat gctatgagga    720
              ggcctagggg cactggaggc cggtttgcaa agaaaacaaa caccgaagtt tcacagccga    780
              aacctggaga aaagaacaat gctactcagt ccccgacgtc atctcactct gaccaacctg    840
              aagcctggaa tgatgagtgt agaaaacagt ctgaagagat gcaaagctca gcttctaaga    900
              gaagggaaga agcagactgt tcagggcaac aatggaacag catttcctca aaccatactt    960
              ctgaagctcg tctagccatc aaatgacatc tccactggca actcattctt ggctctctct   1020
              ttgttggctt atttggtagc agccattgaa gagtcccctg tacaaatact tctgtgtttt   1080
              tcttcttttg tgatatgtca aatgttactg ctttcttttg tcaactctct ttagcacatt   1140
              tttgaatcaa aaactatgtg tttaaaatta aattccaaag tgtgcaaact gaaaaaaaaa   1200
              aaaaaaaaaa aagcttattc caataaccgc ccaacctccc agggggggcc ccggaacccc   1260
              aatttccccc tatatccgag ccttaattac tcttccgctc cactgcccct ctttttttaa   1320
                                                    178

              acccctnccc ggactgggga aaaacctctg ggggcctacc acaactttaa atccccattg   1380
<removed-date>
              gcaagcacat tccccccttt tctcacccct tgggccgcca aaaaacc                 1427
              <210>   177
              <211>   1326
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 177
<removed-apn>
              aggattgtac cttccctcct tcacaactgt gttacaacca atcacttgtg agtagataac     60
              tagatatgtg attgtgtctt agtggactga gattatttgt aaatcttttt cttattattt    120
              tacttctcag gctcatactg cattccactt tgctgagccg tgctttagtg gcctactagc    180
              tgctccattt gtgccacaat ctaatattca tcatgctcag ctactaggaa tgactcctgc    240
              tcgaattcct ctgccacttg atcttagtga ggagcccatg tatgtgaacg caaagcagta    300
              ccatgctatt ctgagacgca ggcagtatcg tgcaaaactg gaagcacaga acaaactcat    360
              caaagaacgg aaaccatatc ttcatgagtc ccgccatcta catgcactga agagagctag    420
              aggttccggt ggacgctttt tgaatgccaa aaagctccaa gagttgaaac tcacttcagc    480
              aaaccgtggc ctagatgttt ctggctgtac tcaattgaat ctgagtggaa atatgtcaga    540
              atcaaaggtt caagcagtag aaaacttgaa ctacagaaat ggtgcttcta caaccacgtg    600
              ttctgatgtc attagtacat ctaatagtga tgatgtcttc cagcaacatg agtcagactt    660
              taggttatgt ggttaccctt ctcatattgg aaggaacatg cagggttatt ccgcagacat    720
              tggtggtggt ggtggtggtg gaaatcaaca ccgtctatca gtccttatgt gacaaacttt    780
              tatggcacac tagcaagtta ttcttcagcg ctctgttgga gatcataatt gcctgtgttc    840
              catagggaag tcatccttgg ctcatttaca ttattatgtt tttactaata tgtttatgtt    900
              agttgttttg gaacaaagat atagaccttt gctagatttc aattttctta tattgatgac    960
              tgaaatattt gggcaaagta gcacatttaa ctgactagtc acaagcaata tttcttttat   1020
              gttgatgtta cattggaaaa tgtctttttg agaactaagg ttttggttgt ggtgtatgtt   1080
              ttatctttgt acactgatgc tttattaatt ttgagagaaa aaccttggct gctgttggtg   1140
              tctttgctaa aatcatttgt gttaggtctt tgtcgttttt tgcttgggct tatatggttg   1200
              ataaagcctc cacaacattt tggtggtgga taggtgttat gatagaagtt gccacttgtg   1260
                                                    179

              tgaaggtgcc aatatcaaag catcttttgc tttgctaaat atcacttctc aattttgcct   1320
<removed-date>
              tgcttc                                                              1326
              <210>    178
              <211>    1220
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Glycine max
              <400> 178
<removed-apn>
              gtctctcttg aggttgcaga cttagagaga gagagagata atgggtctca tttcaatgca     60
              attcaggttc tgaaaaccaa agcttttcat aggaaaagtt gtgctaagat gccggggaaa    120
              gctgacactg atgattggcg agtagagcgc ggtgagcaga ttcagtttca gtcttccatt    180
              tactctcatc atcagccttg gtggtgtgga gtgggggaaa atgcctctaa atcatcttca    240
              gctgatcagt taaatggttc aatcgtgaat ggtatcacgc agtctgagac caatgataag    300
              tgaaggtgtt gccaaagaat accaaaacat caaacatgcc gtgttgtcaa ccccatttac    360
              catggacaaa catcttgctc caaatcccca gatggaactt gttggtcatt cagttgtttt    420
              aacatctcct tattcagatg cacagcatgg tcaaatcttg actacttacg ggcaacaagt    480
              tatgataaac cctcaattgt acggaatgta tcatgctaga atgcctttgc cacctgaaat    540
              ggaagaggag cctgtttatg tcaatgcaaa gcagtatcat ggtattttga ggcgaagaca    600
              gtcacgtgct aaggctgagc ttgaaaagaa agtaatcaaa aacaggaagc catacctcca    660
              tgaatcccgt caccttcatg ccatgagaag ggctagaggc aatggtggtc gctttctcaa    720
              caaaaagaag ctcgaaaatt acaattctga tgccacttca gacattgggc aaaatactgg    780
              tgcaaacccc tcaacaaact cacctaacac tcaacatttg ttcaccaaca atgagaatct    840
              aggctcatca aatgcgtcac aagccacggt tcaggacatg cacagagtgg agagtttcaa    900
              tattggttac cataatggaa atggtcttgc agaactgtac cattcacaag caaatggaaa    960
              aaaggaggga aactgctttg gtaaagagag ggaccctaat aatggggctt tcaaatgaca   1020
              cttcgcccag ccatacagca acagttaggt gaagatgaag ggtttttatc tcatccaact   1080
              tgtgatgctg tattgaaggc aattcattct tggcttagtt aagtggtgag accagtgaca   1140
              tggagtacac tctgccttgt ttggtctctc cccttgcatt tgtttctctt tacaagtcca   1200
              tatgtaaaaa tggataacgg                                               1220
                                                    180

<removed-date>
              <210>   179
              <211>   1359
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 179
              cgtaggcccc ccccccccaa caaagccata gaaatgaaga attagagaga gtgagaggag     60
              gaagaagaag aagaagattc cagaatccag agtgagaaac attaggctta tcagaggaga    120
<removed-apn>
              catgcccgag ttgaaccgac aattctatta ctactctttg cttctttctt catgcctcat    180
              caaatcccaa aggatataat tgaaggtttt gggaacctaa ggctgcaata ttgtatacat    240
              tctactcaag gaatggtcaa gatctggaaa tttgctatgt ggaaaggtta aatgaagcca    300
              ttcttgttga gtcatcctga tactatgtac aattgttctc aagtttattg tagtcattca    360
              ctggctcata cttcttatcc ttgtggtgat ccttattttg gtagttcaat agttgcttat    420
              ggaacacagg ctattactca acaaatggtg ccccagatgc tgggattagc atccaccaga    480
              attgcattac cagttgagct tgcagaagat gggcccattt atgtcaatgc caaacaatac    540
              catggtatac tgagaaggcg acagtcacga gcaaagctta aagctcaaaa caaactcatc    600
              aaaagtcgta agccatatct tcatgaattc tcggcaccgc cacgcattga aaagggttag    660
              gggaactggg gggcgctttc ttagtgccaa acagcttcaa cagtttaatg cagaacttgt    720
              caccgatgcc cattcaggcc cgggccctgt caatgtttat caaaagaaag atgcatctga    780
              ggcagaaagt catccctcaa gaactggaaa aaatgcatct atcacattca cagcaatctc    840
              tggcttgaca agtatgtccg gtaacagtgt cagtttcagg cggcctgagc acaacttctt    900
              ggggaactct cctaatatag gtggatcgtc gcaatgcagt gggggactca cctttggtgg    960
              tggagctcgg caatgtactt cagttggccg gtgagaggtg gaaccaatca aaatcaagtt   1020
              cactggtctg gcaaatcatc cttggcttag tcactttact ttctgtgttt catgtgttgt   1080
              tacggaaatg ttgtcttttg gaagactctg cattagcact cagacttttg ctagtgcttt   1140
              cccatgtatt ttgaaagttg ctcttgtttc tgttgttgaa ctggaccaga aagtttgtgc   1200
              ttgaaaattt aactttttat ccgtcaaaaa aaaaaaaata aaaggtccaa ctcctataaa   1260
              ccaaaaccgg agagaagaaa atgaaaattt gctcattact gacgtcaaca tgtatttgga   1320
              tgaagtaaac acagaacatt gaagttggtt ttcccgtac                          1359
                                                    181

<removed-date>
              <210>   180
              <211>   1436
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 180
              ggaattcggc acgaggcatt gtctctcttg aggttgcaga cttagaaaga gagagagaga     60
              gagaatgggt ctcatctcaa tgcaatttag gttctgaaaa ccaaagcttt tcataggaaa    120
<removed-apn>
              agttgtgcta agatgccagg gaaacctgac actgatgatt ggcgtgtaga gcgtggggag    180
              cagattcagt ttcagtcttc catttactct catcatcagc cttggtggcg cggagtgggg    240
              gaaaatgcct ctaaatcatc ttcagatgat cagttaaatg gttcaatcgt gaatggtatc    300
              acgcggtctg agaccaatga taagtcaggt gaaggtgttg ccaaagaata ccaaaacatc    360
              aaacatgccg tgttgtcaac cccatttacc atggacaaac atcttgctcc aaatccccag    420
              atggaacttg ttggtcattc agttgtttta acatctcctt attcagatgc acagcatggt    480
              caaatcttga ctacttacgg gcaacaagtt atgataaacc ctcaattgta cggaatgtat    540
              catgctagaa tgcctttgcc acctgaaatg gaagaggagc ctgtttatgt caatgcgaag    600
              cagtatcatg gtattttgag gcgaagacag tcacgtgcta aggctgagat tgaaaagaaa    660
              gtaatcaaaa acaggaagcc atacctccac gaatcccgtc accttcatgc aatgagaagg    720
              gcaagaggca acggtggtcg ctttctcaac acaaagaagc ttgaaaataa caattctaat    780
              tccacttcag acaaaggcaa caatactcgt gcaaacccct caacaaactc gcctaacact    840
              caacttttgt tcaccaacaa tttgaatcta ggctcatcaa atgtttcaca agccacagtt    900
              cagcacatgc acacagagca gagtttcact ataggttacc ataatggaaa tggtcttaca    960
              gcactatacc gttcacaagc aaatgggaaa aaggagggaa actgctttgg taaagagagg   1020
              gaccctaatg gggctttcaa ataacacttc cctcagccat acagcaacag ttaggtgaag   1080
              atgaagggct ttatctcatc caacttgtga tgctgtatag aaggcaattc attcttggct   1140
              tagttaagtg gtgagaccag tgacatggtg tacactatgg ccttgtttgg tctctccctt   1200
              gcttttgttt ctctctacaa gtccatatgt aaaatggata acagaaagaa aaagaaaaat   1260
              cactttggtt tgagaacttt ttaaagttta tattaactgt gttaaggttc ataaaactgt   1320
              agactgattt gtgtgacatg ctccacagaa ccttaaattt tcctctattt tgtcctatat   1380
                                                    182

              ctccttgcac attattaatc taaattggtg catattttct atagtaaaaa aaaaaa       1436
<removed-date>
              <210>   181
              <211>   1296
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 181
              gagtcattgt ttttaagacc aagtagaagt cactttatgg gtcaagactt agcactaaag     60
<removed-apn>
              ccaagagacc aaaaagacta aaacaatgat ggagtcattc aagtgttatg tttgagtgag    120
              agtcttttct aagcttacga agtttcaggg cagaagacat gcacagcttc tgattcctct    180
              ccaattcatt caacttccaa ggtaggtgga ttattgttct aagaggtagg ccttgagcca    240
              gagtggaaaa caatgaattg cttatgtgag aaagactctg gtctattttc ttctcattca    300
              acagctccct atgttcttgg atgcccatca tgggcgactt ctgaatttga agtccaacga    360
              tcatctatgt ccagaagttt gagctcaaaa gtggatgttc ttccacaaca atgccacaat    420
              agcaagacat ttaattttca attccaagaa caggatgcat cttcaaccaa atccactgat    480
              caatcttatc cagaagttgg tcaaatttct gtccagcata gttctactga ttcaacactt    540
              atcagaaatg aggggaagag tatgggatgt gtcatcaggt catttatggg gagtcaggat    600
              ttccctttcc ctcctccact actggatcac agaccaatac ttccagtgga aactgctcct    660
              gttcgaattc ctcttcaatt ggattttgca gaagaaccta tatacgtgaa ttcaaagcag    720
              taccatgcta ttctgaggcg aagacagtat cgagcaaaac tcgaagcgct taacaaaccc    780
              atcaaggatc ggaaaccgta tcttcacgag tcccgccatc aacatgcact gaagagagct    840
              agaggcgctg gtggacgctt tctcaataca aaaaaacaat tacaatcaaa tcatacacct    900
              gggaatattg cagaatcaaa aatgcatcac attgaaaact atagagatgg tgctgatgtc    960
              tcatatgcat ttaacagtga tgcaagaaac atgcagaatg atgcagctga taagggtggt   1020
              ggcaccactc agcaacctct atttgtctac atgtgactaa actggcttgt tgttgggcac   1080
              atcactttgc ttgtgttgtg ttccattggg aagtcatcct tggctcatct tttattatgt   1140
              agttacgatt attgctaatt ttgattttcg tcgacattga catggacgta ttgtataccc   1200
              taaaattgtt tgacactgac ttgtcaaaaa caatgttttt ctatgttaat accatatctg   1260
              caacatgtct aattgaaatg cgattatgtg gcttcc                             1296
                                                    183

<removed-date>
              <210>   182
              <211>   1733
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 182
              gaaaaattag agagtgagaa gaggaagaag aacattctag agggagaaac attacacaac     60
              tgaacccaca attctattac tgtttgcttc aaaggatata attgaaggtt ttgagaacta    120
<removed-apn>
              aggctgcaat actgtataca ttctactcaa ggaatggtca atatctggaa atttgctatg    180
              tggaaaggtt aaatgaagcc attcttgtcg aatcatactg attctatgta caattgttcc    240
              caagttggtt gtagtcatcc aatgaatcaa caaatggtgc cccagatgct gggattagca    300
              tccaccagaa ttgcattacc agttgagctt gcagaagatg ggcccattta tgtcaatgcc    360
              aaacaatacc atggtatact gagaaggcga cagtcacgag caaagcttaa ggctcaaaac    420
              aaactcatca aaagtcgtaa ggtatgcttc acaaattaca gttatacatt attttgattc    480
              accctgttta tcctacctta ttcgtgtatg gtcatgcatt atattttgtg gttttggggg    540
              ggggggggtt gtctttggaa agaatgttgg tgaggaggaa gagatgggct tggttggttg    600
              tatatgtata ttttcacctg tttacctgct atggtgtaaa atataaaatg tagtttcatt    660
              ttctatataa tttttcgttt ttttatatac tatacaattt taagttattt gagctatgac    720
              atgggagaaa aaaatgcacc tgtttacctg ttatagagta tttttttttc tttctcgctt    780
              ggataaataa ttaaatttag aatataagcc tatacagcta aattacatgt taactacagt    840
              ctagaagtgt tatttatcat tgcaagggag cattggagga atcactctga atattgaact    900
              tagaaatgaa ccgtgataca gtagaataac aattacatgt tgcattattc tgtgaaatgt    960
              tattattaca tttagtcata tggcaaagct gtacagcctg ctttcttgaa tctgttttgg   1020
              accaaaagaa atagtgttac tccactgatt tccctccctt tctaattgat tgcagccata   1080
              tcttcatgag tctcggcacc gccacgcatt gaaaagggtt aggggaactg gggggcgctt   1140
              tcttagtgcc aaacagcttc aacagtttaa tgcagaactt gtcaccgatg cccattcagg   1200
              cccgggccct gtcaatgttt atcaaaagaa agatgcatct gaggcagaaa gtcatccctc   1260
              aagaactgga aaaaatgcat ctatcacatt cacagcaatc tctggcttga caagtatgtc   1320
              cggtaacagt gtcagtttca ggcggcctga gcacaacttc ttggggaact ctcctaatat   1380
                                                    184

              aggtggatcg tcgcaatgca gtgggggact cacctttggt ggtggagctc ggcaatgtac   1440
<removed-date>
              ttcagttggc cggtgagagg tggaaccaat caaaatcaag ttcactggtc tggcaaatca   1500
              tccttggctt agtcacttta ctttctgtgt ttcatgtgtt gttacggaaa tgttgtcttt   1560
              tggaagactc tgcattagca ctcagacttt tgctagtgct ttcccatgta ttttgaaagt   1620
              tgctcttgtt tctgttgttg aactggaccc caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1680
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagggcggc cgc          1733
<removed-apn>
              <210>   183
              <211>   1332
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 183
              aaggccggcc gggcccggga aaagccatag aaatgaaaaa ttagagagtg agaagaggaa     60
              gaagaacatt ctagagggag aaacattaca caactgaacc cacaattcta ttactgtttg    120
              cttcaaagga tataattgaa ggttttgaga actaaggctg caatactgta tacattctac    180
              tcaaggaatg gtcaatatct ggaaatttgc tatgtggaaa ggttaaatga agccattctt    240
              gtcgaatcat actgattcta tgtacaattg ttcccaagtt ggttgtagtc atccaatggc    300
              tcatacttct tatccttgtg gtgatcctta ttttggtagt tcaatagttg cttatggacc    360
              acaggctatt aatcaacaaa tggtgcccca gatgctggga ttagcatcca ccagaattgc    420
              attaccagtt gatcttgcag aagatgggcc catttatgtc aatgccaaac aataccatgg    480
              tatactgaga aggcgacagt cacgagcaaa gcttgaagct caaaacaaac tcatcaaaag    540
              tcgtaagcca tatcttcacg agtctcggca ccgccacgca ttgaacaggg ttaggggatc    600
              tgggggacgc tttcttagcg ccaaacagct gccacagtct aatgcagaac tagtcactga    660
              tgcctatcaa aagaaagatg catcagaggc agaaaatcat ccctcaagca ccggtgaaaa    720
              tgcatctatc acattcacag ccatctctgc cttaactagt atgtccagta acagtgtcaa    780
              tttccccaac atggctggat catcgcaatg cagtggggga ctcacctttg gtgctggagc    840
              tctccaatgt acttcagttg gccgatgaga ggtggaacca atcaaaatca acttcactgc    900
              tctggcaaat catccttggc ttagtcactt tactttctgt ctttcatgtg ctacagaaat   960
              gttgtctttt ggaactgctt tcccatggtt tttgaagttg ctcttgtttc tattgttgaa   1020
                                                    185

              ctggaccaga aagtttgtgc ttgaaaattt aacttttttt atctgtccgt gcatggtcct   1080
<removed-date>
              tgcttttcca acgcctatag aacaaaaatg gagtgaagaa aatgaaagtt tgcacatcac   1140
              tgacatcaac aggtatctgg atgaagtaaa cacaacgttt aatttggtat taccgtacaa   1200
              aaacactatg ctagtgtttg gtatagatga ataaaaaaga aagaaagttt aagaaatgaa   1260
              aatagacgaa agagaaatga aacagagaaa aatggagtaa ttcttcgatt tgacacacat   1320
              tttgatgtgt ct                                                       1332
<removed-apn>
              <210>   184
              <211>   1618
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 184
              gagatcccaa aggtactctt atagtacttc ttctctttct ctcactgttt ttgttgctta     60
              ttctgcctta tcctgtctcc ctctcttcac tacccttttt tttttttcac tttccttctt    120
              atcatctttt tttctttttt ggtttatatt ttgggggggt atttttcttt tcatttgtac    180
              ttttttattt attgatcttg ggttttggtt tattttattg tgtgtggaat acaagtggtg    240
              aagttagaaa ttttgttgtt tcccatctgc atgtggagtt tgaggtcagc tttgtgtttg    300
              ttaatcgaaa aatcaaacaa acaaagcctt caacaatcaa aagcaaagaa gtgaagagag    360
              agagaaagag atcattctag agacagagag aaaaattagc ttcagtagat attagtggtg    420
              ggtttgggtt tcaagagagg agacatgcct aacttgaacc caacacttca agtacttgct    480
              tcttcatacc cttaccagat cccaaaggtc ttgatctaat tttaagtgat tcttctgatg    540
              actatattga aggttacatg aagccatttc tctttttaaa tcttcccaac accgagttca    600
              attcttcaca agttgattgt aatcactcaa tggctcattc ttcttatccc tacggcgatc    660
              caatttttgc ttatggacca caagctatta gtcatcccca aatgataccc ccgatgctgg    720
              gactagcatc caccagagtg gctttgccac ttgatcttgc agaagatgga ccaatttatg    780
              tcaatgcaaa acaataccat ggtatactga gaaggcgtca gtcacgagca aaacttgagg    840
              ctcagaacaa acttatcaaa aatcgtaagc catatcttca cgagtctcgg caccgccatg    900
              ctttgaatag ggttagggga tccggggggc gatttctcag caccaaacag cttgcacagt    960
              ctaatgcaga atttgtcact ggtgcacatt ctggttctga ccctaccaac agatatcaaa   1020
                                                    186

              aggaacatct atcagaggtg gaaagtcatt cctcaaaaga tggagataat tcatctttca   1080
<removed-date>
              tcacaacctg ctccgaccgg ccatgtttat ctggcaacaa tgtcaatttt cggcagcagg   1140
              agtgcatgtt tctggggaat tctgcaaaca tgggtggatc accacagttc agtgggggac   1200
              tcacctttgg cggagcaaag cagcgcacat cagttgtccg gtgagagaag aaactgatcg   1260
              aaaccgactt caccggtcag gcaaatcatc cttggcttag tcacttttgt ctgtgtcttt   1320
              atgtgttcgt actaaatgct cattttgaga gacttttttc agtctgcatt agcactataa   1380
<removed-apn>
              gacctttcca attgctttgg catgtatttt aaagttgcta ttgtactgga ttttgaactg   1440
              gattggaata gtcttttgca tggaacttgt atgtttgtgt tagttactgt tgaatttcct   1500
              tgcttcaaaa tatgtgattt ctaatagtgg attatttact cttttgggtt aaaaaaaaaa   1560
              aaaaaaactt tccagatgat taatatctgc taaaaaatct ggttgaatac tttccgaa     1618
              <210>   185
              <211>   718
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 185
              accaaccagt caaacgagtg ttggtacacc aagagttttt gtttctccat actccataat     60
              cttctgacct ctgaccatcc ttccattcca tgttggttga agttgcctaa ccactaaaaa    120
              actgtacaaa atgcaaaaat gagcaaagaa cgaaggattg attgactgat ttcaacagaa    180
              atcacagaca ccaatcatca atcattcttc cccccccccc ccccccctag tatcattcac    240
              accacaaaca caagaacaaa gccaagaatg atttgccgct tggcaagtac tgcgatcgcg    300
              ttaacgcttt atcacgatac cttctaccac atatcactaa caacatcaac actcatcact    360
              ctcgacgaca tccactcgat cactactctc acacgaccga ttaactcctc atccacgcgg    420
              ccgcctgcag gagcgccaag cggcaaatca ttcttggctt tgttcttgtg tttgtggtgt    480
              gaatgatact aggggggggg ggggggggga agaatgattg atgattggtg tctgtgattt    540
              ctgttgaaat cagtcaatca atccttcgtt ctttgctcat ttttgcattt tgtacagttt    600
              tttagtggtt aggcaacttc aaccaacatg gaatggaagg atggtcagag gtcagaagat    660
              tatggagtat ggagaaacaa aaactcttgg tgtaccaaca ctcgtttgac tggtttag      718
              <210>   186
                                                    187

              <211>   1516
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 186
              cgtcaacctg tgtttcctcc attcagtcgg aagacaaatc actaacattc tttcctcatg     60
              acaatttgtg ctactcgtaa gggaggcttt cttttccttt tacccttttc ataggtgtat    120
              gaggtgggtg tggcttgcca gctccctggt ggagtgcctt aggatctcaa ccagtttacg    180
<removed-apn>
              gggagtattg tggtcaaatg aagtcctttt cattggagat ttccaactat gtggaccaat    240
              ttggtgctgg taagcaagcg gcacgaggag ttgagcaatt gttggataaa ggacatacaa    300
              ctcagtttac catctttcca gatgattgta agatgtcagg tgatgcacaa aatcctcagg    360
              caacattatc actgcaatca tcactggctg agccccacaa tcgttttgag ataggggtta    420
              atcagcctat gatctgtgca aaatatcctt atatggatca attttatgga ctcttctcag    480
              catatggacc tcaaatttcg ggacggataa tgcttccaat taacttgaca tccgatgaag    540
              gaccaactta cgtaaatgct aagcagtacc atggaattat cagacgtagg caatcacgtg    600
              caaaagccgt acttgagaac aaaatgataa aacgtcgcaa gccttatatg catgaatcac    660
              gccatctaca tgcgatgcgg cgaccaagag gatgcggtgg tcgcttcttg aacacaaaaa    720
              gctctactga tggaaatggt aaaaatgaaa gcgaagtgat taaaaccagc ggccgacaat    780
              tccagtccag tgcctctcag agttctgaag tcctgcattc tgaggttgga actttaaatt    840
              catcaaagga gacaaatcga agcagtccaa acatctctgg ttcagaggtg actagcatgt    900
              attcaaggga aggttttgat ggtttttctg tcaatcgtct tggatcttcc gttcactccc    960
              tagtggacat ggtattatca cgcccactaa atgggttgca gcagtatcag gtaactgctg   1020
              caaccttaaa gtttgattag caacgagact agtgggcttg gtgctgcgat gttgcagcac   1080
              caccctatcc ttgcaaggga ccaggtgagg aacttctgtt gcagtttctt gtgttcattg   1140
              tgacgaattt cgttctggag gtgtgattct tcatctggtt ttaggcaaac cattcttggc   1200
              tactgcttag gcaactcatc cttggctcat tatattagta gtactgtctt tttctttctg   1260
              cacaggcttg tcatgacatg gtcatacatg ctaatggctt catatcctga tgcagtagac   1320
              tatgatgtgt ctgtttgtgt taaaataaca agaattctgg tttcgtgtgt tttttagtta   1380
              tgtctaggtg tggtattttg ttctggtttt ctgacttcgt gtggagctat gtaacataga   1440
                                                    188

              actctggatt gtgatctttg ttagaaaaat aaaacattga tctgacttac cctccgaaaa   1500
<removed-date>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa                                                   1516
              <210>   187
              <211>   1781
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 187
<removed-apn>
              tcagctacgt aggccccccc ccgggactga ctgtgggtgc gaaaaagaga taactgtgtg     60
              acaggaagag agaaaaagag gaatcaagat agctcctttg aattttctat cagaatctga    120
              ggacccaaaa tctagggttt tctgttcttc tctggggatc tgaagacatg cagtccaagt    180
              ctgaaactgc aaatcggctg aggtcagatc ctcattcctt tcaacctggc ggtgtttatt    240
              ctgagccttg gtggcgtggt attgggtaca atcccatggc ccaaacaatg gctggggcaa    300
              atgcgtccaa ttcgtcgtct cttgaatgcc ctaatggtga ttctgaatcc aatgaagagg    360
              gccagtcttt gtccaatagc gggatgaatg aggaagatga tgatgccact aaggattcga    420
              agcctgctgc tcctaatgaa acaggaaatt atgagcaaga acagcaaggg atgcagcata    480
              ctgcatcatc tgcaccatcc atgcgtgaag aatgccttac tcagacacca cagctggaac    540
              ttgttggtca ttcaattgca tgttctacaa atccttatca ggatccgtat tatgggggca    600
              tgatggcagc ttatggtcac caacagttgg gatatgctcc ttttatagga atgcctcatg    660
              ccagaatgcc tttgcccctt gagatggctc aagaacctgt gtatgtgaat gccaaacagt    720
              accaaggaat tctgaggcga agacaggctc gtgctaaagc agagcttgaa aggaagctca    780
              taaaatctag aaagccatat cttcatgaat ctaggcatca gcatgctatg agaagggcaa    840
              ggggtactgg aggacgattt gcaaagaaaa ctgacggtga gggctcaaac cactcaggca    900
              aggaaaagga taatggtact gattctgtcc tatcatcaca atcaattagt tcatctggtt    960
              ctgaaccttt acattctgac tctgccgaaa cctggaattc tcctaacatg caacaagatg   1020
              caagagcatc aaaagtgcac aacaggttca aagcaccctg ttaccaaaat ggcagtggct   1080
              cctaccataa tcataatgga ttgcaatctt cagtgtacca ttcatcctca ggtgaaagac   1140
              tggaggaaag ggattgttca ggtcagcaac tgaaccacaa ttgatggggg gttagaggcc   1200
              gaggttggtt tgtatcctag tgacatttgg taaatacctt ggttatctgt aaacactctt   1260
                                                    189

              ggcaatatat gtgccaagcg gcaaatcatt cttggctttg ttcttgtgtt tgtggtgtga   1320
<removed-date>
              atgatactag gggggggggg ggggaagaat gattgatgat tggtgtctgt gatttctgtt   1380
              gaaatcagtc aatcaatcct tcgttctttg ctcatttttg cattttgtac agttttttag   1440
              tggttaggca acttcaacca acatggaatg gaaggatggt cagaggtcag aagattatgg   1500
              agtatggaga aacaaaaact cttggtgtac caacactcgt ttgactggtt tatcttttgt   1560
              gtagttcaac cggttgttaa tgttaacgta agacatcata gaataatgaa acatgctatt   1620
<removed-apn>
              acatcatttg ttgccctttg ttatttcagt ttttagtatt ttattggttc ttaagaaaat   1680
              taattttcca ttgtctgtag caaagatgaa aaggaaaagt tttctcgtcc atgactttgt   1740
              ttgccttgtt gaagtggcca tgggacaatc ggccgaatat t                       1781
              <210>   188
              <211>   1107
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 188
              attcggctcg agatcaattt tatggactct tctcagctta tgcacctcaa atttcgggac     60
              gtataatgct gccacttaac atgacatctg atgatgaacc aatttacgta aatgctaagc    120
              agtaccatgg aatcattaga cgtcggcagt cccgtgccaa agctgtactt gatcacaaat    180
              tgactaaacg tcgcaagccc tatatgcacg aatcacgcca tctccatgca atgcggcgac    240
              caagaggatg tgggggtcgc ttcttgaaca ctaagaattc tgttgacgga aatggtaaaa    300
              ttggaaatga agtgcataaa actgttggtg aacaattgca gtctagtggc tctcagagtt    360
              ctgaattcct tcaatctgag gttggaactt ttaattcatc aaaagagact aatggaagca    420
              gtccaaatat ttctggttca gaggtgacta gcatgtattc gcggggaggt cttgacagct    480
              tttctctcaa tcatcttgga tctgctgtcc actcttttgc agacatgata gatggtgggc    540
              gcggtatgat catacccacc aaatgggttg cagcagcagg taactgctgc aaccttaaag    600
              tttgatttgc aaagaatcaa gggtgggctt gctgtagcat tgcaccaggc ccatcctcga    660
              tgaggccaga tgaagaagct tcgtttcagt tgcgtgtgct gactgtgaca agtttcgctc    720
              ggtaagatcg tcctcacatc tggtctaggc aatccatcct tggctcatac tttggcaatc    780
              catccttggc tcattgtaac tgaaggcaac tcatccttgg cttgatgtac ttgcagtaat    840
                                                    190

              ttgtctttct gcacaggaat gttgttggca tggtacaaac taatgacttg atatcctgat    900
<removed-date>
              gcagaagaca actatgtttc tgtctttgtg tgaaaatgaa agcatgaaac tctagttatg    960
              tgtgcttcga ataatgtcta aacgtggtgt tgtattttgt atttctgact tcgaggaaca   1020
              atgtattata gaaccttgtt ctgtggtctt tgttagaaaa aataaagcat tggtgtgtaa   1080
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaagg                                       1107
<removed-apn>
              <210>   189
              <211>   1954
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 189
              gtacaacccc gggattttct tactttttta ttctcacttt gactcatgaa tgaattcctt     60
              tatcctctta catcacaact gaagtgagat atcaacattc aacaccccaa attctagtta    120
              tagagaaagc taagttcttt gatttgcctt ccaccccctt aatttcctta attgatcaat    180
              tgggaaattt ggtctttggg ggattttgag gattagggtt agtatttgct tgattgggga    240
              agtctttatg taacctgagt ggaatggttc tgtgtctgca tgtgtgaatt ctggcaaggg    300
              gcatttggtt gctgggcact gaccaagagt tgaaagattt tatatttacc tttaaacagc    360
              tgcggctcct gctgaagatc aaggagctag ggatctgaag ataagatatg caatccaaat    420
              cagctacgta ggcccccccc ccaaatcaac tgaggtctga tccacattcc tttacaccta    480
              acaatgctta ttctgaaccc tggtggcgag gtattcagta caatcctgtc ccccaagcaa    540
              tgttaggagt gaatgcatct aattcatctt cacttgaacg ccctaatggt gattcggaat    600
              ccagtgaaga ggatgatgat gccactaaag aatcacaacc cactgctcct aatcaatcag    660
              gaaattatgg acaggaccac caagcgatgc aacattcttc atcatctgca cctttggtac    720
              gtgatgattg ccttacacag gctccacaag tggaacttgt tggccactca attggataca    780
              ctccttttat aggaatgccc catgccagaa tggctttgcc ccttgagatg gctcaagagc    840
              ctgtttatgt gaatgccaaa caataccaag gaattctgag acgaagacag gctcgtgcta    900
              aagcagagct tgaaaagaaa ttaataaaag tcagaaagcc atatcttcat gaatcccggc    960
              atcagcatgc tataagaaga gcacgaggta atggagggcg ttttgcaaag aaaactgaag   1020
              ttgaggcttc aaaccacatg aacaaggaaa aggatatggg tactggccag gtcccattgt   1080
                                                    191

              cacggtcaat tagttcatct ggttttggat cactaccctc tgactctgct gagacctgga   1140
<removed-date>
              attctcctag tgtgcaacaa gatgcaagag gatctcaagt gcatgagaga tttgaagaac   1200
              gcaactatgc aaatgttttg cagtcatcat ctactttttg tttgcactcg ggtgaaagag   1260
              tggaggaagg ggactgttca ggtcaacaac ggggaagcat cttgtcagag cacacctcac   1320
              agaggcgtct tgctattcag taaaccactg catgtgttga tgctgaggtt ggtatatata   1380
              attgagtgaa ctagtaggtt gagtaccttg gctatctatc tgtaaacatt ggcaatttgc   1440
<removed-apn>
              atgcatgtca agcggcaaat cattcttggc tgggtttcag ctgttcatga tatggggaga   1500
              agaatgattg attgggccat catacttgtg ttgttgaagt ctaccagtcc ttcattatat   1560
              cctctttttc attttttctg tttttgtaca gagatagtag ttagcaaagt caagccaacg   1620
              gattagaaga cttgatgaaa caaactactg actcactttc ctctggcggc tttattttat   1680
              gttactcacc ggttattaat gcttaatatg agacatcata tgagagattt gctgcataat   1740
              tgtattcaca tccaaatcga cattatcaat ccttggttct tttctcattt ttgcactttg   1800
              taaagtttta tagtggttag gatggtcact tcagaagatt atggagtatg gtgagaaaca   1860
              aactcttgat gtgccaacac tcgtttgact ggtttatctt tgggtagttc aaccggttgt   1920
              taatgttaac ataagacatc ataggataat caaa                               1954
              <210>   190
              <211>   1092
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 190
              attcggctcg agaggaaatt atggacaaga ccaccaagcg ttgcaacatt cttcatcatc     60
              tgcacctttg gtgcgtgatg attgccttac acaggctcca caactggaac ttgttggcca    120
              ctcaattgga tacgctcctt ttataggaat gcctcatgcc agaatggctt tgccccttga    180
              gatggctcaa gagcctgttt atgtgaatgc caaacaatac caaggaattc tgagacgaag    240
              acaggctcgt gccaaagcag agcttgaaaa gaaattaata aaagtcagaa agccttatct    300
              tcatgaatcc cggcatcagc atgctataag aagagcacga ggtaatggag ggcgttttgc    360
              aaagaaaact gaagttgagg cttcaaacca catgaatgag gaaaaggata tgggtactgg    420
              ccaagtccca ttgtcacggt caattagttc atctggtttt ggatcactac cctctgattc    480
                                                      192

              tgccgagacc tggaattcgc ctagtgtgca acaaggtgca agaggatctc aagtgcatga    540
<removed-date>
              gagatttgaa gaacgcaact atgcaaatgt tttgcagtca tcatctactt cttgtttgca    600
              ctcgggtgaa agagcggagg aaggggactg ttcaggtcag caacggggaa gcatctcgtc    660
              ggagcacacc tcacagaggc gtcttgctat tcagtaaacc attgcatgga gtttgatgct    720
              gaggttggta tataattagt gtagtagtag gttgagtacc ttggttatct atctgtaaac   780
              attggcaatt tgcatgtcaa gcggcaaatc attcttggct gtgtttctgc tgttcatgat   840
<removed-apn>
              atggggagaa gaatatgatt gattggacca tcatacttgt gttgttgaaa tcaacccgtc   900
              cttcattaaa ttctcttttt cattttgtac aaagatagta gtgagcaaag tcaagccaac    960
              gaatcagaag acttgatgaa aaaaactctt tgctctactg actcgctttc ctatggcggc   1020
              tttatttatg taactcaccg gttattaatg ttaaataaga gacatcttat gagaaaaaaa   1080
              aaaaaaaaaa gg                                                       1092
              <210>   191
              <211>   1731
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 191
              ggaattcggc tcgaggtacg taccgacatg actccaacct gatggggtta aacactgctt     60
              ctgcgtagga ttcgatgccg ctactccttc ttcagtttct acaactgagt ttcatatctc   120
              ctttctattg atgtttatgc tgaagactga ataaaagtct gagaaagctg cttactacaa   180
              accaacaaga ttaactaaga aatcatcttt tgggacgatg caaactgttt atcttaaaga    240
              gcacgaagga aatgcgcaca attttgtggg cacgttgtct tctgcagctt cagcaccctg    300
              gtggagtgct tttggatctc aatctgttca tcagggagag tcttgtggcc aagtgaaacc    360
              cttttcattg gagctgccaa actgcataga ccaacttgct gccactaagc cactagcaag    420
              aggagctgac caagtgttgg gtaaagggca cataactcag tttacaatct ttccagatga    480
              ttgtaaaatg tcagatgatg cgcaaaagct tcagacaacc atgtcactgc agtcatcgct   540
              tactgatcca cagtctcgtt ttgagatagg gtttagtctg cccacgatat gtgcaaaata   600
              tccttatacg gatcaatttt atggactctt ctcagcttat gcacctcaaa tttcgggacg   660
              tataatgctg ccacttaaca tgacatctga tgatgaacca atttacgtaa atgctaagca    720
                                                    193

              gtaccatgga atcattagac gtcggcagtc ccgtgccaaa gctgtacttg atcacaaatt    780
<removed-date>
              gactaaacgt cgcaagccct atatgcacga atcacgccat ctccatgcaa tgcggcgacc    840
              aagaggatgt gggggtcgct tcttgaacac taagaattct gttgacggaa atggtaaaat    900
              tggaaatgaa gtgcataaaa ctgttggtga acaattgcag tctagtggct ctcagagttc    960
              tgaattcctt caatctgagg ttggaacttt taattcatca aaagagacta atggaagcag   1020
              tccaaatatt ttctggttca gaggtgacta gcatgtattc gcggggaggt cttgacagct   1080
<removed-apn>
              tttctctcaa tcatcttgga tctgctgtcc actcttttgc agacatgata gatggtgggc   1140
              gcggtatgat catacccacc aaatgggttg cagcagcagg taactgctgc aaccttaaag   1200
              tttgatttgc aaagaatcaa gggtgggctt gctgtagcat tgcaccaggc ccatcctcga   1260
              tgaggccaga tgaagaagct tcgtttcagt tgcgtgtgct gactgtgaca agtttcgctc   1320
              ggtaagatcg tcctcacatc tggtctaggc aatccatcct tggctcatac tttggcaatc   1380
              catccttggc tcattgtaac tgaaggcaac tcatccttgg cttgatgtac ttgcagtaat   1440
              ttgtctttct gcacaggaat gttgttggca tggtacaaac taatgacttg atatcctgat   1500
              gcagaagaca actatgtttc tgtctttgtg tgaaaatgaa agcatgaaac tctagttatg   1560
              tgtgcttcga ataatgtcta aacgtggtgt tgtattttgt atttctgact tcgaggaaca   1620
              atgtattata gaaccttgtt ctgtggtctt tgttagaaaa aataaagcat tggtgtgttt   1680
              ttctcctgtt gagcaatgtc aaaattttat catcctttac atttagaaaa a            1731
              <210>   192
              <211>   2060
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 192
              gaattcggct cgagaggccc acaatcataa caaccaaaaa gcccccttct ccttccaacc     60
              cctccatttt caacaacaat tcctctaagc atcgttcaga caagggtaca ccacaacagc    120
              ttttgttagt cctcaccaag cgatgagagt tcccgttccc tcatccccac aggccaaccc    180
              aaaacccacc aataacgttg tccgtaccat tgcccttccc aacctcaaca atagcaccac    240
              gccccccacg ggcctgtgct acgagcccac ttctgtcctt gacctgtgcc ggagcccgag    300
              cccgggcacc gaaaagccca ccaccgatca ctccgttctc gtcaccaact cccaagacta    360
                                                    194

              tctcgacctg gaagaccatg cgttgcacaa cttggactgg gactccatca tgaaggactt    420
<removed-date>
              gggcttacac gacgactccg ccacccccgt tttgaaaact tttctccacc ccgacgacga    480
              cgacgacgac gacaacaaca acaacccatc atgcgacgac ttcacactct tcgaccacgc    540
              gcttgaattc accactctct ccgacatcta ctccaaccaa aacttcgctt tcgatttcaa    600
              ccacttgcct cacgacttca accacctcaa cggcttcgat ttcatcgaag agctcatccg    660
              cgccgccgac tgcttcgaca ccaagcagtt acacgtggcg caactgatat tggagcggct    720
<removed-apn>
              caatcaacga ctacgatcgc ccgtcggaaa accactccat cgcgcagcgt tttacctcaa    780
              agaagctctc cagagtcttc tctccggttc gaaccggact ccgaggattt catccctggt    840
              ggaaatcgtg cacagtatca gaaccttcaa ggccttttcg ggaatttcgc cgatcccaat    900
              gttctcgatc ttcaccacca atcaaatagt tctggatcac gcggcgagct ccttcatgca    960
              cgtcatcgac ttcgacatcg gtcttgggat ccaatacgct tccctaatga aggagattgc   1020
              ggagaaggcg gcggattcgc cggtgctccg aatcaccgcc gtcgttccgg aagaatacgc   1080
              cgtcgagagc acgctcgtcc gcgacaacct cgcgcagttc gccctagatc tcaggatccg   1140
              cgtgcaggtc gagttcgtgc cgcttcgaac cttcgagaat ctctccttca aggccgtgaa   1200
              gttcgtcaac ggggagaaca ccgccgtgct cctgtcgccg gcgatttttc gccacctcgg   1260
              caacgccgcc gcgttcctgg cggacgtgcg gaggatctcg ccgagcgtgg tggtttttgt   1320
              ggacggcgag gggtgtgcgg agactgccac ggcgtcggcg gcgtcgttcc ggcgcggcgt   1380
              tgtgagcagt ttggagtact actcgatgat gctggagtcg ctggacgcgt cgacggtggg   1440
              aggcggaggg gagtgggtga ggagaatcga gatgatgcag cctgcggccg aagattttgg   1500
              cggcggtgga gagtgcgtgg cggcgggttc cgccgtggag ggaggcgttt tacggcgccg   1560
              gaatgaggcc ggtgcagtta agccagtttg cggattttca agcagagtgc ctgttagcga   1620
              agtctcaaat cagaggattt cacgtggcaa aacgccagaa cgaactggtg cttttctggc   1680
              atgatagggc cattgttgcc acgtcagcat ggcgctgtta gaacatggag tgttattatt   1740
              ggcagagggg attatgtaat aatgtagtaa ttataataaa ctgcaacgaa agtaaattta   1800
              ggttccaatt tcgaagtcca ctacactcgt tcaaactatt gctatgatgg aaaaaatcta   1860
              ggtatctttg gcaaaaggaa aaggtgggga gggggtggta gataagataa acttgtattt   1920
              ttctgtacca ttttgttgtc cttctttgtt ggatggactc tttgttatcc tgatgaactt   1980
                                                    195

<removed-date>
              tactactggt tttctaatca aagggtttgg cagattaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2040
              aaaaaaaaaa gggcggccgc                                               2060
              <210>   193
              <211>   2075
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 193
              gcactccctc agggtgtgtt tctgcctcaa caacaacaac agcatcatcc accaatagag     60
              cctctggatg agaagctaca agttctcaat cctcagttca ttttgaacca aaatcaatct    120
              cagtttatgc caaacgcggg tttggttttg cctttgacat atggccaact gcaagaaaat    180
              catcagcttc tccctcagcc tccggcgaaa cgcctgaatt gtggcccaaa ttatcaggtt    240
              ccaaagacac cctttttgga ctctggccaa gagctgttac ttcggaggca gcaacagcag    300
              ctccaactgc ttcctcacca tctgctgcag aggccatcca tgttggtggc accaaagcag    360
              aaaatggtga actccggcag cgaagacttg gcgacccatc agcttcaaca ggctataact    420
              gaacagcttt tcaaagctgc agagctgatc gatgccggta atctggaact cgcgcatggg    480
              atattggcgc ggctcaatca ccaactttct cccattggga agccttttca gagggctgct    540
              ttttatttca aagaggcctt gcaattactt ctccatccaa atgccaacaa cagttctttc    600
              accttctcac ccactggcct tttgctcaag attggtgctt acaagtcatt ctcagaaatc    660
              tcaccagttc tgcagttcgc caatttcact tgtaaccaag cactgcttga agctgtggaa    720
              gggtttgatc gcattcacat aatagatttt gatattgggc ttggtggaca gtggtcttct    780
              ttcatgcaag agttagcact caggaatggc agtgcacctg aactcaagat cactgcattt    840
              gtgtcaccct cccaccatga tgaaattgag ctcagtttct ctcaggagag tttgaagcaa    900
              tatgctgggg agttacacat gtcctttgag cttgagattc tgagccttga atctttaaat    960
              tctgcttcct ggccccagcc acttcgtgac tgtgaagctg tagtggttaa catgcctatt   1020
              ggctctttct caaattaccc atcatatcta cctttggtcc ttcgctttgt gaagcagctc   1080
              atgccaaaaa ttgtggttac attggataga agttgtgatc gaactgatgc accatttcct   1140
              cagcatctga tttttgcact tcagtcttat tcagggctgc ttgagtcact tgatgcggtt   1200
              aatgttcacc cagatgtcct tcagatgatt gagaagtatt atcttcagcc atcaatggag   1260
                                                    196

<removed-date>
              aagcttgtct tgggtcgaca tggtttgcag gaaagagcac ttccttggaa aaaccttctc   1320
              ttgtcatctg ggttttcacc attgaccttt agtaacttta cagaatccca ggcagagtgt   1380
              ttggtgcaga ggactcctag taaggggttc catgttgaga agaggcagtc ttcccttgtt   1440
              ctttgctggc aaaggaagga tctcatctca gtttcaactt ggagatgcta agcagagcca   1500
              ttttgcacct ttgaactacc aatttaattt taaattctaa agtgctacat aacttacagc   1560
<removed-apn>
              ttctattgat ctttcttgct tgaatttgcc ttgtctatgg ttctatgcta attgtctgtt   1620
              tttaggattt attattttca gttaaggaag ggaagtgaac atattaatta gcaactgaat   1680
              gacgatttat gagcgtgata tgcagtgtat tattataaat aggggcattc tatatatgca   1740
              ttttgtcctg ttttaattgc ctaaatttat aaacttttct tgtatgtttt acaagaaagt   1800
              aacactaatt accctgtaaa gttgaggctt tgtttgatga ctttgatccc tgataagtct   1860
              ctctccctct ctggcacatg ttgtaagctc aatctggtct ttgaaagcta tatagttgtc   1920
              taaggtatca ctttaacagt tccccgaact attcagtgtg gaatgggatg ggaattcttc   1980
              agttagtttg ctagttttca gcaattgcat tacatgtacg ttttgtctgc acacttttca   2040
              cctagaaaaa ttcgtatgga gccagatttt ttatg                              2075
              <210>   194
              <211>   3257
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 194
              ccacgcgtcc ggaagaatac attcattcat ctcatggctt tcttcttctt ccctcatcac     60
              accttcttca actgtttcaa tctcaacacg ccacagaagt atcagataga agaagaaaaa    120
              aacaagcttt atttttagag ggtgcccaag ttgtttgttc ttttgttttt cctgcagcac    180
              tctatgtgtt tgttcagtgt tcctcgaaga tttgtattgt ccccaaaaca aaaacaaaaa    240
              ttcagccttt ttagctcttc caacccgaaa tttcttgttt tttttatgtg ttcttcattt    300
              ggggtggttt aaatttgctt aatttgtaat cttttttttc tggggtgggt tgtggggaaa    360
              taaaggtggt accttttgaa aaactggagt cttttgggtg gtgggttttg tggtcaccaa    420
              ttttattgtt cttccccccc ctaggcaact ttcttagatg aaggtcatgc ccttgccttt    480
              tgaggaattt caagggaagg gagtgttgga tttctcttca gcctcagatt cattttcagt    540
                                                       197

<removed-date>
              gcttttgcat aacccacaac caaagtggac catagacaaa gaggactatt gctatgtggg    600
              cagcatcact gagcccacct cagttcttgg ctccagaaga agccttagcc ctcccacttc    660
              ctcctccaca atgtcttctt ctcttggcag cagcaacaac agcactagca agggtggtgg    720
              tggcacctca gccaacacca ccaacaaccc aacaccaccc tcagactaca acaacaacaa    780
              ccctcctcag gaatccagcc ccgaaaaatg tggcatcagg atggaggact gggaktgcca    840
<removed-apn>
              agatcaatcc atcctgaggc taatcatggg ggatgttgaa racccttctg ctggattgag    900
              caagcttctg caaagcactg cctgtggctc tcaaagtgct gatttcaatg ctggatttgg    960
              tgttgtggat caacaaggat tgaatatgaa tatgaatatg aatatggtgg gtggtaatat   1020
              tgacccaaat taccctgctg gtttcccttt cattgctgag aatatggatg gccagaatgc   1080
              caaggctggt tctgggactg gccaggtttc agaatctgtt gttttctctg ccaacaatcc   1140
              tctcatggtg tcatcatctg tttcccctgg tgtgttcact tctcagcagc agcagcaaga   1200
              gtttggagtg gtggatgaga agcctcaggt tattaatcca cagtttatgt tgaaccagaa   1260
              ccaagttcag ttctcagata acccttcttt ctttttgcca ttgatgtacc cccaggtgca   1320
              ggtgcaggag caacaggttt tctctcctcc gcatcaatcg aaacgccctc tctttgacac   1380
              gattggtcac aattttcagg ctccaaggtt gccccttttg gattcagggc aagaggtgtt   1440
              tggtaggagg cagcaaacac agctgccatt gtttcctcac catatgcaac aacaacaaca   1500
              acaacaacaa tcaatgggtt tgccatctgc taaacagcag aagggtgagt tccaccggag   1560
              acgatgcaag ccaccagctt cagcaggcta tatttgatca gttatacaaa actgctgagc   1620
              tgatagaagc tggtaatccc gttcatgcgc aagggatatt gggcgcggct caatcaccag   1680
              ctctccccta ttggtaggcc ttttcagagg gctgctttct acatgaagga ggccttgatg   1740
              tcactgcttc attcaaatgc tcacagtttc atggcttttt cgccaattag tttcattttt   1800
              aaaattggag cttataagtc cttttctgag atatcacctg ttcttcagtt tgccaatttt   1860
              acttgcaacc aagccctcat tgaagctgtg gaaaggtctg acagaattca tgttatcgat   1920
              ttcgatattg ggtttggagt gcagtggtca tcttttatgc aagagattgc cttgagaagt   1980
              agtggtgcac cttcactcaa agtcactgcc attgtgtcac cctccacttg tgatgaggtt   2040
              gagctcaatt tcactagaga gaatttgatt caatacgcga aagacatcaa tgtgtcattt   2100
                                                    198

              gaattcaatg ttttgagcat tgaatccttg aactctcctt cctgtccact gcttggtaaa   2160
<removed-date>
              ttctttgata atgaggcaat tgtggtgaat atgccagtct caagtttcac aaactatcca   2220
              tcattgttcc cttccgttct tcactttgtg aagcaactca ggccaaaagt tgtggtcact   2280
              ttggacagaa tttgtgatca aatggatgta ccacttccta ccaacgtagt ccatgttctc   2340
              caatgttatt cggccctgct tgaatcgttg gatgcggtga atgtgaatct tgatgtcctc   2400
              caaaagattg agaggcattt catccagcca gctatcaaga aaattatact tggccaccac   2460
<removed-apn>
              cattttcaag aaaaattacc cccatgggag gaacctcttt atgcaatctg gattctctcc   2520
              attcacattt agcaacttca cagaagctca agctgagtgt ctagttcaga gggcacctgt   2580
              gaggggattt catgtggaga gaaagccttc atcacttgtt ctatgctggc agaagaaaga   2640
              actcatctca gtttctactt ggagatgctg aggactgagg agcagcagca gaagctaatt   2700
              accttatatt tttaaaggtg catggtaact tacattgcag tttatgtaat tgtttgtgta   2760
              atttaggctt attgatgaga tccacaccca aatgttttct taactgcatg ggttggaatc   2820
              taccattctg tagttctaat atttactagt atgtcacttt gaacatgggt agtaattatg   2880
              cctttcccca ttcccatcat ctaaagatgg gtaactgttt ctttgttatc ttgaacacaa   2940
              agcaaattgc ttagtaagaa acgaacaatt tagctaagaa tgcagcctct attttcttct   3000
              tcttggttta ttatattctt tcttaattaa tgtatgatga cctgaatttg ggatacgtga   3060
              ttttaatatg cagcatgaaa atcttgtgcc aattcaatta tccaaatatt agtttttgcg   3120
              tggtttgagt gaaaagctgg aaagattata attggttcat ttgtagtctt taaggaaaga   3180
              cacccaaaac aaactcatgt atagtacttt tgtttgtaat ttaagaatat aattcgttgt   3240
              ttgagtgttg atttata                                                  3257
              <210>   195
              <211>   3691
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 195
              aaagatctca attgaatgag gatgcatagt gcactagctt atttttcaaa ggagacagta     60
              gggttaggtc agtgtgtgta agctgtctct ctcttctctt tgtaccctat atatatgcca    120
              ttcaaaagca attaatgtga tgagaaagcg agagaaggcc caagtgatct ttgtcaatga    180
                                                    199

              tattcagagc ttgtttgatg taatcatgaa ggttatagcc cccaagcaaa ccagccatga    240
<removed-date>
              catgattgca catgtaggta aggcttgggc tgcagtggaa gagatgaaaa ggttccttgt    300
              ggctaattca ttggaagagg tgaataggaa actggacaag ttttatatgg ttctcatctg    360
              gaggagtcta cactcagact ttgatcatgt gcgtgatcaa gttcttgctg gagatcaagt    420
              ttcaccaatg gattccctca tcactagact tcttcgtgtg cctcatgcat tgaaggatga    480
              aaatcttact gatgctatgg aaacttcagc tatgattgca ccttgtggga gaggaggagg    540
<removed-apn>
              ccgcaacaac agaggaggcc acagtggaag gggtggacgt cctcattgca cctattgcaa    600
              gaggatgagt cacactcagg aaaactgtta ttcattgcat gactttcctg acaaagtagc    660
              acagttgtct aagttagaga aatcggagtc taggttctct gatgaagaat atcaggagta    720
              tttgaagctc aaatctgaga agtccagcaa ccaagtacaa tctttatttg taccaggttt    780
              ttcaacaaca tgtatttctc aatccattga aagtctcaga ctcagtcctt ggatacttga    840
              ctcaggtgcc tctgatcata tctctggtaa taagtcttcc ttctcatcca tttctttttc    900
              aaaaattcct caccttgtta ctgtagctaa tggctccaaa gttgcgtctc aaggaagtgg    960
              tcaagtttca ttatctccct tattgaaatt gaattttgta ttatttgttc ctcagtgtcc   1020
              atataatcta atctcattaa gtcagttaac tcgctcatta aattgctcag taacctttac   1080
              tgcgaaatct tttgttattc aggaacatgg gacgggtcga ttgattggag aaggacgtga   1140
              atcacgagga ctttattact tagaatccaa ctttcctgtt tcctgtgtcc tgttttgcaa   1200
              cttcaaaacc caaaactgaa aatgatggtc cctagtctta agaatcttag agtcttagaa   1260
              tgtgagtctt gtcagttagg aaaacatgtt aggtcatcat ttcctcaaac tgtacaaaga   1320
              tgtaactcgg ctttctctac cattcattat gatatttggg gaccaagtcg tgttacatct   1380
              tttggttttc gatatttttt aacctttatt gatgaattct ccagatgtac ttaggtttat   1440
              ttaatgaaag acagatctga acttttgcct atatttgtgt cgttctttaa tgagattgag   1500
              aatcaatttg gcaaaacaat taagattttc agaagtgata atgctaaagg gtatttttcc   1560
              tcatgaccca ttatttcatg tttctcctaa agtgtttggt tgtacttgtt ttgtccatga   1620
              tctttctcct ggtttagaca aactttctgt taggtcaatc aaatgtgtct ttttgggtta   1680
              ttctcgtctt caaaaaggtt acaagtgcta ctctccaacc acaaaacgat actacatgtc   1740
              tgccgatgta accttctttg aagatacacc ctttttctca ccttccatga accattcccc   1800
                                                    200

<removed-date>
              ttctctccag gaagttcttc caattccttc tccttgtcct ctaggtaact caaaccaaaa   1860
              tgttagtgtt gtcccatctt ctccactaaa ttcacctgaa gttgcttctc cacctctcat   1920
              tacatatcaa cacaggacaa ggcaagttgg atctacagtg cctgaagctt cttctcgtga   1980
              tcctcatcca tcttcaacca gtcctcaacc caattggccc attgtcatca ggaaaggtac   2040
              tcgctctact cgtaatcctc atcctattta taatttctta agttatcacc gtttgtctcc   2100
<removed-apn>
              ttcatatgct tcctttgttt tctcattatc ttcccttact attccttcca atgtccatga   2160
              gacacttgat catcctggct gacgacagac tataattgat gaaatggagg ctcttgaaaa   2220
              taatggtact tgggaacttg ttcctctttc tactgttaaa gttgggccca atggtgaggt   2280
              tgatcggctt aaggctcgct tggtagctaa aggctacaca cagatatatg atcttgatta   2340
              ttgtgatacc ttttctcctg tagccaaaat cacctctgtt cgtctgtttc ttgctatgac   2400
              tgccatgcgt cactggcctc tccatcagct tgatattaaa aatgccttcc tccatggtga   2460
              tcttgacgag gatatttata tggagcaacc tcctgggttt gttgctcagg gggagtatgg   2520
              tcatgtgtgt aagcttcacc gatctctcta tgggttgaag caatctcctc aagcttggtt   2580
              tggtaacttt agtcatgttg ttcaactttt tgggctgaaa caaagtaaag ccgatcattc   2640
              tgttttttta ttgtcataca tcccttggaa agtgtattta tctaatggtc tatgatgatg   2700
              atatagtgat attaggaaat gatgctacta agattgttca gctaaaagag cacttattca   2760
              gccatttcca gaccaaagac ctgggatatc tgaagtattt ccttggtatt gaggtggctc   2820
              aatcaggaga tggtgttgtg atctctcaaa ggaagtatgc tctggatatt ctgaaagaaa   2880
              taggcatgca aaattgtaga cctgttgata atcctatgga cccaaatctg aagctcatgg   2940
              caaatcagag tgatatctat cctgaccccg agaggtatag gagacttgtg ggaaaactca   3000
              tttatctcac cattacaaga cctgatatct cctttgctgt tggagtagtt agccaattca   3060
              tgcaaaatcc tcatattgat cattggaatg cagtcgtgca tattcttaga tatgttaaga   3120
              gagctcttgg acaaggattg ttgtatgagg acaagggaaa tacacaacta tcggggtatt   3180
              gtgatgcaaa ttgggctgtt gtcccatgga taggagatcc acatcaggtt attgtgtctt   3240
              cattggaggg aatcttatct cttggaagag caagaagcaa actgttgttg cttggtccag   3300
              tgcagaagtt gaatatcgat ctatgactat gattacatgt gagcttatgt ggattaaaca   3360
                                                    201

              atttctccag gaattgagat tatgtgaagt tgtgcaaatg aggttatact gtgataatca   3420
<removed-date>
              ggctgctctc cacattgctt ctaattcagt ctttcatgag aggactaagc acatcgagat   3480
              tgattgtcat ttcattcggg agaaactatt gtccaaggag attgtcactg agttcattaa   3540
              ttctaatgat caactagcag atatttcagt ctatatgtct caagcttggt gcatatgatt   3600
              tatatgctcc aacttaaggg ggagtgttga atatttgctt tatttcaaat ctgatgaaaa   3660
              agccaaatgt agttattatt atgtacacat t                                  3691
<removed-apn>
              <210>   196
              <211>   2035
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 196
              ttcataagct atcacagtat gtctccttca tacagttcat atatttgttc atagtcttcc     60
              cttgccattc cttccactgt ccgtgaggca cttgatcatc ctggctggag acaggctatg    120
              attgatgaaa tgcaggccct tgaaaataat ggtacttggg agcttgttcc tcttccccct    180
              ggtaagaccc ctgtgggttg taggtgggtc tacactgtta aagttgggcc cactggtgag    240
              gttgatcggc ttaaggctcg tttggtagct aaaggctaca cacaggtata tggcattgat    300
              tactgtgata ctttctctcc tgttcagcta cgtaggcccc cccccccgtt ttttgctatg    360
              gctgccatgc gtcattggct cctccatcag cttgacatta aaaatgcctt ccttcatagt    420
              gaccttgagg aggaaattta tatggagcaa cctcctaggt ttgttgcttt gggggagtat    480
              ggtcttgtgt gtaagctaca tcgatctctc tatgggttga agcaatctcc ttgagcttgg    540
              tttggtaaat ttagtcatat tgttcaactt tttgggctga aacgaagtga agccgatcat    600
              tctatttttt actgtcatac atcccctgga aagtgtgttt atctaatggt ctatgttgat    660
              gatatagtga ttacagggaa tgatgcttct aagattgtcc agctaaaaga gcacttattt    720
              agccatttcc agaccaaagg cccagaatat ctgaagtatt tccttggtat tgaggtggct    780
              caatcaggag atggtgttgt gatctctcaa aggaagtatg ctcatggcag atcaaagtga    840
              agtttatcct aaccccgaga gatataggag acttgtgggg aaactcattt atctcacaat    900
              tacaagactt gatatttcct ttgttgttgg agtggttagc caatttatgc aaaatcctct   960
              tgttgatcat tggaatgctg ttatgcgtat tcttagatat gtaaagagag ctcccggaca   1020
                                                    202

              aggattgttg tatgaagaca agggtaacac acaagtatct gggtattgtg atgcagattg   1080
<removed-date>
              ggctggttgt cccatggata ggagatctac atcaggatat cgtgtctcca ttagaggaaa   1140
              tgttatctct tggaaaagta agaagcaagc tgttattgct cgatctagtg cagaggctga   1200
              atgccgatct atgactatgg ttacatatga acttatgtgg attaaacaaa ttctccaaga   1260
              attgagattc tgtgaagtgg tgcaaatgaa gttatactgt gataattagg ctgctcttca   1320
              cattgcttca aacccagtct tccatgagag gactaagcac atagagattg attgtcattt   1380
<removed-apn>
              cattcgggag aaactattgt ctaaggagat tgtcattgag ttcattaatt ctaatgatca   1440
              gttaacagat attttaacta agtccttaag aggatctagg attcagtcta tatgttccaa   1500
              gcttggtgca tatgatttat atgctccagc ttgaggggga gtgttaaata tatgtgtagt   1560
              tttgtgtatt gtttaattat tcagctttat tcagaggaca acaatgttag gtcaatgtaa   1620
              tcagctgtct ctctcctcct ttttgtatcc tatatatatg ttatttgaaa gtaataaagc   1680
              aagttgtctg tgagtaacaa tttctctcac attcaaactt caacttgttc attgtaagag   1740
              ttatacttag tcattcttag ttaaatttct aacagaatgt ggtagagata ggctatagat   1800
              cgggagagaa gattagagac attctttata gtaagagatt ggtcttggac cctcaaaata   1860
              ctaagaacat accagaattt tgttgttttt agtgttagaa aaccctaaat agattaagag   1920
              actattggat gatgttcttc agtcttgtga gttgggatac tattatctat tggtaatgaa   1980
              agcaaacaag tcaaaaacca gaaaataagt tgaaatacaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa        2035
              <210>   197
              <211>   2391
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 197
              atggcttctt ccggtcctgt tttttcattc tctggaactc ccaccattac tactgccaaa     60
              ctcaactgga aaaactatat gtcttggtct gcttccgtgg agttatggtt tctcggccaa    120
              agatatcatg atcacttgga aaagggagtt gatgctgttc cgaatgacag gagagctgaa    180
              tgggaaaagc tggattttca gttgtgtgca gtgctatggc aatctgttga atcggatgtt    240
              ttggagatcc ttagatcatt caaaacatgt tgctcttttt ggaagaaagc acaagagata    300
              tttgccaacg acattcaaac agtggaagaa ctgaagagat ttcttgcagc aaaatcgttg    360
                                                    203

              gaggaagtga ataggaagct ggacaagttc tacatggtcc ttatcttgag aagtctacat    420
<removed-date>
              ttagattttg ataatgtgcg tgatcaaatt cttgcaggtg accaagtccc gtcaatggac    480
              tccctcatta ctagacttct tcgcgtgcct caagccttga aagaagaaaa tttagctgaa    540
              agtgtggaaa catcagctat ggttgcatct cgtggaagag aaggaggtcg caacaataga    600
              ggagactgtg gtggaaggag tggacctcag gtagctcaga ccgaaaaatc agagcctaag    660
              ttctctgata cagagtatca ggagtatcta aagctgaaat ccgagaaatc cagcagtcag    720
<removed-apn>
              gcttcatctt cctctgtacc atgttattca acaacatgta tttttcaatc tattgacggt    780
              ctcagtcctt ggatacttga ttcagctaat ggttccaaag ttgtagctca aggaagtgat    840
              gtaaccttct ttgaagacac acctttcttt tcatcatcta tggaccattc ttcttccatc    900
              caaaatgttc ttccgattcc ctctccatgt cctctaggta ccttaaacca agatgtcagt    960
              gaagttccat cttctccacc acatccacct gaagttgctc ctccacctct tcttacatat   1020
              caacgcagga cacagccagt tggttctaca gtatctgaag cttctcctcc tgattctcat   1080
              ccttcttcaa tcaatcctca agccatggat cctgctactt ctcatccctc tgattcagac   1140
              tggcccattg ccatccgcaa aggtactaga tcctcttgta atcctcaccc tatctataac   1200
              tttctaagct atcatcgttt gtctccttca tattcttcct ttgttttctc tctatcttcg   1260
              cattttgtcc cttctaatat tcatgaggca ctgagtcatc ctggatggcg acaggctatg   1320
              attgatgaaa tgctcttgaa catagtgatt gatggactta aggctcgctt agtggctaaa   1380
              ggttatactc aggtatatgg ccttgattat tgtgatactt tctctccaat cgctaagatc   1440
              actactgaag agatctacat ggagcaacct cctgggtttg ttgctcaggg ggagtatggt   1500
              cttgtgtgta agctgcgtcg atccctctat gggttgaagc aatccccttg ggctttgttt   1560
              gtatatgttg atgatatagt gattacaggg aatgatgcta ctaagattgt ccagctaaag   1620
              gagcacttat tcagtcattt ccagaccaaa gacctagggt atttgaagta cttctttggt   1680
              attgaggtgg ctcaatcagg agatggtgtt gagacaagca tgcagaattg tagacctgtt   1740
              gatagcccta tggatccgaa tctgaagctc atggcagatc aaggtgaaat ctatcatgac   1800
              cccgaaagat ataggagact tgtgggaaaa ctaatttatc tcaccattac aagacctgat   1860
              atttcctttg ctgttggagt agtgagccaa tttatgcaat atccccgtgt tgatcattgg   1920
              aatgctgtta catgtattct tagatatata aagagagctc cgggacaagg actgctttat   1980
                                                    204

<removed-date>
              gaagacaaag gtaacacaca aatatctggg tattgtgatg cagattgggc tggctgtccc   2040
              atggatagga gatccacatc aggatactgc gtctctattg gcggaaatgt tatctcttgg   2100
              aaaagtaaga agcaagctgt tgttgctcga tctagtgcgg aggctgaata cagatctatg   2160
              gctatggctg ctcttcacat tgcttcaaac ccagtcttcc atgagaggac caagcacata   2220
              gagattgact gtcactttat tcgagagaag ctactgtcca aagagattgt cactgagttc   2280
<removed-apn>
              attaattcta atgatcagcc agctgatatt ttgactaagt ctttaagggg gcctaagatt   2340
              cagtttatat gttccaagct tggtgcatat gatttatatg ctccaacttg a            2391
              <210>   198
              <211>   1458
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 198
              atgttagatc ttaatctcaa tgcggagtgg accgattcgt ttagtaacgg tgagtcgccg     60
              ttaccgttag agaagtttcc agacggtttg aggaaccaaa tggccgagtc agggacttcg    120
              aattcctccg tggtgaatgc ggacgggtcc agtaacggcg gcggcgacga ggactcggac    180
              tccacacgag ctgctgatga cgtgtacacc actttcaatt tcgatatcct taaagtcgaa    240
              ggcgcgaacg gcttcgtaac gaaggagctc tttccggtga tgagtgaagg agctaaagga    300
              cacgctacgt cgtcgttttc agggacgaat ggtttcgtgg atctctcgtt cgatggcgat    360
              ggagggaaca ctagtgagat gaagatgctt cagcctcaga atcagaatca gactcaaacg    420
              cgaactcaga cacagcaacc agcgaaaaag agtaggagag gaccgaggtc tcgaagctcg    480
              caatacagag gggttacttt ttacagaagg acgggaagat gggaatcgca tatctgggat    540
              tgcgggaaac aagtctattt gggtggattt gacacggctc atgctgctgc cagagcctat    600
              gatcgagccg ctattaagtt caggggagtt gatgctgata tcaatttcaa tctgagtgat    660
              tatgaggatg accttaaaca gatgcagaat ttgtccaagg aggaattcgt acatatactg    720
              cgtcgccaaa gtactggttt ctcaagagga agctctaaat accgaggagt aacactccac    780
              aagtgtggcc ggtgggaagc tcgaatggga caatttcttg gcaaaaagta tatatatctt    840
              ggactattcg acagcgaagt agaagctgca agggcttatg acaaggcagc tatcaaatgc    900
              aacggaaggg aagcagtgac caactttgag ccaagtactt atgaaggaga gctgaaatct    960
                                                    205

<removed-date>
              gcagccatta atgaaggagg cagtcagaat cttgatctca atttgggcat agcaacccca   1020
              ggacctccca aagaaaattg ggggcaactt cagttcccct ccttccctta caatacacat   1080
              ggtggaagaa gttcaatgat ggaaaccaat gttagttctg gaattggtaa tccatctttg   1140
              aaaaggatgg ttgcaactga agatcgtcct tcattatgga atggcatgtc tcctaatttc   1200
              tttcccaatg gggaaagagc agagagaatc ggcgttgatc cttcaaacgg actccccaac   1260
<removed-apn>
              tgggcgtggc aaacacatgg ccaggtcaat gctaccccag taccaacgtt ctctgctgca   1320
              gcatcatcag gattctcaat ttcagctacc tttccatcgg ctgccatctt tccaacaagt   1380
              tctatgaact caattcccca gagtctctgt tttacttcat ccagcatgcc tacccgcaat   1440
              gcatctgaat attattac                                                 1458
              <210>   199
              <211>   2124
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 199
              actttatgtt ccttttggat cctctcacat ctctctttct ttctccggtg tcatggaatc     60
              cggtagtgcc cgatgtttat attccctccg gttctgaaat catcaaatgc aactaccaaa    120
              cctcgagaag cttccttcac acacttcctt cttttccttg ttcttcgaac aagctctttc    180
              tcattccatc accacaactt ccgatattgc atcttcaact gttttggtta cattttacgc    240
              gtaataactg attgtttctt tcgattggaa ccatcgctcg aagagaatct ccggtgacgt    300
              cgaagcaata ttagtttact gtatgtatta gttcggatta ataataataa agcgcataag    360
              tgataacaac aacaaaaaaa gaatatctga gttgaaaaat tgctagaaga agattaaacg    420
              cgatgttgga tcttaatctg actgccgagt cgactcagaa cgacgagttg ctggtgctgt    480
              tggacaagtt tcctgaagct tcgtcgggaa cttcgaattc ctccatcgtg aatgcggagg    540
              ggtcgagcaa cgaggactcg tgctccacac gcgccggcga cgtgttcacc ttcaatttcg    600
              gaatccttaa ggtggaagcc gcgaatgacg tcgttgccgc ggcgacgaag gagctgtttc    660
              cggtgagctc ggagaattgg caggggcaga gttcgacgtc gttgtttcag gcgaggaaga    720
              gtttgatgga tctctcacta gatcaacaac acggggaggt gaaggtggta caggttcagc    780
              cacagcctaa ggtgaagaag agtaggagag gtccacggtc tcggagctct cagtacagag    840
                                                    206

<removed-date>
              gagtcacctt ctaccgaaga accggaagat gggaatcgca tatctgggat tgcgggaaac    900
              aagtctattt gggtggattt gacaccgctc atgctgctgc tagggcctat gatcgagctg    960
              ctattaaatt caggggactt gatgctgaca tcaattttaa tctcgttgat tatgaggagg   1020
              atctaaaaca gatgaagaat ctttccaagg aggagttcgt gcacatactc cgccgccaca   1080
              gttccggttt ctcaaggggg agttcgaaat accggggagt gacacttcac aaatgtggcc   1140
<removed-apn>
              gttgggaagc tcgaatggga caattccttg ggaaaaaggc ttatgacaag gcagctatca   1200
              agtgcaatgg aagagaggct gtgactaact ttgagccaag tacatatgag agcgagatga   1260
              aacccgaagc tattaatgaa ggtggcagtc acgaccttga cctcagtctg ggcatagcga   1320
              ccccaggaca tggtcccaaa gaaaacaggg ggcatcttca gttccagtcc atcccttaca   1380
              acatgcatcc tggaagaagt tcaatgatgg agactaatat taattccgtt attggtgatc   1440
              cttctttgaa aagactggtt gtaactgaag agcgtccttc tgtgtggaat gccgcatatt   1500
              ccactttctt tcccaatctg gaaagagcag agagaatggg cacagatcct tcaaaaggag   1560
              tcccaaaccc caactgggcg tggcaaacac atggccaggt tactgacacc ccagtaccac   1620
              cgttctctac tgcagcatca tcaggattct caatttcagc cacttttcca tcaactgcca   1680
              tctttccaac aaaatccatc aactcagttc cccatagcct ctgtttcact tcacccagca   1740
              caccaggtag caacgcacct caattctata actattacga ggtgaagtcc ccgcagccac   1800
              cgtcctagcc tatcttgtaa tacaagtaca aatggttaat cgaaacaacc ttttgcgctt   1860
              aaaactcatc gtataattct gttactgatt gatgtatact tagatacgac atctgattgc   1920
              acttcttggt ttaacaaacc attatgcaca aatgatgtat gaaggaaaaa gctctttttg   1980
              agtgctccag ttctcttagg attatttttt catcaaaatt agtatcaagt tgtcagaatt   2040
              cgtgtattca cccaccaatt ttgtgaatat atgcctttgt gtatgcaacc ctgaaaatgg   2100
              gaggaaacaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa                                          2124
              <210>   200
              <211>   1932
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 200
              atctctgagt cagtctcagc caggtacttg tttgtgcctt attccctctg attctggaac     60
                                                    207

<removed-date>
              aagttcccgt tctttcttat ctttctccac tgttttattt tctccctgat cttcctctac    120
              cttaatttca gtcctatttg ttcttctgac agatactctt ttaccttcac cagctcattc    180
              ttcttctatc ttcttctgct atatatgctc aacctttaaa gggtatttct ctctctctct    240
              ctcaactagt ttgagtttca ttgtactttg atatcactgc agaagtacat gagactctta    300
              aaagagggta tgctttaaag accagaatca gaagctgatt aaaggagaga acctttccaa    360
<removed-apn>
              gacatggcta tgtttgatct caatgttgac atcaaccact gtgatgctga tgctgactca    420
              agctgtgatc aaaagggatt ggtgctgcaa agtttcccac ctgaaatctc agattccagg    480
              acctccagct cctctgtgtg gaaccctgta gaggaagatt cctcaaacaa ttcctctccc    540
              ttgatttttg acatactcaa gaaagagagg gatgagtcag agtttgatgc agccactgaa    600
              agggtcaata aggagcaaaa catggcacca caagaggcag agatagtggc aaggacactt    660
              ttccctgtga ctgctgctgt tgataaagga gttagagtgc ctgatttcaa attggggctg    720
              tgggggaaga ctgaatgctt gaacttgtcc ttaccagagc ctgatggaca aaatggactc    780
              agaaccttac agcagaaggt acctcctgtg aggaaaaata ggagaggacc aaggtctcgc    840
              agctcgcagt accggggtgt caccttctac cgcaggactg gtagatggga gtcacatatt    900
              tgggattgtg ggaagcaggt ttatttgggt ggatttgaca ctgctcaagc tgctgcaaga    960
              gcatatgata gggctgctat aaagtttcgt ggagtagatg ctgatataaa ctttagtttg   1020
              agtgattatg aggaggattt gaagcagatg agaaatttga gtaaggaaga gtttgtgctc   1080
              ttacttcgtc gacaaataaa tggaatctct aggagaagtt caacatacag aggtgcatta   1140
              gcccttcgca aagatgctca aggagaacca cgaatgggac catttgttgg catgacatgt   1200
              tatcctaagc catccatcaa ttgtgatgat ggaaaagcgg aggcaagttt taagccctgt   1260
              tcctataagg gagaaataat tgtgaattcc aacatgacag gcacttgcca taatcttgat   1320
              ttgagcctag gaatttctcc gtcttctaaa agattgaaga ataatgacta tagtggaggg   1380
              tattcctttg gatgtatgac ttgtaagata cccgaggaaa gaggaccaat ggagaaggtc   1440
              atggtggaca gaataaaaaa tgttcctttg caaaaaattt ccaacttggc ttggcaactt   1500
              tgcagcaatg gcagcattgt cccaaggcca ttccaaccaa atgcagcatc atcaggattc   1560
              gtctcttctt ctagctgtct catcacccgc acttccaatc agcacacata ttaattatgc   1620
                                                    208

              caacaatttg gcattaattg gctcaaccac agtactacta ctagttgaaa ccaccagaaa   1680
<removed-date>
              caaagcatat ttaccctgct tttttgaaga ttagatgagc aagagtactt cataaccaca   1740
              tgtacctata gtataagatt ctattgattt catcaagcat gatggtattt aataatattg   1800
              ctaagcattg cttacaatgg ctacccgata ttttctgtat tcattatcgt gatgtagaac   1860
              acaatattgc cttgtgtaaa agacccttgt tgaagtatgt atatatttgt tggttcttgt   1920
              taatcattag ct                                                       1932
<removed-apn>
              <210>   201
              <211>   2248
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 201
              aatgttttct tctcttctct ctctctctct ctctctctct tccatggaat ccaatagtcg     60
              gcgacgcttt cactctctcc ggcgacgatg aactcatcgc cgacgaaatg agtttgcgcc    120
              ggtttcttct ctctcctcgt tccgtgagtt ccttcctctc actccttctc cgttctccgg    180
              tcgccggaaa atttatccgg tgttagcgat acggaaaact catcgcgatt ccgttttctt    240
              cttcgcttcg ttttctactt ctctttatct ttcacttaca ttacctctct cattcggttg    300
              tttccgatcg gatccatttc gccgtcgccg gcgaagttag ttggaacagg ctttagctaa    360
              gttgtaaacc tcagaaatta taaaaataga taatcggaat ttagtagtta gttcggtttt    420
              tagttactta accgcttaac gatataaata aataaataaa aagaagcgcg acgatgttag    480
              atcttaatct caatgcggag tggaccgatt cgtttagtaa cggtgagtcg ccgttaccgt    540
              tagagaagtt tccagacggt ttgaggaacc aaatggccga gtcagggact tcgaattcct    600
              ccgtggtgaa tgcggacggg tccagtaacg gcggcggcga cgaggactcg gactccacac    660
              gagctgctga tgacgtgtac accactttca atttcgatat ccttaaagtc gaaggcgcga    720
              acggcttcgt aacgaaggag ctctttccgg tgatgagtga aggagctaaa ggacacgcta    780
              cgtcgtcgtt ttcagggacg aatggtttcg tggatctctc gttcgatggc gatggaggga    840
              acactagtga gatgaagatg cttcagcctc agaatcagaa tcagactcaa acgcgaactc    900
              agacacagca accagcgaaa aagagtagga gaggaccgag gtctcgaagc tcgcaataca    960
              gaggggttac tttttacaga aggacgggaa gatgggaatc gcatatctgg gattgcggga   1020
                                                    209

              aacaagtcta tttgggtgga tttgacacgg ctcatgctgc tgccagagcc tatgatcgag   1080
<removed-date>
              ccgctattaa gttcagggga gttgatgctg atatcaattt caatctgagt gattatgagg   1140
              atgaccttaa acagatgcag aatttgtcca aggaggaatt cgtacatata ctgcgtcgcc   1200
              aaagtactgg tttctcaaga ggaagctcta aataccgagg agtaacactc cacaagtgtg   1260
              gccggtggga agctcgaatg ggacaatttc ttggcaaaaa gtatatatat cttggactat   1320
              tcgacagcga agtagaagct gcaagggctt atgacaaggc agctatcaaa tgcaacggaa   1380
<removed-apn>
              gggaagcagt gaccaacttt gagccaagta cttatgaagg agagctgaaa tctgcagcca   1440
              ttaatgaagg aggcagtcag aatcttgatc tcaatttggg catagcaacc ccaggacctc   1500
              ccaaagaaaa ttgggggcaa cttcagttcc cctccttccc ttacaataca catggtggaa   1560
              gaagttcaat gatggaaacc aatgttagtt ctggaattgg taatccatct ttgaaaagga   1620
              tggttgcaac tgaagatcgt ccttcattat ggaatggcat gtctcctaat ttctttccca   1680
              atggggaaag agcagagaga atcggcgttg atccttcaaa cggactcccc aactgggcgt   1740
              ggcaaacaca tggccaggtc aatgctaccc cagtaccaac gttctctgct gcagcatcat   1800
              caggattctc aatttcagct acctttccat cggctgccat ctttccaaca agttctatga   1860
              actcaattcc ccagagtctc tgttttactt catccagcat gcctacccgc aatgcatctg   1920
              aatattatta ctaggttaag cccccacagg caccaccata gctgattttg cagtacagat   1980
              taaagacaaa ctaaaacaaa agtgttttcg gtccaaattc tttttataat tcagccactg   2040
              attggtgtat actgagattc gacaccttat tgctgtctct tgcttaaact ataatgcccc   2100
              atgtttggat acatcatctt tgaagcaaat gctattttta gtgcactagc acagcgatgt   2160
              ttctgttttc ctcaaatttg ttggcagtca agattcatgg tttgcatgcc aaaaaaaaaa   2220
              aaaaaaaaaa agaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                                      2248
              <210>   202
              <211>   2572
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 202
              gcgcccacgc gtccgtacgg ctgcgagaag acgacagaag gggtgtgtgt taaggagagg     60
              gtgagatgct ttcgtctaag cttgctcaaa ctggcctcgt ctatgctgta ttgggcagtt    120
                                                    210

              gtggaataca aagatctttg aacatctcct ttactacatt tttgcaacac ctacctcttt    180
<removed-date>
              ctctctctct ctcgtgggcg gacgcgtggg cggacgcgtg ggcggacgcg tgggcggacg    240
              cgtgggttcc ttctctcaat tcccaacctc gcatctccca ttattttatt ctcaaaccac    300
              gacaacaaaa gcacaaactt ggtttctcaa tttcttcctc tcgatcctac ccgagttaaa    360
              ttaaaaacaa gaggagagaa aacaaaacag aacaaaataa aggtttggtc ttttgaagtg    420
              ggagtgagga atcagacatc tgggttggtt gcttgctagg ttcggttaat gttagaatgt    480
<removed-apn>
              gggatctcaa cgactcaccc gatcagagga ttaacaagga cgaggaatcc gaagaagggt    540
              gttcttccct caataaaact tccttcgatg gagatgatga caacaacaac aacaaaggca    600
              aaaggctcga gtctgtttcc aattcaagct cttcagcagt agtcatcgga gacgggtcag    660
              aagaagagta cgaggaggaa gaagaagatg aagaaggtgt tggtgttggt ggtggaagaa    720
              gtatgaagaa acgtagcagc aagattttcg ggttctctgt gacccaaaat gaagaagagt    780
              ccatggacag tgaccatcca cctgtgacta gacaattttt tccggtggaa gatgctgacg    840
              tggcggttgc aaccggtggt ggtggaaccg gtgtaagctc aacgttccct cgtgctcact    900
              gggtaggtgt gaaattttgc caatcagaaa cacttggcac cggaaaatca tcagtggaag    960
              tttctcagcc tatgaagaag agtcgccgag gaccgaggtc aaggagctct cagtatagag   1020
              gagtcacctt ctacagaaga acgggtcgct gggagtctca tatatgggat tgtggaaaac   1080
              aagtgtatct aggtggattt gacacagcac atgcggctgc tcgtgcatat gatagagcgg   1140
              ctattaaatt ccgaggagtg gaggcggaca ttaacttcaa cattgaagat tatgaagatg   1200
              acttgaagca gatgagcaat cttaccaagg aagagttcgt gcacgtgctt cgccgacaaa   1260
              gcactggatt tccgagaggg agttccaagt atcgaggtgt cactttgcac aagtgtggaa   1320
              gatgggaggc tcgaatgggc caatttttag ggaaaaagta cgtttatttg ggtctcttcg   1380
              acactgagat cgaagctgca agggcttatg acaaagctgc cataaaatgc aacggcaaag   1440
              aggcggtaac aaattttgat cccagcatct atgacaatga gctcaattcc gaatccacag   1500
              gtaacgctcc agatcacaat ctggatttaa gtttgggcaa ttcaacttca aaccctggca   1560
              acgatcaagc gttggggaat caagccccaa atgctgtaac ccatgatcag cacatgccat   1620
              ctgagtctaa ttggcgtaat gggggaatca agcctaagct ggtgaatata ctcccaaaac   1680
              catgttacag aagcaacaac aaggacacac atggaaggga tgtgcacggg gagagtgaaa   1740
                                                    211

<removed-date>
              cactgaggat gctaagtcaa acccaccttc attctccagc cttcaatgaa atgcaacaaa   1800
              gatatggtcc ctacaggtct ccgggaggag agtctcaaat gcttcaaaat tttgcgcaca   1860
              ttcacccacc aaattttcat tttcccagaa gcagcattgg aggccgaatt gggagtgatc   1920
              tttcattatc agtggctgat caacaacagt ggcaaaccgg gccttcacgt tatttagcaa   1980
              ctgctgcagc atcatcaagt ttccaacaag agataagacc ctcttctcaa ggttggctgc   2040
<removed-apn>
              agaaaaatgg gctccacagt ctcatgagac cctcatgatc cctattataa atagagaatt   2100
              ttctgcctcg ccaagtacta gttacattca aataatcgta atctgctccc taagtaatat   2160
              tattattgtt acccttccag ggtttcaccc ccaaaaaatt attattttct tttcttagca   2220
              tgtaaaatag gatgcagtgt tagattgtgt ccatgtccaa cccagacccc tcgtcacaca   2280
              aggccacaac tttactattg aggtgaaaaa gaaaaggata aaagaaaaga aaaaaaaaaa   2340
              gaagagaaaa tccaaattgg gaacttacta ctggtctggg gtcagtcaaa ctaacaaacg   2400
              gacgaaatct ttaactagat attctgggct ctgactaaaa ttttaggatc ttatataact   2460
              ctgattttat tgcttttctg cggttgtggt atatttatga cagcacctat tcgtttcttg   2520
              atttgggatg tattgctatc acatataaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagtgttc at           2572
              <210>   203
              <211>   2516
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 203
              ttcttacaga gaacatctgc tgtttgtgac agggcactca actcccccct tcaaacaaca     60
              gtgattcatc agatgatggt gttccagttt caccaccaag agtcagactc agagatggga    120
              ggtacttggc ttatagagaa aagggtgtcc ccaaggacca agcaaaacac agcatcatca    180
              ttgtacatgg ctttggaccc actaaggtaa cattgacatt gattctacag gaactaatag    240
              atgaattggg tatatatatt ctgcaatatg atcgagctgg gtatggagag agtgatccaa    300
              accccaaacg ctcactgaaa agtgaagcac ttgacattga agagcttgct gatctgttac    360
              agatagggtc aaattttatt tgatcggtgt ctcaatggga tcatatgcta cctggagttg    420
              tttcaactac acacccaaca ggcaaattac aagcctcaaa atatacattt ctaaacatat    480
              gtttggtttc agaaaatgtc aattttcatt ttttattttc acaaataatt atgaaaacga    540
                                                    212

<removed-date>
              tattacattt ctaaacaatg tttggtttca gaaagaaagt aaaaataaaa agcacaaagt    600
              cattttctgt aactatttgt gaaaataaca tattctcaag ccaaactggt caaaattctc    660
              cctttttatg ttgttttgta attatttggt gtagggattg cgggaaacaa gtctatttgg    720
              gtggatttga cacggctcat gctgctgcca gagcctatga tcgagccgct attaagttca    780
              ggggagttga tgctgatatc aatttcaatc tgagtgatta tgaggatgac cttaaacaga    840
<removed-apn>
              tgcagaattt gtccaaggag gaattcgtac atatactgcg tcgccaaagt actggtttct    900
              caagaggaag ctctaaatac cgaggagtaa cactccacaa gtgtggccgg tgggaagctc    960
              gaatgggaca atttcttggc aaaaagtgag gacatatttt tatatatcaa cttacgtagt   1020
              gatctactgt ggttatgaaa tattatgaat ttaagcacct attgggctgc aaagtgaaat   1080
              tggtttcagc ttaattctca atgcatcttt atgctttttt ccatgtttgg agaaacatgt   1140
              ctaagatagt aatatagaga tgcgttttgg ttatagagat tgcaatgctt tcatgcaggt   1200
              atatatatct tggactattc gacagcgaag tagaagctgc aaggtcctag tgatacatga   1260
              attacattct acccgcactg aatttattta catgaattat caaagctcat taggctccat   1320
              ccaacacgta tctccctttt gattttctgg aaatcagggc ttatgacaag gcagctatca   1380
              aatgcaacgg aagggaagca gtgaccaact ttgagccaag tacttatgaa ggagagctga   1440
              aatctgcagc cattaatgaa ggaggcagtc agaatcttga tctcaatttg ggcatagcaa   1500
              ccccaggacc tcccaaagaa aattgggggc aacttcagtt cccctccttc ccttacaata   1560
              cacatggtgg aagaagttca atggtataat tgaaactcat cttcatttat tttaagtttc   1620
              ttgtaaatta agctgaatga ggtggatagc actttttatg ctctcatgtt agggtgcgct   1680
              tgattgatcg ttaatcgttc agttctattt aacagcaatg accatagaga tatggattga   1740
              cgttagaagt gcattagaaa gtgggagacg aataaaacaa tgacacttaa tttataacat   1800
              aactcttcat atcatgataa ctgttgagaa tgcttgtctg gctgtaacat ttttgtagct   1860
              ttcgtgggtt ttccttgtag ctaattacaa cctgtattcc tttgatttcc ttgatttttt   1920
              gtggaacttt tggtttttgg tattgtttta tcaactctag atgtcatata ttaacatggt   1980
              tctctttatc tgcagatgga aaccaatgtt agttctggaa ttggtaatcc atctttgaaa   2040
              aggatggttg caactgaaga tcgtccttca ttatggaatg gcatgtctcc taatttcttt   2100
                                                    213

              cccaatgggg aaagagcaga gagaatcggc gttgatcctt caaacggact ccccaactgg   2160
<removed-date>
              gcgtggcaaa cacatggcca ggtcaatgct accccagtac caacgttctc tgctgcagca   2220
              tcatcaggat tctcaatttc agctaccttt ccatcggctg ccatctttcc aacaagttct   2280
              atgaactcaa ttccccagag tctctgtttt acttcatcca gcatgcctac ccgcaatgca   2340
              tctgaatatt attactaggt taagccccca caggcaccac catagctgat tttgcagtac   2400
              agattaaaga caaactaaaa caaaagtgtt ttcggtccaa attcttttta taattcagcc   2460
<removed-apn>
              actgattggt gtatactgag attcgacacc ttattgctgt ctcttgctta aactat       2516
              <210>   204
              <211>   919
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 204
              gaggaagttc taaataccga ggagtaacac tccacaagtg tggccggtgg gaagctcgaa     60
              tgggacaatt ccttggcaaa aaggcttatg acaaggcacg gacgcgtggg cggacgcgtg    120
              gggcagtgac caactttgag ccaagtactt atgaaggaga aatgaaatct gcagccatta    180
              atgaaggtgg cggtcagaat cttgatctca atttgggcat agcaacccca ggacctggtc    240
              ccaaggaaaa ttgggggcaa cttcacttcc cctccatccc ttacaacaca catggtggaa    300
              gaagttcaaa gatggaaacc aatgttaatt ctggaattgg taatccatct ttgaaaagga    360
              tggttgtaac tgaagatcgt ccttcattat ggaatggcat gtctcctaat ttctttccca    420
              atggggaaag agcagagaga atcggcattg atccttcaaa aggactcccc aattgggcgt    480
              ggcaaacaca tggccaggtc aatgctaccc cagtaccatc gttctctgct gcagcatcat    540
              caggattctc aatttcagct acctttccat cgactgccat ctttccaaca agttctatga    600
              actcaattcc ccagagtctc tgttttactt catccagctc gcctacccgc aatgtatctg    660
              aatattatta ccaggttaag cccccgcagg caccaccata gctgatctag tagtacagat    720
              taaaggcaaa caaaaaaaag tgtctatggt cgaaattctg tgtaattcag tgactgattg    780
              gtgtatactg agatttgaca ccttcttgtt acctcttttg cttaaactct aagatctttg    840
              aagcaaatgc tatttttagt gcactggcac aacgatgttt ctgtttccca caaaaaaaaa    900
              aaaaatcaag attcatggt                                                 919
                                                    214

<removed-date>
              <210>   205
              <211>   1942
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 205
              agttaacact tcacaatatc tttgcttttg aggccaatca catctctgtg tcagtctcaa     60
              ccatgctctt gtttgtgcct tattccctct gattctggaa gaagctcctg ttctttctta    120
<removed-apn>
              tctttctcca ctgttttctc cctgatcttc ctctacctta atttcagtct atttgttctt    180
              ctgacagata ctcttttacc ctcaccaact cattcttcta tcttcctctg ctatgctcaa    240
              cctttaaaag tcctttttcc ctctctctct ctcctagttt gagtttcatt gtactttgac    300
              ttcactgcag aaggaagtac atgatactct tccaaaaggg taagctgatt aaattagaag    360
              agagctttcc caagacatgg ctatgtttga tctcaatgtg gacatcaacc atggtgatgc    420
              tgatgctgat tcaagctgtg atcaaaaggg attgcagctg caaagtttcc cacctgaaat    480
              ctcagcttca agaaccgcca actcctctgt gtggaatcct gcagaggatg attcctcaaa    540
              caattcctct cccttgattt ttgacatact gaagaaagag agggataagt cagagtttga    600
              tgctgccact gaaagggtca ataaggaggc agagatagtg acaaggaccc ttttccctgt    660
              gactgctgct gctgctgctg ataatggagc tagagtgcct gatttcaaat tggggctgtg    720
              ggggaagact caatgcttga acttgtgctt accagagcct gatggacaaa atggactcag    780
              aaccttacag cagaagctac ctcatgtgag gaaaaatagg agaggaccaa ggtctcgcag    840
              ctcgcagtac cggggtgtca ccttctaccg caggactggt agatgggagt ctcatatttg    900
              ggattgtggg aagcaggtct atttgggtgg atttgacact gctcaagctg ctgcaagagc    960
              atatgatagg gctgcaataa agtttcgtgg agtagaggct gatataaact ttagtttaag   1020
              tgattatgag gaggatttga agcagatgag aggtttgagt aaggaagagt ttgtgctctt   1080
              acttcgtcga caaatcaatg gaagctcgag aagttcaaca tacaaaggtg cattagccct   1140
              tcgcaaagat gctcaaggag aaccacgaag ggcaccattt attggcaaga cattttatcc   1200
              caactcatcc atcaagtgtg atgatggaaa agtggacgca agttttaagc cctgttccta   1260
              taagggagaa ataattgcga attcgagcat ggcaggcact agccataatc ttgatttgag   1320
              cctaggaatt tctccatctt ctaaaagatt gaagaatgac tatagtggag ggtattcctt   1380
                                                    215

              tggatgtatg gcttcattgg cttgtaagat acccaaggaa agaggaacaa tggccatggt   1440
<removed-date>
              ggacagaata agaaatgttc ctttgcaaaa aatttccaac ttggcttggc aactttgcag   1500
              caatggtagt agcattgtcc caaggccatt gcaaccaaat gcagcatcat caggattcgt   1560
              ctcttcttct agctgtctca tcaccgacac ttccaatcaa cacaaatatt aattatgcca   1620
              acaatttggc attaattggc tcaaccacag tactactcat cattaaaccc ctaaaaggtt   1680
              gtacggccag agtagttgaa agttgaaacc actagaaaca aagcatcttt aattactctg   1740
<removed-apn>
              ctttttggat tattggatga gcaacgtgct tcataaccac atatatctat actataatat   1800
              tctattgata ccatcagaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaataatatt gcctagcatt taatacaaag   1860
              gaaatcggat aacttctgta ttcattattg tgatgtagaa cccaatatta ccgagaccca   1920
              ttaaagagac ccttgtttgt ag                                            1942
              <210>   206
              <211>   1728
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 206
              attcggctcg agattatttg gtgtagggat tgcgggaaac aagtctattt gggtatggat     60
              ttttaattta tgaatttatg aatttcagtg tttattttag ggtacatagt ttttgtacta    120
              tctgaaatcg tattctatgg tttactattt taagcatctt ttgacaaaat tggtatttga    180
              gcttgtaggt ggatttgaca cggctcatgc tgctgccaga gcctatgatc gagccgctat    240
              taagttcagg ggagttgatg ctgatatcaa tttcaatctg agtgattatg aggatgacct    300
              taaacagatg cagaatttgt ccaaggagga attcgtacat atactgcgtc gccaaagtac    360
              tggtttctca agaggaagct ctaaataccg aggagtaaca ctccacaagt gtggccggtg    420
              ggaagctcga atgggacaat ttcttggcaa aaagtgagga catattttta tatatcaact    480
              tacgtagtga tctactgtgg ttatgaaata ttatgaattt aagcacctat ggggctgcaa    540
              agtgaaattg gtttcagctt aattctcaat gcatctttat gcttttttcc atgtttggag    600
              aaacatgtct aagatagtaa tatagagatg cgttttggtt atagagattg caatgctttc    660
              atgcaggtat atatatcttg gactattcga cagcgaagta gaagctgcaa ggtcctagtg    720
              atacatgaat tacattctac ccgcactgaa tttatttaca tgaattatca aagctcatta    780
                                                    216

              ggctccatcc aacacgtatc tcccttttga ttttctggaa atcagggctt atgacaaggc    840
<removed-date>
              agctatcaaa tgcaacggaa gggaagcagt gaccaacttt gagccaagta cttatgaagg    900
              agagctgaaa tctgcagcca ttaatgaagg aggcagtcag aatcttgatc tcaatttggg    960
              catagcaacc ccaggacctc ccaaagaaaa ttgggggcaa cttcagttcc cctccttccc   1020
              ttacaataca catggtggaa gaagttcaat gatggaaacc aatgttagtt ctggaattgg   1080
              taatccatct ttgaaaagga tggttgcaac tgaagatcgt ccttcattat ggaatggcat   1140
<removed-apn>
              gtctcctaat ttctttccca atggggaaag agcagagaga atcggcgttg atccttcaaa   1200
              cggactcccc aactgggcgt ggcaaacaca tggccaggtc aatgctaccc cagtaccaac   1260
              gttttttgct gcagcatcat caggattttc aatttcagct acctttccat ggggtgccat   1320
              ctttccaaca agttctatga actcaattcc ccagagtctc tgttttactt catccagcat   1380
              gcctacccgc aatgcatctg aatattatta ctaggttaag cccccacagg caccaccata   1440
              gctgattttg cagtacagat taaagacaaa ctaaaacaaa agtgttttcg gtccaaattc   1500
              tttttataat tcagccactg attggtgtat actgagattc gacaccttat tgctgtctct   1560
              tgcttaaact ataatgcccc atgtttggat acatcatctt tgaagcaaat gctattttta   1620
              gtgcactagc acagcgatgt ttctgttttc ctcaaatttg ttggcagtca agattcatgg   1680
              tttgcatgcc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                1728
              <210>   207
              <211>   1160
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 207
              gcagaaggac gggaagatgg gaatcgcata tctgggtatt gcggagaaac aagtctattt     60
              gggtgagatt tgacacggct catgctgctg ccagagccta tgatcgagcc gctattaagt    120
              tcaggggagt tgatgctgat atcaatctca atctgagtga ttatgaggat gaccttaaac    180
              agaggcagaa tttgtccaag gaggaattcg tacatatact gcgtcgccaa agtactggtt    240
              tctcaagagg aagctctaaa taccgaggag taacactcca caagtgtggc cggtgggaag    300
              ctcgaatggg acaatttctt ggcaaaaagg cttatgacaa ggcagctatc aaatgcaacg    360
              gaagggaagc agtgaccaac tttgagccaa gtacttatga aggagagctg aaatctgcag    420
                                                    217

              ccattaatga aggaggcagt cagaatcttg atctcaattt gggcatagca accccaggac    480
<removed-date>
              ctcccaaaga aaattggggg caacttcagt tcccctcctt cccttacaat acacatggtg    540
              gaagaagttc aatgatggaa accaatgtta gttctggaat tggtaatcca tctttgaaaa    600
              ggatggttgc aactgaagat cgtccttcat tatggaatgg catgtctcct aatttctttc    660
              ccaatgggca ggaaagagca gagagaatcg gcgttgatcc ttcaaacgga ctccccaact    720
              gggcgtggca aacacatggc caggtcaatg ctaccccagt accaacgttc tctgctgcag    780
<removed-apn>
              catcatcagg attctcaatt tcagctacct ttccatcggc tgccatcttt ccaacaagtt   840
              ctatgaactc aattccccag agtctctgtt ttacttcatc cagcatgcct acccgcaatg    900
              catctgaata ttattactag gttaagcccc cacaggcacc accatagctg attttgcagt    960
              acagattaaa gacaaactaa aacaaaagtg ttttcggtcc aaattctttt tataattcag   1020
              ccactgattg gtgtatactg agattcgaca ccttattgct gtctcttgct taaactataa   1080
              tgccccatgt ttggatacat catctttgaa gcaaatgcta tttttagtgc actagcacag   1140
              acgatgtttc tgttttcctc                                               1160
              <210>   208
              <211>   1703
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1363)..(1363)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1392)..(1392)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 208
              gtaggagagg tccaaggtct cggagctctc agtacagagg agtcactttc tacagaagga     60
              ccggaagatg ggaatcgcat atctgggatt gcgggaagca agtctatttg ggtggatttg    120
              acaccgctca tattgctgct agggcctatg atcgagctgc tattaagttc aggggacttg    180
              atgctgatat caattttgat ctcgttgatt atgaggagga tctaaaacag atgaagaatc    240
              tttcaaagca ggagttcgtg cacatacttc gccgccacag taccggtttc tcaaggggca   300
                                                    218

<removed-date>
              gttcgaaata ccggggagtg acacttcaca aatgtggccg ttgggaagct cgaatgggac    360
              aattccttgg caagaaggct tatgacaagg cagctatcaa gtgcaataga agagaggctg    420
              tcactaactt tgagccaagt atatatgaga gcgagatgaa acctgaagct attaatgaag    480
              gtggcagtca cgaccttgac ctcaatctgg gcatagcaac cccaggacat ggtcccaaag    540
              aaaatagggg ccatcttcag ttccagtcca tcccttacaa catgcatccc ggaagaagtt    600
<removed-apn>
              caaggatgga gactaatgtt aattcggtta ttggtgatcc ttctttgaaa aggctggttg    660
              taactgaaga gcgtccttct gtatattcca ctttctttcc caatctggaa agagcagaga    720
              gaatgggcat agatccttca aaaggagttc caaactgggc gtggcagaca aatggccagg    780
              ttaatgccac cccagtacca ccgttctcta ctgcagcatc atcaggattc tcaatttcag    840
              ctacttttcc atcaactgcc atctttccaa caaaatccat gaacccaatt ccccagagct    900
              tctgtttcac ttcacacagc acaccaggta gcaatgcacc tcaattctat tacgaggtca    960
              agtcctcgca ggcaccatcc cagcctctat cttgtaatac aagtataaat ggtagcccac   1020
              cacacaagtt ctgaagttca attctcaaaa cgacagttaa aacttttttt ttttttttcc   1080
              tgtttgcatg atttagggat cggtacaatg ttgttgctca tggtatgttt gtatgtgatg   1140
              aaaagatttt tttcttcaga gagaaagtga aaagaaaaaa tgcatgatgt gttttaaaaa   1200
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc tccccgcggt tagaggtttt tcaaggctta gcgtacgcgt   1260
              tttttgcgac gtcgggacct tttccttggg ggccatcttt ccaaacaagt tttaggactt   1320
              caatcccccg agttttcggt ttatttatca gcaaggccta ccngcaatgc attggattat   1380
              attactaggg tnaagccccc acaggcaacc cattagctga ttttgcagta cagattaaag   1440
              acaaactaaa acaaaagtgt tttcggtcca aattcttttt ataattcagc cactgattgg   1500
              tgtatactga gattcgacac cttattgctg tctcttgctt aaactataat gccccatgtt   1560
              tggatacatc atctttgaag caaatgctat ttttagtgca ctagcacagc gatgtttctg   1620
              ttttcctcaa atttgttggc agtcaagatt catggtttgc atgccaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1680
              aaaaaagaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaa                                           1703
              <210>   209
              <211>   2256
              <212>   DNA
                                                    219

              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-date>
              <400> 209
              gcccagcatt gtttcataca agaacaaaac ccacgcactc tcttcttctt ttttaatctc     60
              cctcttcact gctctcgcgc gatgaaattc cgtcctatat tgttacacat tcaacaaatg    120
              atgtgaatcc cttcttgttg ccgtagcctc acacactcac ttcttccgtt gtaactaact    180
              ttacttttcc ttccaaacgg cttctaacaa actctcgccg cgatgttgga tctcaacctc    240
<removed-apn>
              aacgccgatt ctgcctccga cgcgcaaatg gagagctccg gcagcttcaa ttcctccgtc    300
              gtcaatgccg ccgacaccga cgactcctgc tcctacggcg acgccgtcgc ctacaacttc    360
              gccatcctca acaccaccac caccgccacc tccgacggac ctcccctggc cgccgccgga    420
              gaatcctccg ttcgcaccat ccagctcttt ccggcggtcg aatcgggagc ctcgccggcg    480
              tggctggatt tttcgtcgaa ggtggatcag aacggtgctc cgcaggagca gaggatccct    540
              ccccggcaac cgccggtgaa gaagagccgg agaggaccgc ggtcgcgaag ctcgcaatat    600
              cgcggcgtta cattctatcg cagaaccgga agatgggaat cgcacatttg ggactgtggg    660
              aaacaagtgt acttgggtga ggacgcaacg caagtagaag attcgtttta tgctaactgc    720
              ttcagttttc tttaatatcg ctttcttttt ctttattttc ttttaggtgg atttgacaca    780
              gcgcatgctg cggcaagggc ttatgatcga gctgcgatca agttccgtgg cgttgatgcg    840
              gatatcaatt tcaacgttag cgattacgat gaagatataa agcagatgag taacttcacg    900
              aaggaggagt ttgtgcatat tttgcggcga cagagcactg gtttttcaag gggaagctcc    960
              aaatacaggg gagttactct gcacaagtgc gggcgatggg aggctcgtat ggggcagttt   1020
              cttggtaaaa agtatatata tcttgggcta ttcgacagtg aattagaggc tgcaagagcg   1080
              tatgataagg ctgctataaa atgcaatgga agggaagcag ttacaaactt cgagcccagc   1140
              ttctatgaag gggaggtaat ttcccagtct gataatgaag ataacaagca aagtcttgat   1200
              ctgaacttgg gattagctcc cccttcttac tctgatggtc aaatcaagaa cacacccagc   1260
              aatgggagtg gtatgataac tccgcacagc tgggataata tccctctcga caagagagta   1320
              atgtttgagc actctgcatc aagatcactg accgttcagc catctcatca tggcttctcc   1380
              gtagcatctg ggcaacatcc ttccgtctgg aatggtagca atttctttcc tatctacgag   1440
              gaaacagcaa tagagaagag gatggaagct gctccagtgc caaattgggc atggcaagtc   1500
                                                    220

              caaggtcctt atggcagggc aactcttgct ccacccttct ctactgcagc atcatcagga   1560
<removed-date>
              ttcccttcaa caataatacc atcagctgcg gatactcaaa ttcgttttcc aaacatgaca   1620
              ttcctccact cgcattttcc atcatcaatc actaactccg gcaccatatc ccctttcttc   1680
              ttcggtagct gaatgcattg ctaggtagac caaagcaatt gcaaatcttc ttgatttcac   1740
              catatggttg acaaactagt aggactagtt acaagtagca attgaatttg cttggttcta   1800
              cagcttttac tatttgccat tctactagtt ttcttcaata tatgtaaaga aatgccatgc   1860
<removed-apn>
              cccgatggct tcttgaactc tgcttttact gatttttgag actaagcgtt tactttggta   1920
              tctccaacat tcaatctcgg tgcttttcta tctagaaaat acttgaaaag atgagtttga   1980
              tctttttgaa gagacggaat ttgtagattt gaaagcatgc taagttcaat ccggctttgt   2040
              gggtcatagt tgtgattttt ctttgcttcc gttagttagt ccttagtcgc cagtagccaa   2100
              tgtttattat tgccgacata acactattca caaattttgg cttgaatcgc ttcacatggt   2160
              tattcttata tttaaggaac agcaaagctg tcttatggtc tttgttatga ttcctcccct   2220
              atcctaggtc gaagtttata tattgatttt ctgcgc                             2256
              <210>   210
              <211>   1406
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 210
              attcggctcg aggtctaggt ggatttgaca cagcacatgc ggctgctcgt gcttatgata     60
              gagcggctat taaattccga ggagtggagg ctgacattaa cttcaatatt gaagactatg    120
              aagatgactt gaagcagatg agcaatctta ccaaggaaga gttcgtccac gtgcttcgcc    180
              gacaaagcac tggatttccg agaggaagct ccaaatatag aggtgtcact ttgcacaagt    240
              gtggaagatg ggaggctcga atgggccaat ttttagggaa aaagtacgtt tatttgggtc    300
              tctttgacac tgagatagaa gctgcaaggg cttatgacaa agccgccata aaatgcaatg    360
              gcaaagaggc tgtaacgaat tttgatccca gcatctacaa caatgagctc aataccgaat    420
              ccacaggtaa cgctccagat cacaatctgg atttaagttt gggcaatgca acttcaaagc    480
              ctggcaataa tcaagcgttg gggaatcacg ccacaaatgc tgtaacccat gatcagcacc    540
              tgccatctga gtctaattgg cgtaatgggg gaaacaagcc taagctggtg aatatactcc    600
                                                    221

              ccaaaccatg taatagaagc aacaacaagg actcacatgg aagggatgtg cacggggaga    660
<removed-date>
              gtgaaacact gaggatgcta agtcaaaccc accttcattc tccagcctcc aatgaaatgc    720
              aactaagata tggtccctac aagtctcacg gtggagagtc ccaaatgctt caaaattttg    780
              cacacattca cccaccaaat tttcattttc ccagcagcag cattggaggc cgaattggga    840
              gtgatctttc attatcaatg actgatcaac aacagtggca aaccgggcct tcacattatt    900
              tagcaactgc tgcagcatca tcaagtttcc aacaacagat aagaccctct tctcaaggtt    960
<removed-apn>
              ggctgcagaa aaatgggttc cacattctca tgagaccctc atgatcccta ttatatatag   1020
              agaattttct gcctcgccaa gtactagtta cattcaaata atcattaatc tgctcctcaa   1080
              gtaatattat tattattacc cttcaacggt tccaccccaa aaaaaattat tattttcttt   1140
              tcttagcatg taaaaaggat gcagtgttag attgtgccca tgtccaaccc agacccctgc   1200
              tcacacaaga ccacaacttt actattgagg tgaaaaagaa aggataaaag aaaaaggaaa   1260
              aaaaagaaga gaaaatccaa atggggaact tattactagt cttggtctag gtcagtcaaa   1320
              ctaacaaacg gacgaaatct ttaactagat attctgggct ctgactaaaa ttttatgatc   1380
              ttatataact ctgattttat tgctaa                                        1406
              <210>   211
              <211>   2796
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 211
              ccctcgcttc cggctaacca aagaggcaaa ggtggccctc ttcccgtact cttggattgg     60
              acttttctgg aaagagtttc cttttacttg tattattctc atttcccttt tctgatgcca    120
              aactctctct ctgccgtggt ctcgactcac aataattaat attccacctt cttccccaaa    180
              tcgccctccc tcatcacccc tatttacttt ctttcccact tagtcatgga cttggatgca    240
              ctcctaatac tcatctttaa ccatcactct acaacgctaa caaaaggttg ttctgagtaa    300
              ttatctttct tttggactcc tcgcgctgtc tatttccttt tcgacccaga gagagacaga    360
              tagacaggag atgctttttc gatttcgtta acgtgagaaa gttttttaag aaagagatgc    420
              ttgatgctta ttggttttgg tctttccttt ccttttcccc ccatttttac ccccttgcat    480
              ttttatttat taattaatca cataaaaacg gaaacaataa ataacagtac ggtgattatt    540
                                                    222

              ttaaacaata tatatataag gagtttcctc ctggagaagc aaaacaaaaa tagattgtag    600
<removed-date>
              gcatttattt gagtaatata aaaagaaaga gagaagagat tgttgaagtt ggggatgctt    660
              tcggctaagc ttgctgaaac tggcctcgtc tatgctgtat tgggcagtta ggcgaattca    720
              aagatctttg aacacctcct tctttattac ctttttccaa cacctacctc ttctttctct    780
              ttctccctct cacacactcg tcctaggttt gattttccct tccttctccc aatactcctc    840
              cattatttta taacactcta gcttcgttac ttgccctttt ctctgcccag ctacatgctt    900
<removed-apn>
              gtgtaagaac taataagcca gctgaagaat gtgggatctg aatgactccc ccgatcagag    960
              aaaggactac gagtctgaag gctgttcttc ttctctgtat gatgataaag gcaagagggt   1020
              ggcatctgtt tccaattcaa gctcctctgc ggtggtcgtt gaagatggat cggaagaaga   1080
              agacagtgaa agaggtggaa gcagaacatt ggataacaag aaaaccaaca aaatattcgg   1140
              cttctctgta gctcatgatg acagtgacca cccacccgtc actcatcagt tttttccggt   1200
              tgaggactcc gaactgcctg tctccgccgc cgccgcaggc agtggaggcg gtggcggcgg   1260
              aagctccttc ccacgtgctc actgggtagg tgtcaaattt tgtcaatcgg aaacacccgg   1320
              cgccggaaaa gcagtgaaag tgtcggagcc gatgaagaaa agtcgccgag gaccacgctc   1380
              gcgtagctca cagtatcgag gagttacttt ctacagaaga actggtagat gggaatctca   1440
              tatatgggat tgtggaaagc aagtgtattt gggtggattt gacacagcac atgcagctgc   1500
              tcgtgcgtat gatagagcag ctattaaatt ccggggagtg gaggcagaca tcaacttcaa   1560
              catcgaagac tatgaggaag acttgaagca gatgaccaat ttaaccaagg aagagtttgt   1620
              ccacgtactt cgccgacaaa gcactggatt tcccagagga agctccaaat atagaggtgt   1680
              aactttgcac aagtgtggaa gatgggaggc tcgaatgggc caatttttgg gcaaaaagta   1740
              tgtttatctg ggtctgtttg acaccgaaat tgaagctgca agggcatatg ataaagcagc   1800
              aataaaatgt aatggcaaag aggcttgtca ccaatttttg atcccagcat ctatgatagt   1860
              gagcttaatt ctgaatcctc aggaggtggt agctgcagat caccaatttg ggatttgagt   1920
              tttggggtaa tttgatctct aaacataaca atagtcaaac atcggggaat cacttcgcaa   1980
              attctgcaac cgatcagcat atgccacctg aatctaattg gcggaatggg ggaagcaagc   2040
              ctaaggttca tctggtaaat atacttccaa aaccatgtgg tagaagcaac atagaagcct   2100
              atgggcacgg tgagagtgaa accttgaggt tgctaagcca aactcacctt caatccccta   2160
                                                    223

<removed-date>
              ccaataaaga aatgcacaga tatggtccgt ataggtcgcc agcagagccc acaaaagcct   2220
              cacaattttg cacatcatct tcaccaacca agttttcatg ttcctagcag cagcagcaat   2280
              ggaggccgta ttggaagcga tctttcgtta tcaatgtccg atcaacaaca atggcaacaa   2340
              gccgggcctc cacatttgtt agcaactgct gcagcatcat caggattccc acagcaaatt   2400
              agaccctccc aaggttggct gcagaaaaat gggttccact ctctcatgag accctcatga   2460
<removed-apn>
              ccatcctcaa gattttttct accatgccat tttgcatttt gaaaaataat ctccccctac   2520
              tatttgtttt gtgaacatgt acaagtgaaa gtgaatgcag tttagattat tgtttatgtt   2580
              atgtccaacc tcccccttct ttaggaaaag cccatacata actgtaactt tactattggg   2640
              gtgaaagaca agaagggatg aaaaaaaaat agggaaagcc aatttgggaa ctcgctctgg   2700
              atttgttata ggccagtcaa actaaccaac ggacaaaatc tttaactaga tactaagata   2760
              ttctgggcgc tgactaaagt ttctgatctg atcttt                             2796
              <210>   212
              <211>   1198
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (176)..(176)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (385)..(385)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1072)..(1072)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1108)..(1108)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1123)..(1123)
                                                    224

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1193)..(1193)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 212
              ctattggtgg tttgaattgg gagtatggtt aagcattccg gtttgaccta atccaagaac     60
              ttcattagag tggagagaat cttgttgttg ttggttcatc ctgagccgca tatcttgact    120
<removed-apn>
              tttatgcttc gaattagccg aatttcccaa gctcaaatcg aggttgtgat cttgangagt    180
              agtaggattc cctgatgact cggcagctcc tgcaggcggc cgcgtggatg aggagttaat    240
              cggtcgtgtg agagtagtga tcgagtggat gtcgtcgaga gtgatgagtg ttgatgttgt    300
              tagtgatatg tggtagaagg tatcgtgata aagcgttaac gcgatcgcag tactttgccg    360
              agtcatcagg gaatcctact actcntcaag atcacaacct cgatttgagc ttgggaaatt    420
              cggctaattc gaagcataaa agtcaagata tgcggctcag gatgaaccaa caacaacaag    480
              attctctcca ctctaatgaa gttcttggat taggtcaaac cggaatgctt aaccatactc    540
              ccaattcaaa ccaccaattt ccgggcagca gcaacattgg tagcggaggc ggattctcac    600
              tgtttccggc ggctgagaac caccggtttg atggtcgggc ctcgacgaac caagtgttga    660
              caaatgctgc agcatcatca ggattccctc ctcatcatca caatcagatt tttaattcta    720
              cttctactcc tcatcaaaat tggctgcaga caaatggctt ccaacctcct ctcatgagac    780
              cttcttgagc ggccgccacc gcggtggagc tttggacttc ttcgccagag gtttggtcaa    840
              gtctccaatc aaggttgtcg gcttgtctac cttgccagaa atttacgaaa agatggaaaa    900
              gggtcaaatc gttggtagat acgttgttga cacttctaaa taagcgaatt tcttatgatt    960
              tatgattttt attattaaat aagttataaa aaaaataagt gtatacaaaa ttttaaagtg   1020
              actcttaggt ttttaaaacg aaaattctta ttcttgagta actctttcct gnaaggtcaa   1080
              ggttggtttt ctcaggtata ggcatgangt cgctcttaat ggnccacacc ttttacccgg   1140
              gcatgcccga ggcaaatgcc ctggcaaaat cggttcccca attttaaccc canttgga     1198
              <210>   213
              <211>   2261
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                    225

<removed-date>
              <400> 213
              aagagacaga aggggaaacg attctccgtt tattcaaaaa cgaaaaacac atctctctga     60
              ttaatacgca ctctcgctgt gagtttgaat ttagttggga gactcgaaat aatgtcgtcg    120
              acgacgcaga atcgtcgttc gtcgtttact ccctcgacgg cgtcgtcttt ggcgaaagcg    180
              aaacgacatc catcgtcggt gtcgtcgtcg tcgtcgggga aggcgaaggt ggtttctact    240
              cagaacttgg ctgtgaagag agcgcctctc gccaacctca ctaatcaaag gaacgcgcct    300
<removed-apn>
              tattcttctt cttcttcttc tttggtgcaa ggttcaaata aagttgccaa gaccaagaaa    360
              gaggctcctg caagaaccag cgtctcaaaa tcaacaattt ctgggaacaa atcttcccag    420
              ttaaaatctg ttaactcaag ctccgttgtt attccaaagg ctaattcttt atcacaaaag    480
              aaggatgctg ctcccacagt tgccacattt gccgtgcctg ttcgtagcgg cattgatgtt    540
              tctcctagta aatcagatgg aaggttcgtt tctatggatg agacaacatc ttcatgtgat    600
              tctatcaaga gtccggatga agttgaatat ctggataaca gggatgtttc agatgttgat    660
              tcaattcaga aaaagataat aagcaatttg aacatttctg ataccacaga gcccgaagga    720
              aacgtatgta gtagggaaat aattgttgag ttggaagaaa gagtggacaa gattgtcaat    780
              atcgataaca tttactctga tacgcagctt tgtgcaacct atgtttgtga catctacaaa    840
              cacctacgtg aatccgagga aaagaaaagg ccttccactg acttcatgga cacaattcag    900
              aaggacataa atgttagcat gcgcgctata ttggttgact ggcttgttga ggtggctgag    960
              gagtatcgtc ttgtacctga aacattgtat ttgacagtga actacttaga tcggtatctt   1020
              tcagggaatg ctatgaatag gcaaaggtta caacttcttg gtgtttcatg catgatgatt   1080
              gcatctaaat atgaggagat ttgtgctcct caggtggaag aattttgtta tataaccgac   1140
              aatacttact taaaagaaga ggttttgcaa atggaatctg ctgtcttgaa ttatcttaag   1200
              ttcgaaatga cagctccaac agttaaatgt ttcttaagac gatttgttcg tgcagctgct   1260
              catgatgtcc aggagatccc ttcacttcaa ctggagtacc taaccaactt tattgccgaa   1320
              ttatctctct tggagtacag tatgttgagt tatcctccat cactgatagc tgcttctgta   1380
              attttccttg ccagatttat acttttccct tcaaagaaac catggaattc tacattgcag   1440
              cattacacgc tctaccggcc ttctgacttg tgtgcatgtg taaaagatct ccatcgtctt   1500
              tgttgcagca gccatgattc taatttacct gcaatcagag ataaatacag tcagcataag   1560
                                                    226

<removed-date>
              tacaaatgtg tagccaagaa gcacatccct ccttcaatac ctcgagaagt tttccagatc   1620
              aactgaacaa aggaattcaa cgacaatcca ataattggga tgcacatgct aagttttgac   1680
              aaagcttcag tctctcaatg atgcaaggac catttcctgt tagaagcata gttggaacca   1740
              ggaagaggag aggacacatg tgctggtgga gctagtgtgc tcttctatgg ttcaatgtct   1800
              atgctcagtt gcacaccatg aagagcttga aagaaatgac atgatttcca ctcggttcct   1860
<removed-apn>
              tcttattatt aaaatgaata aaaaacaaac taagcatgtg ttagtataat ttagtaaaaa   1920
              gccagaggat tgaagttgaa tttttctttc ttttttattc taaaaaattg aacttaggta   1980
              tcaatgggtt tacaactagg gacttaaatg agttaagtta ttagtaaact attgagttcg   2040
              acttgttaaa taaattaaat aaacaaacta aagctttgga tttgactcaa ttatttaaat   2100
              aagtcaaact taagttttac aaactgaaca ttaatggttc gtaaattcca tgcacatata   2160
              tcatagaaaa ctgaaattac ataaattcca taatatcatt ctacatattt ctatttgtaa   2220
              attattattt aatattcagg tctgaagttg ttttgcaaaa a                       2261
              <210>   214
              <211>   480
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 214
              ccaaagaggc aaagaagtaa cggccccagc ggtccagcac cctgtgctcc cctttcccac     60
              caccaccacc accatgcctc tgtcgccttc gacaggagca cacttcagtc caacaccgtc    120
              tcgacgccac agtggccgcc gtcccagcac ccgtttctga tgcagaggtt ctctgctgct    180
              ccagccgagc cttcgcctat gtttcccttc tttcttggag gcaacagcgc ttctgctgct    240
              gctcctgccg cggccaatgc gccggagcgg aggctgcagc tctgggactt caaggaggaa    300
              aggaagacat aatttcttct tgtagagatt cggcggtgta tcaacctacc aagtcatgat    360
              ccattcagca cagaagaacc cagaacgaga gaagatgcaa ggcaacgaag gcgtcggcgc    420
              catggaggcg cgtggaacac aaatgcttat tagctggatc tccaagtctt ctccgcgcgg    480
              <210>   215
              <211>   252
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                    227

<removed-date>
              <400> 215
              tcgcacgcgt acgtaagctc ggaatgcggc tcgaggacgg cgaacttttt tagacagagc    60
              acctgcacca gcaccagcag cagaaccacc actcggagga acagcgaatg ctttatgctg   120
              gtggtaacag tggccacggc ggtggctttt gggacaacac gccggcgcca gtgcaagtgc   180
              ctgcgttttg ccagtattct gctcacaggg gaccccttca gttcagtaac accccttcga   240
              ttcgtgcttg ga                                                       252
<removed-apn>
              <210>   216
              <211>   773
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (684)..(684)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (696)..(696)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 216
              ttctgggttt ctgcccgcgt ctttggacac tgacaacatt gcggagacat tcaagacttt    60
              ctttcctgtg gaagcgacct cgacgtcgtt tcagagttac ccgccggcgc caccggattt   120
              agggcaccaa gatctgcggc tctcgttgca gtcctttcag gaccctatta tgcttcacca   180
              ccagcctcat agccaccacc aaccggttcc ggctggtcag agcacctgca ccagcaccag   240
              caacagaacc accactcgga ggaacagcga ttgctctatg ctggtggtaa cagtggccac   300
              ggcggtgggt ttgtgttcaa cacgccggcg ccggtgcagg tgccggcgtt tggccagttt   360
              ttttctcaga ggggacccct tcagtccagt aacacccctt cgattcgtgc ttggatagac   420
              ccttcggtcg atcaccacca ccaccaccat cactacctat cacagttgat ccaccaagga   480
              tccgtcgccg gtggcggcgg attctccggc ttccgcattc ctgcacgaat tcagggtgaa   540
              gaggaacacg acggcgtgtc ccgacagccg tcctctgctt tctctgattc tcgccattga   600
              tttgaaaaac acacattcaa aacccccact ttgttctccc ctagggtttt gtgggtttga   660
              ttggagattg gtcaattggt gganagaaac atattnttgg agatcatgat tgatggattt   720
                                                    228

<removed-date>
              caagcctaca cggggaattg agaagatctg aaggggatat tcagggttcc cat          773
              <210>   217
              <211>   740
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 217
              acgagacccc atcaattttc aaaccaacaa ctcctcagaa gatcttggcc tatccctcca    60
<removed-apn>
              ttgcttccaa gaccaccctg gcctcattca ttggcaatca caacagacag gtgcacatca   120
              aacacctcct tcaaatgaac accaaatccg aacccttttt gctggctcaa ccccaggtgg   180
              ctttgagaac cattatcaaa gaagtgtgac ttggaacaat gaagcaacta ccactgatca   240
              tgtgaacagg ttggggttca tactcaactc acagccattt ataggccaag gttctacttc   300
              agcttatgct caaagtgggg ggacccttca gtccagtttt tcatttccaa tgacttctcc   360
              ctctgagctt cacaggcccc agccagtgaa ccaaccttcc atctttgaca gcaggtttgt   420
              gtctgatgga ttagctgatt tctgcattcc agatagaatt caaggtgtgg aagagaacca   480
              tggagttgct tccaataggc catcttcttc ccctagttct atccactgat cccaaactaa   540
              gcaatgctta agtcttccta tcaggagtgt tctctatcag attggcaacc gagtgaagat   600
              tcaataggca tattgttatg atctacaaag atttcctttc aatttggctt tccttttttc   660
              ggtttttaat tttaaagtga gttgcccttg attcaaccct tgaaatctat atgtataatt   720
              ttgaattgat gaaaattacc                                               740
              <210>   218
              <211>   751
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (601)..(601)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 218
              ttggtcaagg ccagtatttt actcagaggg gaccccttca gtccagtaac agcccttccg    60
              ttcgtgcgtg gattgacgcg ccgtcgttcg tcgctgccgc cgccgatcat cggcatcatc   120
                                                    229

              atcatcacta tctgtctccc gcggcggccg cggcggcgtt ggtgtatcag tctgctcctt   180
<removed-date>
              caacggcggc atttgcagcg gcgcccggtg gcttctcggg attccgcgtg ccggcacaaa   240
              ttcagggcga ggaggagcat gacggcggcg tgtccgataa gccgtcctct gcttcctccg   300
              attctcaccg ttgattctcg ccgttgaacc gcccgccaac atcctcagcc gatttcggtc   360
              tccttggaat caattgggta tgtgtgtgat ctgttttttg cagggatgat gggggagatg   420
              gagtttgact tggaatggtt tggttcggtt cagtggacta ttatgcttgt ggaatgaaga   480
<removed-apn>
              aaatctgggg ttgaatttcc aggttttgaa ttctccagtt tgttatgtta atttatttta   540
              tgttttccat gtttcattaa ggtgactttc aagtttgagt acactgttgt gtgttggatt   600
              ntacttttgc tgtttgttat caattcgtag tattggatga tctatttgaa cttgtttggt   660
              atctagtttt tggtttgaaa catgcacgta gatactgcta tatcacttat tcactggcta   720
              gtttgctcgg attatctttg gatttcccac t                                  751
              <210>   219
              <211>   831
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 219
              accatcactc ggaggaacag cgattgctct atgctggtgg caacagtggc catggcggtg    60
              ggtttgtgtt caacacgccg gcgccggtgc cggcgtttgg ccagtttttt tctcagaggg   120
              gaccccttca gtccagtaac accccttcga ttcgtgcttg gatagaccct tcggtcgatc   180
              accaccataa tcgaaaacac tacctctcgc agttgatcca ccagggttcc gtcgccggag   240
              gcagcggatt ctccagtgga ttctccggct tccgcattcc agcacgaatt cagggtgaag   300
              aggaacacga cggcgtatcg gacaagccgt cctctgcttc ctctgattct cgccattgat   360
              ttgaaaaaca catcaaaaac cccaactttg ttcttcctca gggtttgtgg gttgcattga   420
              agatgtttaa attgatggag agaacatgca tttggaagat taggatggat gaattttcaa   480
              gctacaatgg gaattcaaga gagttgggtt tggatttcag atgtgtttat tttaatggcc   540
              tatatatgcc gtgggaatga agaaaatctg aggtggatat tcaggttttc caatccctcg   600
              gtttgttatg ctttttatgt tttacttacg tttttctgtt taatttaaat agaactagga   660
              gtattgtgtt tcttttgttt catctgtatt ggattgctat gtttccattt gttaagtgat   720
                                                    230

              tgtgtctact ttgtacttct tcagtttctt gtttcttgta gtgatttgaa aaccatgcaa    780
<removed-date>
              attaaataaa agagctagtt tgctctagtt attgtaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a             831
              <210>   220
              <211>   1846
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 220
<removed-apn>
              tttcactctt ttctctctct ttacaagtgt aacataacaa acataaagag aaagacaaaa     60
              gtgtgtgttt tgtgcaaggc atgattgtgg tatggaggag gaggatgaga ttcaagcaca    120
              gaaggtgaga agaagaagag gcagtgatgg agagagcacg aacaggttcc acagcagctg    180
              gcaccaccac caccaccact cttcgaggat cataagggtg tctcgtgcat ctggtggcaa    240
              agacaggcac agcaaagtga tgacttcaaa agggttgaga gatagaaggg ttaggctttc    300
              cgtgaccact gccattcagt tctatgacct tcaagatcgc ttgggttatg accaacctag    360
              taaagctgtg gaatggctta tcaaatctgc ttctgattcc atttctgaac ttccttcttt    420
              gaacaatttc cctgacaccc ccaaaagtga tgatcatgag aagagagcaa aacaactgat    480
              gttgctgctg gggcagtaga tggtgagaat tatgaaaatg agaatggcaa ataacaataa    540
              ccagagtcag gaacatgtct tttgtctaaa tctggttgta stagcacttc tgagacaagc    600
              aaaggttctg gcttgtccct ctcaaggtct gatattcgtg tgaaggctag agagagggca    660
              agggagagaa caacaaagga aaaggagaaa gagaaaaatg agtctcatca tcatcacagc    720
              aatgttgttg ttcctcatca tcgtcatcat catcatcata accccgtttc acaaacagct    780
              tctttcactg agcttctcac tggtgggatt cccaaagggt gtgatgatga ggagcctaat    840
              aacatgatga tgttcaacaa agaagctgca gcagcatcat ctggtagaca gcaatggtgt    900
              tcatcatcat cagcagcagc agcagcacct atggactact ttctggggcc ttcctcttct    960
              agaacaacaa caacaccacc acacaatcac catcaccatc atcatcaata ttcttcttct   1020
              ggtgggttct cattggcaca aatccaacta ggacattctc ttcctgaggc gaatgaatca   1080
              caatgtttca gcattcaaca ataatgtgag tggtgagaac caaaaccact catcatcaga   1140
              tcctcatctg caacagcagc aacacttctc attcataccg gatcatctta tgtcagctgt   1200
              ggttacttct tcttctcatc atcaacctag cgggagcgac tacaatctga acttcaccat   1260
                                                    231

              gtcttcgggc ctcgctggtt acaatagggg gacccttcag tccaattctc cgtctctttt   1320
<removed-date>
              gcctcacttg cagaggtttt cgcctctaga cggatccact gtacctttct tcattggagc   1380
              tgctccttct gctgcagttg ctgctcctgc catggagaac aacaccacca ccaccaacaa   1440
              ccatcaccac catcagttct catctggttt cgatggcagc cgcttgcaac tctactatgg   1500
              gcattctgac cagaagggga aagccaaaaa ctgatgtttg gattgctaca tttcctcctg   1560
              gacttgaaaa ttaaagtact agcagcaagt tgtgtcctaa agcttgcttt tgccaaaagg   1620
<removed-apn>
              gatgagccgg cgttgtcaag tgttggtatt tcttgttgga tcatttgaag tcattcaatt   1680
              acatttagta tttggatata tatatatata ttgatctatg cgtgtgaaat cattgtgttt   1740
              ttggataaat gtaaaagcta cttgattcaa gatattcttt tactttctgc aattattttg   1800
              atattgttgt ctatactata aatggagaaa agagttgttc atcagc                  1846
              <210>   221
              <211>   2770
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 221
              ctcgagccga atcggctcga ggtgttggtt gtattgtgta taatgttgtg tgtagtgtag     60
              tgtagtgtgg tagaagaaca gcagcagaag aggggcagtg atgcactcac agatatttaa    120
              cacctccatt ccgaccaaac actgtcaccc tttaccactg ccatcatcaa gccctctccc    180
              atagggccag aatgaattcc tcttccctat aactgttatc tagtgtctgc ctattgtgtt    240
              gctgagagat atgaaaaatt tgttaatttt tttgcaaaaa gacacgagtt ggccaagacc    300
              aagagggtat taaccaacgc aaccgtattg tgtagtttca gtttggttag tacattacat    360
              aagtgtataa agggagctca attagcaaaa aggcaaaaaa gtggtgtgtg gagagagaaa    420
              tagagagaga ggggaaacag atgggttagg ctgaaaaggg agttggtata acattgttgg    480
              tttggtttag tttagtttcc tcggtagaga gggctctttt ttttattttg gtggtgatgg    540
              aagtgggaaa attgaatggc aggaactttt tcaagaggct gaagcaagtt tcagagtggt    600
              ggcagttgca caagcaacaa gaagagaaga agagtggaaa gaaacaaagc tgggagtgca    660
              aggaatcaac aacccattag gaataagtgc aaagcttcat taaaagctgg aagaggaaaa    720
              tcacaacagg ggtctgactc tggatcctca caggaatcat catcatcatc atcatcttct    780
                                                    232

              gcagcaacaa caacaaccac ctcatcatcc tcatcctcaa aatctgattc taaattcaat    840
<removed-date>
              aagacatgta acagaccaag aaggagaaaa ccaagaagac caagaatctc attctcatcc    900
              tcaccaattc catatccaat tccaacctct tcatcatcaa caagaacaac aacaacaaca    960
              atcttacaca ggtttagaca cggagatctt aaacccactc caaccaccga agaaacggtc   1020
              ttgcctaccg cctcttccgc cgccaccacc gccgccttcg tcgcttgctt catccgaaca   1080
              tgcaagaaaa atgggagagc tacaacacca tcaacaacag gcagcagcag cagcagcacc   1140
<removed-apn>
              gtcgagagcg gcgatgagag gcgtcggcgg cggcgagatt gtggaggtgc aaggcggcca   1200
              cattgtccgc tccaccggac ggaaggaccg ccacagcaaa gtctgcaccg ccaaaggccc   1260
              cagagaccgc cgcgtgcggc tggcggcgca caccgccatc caattctacg acgtccagga   1320
              ccgcctgggc tacgaccgcc ccagcaaggc ggtcgactgg ctcatcaaga aagccaaggc   1380
              ggccatcgac cagctcgcgg agctcccgcc atggaacccc actgccacct caatgcaacc   1440
              acgacagctg ccacaagaaa tcgtccactg cgagaacaaa tctctcgcga tggacgattc   1500
              aatgaccgct gccttcagta gccgcggcga aagcaacgct ttcgcctccc accaacaagt   1560
              ggaggataat gaaaatgcta acaacattag cagcagcagc ggcaacaaat acaataccgg   1620
              ttctgggttt ctgcccgcgt ctttggacac tgacaacatt gcggagacaa tcaagacttt   1680
              ctttcctgtg gaagcgacct cgacgtcgtt tcagagttac ccgccggcgc caccggattt   1740
              agggcaccaa gatctgcggc tctcgttgca gtcctttcag gaccctatta tgcttcacca   1800
              ccagcctcat agccaccacc aaccggttct ctttgccgga accgccgccg cggcgctcga   1860
              cttcgacggc ggttccggct ggtcagagca cctgcaccag caccagcaac agaaccacca   1920
              ctcggaggaa cagcgattgc tctatgctgg tggtaacagt ggccacggcg gtgggtttgt   1980
              gttcaacacg ccggcgccgg tgcaggtgcc ggcgtttggc cagttttttt ctcagagggg   2040
              accccttcag tccagtaaca ccccttcgat tcgtgcttgg atagaccctt cggtcgatca   2100
              ccaccaccac caccatcact acctatcaca gttgatccac caaggatccg tcgccggtgg   2160
              cggcggattc tccggcttcc gcattcctgc acgaattcag ggtgaagagg aacacgacgg   2220
              cgtgtccgac aagccgtcct ctgcttcctc tgattctcgc cattgatttg aaaaacacac   2280
              atcaaaaacc ccaactttgt tctccctcag ggtttgtggg gttgcattga agatggttca   2340
              attgatggag agaacatgat tttggaagat catgatgaat ggattttcaa gctacaacgg   2400
                                                    233

<removed-date>
              gaattcaaga aaatctgagg tggatattca ggttttccaa tccctcggtt tgttatgctt   2460
              tttatgttca acttatgttt ttcatgctta atttaactag gactaggagt attgtgtttc   2520
              ttttgtttct tctgtattgg agtgctatgt ttcttttgtt tcttctgtat tggagtgcta   2580
              tgtttccctt tgttaagtga ttgtgtcttc tttgtacttc ttcagtttcg agtttcttgt   2640
              agtgatctga aaaacatgca aattcaataa aagagctagt ttgctctagt tattgtataa   2700
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2760
              aaaaaaaaaa                                                          2770
              <210>   222
              <211>   1638
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 222
              atttttatca atgttagtca tttattatta gttttttttt agtaacggaa atcaaactaa     60
              gaccttttcc ttccaacctt ctccttttta tcaccaaatc aacgttataa ctcagcatca    120
              accactaagc cctatacaaa gtgcgcatga ctcacaacaa caaaacttga tcagcacaca    180
              caacacatct cattatcaag tatctcaaaa ccaacatcaa tattatgctg aaggcataac    240
              aagtagttcc cacctacttt gaaccaagcc aaaaaccaca caaagcacaa tagaggagga    300
              acaacaatca caaagggcat gaggaccaat gtaggagata ttgttcaagt agaaggaggg    360
              cacattgtta ggtccacagg tagaaaagat cgccacagca aggtgtacac atcgaaaggg    420
              ccacgcgatc gtcgcgttag actctcggca cacacagcca ttgagttcta tgatgttcaa   480
              gacaggcttg gctatgacag gccaagcaag gctgtggact ggctcatcaa aaaggcaaag    540
              acttccattg acaagcttgc tgagcttcct ccttggcatc cacctactaa tcatgaggaa    600
              gaagagcaga atgatgctgc aggatcaagt ggagtcatag ccattgaaca acaacaacag    660
              caacagcagc agcagcagca acaacaacaa caacaacaac aacaacaaca acatcaacag    720
              caacaatcag agtcttgtgg ttacaacttt cagctccaaa ggcaattggg agccttcatt    780
              tcaacacatg ttgacactga ccacatcaat ttccaaacca acaacaacaa ctcctcagaa    840
              gatcttggcc tatccctcca ttgcttccaa gaccaccctg gccttattca gtggcaatca    900
              caacaagaag gtgcaaatca aacacctcct tcaaatgaac accaaatcca gcaaacccct    960
                                                    234

<removed-date>
              tttgccggat caaccccagt tgggtttgag aaccattatc aaagaagtgt gacttggaac   1020
              aatgaagcaa caaccacaga tcatgtcaac aggttggggt tcttattcaa ctcacagcct   1080
              tatgcttcag cttatgctca aagtgggggg acccttcagt ccagtttttc atttccaatg   1140
              acttcttcct ctgagcttca caggcctcag ccagtgaacc aaccttcttc aatctttggc   1200
              agcaggtttg tgtctgatgg attagctggt ttctgcattc cagatagaat tcaaggtgtg   1260
<removed-apn>
              gaagagaatc atggagttgc ttccaatagg ccttcttctt ctcctagttc tatccactga   1320
              ccccaaacta agcaatgctt tagtcttcct ttcaggagtg ttctctacca gatttgaaac   1380
              cgagtgaaga ttcaataggc acattgttat gatctacaaa gatttccttt caatttggct   1440
              ttcctttttt tggcttttaa atttaaagtt agttcccttg attcaaccct tgctatctat   1500
              atgtataatt ttatattgat gaaaatgacc ttgtgctgaa tttggttttg tagtcctctc   1560
              actgtattgt gaatgttatt tcagaataac atatttcatc tgatatctac atgtccattc   1620
              ttggcaaaga atcacatc                                                 1638
              <210>   223
              <211>   1800
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1771)..(1771)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1774)..(1779)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1781)..(1795)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 223
              cggtccggag ttcccgggtc gacccacgcg tccgcaagca tcaagtctaa taagcaagtc     60
              ttgagaggga gagacaacaa catcaagtgt ctgagtctgg atcctcaacg gaaacgggct    120
              tttgcggcta cggtggagca tgcaggaacg acgtcgtcca gccaggggat ggtgagagga    180
                                                    235

<removed-date>
              agcggagggg agatagttca agttgaaggc ggtcacattg tgcgctccac agggcggaag    240
              gaccgtcaca gcaaagtgtg caccgccaaa ggccctcgtg accgacgggt gaggttatcg    300
              gcccacaccg ccatccaatt ctacgacgtc caggaccgct tgggctacga ccgccccagc    360
              aaggccgtcg actggctcat caacaaggcc aagtcctcca tcgaccaact cgcccacctc    420
              cctccctgga aacccactct cccctcaccc gcaccacctc atctaaacga cgaccattca    480
<removed-apn>
              gacaaaccta accctaaccc caaccccaac cccaacccca accccaaccc caaccatagc    540
              cctgatgccc aaattctcaa ccagttcgac cacgacgatg gagctggagc tggttccagt    600
              tatcttccta tggataacga cgcgataagg tcgttcttcc ccacgacgac ttcctcgttg    660
              gttcaattcc agagctaccc accggatttg ctctccagaa ccagtagcca ggacctgcgt    720
              ctctcgcttc agtccttgca agaccctatt ttacttcacc acaaccacaa caacaacgag    780
              cacgtgcttt tcgctggaac cgcctttgat aacatggtag cgtggaataa taatagtaat    840
              aataatcata ataataataa tcataataat aataataata ataataataa tactgcttct    900
              aatgatactt gtggtggtgg tggtggtggt ggaggaggag gaggagggtt tgtgtttaac    960
              gctccttcga ctttgccggg gccggcgacg gtggcgtcgc cgacggtggt gtttggtcat   1020
              ggttatggtc aaggccagta tttttctcag aggggacccc ttcagtccag taacagccct   1080
              tccgttcgtg cgtggattga cgcgccatcg ttcgtcgctg ctgccgccga tcatcggcat   1140
              catcactatc tgtctcccgc ggcagcggca gcggcgttgg tgtatcagtc tgctccttcc   1200
              acggcggcat ttacggcggc gcccggtggc ttctcgggat tccgcgtgcc ggcacgaatt   1260
              cagggtgagg aggagcacga cggcggcatg tccgataagc cgtcctctgc ttcctccgat   1320
              tctcgccgtt gaaccgtcga gatcgtcagc cgatttctgt ctccttggaa tcaattgggt   1380
              atgtgtgtga tctgtttttt gcagggatgg aggagacgaa gttggacttg gaatggttcg   1440
              gttcggttca gtggactatt atgcttgtgg aatgaagaaa atctggggtt gaatatccag   1500
              gtttttgaat tctccagtct gttatgttaa tttattttat gtttttcatg tttcattagg   1560
              gagactttca agtttgagta ctgttgtgtt ggattgtctg tttgatgatg tttgttacaa   1620
              tttgtactag tggatgtatt tgtacttggg tatctagttt cttagttttg gtttgaagac   1680
              atgcacgtag atactactat atcacttatt attcacggcc tagttggtcg atttatcttt   1740
                                                    236

              gtatttccaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaggggg nccnnnnnna nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnccggg   1800
<removed-date>
              <210>   224
              <211>   1945
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (436)..(444)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 224
              tagacaaccc aaagaaaaaa aggaatctga atctcaccct atagacacaa gaatcaaaaa     60
              aggaagaaca atttatgagc atataaagtg ggggggtgtc aattgtcatc actcatcaac    120
              aagttgtgca aactgcaaag gggagcaaac ttaaactatg cagaaagcac aatagaagaa    180
              gctgaggaat gggcatgaag agcactggtt tttttattgt tcaagtccaa ggagggcaca    240
              ttgttcggtc cacaggtaga aaagataggc acagcaaggt ttacactgca aagggtcctc    300
              gtgatcgaag ggttaggctc tcagcacaca ctgctattga gttctatgat gttcaagatc    360
              gtttaggcta tgacagacca agcaaagccg tggactggct catcaagaag gccaagaatg    420
              ctattgataa gcttgnnnnn nnnnggcaag aatgctattg acaagcttgg tgagcttcct    480
              ccatggcacc ctactcctaa cactgctgca gatgctgaga acaacaacaa caacaacaat    540
              gcagggtcaa gtgacatggc cattgcagca gaacaatctg agtcttctgg ttacaatttt    600
              cagctgcaaa ggcaattagg tgaggaccat gataaccacc attcggcttt cattccctca    660
              cctattgaca ctgatgcaat agccttcttt ccaacaacca ctgcaacctc ctccatcaat    720
              ttccaaacct accctcctaa tataatctca agaaccaaca actccactga ggatcttggc    780
              ctttcccttc actccttcca agaccctggt ttgattcatg gccagaccca agcaggtgca    840
              aaccagacac aaacaccttc caatgaccaa agcctcttct ctggctcaac tcaagtgggg    900
              tttgaggcca attaccccag gattgtcact tggaacagtg atgcaagcat agatatgaac    960
              agaaccgggt tcatggtcaa ttcaccatca gcacttctag gccaaggtgg ttctgctgcg   1020
              tattcccaaa gggggaccct tcagtccagt ttctcaccat cacttcgtcc ttggagtgac   1080
              attccaatgg cttcatcaga acatcacaag tcacagccaa ttcaacaagc ttcaatcttt   1140
                                                    237

              ggcagcaggt ttctgtctga tgcattgccg gggttctgca ttcctgctag aatccaagga   1200
<removed-date>
              gaggatgagg gccatggagt tggtaacgac aggccatcat ctgcttctcc taattctcat   1260
              cactgaccac aaacttgaac tgcacaatac tgcactgttc cttatctatc aggacaggag   1320
              cattgcctac cagactttaa aacgtgggaa gattaagatg gacacatttt gatgatctac   1380
              acaattttat ctggttggat tcagctttta tatggctttc tttcccccct acttattgca   1440
              gccatttaca ttggggcttt atatattttt taaggaaaag agatatttat gtattatgca   1500
<removed-apn>
              ttatatttac ctgatacttt gctcatttta tatatggctt taagctggat tattccgtgg   1560
              ttgtatcccg tatcgtttct ttaatgtcga gaatagcata gttcatccaa tatcaagtga   1620
              acagaagagg tttcatgtca attcttggtg aaccccactt caagaaaaaa ttgaatctag   1680
              tatggttttg atttagttat tctcccctgt agtagaaaga cattttggtt ttgtatttct   1740
              gcatctgctt caatttcaag taacaccatc aggaaggaac tacagatggc ttgtaatgtc   1800
              tcaaataata ggcaaagttg taaaatgtga tcgtggttga ggttttgcaa tgtttgatat   1860
              cttagaaaat tgcagacaaa taagactaat acattgtaaa taagactata aattgtaaat   1920
              gtagtcatgt agttgcaaaa agtcc                                         1945
              <210>   225
              <211>   1167
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 225
              cattttgatt cttctgcagg agatcatgga caaagaaaat acaaatgggc ctttacattt     60
              tgatctgaat actggtgcaa agattccatc ggttggtctt ggaacatgga aagctcctcc    120
              aggtgttgtg ggtgatgctg ttattgctgc agtcaaggct ggttacaggc atatagattg    180
              tgctaggata tatgataatg aaaaagaggt aggggaggct ctgaaaacac tattttctac    240
              tggggtagta cagcgtagtg agatgttcat cacatcaaag ctatggatca gtgactgtgc    300
              acctgaagat gtctcaaagg cactgactag gactcttgag gacctaaagc ttgactacat    360
              tgatttatat cttatgcatt ggccatttag gacgaagccg ggttcaagag gttgggaccc    420
              tgagattatg gctcctttgt gtcttcctga gacatggaat gcaatggaag gtttgtttgc    480
              ctcaggtcag gcacgcgcaa tcggggtgag caacttttca actaagaagc tgcaagactt    540
                                                    238

              gcttggatat gctaagattc caccagcagt taaccaagtt gaatgtcacc cagtgtggca    600
<removed-date>
              gcaacctgcg cttcacaatt tgtgcaagtc taccggtgtt catctcacag catattgtcc    660
              tttaggctct cctggatcat gggtaaaggg ggaaatcttg aaggaaccac tgttgattga    720
              aatagctgaa aagcttcaca agtctccagc acaagtggca ttgcgctggg gactccaaag    780
              tggtcacagt gttcttccaa aaagtgtaaa tgaatctagg atcaaggaga accttagttt   840
              atttgattgg tgccttcctc ctgagctctt ctcaaaatta tcacagatac accagcaaag   900
<removed-apn>
              gttacttcga aatgaatccg ctgtccatga aacttgtagt ccttacaaaa gtcttgaaga   960
              attgtgggat ggagaaatat gaaatgcaga ttacttttga taaagctcag gatgtaattt   1020
              gacattgaat tcttattact gatataaaat tacaaattgt aggaatgttt aaaatttgta   1080
              ttgtccgaag acaatcaccc ctctacggtt ttatgtgaat cctcacatat gaacaaaaga   1140
              aaatttgacc gattctttaa aaaaaaa                                       1167
              <210>   226
              <211>   1402
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 226
              tcgagtcagc tactaggccc cccccccgtg agatgttcat cacatcaaag ccatgttata     60
              catttcgact aatccttaac cttagataaa ttgacctcac tttttcctaa tcaagctttt   120
              gatgagttta attttcataa actgttaatg taaaattttt atattgtcaa ctaattagaa   180
              atcatcttaa atataacttt taaaagtaaa tattacaaaa cttaataatc taaccatata    240
              tcacaatcta tgattggaat acagaataaa aaaaatcttt tcatcgtatt ctaatttaat    300
              ttagctttta acatacttga gaacacttgt atatttaatt tactatttgg ttataaagaa    360
              gattttagca tgtaagaaag aaagataaaa cctaaaacac actttggtgt tgtataattc    420
              tgttcagagt agtgaatttc ctctggttgc cttgagtttt ttaaccatac aggatcagtg    480
              actgtgcacc tgaagatgtc tcaaaggcac taactaggac tcttgcggac atgcagcttg   540
              actacattga tttatatctt atgcattggc cttttaggac aaagttgggt tcaagaggtt   600
              ggaaccctga gaatatggct cccttgtgtc ttccagagac atggaatgca atggaaggtt   660
              tgtttgcctc gggtcaggca cgcgcaatcg gggtgagcaa cttttcaact aagaagctgc    720
                                                    239

              aagacttgct tggatatgct aagattccgc cagcagttaa ccaagttgaa tgccacccag    780
<removed-date>
              tgtggcagca acctgctctt cacaatttgt gcaagtctac cggtgttcat ctcacagcat    840
              attgtccttt aggctctcct gggtcatggg taaaggggca agtcttgaag gaaccactgt    900
              tgaaggaaat tgctgaaaag cttcacaagt ctccagcgca agtggcattg cgttggggga    960
              ctccaaagtg gtcacagtgt tcttccaaaa agtgtaaatg aatctaggat caaggagaac   1020
              cttagtttat ttgattggtg cattcctcct gagctactct caaaattatc acagattcac   1080
<removed-apn>
              cagcaaaggt tacttcgaaa tgaatctgct gtccatgaaa cttgtagtcc ttacaaaaat   1140
              cttgaagaat tgtgggatgg agaaatatga aatgcagatt acttttgatg aagctcggga   1200
              tgtaatttga cattgaattc ttatttctga tgcaaattgt agaaatgttt taacatttgt   1260
              attgtctgaa gacaatcacc cctctacctt ggggttttat gtgaatcctc acatatgatt   1320
              atatgaacaa aaagaaaatt tgacccaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaga   1380
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagaat tc                                            1402
              <210>   227
              <211>   3553
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 227
              aattttgcgt ccacacagga aagcattttc agtccaatga aggggtttgg gccagaaaat     60
              aaaaatagat ccggaatttt aacacaagat agatatcccc ccatagtata gaaaaacaaa    120
              agtaagagaa aaagggattc ccagttgaca ccattgctca ctcaggtgaa gtgtttgtgt    180
              gtgtgactga gaagagaaag aaaagaagaa tcttttgctg tctgtctctc atatcacaac    240
              tcacacctct cttttgcttg ttgttttcaa gggttaggat ttttcttcat tgctgttgag    300
              aaaagtttct tcctttcttg ctcttctgtt cattcgttca ttcatctttt gggctagttt    360
              ggcctctctt gagcttcttc gttcatcaaa ggaaggactg tgaagtgaac aattaataga    420
              agcctgcttc tgcatcttgt ccaccaaagc ttatcatttg gccatcatca aaatggtttc    480
              aaggtcatat tctaacttgt tagatcttac ttcttgtggc tccccgactt tcagtcgtga    540
              gaagaaaagg ctccctcgag tggcaactgt tgctggagta ctgtctgaat tagatgatga    600
              aaccagcaac agtgtttgct ctgatactcc atcctcagtc tctcaagaga ggatgatcat    660
                                                    240

              tgttggtaac cagcttccat taaaggcaca cagaaaagac aacggtactt gggagttcac    720
<removed-date>
              atgggatgag gactcacttc ttttacagct gaaagatggt cttggggatg atgtggaaac    780
              tatctatatt ggttgtctta aagaagagat tgagccaagt gagcaagatg atgttgctct    840
              gtacttgctt gacactttca aatgtgtgcc aacgttcctc cctcctgagc tttttagtaa    900
              attctatcat ggattctgca aacaacatct atggcctttg tttcactaca tgcttcccct    960
              gtcacctgat cttggtggtc gattcgatag gtccctttgg caagcttacc tttctgtgaa   1020
<removed-apn>
              caagatattt gcggataaag tgatggaagt catcagccct gatgatgact ttgtgtgggt   1080
              tcatgactac catctgatgg tacttcctac atttttgaga aagagattta acagggtgag   1140
              gctaggattc ttcctccata gtccatttcc ttcgtctgag atataccgaa cccttcctgt   1200
              tagggatgaa cttcttagag ctcttctgaa ttctgacctt attgggtttc atacttttga   1260
              ttatgccagg catttcctct cctgttgcag cagaatgctt gggatttctt accaatccaa   1320
              gcgtggctac attggccttg agtactatgg aagaacagta agcattaaga ttcttcctgt   1380
              tggtattcat ataggtcagc tccaatctgt catgagtcat cccgagacag aaagcaaggt   1440
              tgcagagtta aaaaaacagt tcagagatca aactgtgctg ctcggggtgg atgacatgga   1500
              tatcttcaaa ggaatcagct taaaactttt ggccatggaa caattgcttt tacaacatcc   1560
              tgataagagg ggcagagttg ttctggtcca aattgctaac cctgcaagag gccgtggaaa   1620
              ggatgtgcag gaggtacaaa gtgaaactta tgccacgatg aagaggataa ataatgcatt   1680
              tggaaggcct ggatacacac ctgtagtctt gattgataca ccacttcaga gttatgagcg   1740
              aattgcttat tatgtgattg cagaatgttg ccttgttaca gcagtgagag atgggatgaa   1800
              ccttataccc tatgaatata tcatttgtag acaaggaaat gagaagatag atgagatttt   1860
              agggacagac ctgcttactc aaaagaagag tatgctggtg gtgtctgagt ttattggctg   1920
              ctccccttcg ttaagtgggg caattcgagt gaatccatgg aacattgatt ctgtcgctga   1980
              agctatggat tctgcgttga tggtcccaga ggctgaaaag cagatgcggc atgagaagca   2040
              ttataggtat gttagtacac atgatgttgc gtattgggca cgtagcttct tgcaggatct   2100
              ggaaagggca tgtagagatc atctgaggag gagatgctgg ggaattggtt ttggtttagg   2160
              cttccgagtg attgctttgg atccaaactt tagaaagcta tctgtggaac atattgtttc   2220
              agcttataag aggaccaagc accgagcaat tcttttggat tatgatggca ctatggtgca   2280
                                                    241

<removed-date>
              gcctgggtcg atgagtttaa cacctaatgc tgaagccgtt agcatcttga acatcttgtg   2340
              cagggacacc aagaattgtg ttttcattgt aagtggaagg gagagaaaga ctcttactga   2400
              atggttttct tcttgtgaaa ggatgggaat cgctgcagag catggttatt ttgtgaggac   2460
              aaatcgaaat gcagaatggg atacttgtat tccagtacct gattttgagt ggaaacagat   2520
              tgctgagccg gttatgcagt tatatatgga aacaactgat ggttcaaaca tagaggccaa   2580
<removed-apn>
              agaaagtgct ctagtttgga attacgagta tgcagaccga gactttggtt catgccaagc   2640
              taaggagctt tttgatcatc tggaaagtgt tcttgccaat gagcctgttt ctgttaaaag   2700
              tagtccaaac attgttgaag tgaaacctca gggtgtgagt aagggtattg tagcagaacg   2760
              tcttctctta acaatgcaac aaaagggagt gtttccagat tttgttctat gcattggaga   2820
              tgacagatca gacgaggaca tgtttggggt aatcatgaat gcaaaggcaa ccctatctcc   2880
              agttgctgaa gtgtttccat gcactgttgg ccagaaacct agcaaggcaa agtattattt   2940
              ggaagacaca agtgagattt tgagaatgtt gcaaggcctt gccaatgctt ctgagcactc   3000
              tactagaact tctttgcaac cagcttctca ttaaggttct ttttaatgtg tagagtgcaa   3060
              acacacacac acacaatttg gctacaatgt agtactattt ttctatacta tactgggata   3120
              tctatcttgt gttagatttc gtgatctatt ttattttctg gctgacttgc cttcatttat   3180
              tgatatccca actatgttgc aactatcaat aggttgtttt gaaagtagat gaattacatg   3240
              gggtactgta tttattgttt cttttcttga ctattggttt gggccatttt gatgtatgat   3300
              aaagtgattt ttgattggga atgaatgaat gctaggattg tgaatgtact gtatcaagta   3360
              acatcagaaa aaaaatttaa gggcgtccgc cgaaagctgt ggacttgtgg tcatataaat   3420
              gttttaccga ggtggttcat ttctgaattt atagtcctaa tgttgcagag aagttttgtc   3480
              tcagttttgt gtcaatagat tgctcacaga ttgtgcaatt cacttttaat gtaaataatt   3540
              attattgggt ctc                                                      3553
              <210>   228
              <211>   1695
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 228
              ggtcacggat aagagcctgg agctactttc gcgttctttc atgaatttca agtctttggt     60
                                                    242

<removed-date>
              tcttgttagt tgtgaagggt tcaccaccga tggacttgca cccacgcgtc cgaaatgtag    120
              gttccttaag gagctggatt tgcaggaaaa tgaagttgat gaccacagag gccagtggct    180
              aagctgcttt cctgattgct gtacatcact tgtttctctt aattttgctt gccttaaagg    240
              acagattaat ctgggggctc ttgagagact tgtggcgaga tctcctaacc ttaaaagctt    300
              aaggttaaat cataccgtgc ccctcaatgc actccaaagg atattgaggc gagcacctca    360
<removed-apn>
              aatagtggac ttgggtattg ggtcatttat ccctgatcca aattcaaatg tcttcattaa    420
              gctaatgaac accattatcg agtgcaagtc aataaccagt ttgtcagggt tttttgaggt    480
              tactcctcga tgccttccag ctatatatcc tgttgtatga acttgacagc tatgaacctt    540
              agctatgcag cagggattca gagcagagag ctaataaaac taatttgccg ctgtgggaaa    600
              cttcagcgat tatggataat ggattgcatt ggagactttg gactacatgt tgtggcttcc    660
              acatgtaaag atttgcaaga actaagggtt tttccgtctg ttcgtgttgg tagaaatgac    720
              cctgcaggag tcacagagaa aggacttgtt gcaatctcta tgggttgccc taagcttcac    780
              tcattgctct acttctgcca gcagatgaca aatgccgccc tcataactgt ggctaaaaac    840
              tgcccaaatt ttatccgctt taggttgtgt atccttgacc caacaaaacc tgaccctgat    900
              acagtgcagc cactcgacga aggttttggc gcaattgtgc agtcttgcaa gcaacttcgg    960
              cggttgtcac tctccggcca gctgactgat caagttttcc tttacattgg ggtgtatgct   1020
              gagcagcttg agatgctgtc tattgcattt gctggagaaa gtgacaaggc tatgctctat   1080
              gtgctgaatg gatgcaagaa acttcgcaaa cttgagataa gagatagccc ttttggtgac   1140
              tccgcgcttc tcatggacgt agggaagtat gaaacgatgc gatccctttg gatgtcatcc   1200
              tgcgatgtca ccattggagc ctgcaaggca cttgccaaga agatgccagg actaaatgtg   1260
              gagatcttta atggaaacga aaaggtagat cgtgatgtgg acgatggcca gaaagtagag   1320
              aagacgtatt tgtatagaac actggttggg agaaggaaag acgcaccaga acatgtatgg   1380
              actctgtagg tgtgcatttt ggctatttaa gttcttgtta ttaagctgtt tcactagact   1440
              ggtcttactt actgattaat ggaactttgg tcaaggtcag tgataaacca atcaactcaa   1500
              caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaagag ttctttaatg gaaccgaaaa ggtagctcgt tatgtggcca   1560
              atgcccaaaa agtaaaaaaa acgtttttgt ataaaaccct ggttgggaaa agaaaaaacg   1620
                                                    243

              ccccagaaca tgtatggcct ctgtaggtgg gcattttggc tatttaagtt cttgttatta   1680
<removed-date>
              agctgttccc ctccc                                                    1695
              <210>   229
              <211>   1724
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 229
<removed-apn>
              agaggttgat ccagaggttt cctggtctaa agtctttgac tttgaaggga aagcctcatt     60
              ttgctgactt cagtttggtg ccttatgatt ggggtggctt tgtgcatcca tggattgagg    120
              cactggccaa gaacaaggtt ggcttggagg agcttaggct caagaggatg gtggtctcgg    180
              atgagagcct ggagctactc tctcggtctt tcacacactt caagtctttg gttcttgtta    240
              gctgtgaagg gttctccact gatggccttg ctgctttagc tgcaaattgc aggtttctta    300
              gggagctgga tctgcaagaa aatgaggttg aagatcacaa aggccagtgg ctaagttgct    360
              ttcctgacaa ctgcacatca cttgtttctc ttaattttgc ttgccttaaa ggagaggtta    420
              gtttgggagc actagagaga cttgtggcca gatctcctta cctgaagagt ttaaagctga    480
              atcgttcagt gccctttgat gcactgcaaa ggataatgat gcgagcacct caattatcgg    540
              atttgggtat tggatcattt gtccatgatc cagaatcaga ggcctacata aagcttaaga    600
              ataccattct caagcgcaag tccataacca gtttgtcagg atttttggaa gttgctcctc    660
              attgtcttgc agcaatatat cctatttgcc cgaacttaac atccttgaac ttgagctatg    720
              cagcaggcat tcagggtagt gatctgataa aactgattcg tcactgtgtg aaacttcagc    780
              gcttattgat aatggattgc attggagaca aaggacttga tgttgtagct acttcatgta    840
              aagacttgca agaattgagg gtgtttccat ctgttccctt tggaaatcca gcagccgtca    900
              cagaaaaagg gctggttgca atatcaatgg gttgccctaa gcttcactca ttgctctatt    960
              tctgccacca gatgacaaat gctgcactca taacggtggc taagaactgc ccgaatttta   1020
              tccgattcag gctgtgtatc cttgatgcaa caaaacccga ccctgataca atgcagccac   1080
              tggatgaagg ttttggcgca attgttcagt cttgcaggcg actcaggcgc ctatccctct   1140
              cggggcaatt gaccgaccag gttttccttt acataggaat gtacgctgag aagcttgaaa   1200
              tgctgtccat tgcatttgct ggggagagcg acaagggaat gctctatgtg ttgaatggat   1260
                                                    244

              gcaagaagct taggaagctt gagattagag actgcccttt tggcaatgtg gcacttctga   1320
<removed-date>
              cggacgtagg gaagtatgaa acaatgcgat ccctttggat gtcgtcctgt gaagtgaccg   1380
              tcggagcctg caagttgcta gcgaagaaga tgccgaggtt gaatgtggag atcttcaatg   1440
              aaaacgagca agaagattgt agtctggaag atgggcagaa ggtagagaag atgtatttgt   1500
              atcgtacatt ggctgggaaa aggaaagatg cacctgaata tgtatggact ctataggtgc   1560
              attttttagg tcatttaatt tcttgttatt cagaagtttg tactttgctt ttagggctga   1620
<removed-apn>
              ctgattaatg caattttagc cgggtgtagt gttttgtaac ttgcattttg ctagttttat   1680
              acatatgcta gattgctttt tctcctaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aagg                    1724
              <210>   230
              <211>   1977
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 230
              tcgagtcagc tacgtatggc cccccccccc gagaggttag tttgggagca ctagagagat     60
              tattcggctc gagctcgagc cgattcggct cgaggctgaa tcgttcggtg cccgttgatg    120
              cactgcaaag gataatgatg cgagcacctc aactatcgga tttgggtatt ggatcacttg    180
              tccatgatcc agaatcggag gcctacataa agcttaagaa taccattctc aagtgcaagt    240
              ccataaccag tttgtctggg tttttggaag ttgctcctca ttgtcttgca gctatatatc    300
              ctatttgccc gaacttaaca tctttgaact tgagctatgc agcaggcatt cagggaagtg    360
              ctctggtaaa actaattcat cactgtgtta aacttcagcg cttatggata atggattgca    420
              ttggagacaa aggactaggt gttgtagcta cgacatgtaa agatttgcaa gaattgaggg    480
              tttttccatc tgttcccttt ggggatccag cagctgtcac agaaaaaggg ctggttgcaa    540
              tatcaatggg ctgccctaag cttcactcgt tactctactt ctgccaccag atgacaaatg    600
              ctgcactcat aacagtggct aagaactgcc caaattttat tcgattcagg ttgtgtatcc    660
              ttgatgcaac aaaacctgac cctgatacaa tgcagccact ggacgaaggt tttggcgcaa    720
              ttgtgcagtc ttgcaggcga ctcaggcgcc tatctctctc ggggaaattg actgaccagg    780
              ttttccttta cataggaatg tatgctgaga aacttgaaat gctgtctatt gcatttgctg    840
              gggatggtga caagggaatg ctgtatgtgt tgaatggatg caagaagctt aggaagcttg    900
                                                    245

              agataagaga ctgccctttt ggcgacatgg cacttctgac ggacgtaggg aagtatgaaa    960
<removed-date>
              caatgcgatc cctttggatg tcgtcctgtg aagtgactgt cggagcctgc aagttgctag   1020
              ccaagaagat gccaaggttg aatgtggaga tcttcaatga aaacgagcaa gaagattgta   1080
              gtctggaaga tgggcagaag gtagagaaga tgtatttgta tcgtacattg gctgggaaaa   1140
              ggaaagatgc accagaatat gtatggactc tgtaggtgca ttttttaggt catttaattt   1200
              cttgttattc agaagtttgt acttgttttt aggctgactg aattaatgca attttagccg   1260
<removed-apn>
              ggtgtagtgt tttgtaactt ccttgcattt gctagtttta tacatatgtt agtttgtctt   1320
              ttctcctaga tattattatt ccataatgcc actttttatt acgtatatta atagagtatt   1380
              atacttttta aaaaaaaatg ggattgttga atcaatgcat tagaagctta ggaagcttga   1440
              gattagagac tgcccttttg gcaatgtggc acttctgacg gacgtaggga agtatgaaac   1500
              aatgcgatcc ctttggatgt cgtcctgtga agtgaccgtc ggagcctgca agttgctagc   1560
              gaagaagatg cctaggttga atgtggagat cttcaatgaa aacgagcaag aagattgtag   1620
              tctggaagat gggcagaagg tagagaagat gtatttgtat cgtacattgg ctgggaaaag   1680
              gaaagatgca cctgaatatg tatggactct ataggtgcat tttttaggtc atttaatttc   1740
              ttgttattca gaagtttgta ctttgctttt agggctgact gattaatgca attttagccg   1800
              ggtgtagtgt tttgtaactt ccattttgct agttttattt ttatgataga ttaatttact   1860
              cctaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaat gttttgtaac ttccttgcat ttgctagttt tatacatatg   1920
              ttagtttgtc ttttctccta gatattatta ttccataatg ccacttttta ttacgta      1977
              <210>   231
              <211>   2491
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 231
              agtcattccg aatgtttatt ccacagcacc aatcgactct gaatagaaca aaagaaaaca     60
              aggcataatt ccatcagatg catcaacaaa tcaggatgca ctagaatata aatacgattt    120
              ttattccttc ccacggttaa tgataacaag tccaccgata tcttactacg aaagagcagg    180
              ggtaacatgc atataaaatt atgcacaagt ccataaaata ttataataat gatacgaaaa    240
              atagtaacta tcctatgcaa catagaacaa ggttacgatc tctatcagaa ttggtgtctc    300
                                                    246

              gtagctcagc caaagtgtaa aatgaatggc aatcgagctc aagcctttat atatcctcct    360
<removed-date>
              gtaccttata gctcaaacac caaccacaac agcataggcc gtaaacagtt ttaattcatt    420
              attgagtagc attctgggca tgtacctgca ctaacaattc tcacatcaaa tgcttcataa    480
              attccacggc tcattccaca gcacaatcac tcaagaaatc cttaatgcag aatcatcttg    540
              cattctccat acatagcctg gcatgtccaa tcttggccca gaaacagtcc tgtatatgta    600
              taacttctca acaggactac tctccggcct tgaatctgga ggtcctcttt catcaatgac    660
<removed-apn>
              ttcaacatta agtcttggca ttttctgacc cagcaattta catgctccat aactcaccaa    720
              gcaagaggac atccaaaggg atcgcattgt ctccagcttt gcagcattgg ccaaaagggc    780
              tttgtcacca aaggggcagt ccctgatctc cagcttccta aggttgtcac acccagacag    840
              cacatgatgg agtcccaaat cgctatctcc agcaaaagcc acagaaagca tctcaagctt    900
              cttaccataa gtcccaatat actcaaaaac acggtcagtt agaagcccag aaagggaaag    960
              tcgctgaaga tccttgcaat gctctacaat agctccaaaa ccagcatcca gaggttgatg   1020
              ggtgagatag tcaggagctc gaggctcaat aatacatagt ctaaaacgtg tcatattagg   1080
              cctgctcctg gcaattgtat ctaaggcagc attagacatt tgccgacaaa aatatagaac   1140
              tgactggagc ttggtgcagc cttcagacac cgaaacgagg ccctgctctg tcaatgctac   1200
              atttggttct aacccaaacg ggtcagacgg aaacaccctc aactccctta gatccttaca   1260
              ggatgcagca atcacttcaa ggccagcatc ttctatgtaa tccagcaccc ataaccgctg   1320
              caaactctca cattgaccaa caagcttgat aagatcaggg ctttgaatag ttgcataact   1380
              caagttcagt gaagtcaggt tggagcaaat aggatagaca gctggaaggt aggaagggag   1440
              cacgtcccaa aatccagata agcccttcaa ttgcttgcac ccagaaaatg cctccgcaag   1500
              gtttgtgaag acctccggtc gcatctctgt cgtgtaagct ccggtgccca actcaaccaa   1560
              ctgaggagca ccgcgaagaa gagtggcaag cctgtctagt ggcacagcac ggttgaggcg   1620
              gagcgtctgg agattgggac acctactaac caggcgctct agggcagaca aattcacctc   1680
              attgcctaag caagaaatgt taagggaaac cagtgatgtg tacgaatcag gaaaatggct   1740
              cagccaatgc ccacagatgt cgtccacctc actctcccgc aactccaact ccctcaaatt   1800
              cctgcaattg gcagcaatgg cagcaagtcc gtcagtggtg aatccctcgc aagaggtgag   1860
              aaccaagact tgaaagttct taaacgattt ggcgatgagt tccaagcatt cgtcggagat   1920
                                                    247

<removed-date>
              aaccatcctc ttgagcctga tctcctgaag ccaggggtag gcagcggcca tggccttgat   1980
              ccaagggccc acataagcgc cccaaccctc ggggaccaaa ttgaagtcgg cgaagtgcgg   2040
              cttccccttg atggcgatgg atctaacctt ggggaagcgg ttgacgacgg tggccggaga   2100
              gacggcgtag cagtttccga cgaagactct ccggcgacac cagcgctcga tctcgtacca   2160
              ggacttgcag acgagggaga tcgagcctcg gtccttgtcg cactcgatga aggagaacac   2220
<removed-apn>
              gtgctccagc acctcctcgg ggaaggagta atttactctc ggccgcatgt ccaatggaat   2280
              acaacaaccc taccaaaaac gctgtcgttt tccgaatgaa gcagtagtga aagctcgcag   2340
              taaagcagca gcgcttagag agttagatct gagaagacac catcggaaga gcgaagagat   2400
              tgtgttattg tgaactagtt gttgatgtgt gaagttgcca gagagagaag agagagagag   2460
              agagagagaa ggataaggag tttgtgttgt c                                  2491
              <210>   232
              <211>   2405
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 232
              actccttatc cgtctttctc tccctcacat cacacatcac acatcacaca aacagagaca     60
              cattattatt acatactacc actctcgtag tctcgcttgg tgttaatggc gtttcagatc    120
              taacagtgca agtggttcgg cgtggttgtt agtgagttgg ttaagcgacg gcgtttggtt    180
              ggggttagta ttatgcagag aatggcgtac acgttttcgt ttccggagga ggtgctggag    240
              cacgtgttct cgttcatatg gaacgagagg gacaggaacg cgatctcgct ggtgtgtaag    300
              tcatggtacg agatcgagag gtggtgcagg aggaaggtgt tcgtggggaa ctgctacgcg    360
              gtgagccctc tgatggtggt caagcggttc ccggaggtga gatccattgc gctcaaaggg    420
              aagccgcact ttgcggactt caatttggtc cccgatggct ggggaggtta cgtctgcccc    480
              tggatcgccg ccatggctcg cgccttcccc tgcctcgaag aaatcaggct caagaggatg    540
              gtcatcaccg acgagagctt ggaactcatc gctaagtcct tcaagaactt caaggtcttg    600
              gttctcactt cctgtgaggg ttttaccact gatggacttg ccgccattgc tgccaactgc    660
              aggaatttga gggaattgga cttgcaagag agtgaagtgg aggaggacct tagtgggcac    720
              tggctaagcc attttcctga ttcctatacg tcattagttt cacttaacat ctcttgctta    780
                                                    248

<removed-date>
              aacaatgagg tgagtttatc tgcgctagag cgtctgcttg ggaggtgtcc caacctgcgg    840
              accctccgtc tcaatcgtgc cgtgcccctt gatagactac ccaacctact tctccagtgt    900
              cctcagctgg ttgagttagg cacaggagtc tactcaactg agatgcgacc agaggtcttc    960
              tcaaacctgg aagcagcatt ttctggctgc aagcagttga agagcttgtc tggcttttgg   1020
              gatgtgctcc catcctacct tccagctgtc taccccatct gctcaaggct aacatcgcta   1080
<removed-apn>
              aacttgagtt atgctattat tcaaagctct gatcttatta agcttatcag tcaatgccca   1140
              aatttgttgc gattatgggt gctggattac atagaagatg ctggtcttta tgcccttgct   1200
              gcatcatgta aggatctaag agagttaagg gtgtttcctt ctgacccatt tggtttagaa   1260
              ccaaatgttg cattgacaga acagggcctt gtctctgtgt ctgaaggttg ccccaagctc   1320
              caatcagttc tatatttttg tcgtcaaatg tcgaatgcag ccctacatac aattgcgcgg   1380
              aacaggacta atttgactcg ttttcggctt tgtattattg agcctcggac tcctgactat   1440
              ctaacccatg aacccctgga ttctggtttt ggggctattg tagagcaatg caaggatctt   1500
              caacgcctat ccctatctgg tcttcttact gaccgtgttt tcgagtatat cgggacttgt   1560
              ggtaagaagc tggagatgct atctgtggct tttgctggag atagtgattt gggacttcat   1620
              catgtgctat cagggtgtga taatcttagg aagctggaga tcagggactg cccctttggt   1680
              gacaaggccc ttttggcaaa tgctgaaaag ctggagacaa tgcgatccct ttggatgtcc   1740
              tcctgctcgg tgagttatgg agcatgtaag ctactgggtc agaaaatgcc aagactcaac   1800
              gttgaagtca ttgatgaaag aggacctcca gattcaaggc cagatgattg tccagttgag   1860
              aagctttata tatacaggac tattgccggg ccaaggttgg acatgcctgg ttttgtgtgg   1920
              acaatggaag atgattcttc actaaggctt gagtgatcac gctgtggatt gagccaagga   1980
              aatctaatgc cactttggtt tctgacatcg ataatggcag gtacatgctc agtatgcaat   2040
              tctctagtgg atttactgtt gcctggctta tatatatagt tagttacggc ttttggttga   2100
              gctaggtaaa ggagagtact cagaaggctt gagctcgatt gccattcatt ttacactttg   2160
              gctgagctat gggatgccaa ttttactgat aaataaagag tctgaaaccg tgttgttgta   2220
              tgtgcgttag atacagttgt tatattattc ttcatactat aatatttgcg ggcttcaatt   2280
              tatttgtatg ttaactttct ctttcgtatt aggatgttgg acacatttgt cattgtcact   2340
                                                    249

              tgttagcctt cccaatgaat aatgttcgta ttctaatgca gccagcgtta ttagctcttc   2400
<removed-date>
              gcaaa                                                               2405
              <210>   233
              <211>   2893
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 233
<removed-apn>
              cccacgtgct ttcacttcac caccaccttc tcctttctcc ttcttcctcc tcctttctgc     60
              ttcttcattc tctccttccc tcttgagctt ttctttttag cacggaacat gtgagtgcca    120
              caaagggttt gagacttttt gaggctttct ctcactctaa taagtcctaa cctcattcac    180
              ctcttgggtg gtgtggtcta taatgtaatt tatcatttgt gcaaattttt tctcagatct    240
              atccaacttc tcttttttgt ccttttattc tgtttggaaa tcgtcatcat caccatttga    300
              tttgcagggc cataattttt ctgctttggt tttcaactct tccacaccat tttccatttt    360
              ttcttcttct tcttctctgg tttttttttt tcctgtgaaa aaaaaattga gttctttttg    420
              gctaagcctc caagcagatc caactaggga aatgtaaaat tttcaatttt ttttatcagt    480
              atcctctttc cagaccttcc cctcatgttc tagatttgaa gatcttgtca ttgcctcact    540
              cttgtttgtg ccaagatctg ttctgttccg ttccccccct ttttcttttt ttagatcttg    600
              gtcttctcca tgatgtagta gaacttcaaa tttgaaagct ttacctttct gagattgctt    660
              tttttttttt tctatcccct tccccttttg gagtatgaaa attttcctgg aaaattagtg    720
              agctaggatc actgagtgag agaaaagaaa aaaaaagatg atgaattatt tcccggacga    780
              ggtaatagag cacatatttg actatgtggt gtcacacagt gatcgaaatg ctttgtcttt    840
              ggtgtgtaaa agttggtaca ggatagagag gtgtacgagg caaagggtgt tcatagggaa    900
              ctgttactcc atcactccgg agaggttgat ccagaggttt cctggtctaa agtctttgac    960
              tttgaaggga aagcctcatt ttgctgactt cagtttggtg ccttatgatt ggggtggctt   1020
              tgtgcatcca tggattgagg cactggccaa gaacaaggtt ggcttggagg agcttaggct   1080
              caagaggatg gtggtctcgg atgagagcct ggagctactc tctcggtctt tcacacactt   1140
              caagtctttg gttcttgtta gctgtgaagg gttctccact gatggccttg ctgctttagc   1200
              tgcaaattgc aggtttctta gggagctgga tctgcaagaa aatgaggttg aagatcacaa   1260
                                                    250

              aggccagtgg ctaagttgct ttcctgataa ctgcacatca cttgtttctc ttaattttgc   1320
<removed-date>
              ttgccttaaa ggagaggtta gtttgggagc actagagaga gttgtggcca gatctcctaa   1380
              cctgaagagt ttaaagctga atcgttcggt gcccgttgat gcactgcaaa ggataatgat   1440
              gcgagcacct caactatcgg ttttgggtat tggatcactt gtccatgatc cagaatcgga   1500
              ggcctacata aagcttaaga ataccattct caagtgcaag tccataacca gtttgtctgg   1560
              gtttttggaa gttgctcctc attgtcttgc agctatatat cctatttgcc cgaacttaac   1620
<removed-apn>
              atctttgaac ttgagctatg cggcaggcgc ccccgcgagt gctctgcgga ccccccccca   1680
              tcactgtgtt aaacttcagc gcttatgggt aaatctatca aattcaaatc ttttttctgt   1740
              tatatttgtt gattcttata ttggtgaata tcaataaatt ttagacttgt gcagataatg   1800
              gattgcattg gagacaaagg actaggtgtt gtagctacga catgtaaaga tttgcaagaa   1860
              ttgagggttt ttccatctgt tccctttggg gatccagcag ctgtcacaga aaaagggctg   1920
              gttgcaatat caatgggctg ccctaagctt cactcgttac tctacttctg ccaccagatg   1980
              acaaatgctg cactcataac agtggctaag aactgcccaa attttattcg attcaggttg   2040
              tgtatccttg atgcaacaaa acctgaccct gatacaatgc agccactgga cgaaggtttt   2100
              ggcgcaattg tgcagtcttg caggcgactc aggcgcctat ctctctcggg gaaattgact   2160
              gaccaggttt tcctttacat aggaatgtat gctgagaaac ttgaaatgct gtccattgca   2220
              tttgctgggg atggtgacaa gggaatgctg tatgtgttga atggatgcaa gaagcttagg   2280
              aagcttgaga ttagagactg cccttttggc aatgtggcac ttctgacgga cgtagggaag   2340
              tatgaaacaa tgcgatccct ttggatgtcg tcctgtgaag tgaccgtcgg agcctgcaag   2400
              ttgctagcga agaagatgcc gaggttgaat gtggagatct tcaatgaaaa cgagcaagaa   2460
              gattgtagtc tggaagatgg gcagaaggta gagaagatgt atttgtatcg tacattggct   2520
              gggaaaagga aagatgcacc tgaatatgta tggactctat aggtgcattt tttaggtcat   2580
              ttaatttctt gttattcaga agtttgtact ttgcttttag ggctgactga ttaatgcaat   2640
              tttagccggg tgtagtgttt tgtaacttgc attttgctag ttttatacat atgctagatt   2700
              gctttttctc ctagttatta ttccataatg ccacttttta ctacgtatat tattagagtg   2760
              ggtatttcgc cttttatcta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2820
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2880
                                                    251

<removed-date>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaa                                                      2893
              <210>   234
              <211>   1576
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1562)..(1562)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 234
              ccacgcgtcc gggaaaatga agagagagga gaattgagtt gggttggggg catggaagaa     60
              gaagaagaag ggcttgccat gctcatcact caccttcacc atttctctca ctctctttct    120
              cctctctttt ttacccttca ccctcctcta ctctctcatc aactccccag attgtccttc    180
              tttgacattg atgattactc cttagatgac ttctgtggcc ttgtaatggc agctggaaag    240
              tcttggaagt ccaggatgtt ggagcctcta aagcatccat ctaagaagtc tcgaagagat    300
              aggagccttg gaaaatcatc tggaaggtcc tccagggatg aagctatgga acaacaaatt    360
              tggaaaaaat tgcctgagga tctatttgag cctgtgattg cacgacttcc cattgccaca    420
              tttttctgct tccgctctgt atgccagcga tggaattcct tgctgacttc tcaaagtttt    480
              tctcagcatt gtgctcaagt cccacaagca aacccatggt tttacaccgt aactcatgaa    540
              catgcaaatt ccggagccat gtatgaccct tctatgaagg aagtggtatc atcccactat    600
              atcaacactg cccgcagagt tgatagtttt gccagtggct tctgcagggg gtctagtttg    660
              ctttcttgac atttatcgtc aaaatttcta tgtttgtaac ccattgactc aatccttaaa    720
              ggagttacca gctcgttcag ttagggttgg gtctcgtgcg tctgtaggga tgacagtaaa    780
              tggaaactca actagtgctg gctacaagat cctattagtt ggttgtgatg gagaatatga    840
              aatttatgac tcagtgacaa agtcttggag ccatccagaa aacatgcctg cagatattaa    900
              gctcccgctg tcactcaatt ttaggtcaca ggccgtttct attgacagca ccctgtactt    960
              catgcattca gatcccgaag ggattgtttt gtatgatatg gcaactgggg tttggacgca   1020
              gtacataatc ccagcaccat tgcatctgac tgaccacatg ctggctgagt gcgatggccg   1080
              gatattgctt gtggggttgc tcacgaagaa tgcagccaca tgtatatgca tatgggagct   1140
                                                    252

<removed-date>
              gcagaagatg actttcttgt ggaaggaggt tgacagaatg ccaaacgtct ggtgcttgga   1200
              cttttatggg aagcacgtta gaatgacttg cttgggaaac aaaggcttgc tgatgttatc   1260
              cttgagatca agacaaatga atcgattggt tacttacaac atagcaagta gggaatgggt   1320
              gaaggttcct gcgtgtctgg tgccacatgg aagaaaacga caatgggtag cacatgatgg   1380
              aaaacgatac gaagttgtac ttcttaatgt attctttatg ctctcaggca tgctacctag   1440
<removed-apn>
              tcacccttgt ttcaagactg tttcctgtat atggaaagtg tcaaggttaa attacagtta   1500
              gtatcgttcg tcgttgacag ctgagaggct caaactgggg actgcttgtc ctgctaaaac   1560
              tntagacgtt ggccct                                                   1576
              <210>   235
              <211>   1893
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 235
              acttagatga cttctgcggc ctcggaacgg ctgctggaaa ggctggaagt tccaggatgt     60
              gggagcctct aaagcattca tctaagatgt ctcgaagaga taggagcctt ggaaaccacg    120
              cgtccggcat gttagttgcg tgggtggcaa cgtggaaaaa caagagtggg taagaatagg    180
              gaattaggga gagaaggata agagagagaa aacaggagga gcaggaatca ggcatggaag    240
              ggctggccat gctgaagcag ctcattgctc agcttcaaca cctctttgac acttaccact    300
              ctcaatcttc tctcatcttt caacaacaac accccagatg gacgacctcc cttgacattg    360
              aagataactc tgtagatgac ttctgtggcc ttgtaatgac agctggaaag tctggcagtt    420
              tcaggatgtc ggagcctgga aagcctccac ctactaagaa gtctcgaaga gatagaagca    480
              ggggcaaatc atctggaaga tcttgtacaa ctgaagttat ggaacaagaa atttggaaag    540
              attttcctga agatttattt gaggctgtga ttgcacgtct tcccatttcc acatttttcc    600
              gcttccgttc tgtctgccgg cagtggaatt ccatgctgaa ttctcaaagt ttttctcagc    660
              attgtactca agtcacacaa gaaaatccat ggttttacac cattacccat gaaaatgtga    720
              attcgggagc catgtacgac ccttctttga aaaaatggca tcatccaact atatcaacac    780
              cgcccacaaa attgattgtt ttacctgtgg cttcttctgg cggcttagtt tgctttcttg    840
              acattggtca tcgaaacttc tttgtttgta acccactgac tcaatccttc aaggagttgc    900
                                                    253

<removed-date>
              cagctcgatc agtcaaggtc tggtctcgtg ttgctgtagg gatgatggca aatggaaact    960
              ttgctggttc aggctacaag atcgtatggg taggttgtga tggagaatat gaagtatacg   1020
              actcagtcag aaattcttgg agtcgtccag gaaacatgcc tgtgggcatg aagctgccat   1080
              tgtcgctcaa ctttaggtct caagctgtct ctattggcag cacactttat ttcatgcgtt   1140
              cagacccaga cgggattgtt tcctatgata tggcaactgg ggtttggaaa caatatataa   1200
<removed-apn>
              tcccagcgcc actgcatctg actgatcaca ctctggctga gtgtgatggc caggtcatgc   1260
              ttgtgggttt gctcacgaag aatgcagcca cttgtgtatg catatgggag ttgcagaaaa   1320
              tgactctctt gtggaaggag gttgacagaa tgccaaacat atggtgcttg gacttttatg   1380
              ggaagcacgt tagaatgact tgcctgggga acaaaggctt gctcatgttg tccttgagat   1440
              caaaacaaat gaaccgattg gttacttaca acatagcaaa gaaagaatgg ctgaaggttc   1500
              ctgggtgtgt cgtgccacgt gggagaaaac gacagtggat agcatgtggt actgcatttc   1560
              atccatgcct gactgcggtg gtgtgatttc tcatctatct ctaacagcaa tggcctagca   1620
              acggcctgcc atttcccccc tccagtcttg tagttctttt gcaatttgca ggcctttggt   1680
              gttgctgtag gtaatcctaa tgttcattgc tggtgtaaca aagtagatga aaaataatat   1740
              gggtttgtag tgattcacgt tttttcatgc tctcagacat gtaaacatta ctttggtttt   1800
              gttatgaatg cctcatcctg ggaacacctt ggtaaaaggt gatataaaac tgccgttctt   1860
              ttctgtattc agagtgtgag tggttttttt ctt                                1893
              <210>   236
              <211>   2585
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1853)..(1853)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 236
              agtgaacgac tatcaactga attaaccaat tgaatcactc attaatcgat aataaacaac     60
              taacctcact aacaaatagt tttagcctca acaaaagcaa atgggtaatt tttccttttt    120
              aaaatcatgt aatactctcc caaggtggaa tgctaacctc aatcttaaga taccattgaa    180
                                                     254

<removed-date>
              attgaagcgg aacgttactg aaagatttaa tttaacacgt gtggctgtga attgagtgct    240
              agtacaacac taataataac gctgcatacc aaccacagaa acaaacaaaa aaatccagct    300
              ggcagataag aaacaacaac aaacaacagc aacagagcac gccttgcgtt gcatggtgcc    360
              gacgcggcgc acgttagccg agttgcacga atccctacat ataaaacaca ccgtttcgct    420
              gtactgattt tttttgccac tctgctgcag tgctgcttca tactttttct cgcctataaa    480
<removed-apn>
              atgtccgcca ctgcttcact ctgcgccact tccagaacaa ctttctcatc atcgaagccc    540
              gtcgcgagaa gaagctgctt cgtcgcggtt cccaaaatcg cgtttcccaa gctccgtttc    600
              aaacccgtcg ctatggctac gctcggcgct cgcatggtgg ccgccgcacc caccgtcact    660
              ccgccggcct cgctcgactt cgaaacctcc gttttcaaga aggagaagat taacctcgct    720
              ggacacgacg agtacatcgt gaaaggaggg agggatttgt tccctctgtt gcagggtgct    780
              ttcaagggga ttaagcagat tggcgtcatt ggatggggtt cgcagggacc tgctcaggca    840
              cagaatttgc gggactcgct tgctgatgca aagtctgata ttgtggtcaa ggttgggctc    900
              aggaaaggtt ctcgctcctt taatgaggct cgcgcagctg gttttagtga ggagaatgga    960
              actttgggtg acatatggga aactatctca ggcagtgatc ttgtgttgct cttgatttct   1020
              gatgctgcac aggctgataa ttatgaaaaa atattttccc acatgaaacc aaatagcata   1080
              ctgggtctgt cccatggttt tcttcttggg catttacagt caataggact tgattttccc   1140
              aagcacttca gtgtaattgc tgtctgcccg aaaggtatgg gtccttctgt caggaggctg   1200
              tatgtccaag gcaaagagat aaatggtgct ggaattaatt cgagttttgc agtccaccag   1260
              gatgtggatg gcagagctac tgatgttgct ttggcatggt ctgttgccct tggttcgcct   1320
              tttacatttg caacttcgtt agagatggaa tacaggagtg acatctttgg ggagagaggc   1380
              attttacttg gtgctgttca tggtattgtg gaatccttgt ttaggaggta cactgaacat   1440
              ggaatgagtg aagatttggc ctataacaac actgtcgagt ccattacagg aactatatct   1500
              aaaataatct cgactaaggg tatgttggct gtatacaatg ctttatctga agatgaaaag   1560
              agggaatttg agaaagcata tagtgcttca tattatccat gcatggacat tttgtatgag   1620
              tgctatgagg atattgctgc tggaagtgag attcgcagtg ttgtcttggc tgggcggcgc   1680
              ttttatgaga aagagggtct gcctgcattt cccatgggta aaattgatca gacccggatg   1740
                                                    255

              tggaaggttg gtgagcgtgt ccgttctaca aggccagctg gtgatctagg tccattatac   1800
<removed-date>
              ccatttactg ctggggtcta cgtggcattg atgatggccc agattgagat cgnctgagga   1860
              agaaggggcg attcttacct ctgaaattat taaccgagag tgtcattgag tctgttgatt   1920
              ctttgaatcc tttcatgcat gctcgtggtg tttcattcat ggttgataac tgttcaacta   1980
              cggcaaggtt gggttcaagg aaatgggctc cccgatttga ttacatccta acccagcagg   2040
              ccttggtggc tgtggacaat ggagcaccta tcaaccagga cctaatcagt aacttcctgt   2100
<removed-apn>
              cagaccaagt gcatggagcc attgaagttt gtgctcaact gagacctaca gtagacattt   2160
              ctgtgccacc agatgcagac tttgtccgtc ccgagttgcg tcagtctagc aattagaact   2220
              tgaaccaaat tcttgagcct attccttttt ggaatgctta gaatagcagc tgtcctgttg   2280
              gtttgaattt tgttcatatg gttgagtgct gtgctgtgga agtctgtatt atcactatgt   2340
              agtactgaga ttttaataat ggggaatgtt gcttaatgtg aattagaaat gagttaataa   2400
              gacaagtgaa gttcattact aggtttcaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2460
              aaaaagaaat aaaacaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaacaaaaaa aaaaaaataa aaaaaatata   2520
              aagataaaaa aaaagaaaaa aaaaaataaa aaattatggg gggggccgtt ttaagggatc   2580
              caagt                                                               2585
              <210>   237
              <211>   2099
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 237
              aagaaaggaa atctaaaatc cccgttcgat ctcacggaga cggacctctc tctcgcgcgg     60
              acgcgttgct gtagctcgct cactctcaga ctctcgcgca acccccctct cgtggacgcg    120
              ttgttgcaga tcctcgttcg ttctcgctct ctcgcgtgag tttttgaatt tgttggtcta    180
              tgtgcaggac cagccccgaa ctcctgctca atccctgtgg atcagcttgc atcgatttat    240
              ccctggaaga aagtaaacaa aatcctgtag aatagctctt tgtggctttt aaattgaatc    300
              gaggatggga gacgaagcaa gtgaagagca tcaaaggtcg ctagcagctc ctttcatatt    360
              tttcgtggtt ctcgcatttc agtttgcttc tcattggatt gatcacttta agaagagtgg    420
              atctgacaaa gaaaaagaaa ctaagttgcg tggagaaata aaagagcttt tgaaggaggc    480
                                                    256

              aagctcactg tcacagccat caacctttgc acaagcagcg aaactcaaga gactggcagc    540
<removed-date>
              tgcaaaggag agggaactgg caaagtgtca aaatttacat cacaaggatg atgctttgta    600
              ttcaaaagtt ctgctcatct caaaggtttt aacatattta attctgctta tctggttttg    660
              gagtgttcct gtctctagca tatctcaaca acttgtgcaa ccatttggga gattattatc    720
              ttggaggact ggaggggttc aaaatagcaa tattatggtt gggataatac cttggctgat    780
              agtgtctacc agggttagca gatttatttg tagactcacc tatggcaaat agattgtcat    840
<removed-apn>
              gatattcaat tcttcatcta gaatgacata aaattgctag ctgcttgggt tggtatcctg    900
              catttaaagt ggaagggaca tatgaagcat cttgaaattc gttctttcgc tccatgtctg    960
              gttgataagt tttttgagtt tcattttatt ttagtacaga cgtgtaagat ccattctgca   1020
              tatgcaagca aaatttcatg cttgtaatat gatagcatta agtctcttac aacctccacc   1080
              ctcagttttg gtctttatta aggaaatttg tctttaaatg cttatggatt aatcatattt   1140
              atttattcat ttataaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaatgaacag tttatcaatg   1200
              gcacttctcc acgaaagtga ggcaggttcc ttatcttgtt ggctttgact caaaagctgt   1260
              gtgtggcatc agaaaatgaa cagtttatca atggcacttc tccacccaaa tcttcttccc   1320
              actttcaatt ccaacactct tacctttcct tccatcaaac tcaaaccctc actctcgcac   1380
              gtgccttctc caacccccac acgcttcagt ctctctgttt ccgcggcgga aaccaccgct   1440
              tttgccgccc ctcccactcc ccaacctgag aagcttggag ttgtagttaa gccaacggag   1500
              aagccgagac ttgtgttgaa gttcatatgg atggagaaga acattggaat tgcgcttgac   1560
              cagatggtac cgggccatgg caccattcct ctgagcccat attacttttg gccccgaaaa   1620
              gatgcctggg aagagctcaa ggagttgctt gagaacaagc cttggatctc tcagaagcag   1680
              atgattattc ttctcaatca ggccactgat atcatcaatt tgtggcaaca gagtggtggc   1740
              aacttatcct gaactcattc atgtgccaac atatttcaat gatgtttttc cttttcatgt   1800
              tatgtttttc tcttgtactg cattttcggc tgtgctcttc ctctttctat gtatgcctgg   1860
              catgtgcttg attattatta ctatcaacta atccataaat tctttctcgt gattcattaa   1920
              aaaaaaaaaa aatttcctgc agccccgggg gattccccta atttctaaaa gcgcccgcca   1980
              cccgcggggg gaacctccac acttttgggt ccctcttaag ggagggttaa aatttccagg   2040
              cttgggcgaa aatcatggga ccaatagctg gtctccctgg aggggaaaat ttgatatac    2099
                                                    257

<removed-date>
              <210>   238
              <211>   686
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 238
              acgctgaaag atcagaatgg gaagaatgtg agcctctcca acttcaaagg aaaaccagta    60
              attgtgtatt tctaccctgc tgatgagacc cctggctgta ccaaacaggc ttgcgctttc   120
<removed-apn>
              agggattcat acgagaagtt caagaaagca ggagcagtgg ttgttgggat aagtggtgat   180
              gatgctgcct ctcacaaggc atttgccagc aagtacaggc ttccatttac tttgttgagt   240
              gatgagggta acaaggtgag gaaagaatgg ggagtgccag gtgatttctt tggatcattg   300
              cctggaagag agacttatgt tcttgacaaa aatggggtgg ttcagctcgt ctacaacaat   360
              cagttccaac cagaaaagca tatcgatgag accctcaaaa tacttcagag tctttgagga   420
              ttctgattct tttgtttgct atctcagctg gcttgattca gagtcagaca agtatgtaac   480
              tatgaattgt aagtttgtaa tcactgtaat tatgtagctg attttggagc ctttgatcac   540
              attcacatgg gggtgatgat gcctctccag atggaaataa tgccttcatt tgccacaaat   600
              acagtcagat tatatatgta tcttttgcac atcgtaagtt tagcttcatt gacaagtaac   660
              catccttata tttctaaaaa aaaaaa                                        686
              <210>   239
              <211>   1014
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 239
              aatgagaagc tggttcacag tcttctagtc cacttgaaat caaaagaacc accaatggcc    60
              tcttcaatat ccctcttcct cctccctctc cttcttcttc tctcacacgc ttcagaagct   120
              tcaacggtaa tattctacaa caagtgcaca tacacagtct ggcctggtat ccaagctagc   180
              tccggtcagc cgctactcgg cggcggcgga ttcaaacttt ctcctaaaag agcttacact   240
              ctccaacttc catcgctttg gtctggtcgg ttctggggcc gccacggttg ctccttcgat   300
              agatctggcc gtggtcgttg cgccaccgga gactgcggtg gttctctcct ctgtaacgga   360
              gccggaggtg tacctccagc tactctcaga gatcaccctc ggccatgacc aggactttta   420
                                                    258

              tgacgtcagc ctcgttgatg gatacaactt agctatgtcg ataatgcctg tgaaaggcac    480
<removed-date>
              agggaagtgc acctacgcag gttgcgttag cgacttgaac agaatgtgtc cggttggtct    540
              acaagtccgt tcacgtgatg ggaaacaggt agtagcctgt aaaagcgcat gttctgcctt    600
              taactcacca cgctactgtt gcaccggttc gttcggtaac ccacagacgt gcaggcccac   660
              ggcttactcc aagatcttca aagtagcttg tcctaaggcc tactcctacg cttacgatga   720
              ccccactagc attgccacgt gtaccaaagc taactacgtc gtcacttttt gcccccaccg   780
<removed-apn>
              tggccgttga ttaagatctt agcattaaat ataattaaga ataaatttat aaatttactc   840
              tgttatttgg cacgaggttt cttttgagtt attaagactt ttccagctta atgacgtaat    900
              ttactgcttt ccgatttatt gttctatcta tttttttcgt tcatctagag ctaatcacat    960
              gagatttcat ccaatcgtta ttaagacttt ttcagattaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa         1014
              <210>   240
              <211>   2072
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1897)..(1897)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 240
              ccacgcgtcc ggaaaaatat taagaaagaa aataatcaat acgacaactt tgcaattttg     60
              gtggtacgac caaggtaggt caattgccat ggacattggt ggtgaagtgg aagagaccgt   120
              gagagagttg aggcaatact tcaaaactgg aaaaaccaag agtgtgacat ggaggaaaaa    180
              ccagctcaca gctctcttag accttgttca tgagaatgaa gatgctatat ttaaggccct    240
              ccatcaagat cttgggaagc accctgttga ggcttaccgt gatgaggttg gaggggtaga    300
              aaaatccgcc agcaatgctt tgagctgcgt tgagaaatgg atggccccta aaaagagtga    360
              tatccctttt cttttcttcc cagctaaagg agaagtgttg tcagaaccac ttggtgtggt   420
              tctcatattt tcttcttgga acttcccaat catactgaca ttggatccaa taattggggc   480
              aatatctgct ggaaatgttg tagtcataaa accttcagag caatctccag caagctcttc   540
              ttttcttgcc actaccattc ctcgctactt ggactctaat gccatcaagg tgattgaggg   600
                                                    259

              aggaccagat gtctgtgaac aactactgct acaaaaatgg gacaaaatat tcttcactgg    660
<removed-date>
              aagtccacgt gtggcaagcg tagtcatgtc tgctgctgca aagaatttaa ctcccgttac    720
              tctagagttg ggtggaaaat gccctgccat tcttgattcc cttccaaatc ctttagagag    780
              taagttggca gtaaaaagaa ttgtaggagg aaagtgggga ccttgcagtg gtcaagcttg    840
              catagcaata gactatttgc ttgttgagaa gaagttccca tatgctctga tagaattact    900
              aaagaagatc attagaagat tttatggtga aaatccagtg gagtcaaagg taatttcaag    960
<removed-apn>
              aatattaaac aagcagcact ttgaaagatt atgcaatctt ctcaaagacc ctcttgttgc   1020
              ggcttccatc gttcatggtg gttcagttga cgaagaaaac ttgttcattg agcctacaat   1080
              tttgttagat cctccactag attctgagat aatggcagaa gagatattcg gcccactgct   1140
              tcctataatc acattggata aaattcagga aagtattgag tttatcaatg caaagccaaa   1200
              acctcttgcc atttatgcct tcaccaaaga tgaaactttc aagagaaaga ttctatcaga   1260
              aacatcctca ggaagtgtcg tatttaatga cacaatggtt caatttttat gtgatacact   1320
              accatttgga ggtgttggcc agagtggttt tggaaggtac catgggaagt actcttttga   1380
              cactttcagc catgaaaaag ctgtaatgca tagaaagctg ttccttgaaa ttgagccaag   1440
              gtaccctcct tggagtaagt tcaagctcga gtttatcaga ttggcataca ggctgaacta   1500
              ctttggacta ttactgcaca tgctgggctt gaaaagatac aagtagataa atacctcagc   1560
              acagtgttca tctattcctc aaatacacgt tgattaaaaa agaattaagc tttattgtga   1620
              ctgaatatga gttgtaggaa aataggagaa agggtcctta tttgcagaag ttgcacatgt   1680
              ggtgaacttt aacttggcgt tgtaataaac gaacctttgt atctcttatt tttcttgcta   1740
              gtaataggat gtttttactt ctaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1800
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ataaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1860
              aataaaataa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaanggg ggggcccttt ttaagggtcc   1920
              aaagtttaca accccgggat gggaaaaaaa tatttttttt ttggggccac caaaataaaa   1980
              tccgggggcg gggttttaaa aacgggtggg aggggaaaac ccgggggttc ccccaaataa   2040
              ttcccttggg aaaaaacccc cttttcccag gg                                 2072
              <210>   241
              <211>   3575
                                                    260

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 241
              aaggctgggg atttgatacg taagtggatt gtccatccat tatcatttat caatctgcac     60
              tctgcactct gcactgagaa gagaagcagt gatggaaagg gcggcactgg ttcgttgtct    120
              gccgtgctct tctgtgttgt gcagaagata tttacactct cactcacact tgtgtcgtcc    180
              ctcttcctct attagtatta ttccctctct ctcccttcca accataaggc ctctctgtct    240
<removed-apn>
              gccccgccgc cgctcctcct cctcctccag attgcttccc ctttacttcc gtaccaccat    300
              caacaggaaa cacttctctt ctctcgcccc gagagctgtt ctctcccctt ctccttcttc    360
              aggttttgct gaggttaatg atgaagttgc ccttaaattg gggtttgaga aagtttccga    420
              ggaattcatt ccagaatgca aatcaaaagc tgttcttttc aggcacatca agaccggggc    480
              tcaagtcatg tctgtttcca acgacgacga caataaagtc tttggaattg ttttccgcac    540
              tcctccgaaa gactccactg gtatccctca cattctggag catagcgtat tatgcggctc    600
              acgaaaatac cctctcaaag agccttttgt tgaattgttg aaaggaagct tgcacacttt    660
              ccttaatgcg ttcacctatc ccgataggac atgttaccca gttgcttcca caaatgccaa    720
              ggatttctat aatttggttg atgtctacct ggatgcggtt ttctttccca gatgtgtcga    780
              ggactttcag atttttcaac aggaaggctg gcactttgag ctcaacgatc cttccgaaga    840
              catcacttat aaaggtgtcg tgttcaatga gatgaagggt gtctactctc aaccggataa    900
              tatacttggg cgagctgctc aacaggctct tttcccagac accacctatg gtgttgacag    960
              tggaggtgat cctcgagtta ttcccaagtt gacttttgag gaatttaagg aatttcaccg   1020
              caagtattac catcctagca attcccgcat atggttttat ggagatgatg atccaaatga   1080
              gcgcctccgc atcctaagtg aatatttaga cttgtttgat tctagtttgg cctctcatga   1140
              atcaagggtt gaaccacaga cactattttc aaagccagtc cggattgttg agacatatcc   1200
              tgctggtgaa gggggtgatt tgaagaagaa gcacatggtc tgtcttaact ggttgctctc   1260
              tgataagccc ttagacctgg aaactgagct aacactagga tttttgaatc accttctgtt   1320
              gggcacccct gcttcaccac tgaggaaaat attgctagaa agtagactgg gcgatgccat   1380
              tgttggtggt ggggttgaag atgaactact ccagcctcaa tttagcattg gaatgaaggg   1440
              tgtttctgaa gatgatattc ataaggtaga agagctggtc acaagtacac ttaaaaagtt   1500
                                                    261

<removed-date>
              ggcagaggaa ggttttgata cagatgccat tgaggcttct atgaatacaa ttgaattttc   1560
              tctgagagag aacaacactg ggtcatttcc tcgtgggttg tctctcatgc tccagtccat   1620
              tggtaaatgg atttatgata tgaatccctt tgagccactg aagtatgaga agcctcttca   1680
              agacctaaaa tctagaatag caaaggaggg ctctaaatct gtgttttctc ctctaataga   1740
              gaaattcatc ttgaacaacc ctcatcaagt taccgtggaa atgcagcctg atcctgaaaa   1800
<removed-apn>
              agctgctcgt gatgaagtcg cagagaaaca gatattgcag aaagttaaag ctagtatgac   1860
              aacagaagat ctagcagagt tggcccgtgc tactcatgag cttcggctta agcaggagac   1920
              tcctgaccca cctgaagctt tgaaaactgt tcctagcctt tctctacaag atattcctaa   1980
              agaacctatt cgtgttccca ctgaggttgg ggatatcaat ggagtaaaag ttttgcagca   2040
              tgatctcttc accaatgatg tcctttacac tgaaatagta ttcaacatga aatcattgaa   2100
              gcaagagctt cttccattgg tgccactgtt ttgccaatca ttgttggaga tgggaacaaa   2160
              ggacctgact tttgtccaat taaaccaatt aattggaaga aaaactggag gaatatcagt   2220
              ttatccattc acatcatcag tgcggggcaa ggaagatcca tgtagtcaca tggttattcg   2280
              aggcaaagcc atggctggac atattgaaga cctttatgac ttggttaatt ctgttcttca   2340
              agatgtccaa tttacagatc aacagcgttt caaacaattt gtttcccaga gtagagcaag   2400
              aatggagaac cggttaagag gaagtggtca cggaattgca gctgcaagga tggatgcaaa   2460
              actaaatgca gcaggttgga tgtcagaaaa gatgggaggt ctcagttacc ttgaattcct   2520
              ccgaacactt gaagagagag ttgatcaaga ttgggccgat atctcatcat ctcttgagga   2580
              gatccgcaaa tctatatttt ccaagcaagg ctgcttgata aatgtcactg ctgataggaa   2640
              aaaccttgca aagacagaaa aagttctgag caaatttgtt gatctgcttc ctactagctc   2700
              tcccattgca acaactactt ggaatgttag acttccattg acaaatgaag ctatcgtgat   2760
              tcctactcag gttaattaca ttggaaaagc agccaacatt tatgatactg gttatcggct   2820
              taatgggagt gcatatgtta tttccaaata cattagcaat acatggttgt gggatcgtgt   2880
              acgtgttagt ggtggagctt atggaggttt ctgtgatttt gatactcact cgggagtgtt   2940
              ctccttctta tcttatcgtg atcccaattt gctgaagaca cttgatgtat atgatggaac   3000
              tggtgacttc ttaagagaac tacaaataga tgacgacact ttaacaaaag ccataattgg   3060
                                                    262

              aaccattggg gatgtagatg cgtatcaact tcctgatgcc aaaggttata gtagtatgtt   3120
<removed-date>
              gcggtactta ctgggtatca cagaggaaga aaggcaaagg agacgtgaag agatattatc   3180
              tactagtttg aaggacttca aaatttttat ggatgctatg gaagcagtta aggataaagg   3240
              ggttgtggtt gcagtggcat ctccagagga tgtagatacg gccaacaagg accgtcccga   3300
              cttctttcaa gtgaagaaag ccctttagtt tcagtatcta ttccccgcat ggatttgaaa   3360
              ttgtatcttt tcttaaaatt tcatacatcg aaacaaatgt ttccttgatt atttgtttaa   3420
<removed-apn>
              ataggttaac tggctggagc tagatacgag aatttattat tactttcgtc cctggaatat   3480
              ttttttaact aattcaaatc gtttgagaaa gttggttatt ttagttaata acattaaatg   3540
              ttaacaattt gtattatttt ttcaaaatta ttttt                              3575
              <210>   242
              <211>   627
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (619)..(619)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 242
              acgaggcctg ggccaacccc cacacgcttc agtctctctg tttccgcggc ggaaaccacc     60
              gcttttgccg cccctcccac tccccaacct gaggtgcttc tcttctctca cttttccacc    120
              ctccttttct ctttctttca atttctctca cttaattgct gtgattatta gaagcttgga    180
              gttgtagtta agccaacgga gaagccgaga cttgtgttga agttcatatg gatggagaag    240
              aacattggaa ttgcgcttga ccagatggta ccgggccatg gcaccatttc ttctgagccc    300
              atattacttt tggccccgaa aagatgcctg ggaagagctc aaggagttgc ttgagaacaa    360
              gccttggatc tctcagaagc agatgattat tcttctcaat caggccactg atatcatcaa    420
              tttgtggcaa cagagtggtg gcaacttatc ctgaactcat tcatgtgcca acatatttca    480
              atgatgtttt tccttttcat gttatgtttt tctcttgtac tgcattttcg gctgtgctct    540
              tcctctttct atgtatgcct ggcatgtgct tgattattat tactatcaac taatccataa    600
              attctttctc gtgattcana aaaaaaa                                        627
                                                       263

<removed-date>
              <210>   243
              <211>   2414
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 243
              tcagctacgt aggccccccc ccgatcgaat tcataatatc attttgcgtg ttatcaactg     60
              aactaatatt actgtataca caatttgcat gcctaacaac aaaaaaagaa aaagagaaac    120
<removed-apn>
              ctaatagagc ggagagttga agagcaagag ctagggaaag ggacaaacag cccttcggag    180
              atctcaaggg cctttccctc gttctctccg aactctcact ttgtcttctt atttgctcct    240
              tttcttctct cttccctccc caattattca ttccctcatg gccaccacgc tttattcaac    300
              gccttgtcgt tcactggcta cttcatcctc ctcttcctcg tcgttgcaac cctgccctct    360
              gtcgtctaac ctcgcttacc ctcaacgcgt caacttctca cagcgctttc tcgcctccaa    420
              ggtctctctc aaatctcaac cccaaccgta tcagattccc gttcacaccc agcagccgga    480
              aggtacagtg acagctgctg tgacccctgt tgaaaatggc acttctcaca agcagttgaa    540
              ggctgactta ttgtctctta agtccccaga tgagtctgaa gacggttttg aaaaggatga    600
              aaatgagtcc agtgttagta ttactgttgt tggagcctct ggagaccttg ctaagaagaa    660
              gatatttccg gctctctttg cgctttacta tgaggattgt ctccctaagc acttcaccat    720
              ctatggttat gcacgaagta agatgactga tgcagaactg agaaatatgg ttagcaagac    780
              cctcacttgt agaattgata agagagagaa ctgcaatgag aagatggacc aatttctaaa    840
              aagatgtttc taccattctg gtcaatatga ttctcaggaa aactttgcag cactagacaa    900
              gaagctgaag gaacatgagg gtgggagaac ttctaatcgc ctgttttatc tttcaattcc    960
              tcctaatata ttcatagatg ctgttaaatg tgcaagcttg tcagcttctt ctggtaatgg   1020
              ttggaccagg gttattgttg aaaagccttt tggccgtgat tcagaatctt cggctgcatt   1080
              aacaaaatca ctcaagcagt atctgacaga ggatcaaatt ttcaggattg accactatct   1140
              tgggaaagag cttgtggaaa atctttctgt tctccgattc tcaaatctca tctttgaacc   1200
              attatggtca aggcagtata taagaaatgt acagttgata ttctcagaag attttggcac   1260
              tgaaggacgt ggcggaattt caattacctg atggatgtca ggtcaaggtt cttcgttcga   1320
              tgagacccct acgacttgag gatgtggtta taggtcagta taagagccac actagaggag   1380
                                                    264

              gagttacata tccagcatac gttgatgata aaactgtacc aagcggcagc ttaactccaa   1440
<removed-date>
              catttgctgc agctgccctc ttcatagata atgcaagatg ggatggggta ccttttctga   1500
              tgaaggctgg gaaagcatta cacaacaaaa gagctgagat acgggtacag ttcaggcatg   1560
              tgccaggtaa tctgtacaat cggaatttcg gtactgatct tgatcgggct acaaatgaac   1620
              ttgttataag agttcagcct gatgaggcta tttatctgaa gataaacaac aaagttccgg   1680
              gtctgggaat gaagttggat cgcagtaatc tcaatcttca ctacgctgca agatattcaa   1740
<removed-apn>
              aggagattcc agatgcatat gaaaggttac ttctggatgc cattgaagga gaaagaagac   1800
              tcttcattcg tagtgatgaa ctggatgctg cttggtcact ctttacacct gtactgaagg   1860
              agcttgaaga gaagaagata attccagagt actatcctta tggtagtagg ggtcctgttg   1920
              gtgctcacta tcttgcagcc agacacaacg tgcgatgggg tgaccttggg acagacgtag   1980
              accattaacc ctcgcatttt gttgcacttc tgatcggcct aagatgttag ctattatgca   2040
              tgctattttg tggtttcttc ttggcatgca gtttcttttc tcatcagcag catggttact   2100
              tctctggtgg aagacaggta ccaggcacac acgaaaatca tacaaagcaa taaaagcatc   2160
              aaatttcaaa gtccagtaat aaagctctta gatcattgat tttttttttt tagtttttgt   2220
              tgctatttgg gacagtttgg acaagagcaa atatttcatt tagttgccaa tcgatctagt   2280
              taggtgatgt attttgattt tgcattttgc attttgtgaa acacaattaa agagaaaatg   2340
              aagaaagtta gcaagttggt atgaatctca acccattcaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2400
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaa                                                     2414
              <210>   244
              <211>   2177
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 244
              tacggctgcg agaagacgac agaaggggga cacacatggg caaaaaagaa gtgtccaggt     60
              tcatcctcct gaaccagtct ctgtcgaaga aggaaggccc tttatatata aaaacctaaa    120
              ctcgtattgt tctgagcaac ccaggttgtc tgttacggat tagcatcaaa gcaagttaac    180
              aaaatttggg tgcgtcctgg attgaccctt ttgccccctc tccctcaccc tccactaact    240
              cctccttttt ggtttttata aagcacattc ccaatagagg agggtcccta cacaacacaa    300
                                                    265

              cccttcaatg acgtccatgg ccactttctt cgcccaaacc tccttcccct cccactctct    360
<removed-date>
              ctccaaaacc ttcgataccc atttcgcccc tgccccgaaa gtcaacgtct ttgtgaactt    420
              cagggcgagg aggcacgttg gggtgcgagt ttcgaacgcg ctgatcgaac cagatggagg    480
              gaagctcgtg gagcttgtgg tgacggattt tgagagggat ttgaagaagg gtgaggctct    540
              ttcgttgccg aggatcaagc tctcaaggat tgaccttgag tgggtccatg tcctcagcga    600
              aggatgggcc acacccctga aaggcttcat gagagaagcc gagttcctcc aaacgcttca    660
<removed-apn>
              tttcaactcg ctccgactcg atgatgggtc ggtcgtgaac atgtcagtgc ccatcgtgct    720
              ggctattgat gatgcgcaga agcatcggat cggggataac aaaaaggttg ctctttttga    780
              ttccaaggga gaccccgttg caattctcaa taatattgag atttataagc atcctaaaga    840
              agaaagaata gcccgaactt ggggaaccat tgcccctggc ctaccttatg ttgaacaaac    900
              tataaccaat gctggaaatt ggttgattgg gggtgaccta gaggtcattg aaccaattca    960
              gtacaatgat ggacttgatc attttcgtct atctccgaca caactccgtg cagagttcac   1020
              aaggcgcaat gcggatgctg tgtttgcctt ccagctccgg aatcctgttc acaatggcca   1080
              tgctttgcta atgactgaca cccgaaagcg ccttcttgag atgggctata agaatcctgt   1140
              cctcttgctt catccacttg gaggctacac caaagctgat gatgtcccac ttgattggcg   1200
              aatgaagcaa catgagaagg tacttgagga tggtgttctt gatccagaga caactgtggt   1260
              atccatattc ccatctccca tgcactatgc tggacccacg ggaggtgcag tggcatgcaa   1320
              aggctaggat caatgcaggg gctaacttct atatcgttgg tcgtgacccc gccaggcatg   1380
              agccatccag ttgagaaaag agatctgtat gatgctgacc atggaaagaa agtattgagc   1440
              atggcaccgg gactagagcg tctaaacatt cttcctttca gggttgctgc atatgacaag   1500
              actcagggta aaatggcatt ctttgaccct tcaaggcctc aggacttcct gttcatatca   1560
              ggcacaaaga tgcgcacact ggcaaggaac aaagaaagtc ctcctgatgg atttatgtgc   1620
              cctggtggat ggaaggtgct ggttgattac tatgatagct tagtactctc aagcaacggc   1680
              aaagtgcagg aagctgttcc agcttaatct tgtatcatat cataatgtat atatctcatg   1740
              attgggagaa accttaagct tatgtattct cctgctaaga catacttcac gaggatcctc   1800
              tggcccaatc taataataat aataaattaa aactttgggg aggcacaagc acggacacat   1860
              tgcctctctc tgtatgtatg gcatttagac agcctcttgc acttatggtg caattgtgca   1920
                                                    266

<removed-date>
              tgccaactct ctgtaatata atgaatgtgg ttgtgctaag gatttggttt gatcaaaaaa   1980
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2040
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ggggggggcc   2100
              ccccattttg gaacctcccc cccccggaat ttatttcgga ccggggcccg gggggggccc   2160
              aatttttcct ttaaggg                                                  2177
<removed-apn>
              <210>   245
              <211>   495
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 245
              cgccacgtaa gctcggaatt cggctcgagc tcgagccgat tcggctcgag tccatggcca     60
              ctttcttcac ccaaacctcc ttcccctccc actctctctc caaaaccttc gatacccatt   120
              tcgccccatc cccgaaagtc aacgtatttg cgaacttccc ggcgaggagg cacgtggggg    180
              ttcgagtttc gaacgcgctg atcgaaccag acggagggaa gctggtggag cttgtggtga    240
              gggataattc agaaagagac ttgaagaagg gtgaggctct ttcgttgccg aggatcaagc    300
              tttcaaggat tgacctggag tgggtccatg tcctcagcga aggatgggcc acacccctca    360
              gaggcttcat gagagaagcc gagttcctcc aaacgcttca tttcaactct ctcagactcg    420
              atgatcggcg gtcggcaaca tgttattgcc catcgtgctg cctttttatg atgcccaaaa   480
              gcataagatc gggga                                                    495
              <210>   246
              <211>   2177
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 246
              ggctcgagcg aaacattgct tgcaaaaaca attcacgatc acagactttg agcgaccttg     60
              ttcatggcaa gttttctgct agaaaagaaa aagactagtt agttaggctt ttatgcaaag    120
              aacagagttc tcccaaacac ttcaatcaaa catggcttta ccagccaatg aaacctccat    180
              ggcagaaagg tctcagtggg tgctcaatgc tcctgctccc ccatccacgt ggcacaacct    240
              catggcttct gtgaggaaca caatttcatc gtaccaaaaa atgtgggctt aaataagagg    300
                                                    267

              ccaacctgga cccaaagttg tgctttcctt cttgcggagc atttttccta ttcttcattg    360
<removed-date>
              gggtcgtaat tattcaccaa ccaaattcag aaacgactta cttgcaggtc ttaccattgc    420
              aagtctctgc attcctcaga gcattgggta tgccacttta gcaaagcttg atcctgaata    480
              tggactctat acgagtgtgg tgccacctct tatctatgct ttaatgggaa cttcaagaga    540
              aatagcaatt ggacccgtgg ccgtggtatc gcttcttttg tcatcaatga ttcagaaatt    600
              aatagaccct gccattgatc caaatgggta tagaaagctt gttttcacta ccactttctt    660
<removed-apn>
              tgctggcata tttcaagctg cttttggact cttcaggttg gggttccttg tggattttct    720
              gtctcatgct gctattggtg gattcatggg gggagcagct ataataattg gtctacaaca    780
              gctgaaggga ctatttggga tcaatcattt taccaaccaa acagacatta actttggcat    840
              ggaaatcggt ttgggaatcg gttgatcatc cctggaatcc tcgcaatttt gtccttggat    900
              gttcattctt cattttcatc ctgtttacca gatttctggg taaaaggaat aagaaacttt    960
              tctggctgcc agcaatatcc cctcttgtgt cagttatgct atcaactctt attgtttttc   1020
              tgacaagagc cgacaaaagt ggagttaata ttgtgagaca tataaaagga ggattgaacc   1080
              caagctctat caatcagata gacttgaaca gcccccatat tggagcattg gccaaaattg   1140
              gactagttgt tgctgctgtt gcactcactg aatcagttgc tgttggccga tcttttgcat   1200
              ccatgaaagg ataccatcta gatggaaaca aggagatggt gtcattaggg ttcatgaaca   1260
              tcataggatg cttcacctca tgctatgttg caactggttc gttctcccgc acggtggtta   1320
              atttcacagc gggttgtgaa acattagcgt cgaacattgt gatggccatt gtggtcttga   1380
              tatcactaca atgtttgaca aagctattgt actttacccc aactgctatt ctcgcttcaa   1440
              taatcctttc tgctctcccg ggactcattg acatcaatga agcttacaaa atatggaaag   1500
              ttgataagct tgattttctt gcttgtgttg gagccttctt cggggtgctc tttgcgtcag   1560
              tggaacttgg tctgctagtg gctgggtcct atccacgctc tcctgttggg ccgcacttca   1620
              acagaaagcc ccactctcta gcaactttaa cttacgtgct tttgattagg tctaatagtg   1680
              ttgatcaggt gggtatatct tttacaaaga taatatggat ctcaattgga gcaggcacag   1740
              aaactctggg aagacttccc ggcacagatg tgttctgcga tgcacaacag tatcctatgg   1800
              ctgttaagat tcctggggtt gcaataatac gcgtcaagtc ttcattgctt tgcttttcta   1860
              atgcaaattc agtcagagaa aggatcctga aatggatatc ccgggaagaa gccaagggaa   1920
                                                    268

<removed-date>
              acatagaaga caacaccgga agcataattc agctcgtaat ccttgacacc tctaatttgg   1980
              tgagcattga cacctcagga attgcttctc ttgaggaact gcacaagagt ttggtctcaa   2040
              gtgggaagca tctagcaatt gccaatcctc gttggcaagt gatttataag ctaaaggcga   2100
              ccaactttgt cacaagaatt ggaggaaggg tcttcttgac tattggagaa gctattgact   2160
              gcaagctgga tttctga                                                  2177
<removed-apn>
              <210>   247
              <211>   2346
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 247
              cggacgcgtg gacaggtaag tcacatcaca tgagagtgta gttggtcagt ttttcacgag     60
              acaaagttct cccaaacact tcaacatggc ttcttcagct atggaaacct gcaaatcaga    120
              ggatttgcac atgcaggttg acattgagaa gaacgcgaag gacataaggt ctcagtgggt    180
              gcttaacgct cctgagcccc caagtccatg gcgtgtggtt gcagattctg tgagcaaaac    240
              tatctcccac tataaacata aactttcctc tctcatagat caaccctgca ccacactcct    300
              cctttcagtt ctgcaggtgg tttttccaat tcttgcttgg ggcagaaact acactgctac    360
              taagttcagg aaagatcttc ttgcaggtct cactattgct agtctttgta ttccccagag    420
              cattgggtat gccaccttgg cacatcttga tcctcaatat ggcctttata caagtgtggt    480
              accaccactt atctatgctg taatgggaac ctcgagggag atagcaattg gtccagtggc    540
              agtggtttct cttctgttat cctcaatgat ggagaaatta gtagaccctg ctactgatcc    600
              agtgggttat acaaagctga ttttgcttgc tactctcttt gctggtatct ttcagacttc    660
              cttcggactc ctcaggcttg gtttccttgt ggatttccta tcccatgctg caatagttgg    720
              atttgtggca ggagcagcca ttgtgattgg gcttcaacag ttaaagggac tcttaggaat    780
              tacccatttt acgaccaaga ccgacatagt ctctgtcatg aaagctgttt gggaagcagt    840
              tcataatcca tggaaccctc gaaattttat cctgggatgc tcgttcttgg tcttcatcct    900
              aacgacgaga tgtttgggta aaaggaagaa gaaactattc tggttggcat caatctctcc    960
              tcttgtatct gttgttgtgt caactctaat tgtgtttatc acaagagctg ataaaaatgg   1020
              agttaaaatt gtgaaacatg tcaaaggggg gttgaatcca agctccatcc atcagttaga   1080
                                                    269

<removed-date>
              cttcaacaac ccctacattg gagaagtggc caaaattgga ctagtggttg ctgtcgttgc   1140
              ccttactgaa tctattgctg ttgggcgatc gtttgcatcc atcaaaggat accaacttga   1200
              tggaaacaag gagatgatgt caataggttt gacaaacatc ataggatctt tcacctcctg   1260
              ctacgttgca actggttcat tctcccgtac tgctgttaat tatgcggctg ggtgtgaaac   1320
              tttggtgtca aacattgtga tggccatcac ggtgttgata tcactgcagt ttttgacaaa   1380
<removed-apn>
              gctattgtat tacactccaa cagctattct tgcttctgtg attctctctg ccctaccagg   1440
              actcattgac ctcagtgaag cttacaaaat ttggaaggtt gataagatag actttcttgc   1500
              atgcgctgga gcattctttg gagtactgtt tgcttctgtg gagattggtc tacttgttgc   1560
              ggtggtaata tctttttcaa agatcattct catttcaatt cgaccaggga cagaaactct   1620
              aggaaaactt ccgggaactg atttgttctg cgatgtctat cagtatccta tggcagttaa   1680
              ggttcccggg gttatgataa tacgagtcaa gtctgcgttg ctttgctttg caaatgccaa   1740
              tttcgttaga gaaaggatca ttaaatgggt cactgaggaa gaatcagaag atgacaaggg   1800
              aaattcaaga agcaccattc aatttctaat tcttgacacc tccaatttgg tgaacattga   1860
              caccgctgga atcactgctc tagaggaact gcataaaagt ttgtcttcac atggaaaaca   1920
              gttagccatt gcgaacccta ggtggcaagt gatacacaag ctaaaggtgt ccaactttgt   1980
              cggcaaaatc cgaggcagag tctttctgac tgttgaagaa gctgttggct gcaagagccg   2040
              ctgctaagtt ggataaccac acctgagtct tatgatgtat ctcatgtggg aaaacaaaaa   2100
              acagtgtcta atatccattt gtctttgtgg aaaatcataa cactagtgct tgtgaattgt   2160
              tcccttgtat ttccactccc aagtacgtac gttatgtacg aaatgggaca tcagaataag   2220
              tcatctcgta attcatgtta gagatgctgt gagtttctct tatgttcatg tatgtgctta   2280
              ataaaatagc aatttgaagt gacgtgtttg ttaataaaaa aaaaaaactc gagccgaatt   2340
              tcgagc                                                              2346
              <210>    248
              <211>    957
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Glycine max
              <400> 248
              atgaataaga gtgggggagg agagatgagt aagtggccgt tcacaatgtc tcagtggcag     60
                                                    270

<removed-date>
              gaactggaac atcaagcttt gatttacaaa tacatggtgg ctggtcttcc tgtccctcct   120
              gatctagtcc ttcccattca gaacagcttc cactccattt cccaaacctt cttgcaccat   180
              ccctctacca ccatgagtta ttgttccttc tatgggaaga aggtggaccc ggagccagga   240
              cgatgcagga ggactgatgg gaaaaagtgg aggtgctcca aggaagccta cccagactcc   300
              aagtactgtg agcgacacat gcaccgtggc cgcaaccgtt caagaaagcc tgtggaatca   360
<removed-apn>
              caaactatga ctcagtcatc atctaatgtg tcatcattga ctgtaactgc tggcagcagc   420
              agcagtgcaa ctggaaattt ccataacctt accaccacaa atgcatatgg taatccccaa   480
              gggactggtt ctggatcaga ccaaacccac tatcacatgg attccattcc ctatgggatc   540
              ccaagtaaag aatacaggta ttttcaagga cctaaatctg agggaggtga acatagtttc   600
              ttgtccaaaa ctttaggaag caacaaggtt cttcacatgg agtcacagat ggataacact   660
              ttgatgccaa ccagtggagt tgcctcattc tctacattga gatcaaataa taattccatg   720
              ttgcagggtg attatctgca gccttctttc ttatctagtg agtatgcctc agcagaaact   780
              gtgaagcaag agggtcagtt ccttcgacct ttctttgatg aatggcctaa aaggagggac   840
              tcatggtctg gtctggaaga tgagggatcc aaccacactc aactctcaat atccattcct   900
              atgtcagcat caaatttctc tacaactagc tctcattccc cacatggtga gatttaa      957
              <210>   249
              <211>   1309
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 249
              acctaaacta aactaaacaa aagaataata aaaaggagaa gatgatttag aattggtttg    60
              agaagagaag aggatgaata agagtggggg aggagagatg agtaagtggc cgttcacaat   120
              gtctcagtgg caggaactgg aacatcaagc tttgatttac aaatacatgg tggctggtct   180
              tcctgtccct cctgatctag tccttcccat tcagaacagc ttccactcca tttcccaaac   240
              cttcttgcac catccctcta ccaccatgag ttattgttcc ttctatggga agaaggtgga   300
              cccggagcca ggacgatgca ggaggactga tgggaaaaag tggaggtgct ccaaggaagc   360
              ctacccagac tccaagtact gtgagcgaca catgcaccgt ggccgcaacc gttcaagaaa   420
              gcctgtggaa tcacaaacta tgacacagtc atcatccaat gtgtcatcat tgactgtaac   480
                                                    271

<removed-date>
              tgctggcagc agcaccagtg caactggaaa tttccataac cttaccacca caaatgcata    540
              tggtaatccc caagggactg gttctggatc agaccaaacc cactatcaca tggattccat    600
              tccctatggg atcccaagta aagaatacag gtattttcaa ggatctaaat ctgagggagg    660
              tgaacatagt ttcttgtcca aaactttagg aagcaacagg gttcttcaca tggagtcaca    720
              gatggataac actttgatgc caaccagtgg agttgcctca ttctctacat tgagatcaaa    780
<removed-apn>
              taataattcc atgttgcagg gtgattatct gcagccttct ttcttatcta gtgagtatgc    840
              ctcagcagaa actgtgaagc aagagggtca gttccttcga cctttctttg atgaatggcc    900
              taaaaggagg gactcatggt ctggtctgga agatgaggga tccaaccaca ctcaactctc    960
              aatatccatt cctatgtcag catcaaattt ctctacaact agctctcatt ccccacatgg   1020
              tgagatttaa attaggccat gttgaatgaa accacctgaa tcctgtaatt atattgctgc   1080
              agacaactaa gaaccgcccc tttgggttct gaaaggacca aagagcccct ttagtttcga   1140
              ctctagctcc cgtgttttgt gcactttctg ttgagcaagt tgtctaccac tgtggaactt   1200
              catctggtgg gtggatttta atagaatcca tcaactttct tgttttccgt ctaatgaaca   1260
              aactacagta ttttgtcctg atttaatgga tgcaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa               1309
              <210>   250
              <211>   1495
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 250
              acgacagaag gggtcagcta cgtaggcccc cccccccaaa agcaaaccca aatccaaatg     60
              gttccttccg acaaagctcg atccgagtgt gatctcatgt ttcggctcta actatgtttg    120
              atttcgatac ccaacaagag tgtcgtgtta ttaataggac taagagtagc gcaagtagac    180
              aacagtggaa aacatgaaca tcagtggcgg aggaggaact gtgatgggtt tgagtaatgg    240
              gtattgtggg aggtcgccat tcacagtgtc tcagtggcag gaactggagc accaagcttt    300
              gatcttcaag tacatgcttg cgggtcttcc tgttcctctc gatctcgtgt tccccattca    360
              gaacagcttc cactctacta tctcgctctc gcacgctttc tttcaccatc ccacgttgag    420
              ttactgttcc ttctatggga agaaggtgga ccctgagcca ggacgatgca ggaggactga    480
              tggaaaaaag tggaggtgct ccaaggaagc atacccagac tccaagtact gcgagcacca    540
                                                    272

<removed-date>
              catgcaccgt ggccgcaacc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa tcacaaacta tgactcactc    600
              atcttcaact gtcacatcac tcactgtcac tgggggtagt ggtgccagca aaggaactgt    660
              aaatttccaa aacctttcta caaatacctt tggtaatctc cagggtaccg attctggaac    720
              tgaccacacc aattatcatc tagattccat tccctatgcg attccaagta aagaatacag    780
              gtgtcttcaa ggacttaaat ctgagggtgg tgaacactgc ttcttttctg aagcttctgg    840
<removed-apn>
              aagcaacaag gttctccaaa tggagtcaca gctggaaaac acatggcctt cgatgtcaac    900
              cagagttgcc tctttttcta catcaaaatc aagtactgat tccctgttgc atagtgatta    960
              tccccaacat tcgtttttat ctggtgaata tgcatcggga gaacacgtga aggaggaggg   1020
              ccagcctctt cgaccttttt ctaatgaatg gcctaaaagc agggagtcat ggtctggtct   1080
              ggaagatgat atatccaacc aaacagcctt ctccacaact caactctcaa tatccattcc   1140
              tatgtcttcc gatttctctg caacgagctc tcagtcccca catgataatt agagcagtcc   1200
              ttcaagattt tcagtgcaat gttatggaag gatcaaataa gtctagtagt agatgtgtgg   1260
              tccaaaggaa atcccatgtt caagtatctt cattcaagct gagctgttgt acaactttat   1320
              ggaacctcag ccatttgtta taagcaagac cataatcttc ttatttgatg gtgggtattt   1380
              gttgaacctt ggaacattct tggttttgta tctaatgaaa acataaatac ttcgtactga   1440
              atgagtttat gctgaataaa gtcactagtt ttgttcgaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa        1495
              <210>   251
              <211>   2055
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 251
              gaaaacaaga agcaataaca ctcaaaaact cctctctttt cctctcctca catttctccc     60
              tgaacctctc cccacattac tgcactgtga ggtgtctgaa atagaatagc ttcttctgtt    120
              tcatttgtta ctatatcacc caccagcacc agcctttgtg ctagctcttt gattcctttt    180
              tactcttttt tcgttttttt tttcctgttc tttccctttc ccctctgctc gatgatgaat    240
              ggaaggaacg ttgacacaaa caggttcccc ttcactcctt cccagtggca agagcttgaa    300
              caccaagccc tcatctacaa atacatggct tcaggtattt ccatcccccc tgaccttctc    360
              ttcaccatca aaagaacaac ccacttggac tcctcaagac tcttgcctca acactttggg    420
                                                    273

<removed-date>
              tggaattatt tgccaatggg attggggaga aaaatagacc cagagccagg gaggtgtaga    480
              agaacagatg ggaaaaaatg gaggtgctca aaggaggcgt atccagattc aaagtactgt    540
              gagaggcaca tgcacagagg gaaaaaccgt tcaagaaagc ctgtggaagt tttgaaaaca    600
              acaccaatga cagcagcagt ggcaacaaac acagatgcct caaccccaac aacaatctta    660
              tcaatcacca aaaacagtcc tgtactcttc ccaaccactc attctctgtc tcatgacact    720
<removed-apn>
              taccatcatc atcaccatca tcactctcac cctcagcaac attcctccca ctccttcctc    780
              tatcattctt cgaggccctc ttccggtggt gtttctttgt catttcaaga caacagtgcc    840
              cccttgtttc tcgacactgc ttcatgctct cagaataaca acaacactga ctgcaggtat    900
              gtgtatggac taaaagagga ggtggatgag catgcctttt tcacagaacc ttctggaact    960
              atgagaagct tctctgcttc ctcaatggaa gattcatggc aactcacacc actgactata   1020
              agctcctctt cctcttcaaa acagaggagt tgctctggtt tatccaatga cagcaatgag   1080
              tactcctact tgcaacttca gagcctcagt ggcaacaact caaagcatcc acagcaagat   1140
              caaagttgct acatatcagg cagtgatatc aagtgcgaaa cattcatgaa acttgggaaa   1200
              gaagaacctc agaaaaccgt tcatcgcttc ttcgatgaat ggcctcccaa aagcagagga   1260
              tcatggcttg atttggatga taaatcatcc acaacccagc tttcaatttc cattcccact   1320
              tctactcatg attttgcaac tttcagttca acaacccaac gagatggttg agtttagctt   1380
              tcaatagtgg ggtccttcag tccttgtact tgaatcaaag gccaataatg tacttacatg   1440
              gtggggttca cattatgttg tgatttgtga gatctctctt taattgctcc ccctttttcc   1500
              atctgttttc taagtgttgt tgaagctgat ttgtgtttcc atggagggat ccaatgtgtt   1560
              tgtgtgctag tatttgcttt caatgttgtg ttctttctac tctctcattt tgtgttcttt   1620
              gtggtttgag ctaacactca aagacacgtc cttttttgct tgttcatcat tctcagctga   1680
              gtacaatatt attattttgg aaaaaaaaaa agaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gcttatcgat   1740
              accgtcgacc ccagaggggg gggcccggta ccccattcgc ccctatagat gaagtcgtat   1800
              tacggcgcgg ctcacctggc ccgtccgttt tacaaacgtc cgtgactggg gaaaaaccct   1860
              ggcggttacc ccaaacttaa atcgcccttg gcagcaaaat tccccctttt cccccaacct   1920
              ggggataaat aagcccaaaa aggcccccac caccgaatcg gaccccttct ccaaacaagt   1980
                                                    274

              tgggcccagc cctgaaaagg gggcgaaatg ggaaaaattg gaaaagccgt ttaaaaaatt   2040
<removed-date>
              ttgggtttaa aaaaa                                                    2055
              <210>     252
              <211>     427
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>     misc_feature
              <222>     (300)..(300)
              <223>     n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 252
              agattggcat ggaacacaag atggaaagtc gtgttgttga tgagaggaag agggttgtta     60
              tggtcaagga agagaacagc acttcttctc ccaacagtgt tgaacttcat ctcgggtttg   120
              atgcttctca ttcgactcca caagaaataa accatgtgat cactgaagct cagaggcgtg   180
              agcttcacca tcaagttttc atcttcaacc atttggctta taatcttcct cctccttatc    240
              accttgtgca attccctagc aacatgtcag aacctcatag gtgtagaaga actgatggan    300
              agaaatggag gtgtggtaag aatgtggtgc ctaaccagaa gtactgtgaa aggcacatgc    360
              acagaggtcg aaatcgttca agaaagcctg tggaaacatc tcaagttaac tctcctttgg   420
              cacaaag                                                             427
              <210>     253
              <211>     1528
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Glycine max
              <400> 253
              tcgagtcagc tacgtaggcc cccccccccc tattttcctc ttctacttct ctacttactt     60
              tgatgatgaa tggaaggaac aggttcccct ttaccccatc acagtggcaa gagcttgaac   120
              accaagctct catctacaag tacatggctt caggcatttc cattccacct gatcttctct    180
              tcaccataaa aaggagctat tttgattccc ctctgtcctc aaggcttttg cctaaccagc    240
              cacagcactt tggatggaac taccttcaga tgggtttggg aagaaaaata gaccctgagc    300
              caggtaggtg tagaagaact gatggcaaga aatggagatg ctccaaagaa gcatacccag   360
              attcaaagta ctgtgagagg cacatgcaca gagggaagaa tcgttcaaga aagcctgtgg   420
                                                    275

<removed-date>
              aagttttgaa aacaacaaca ccatcatcaa caatgacaac aacaaacaca aactcaaatg    480
              cttcttcaac acaacaagca atctcatcaa tcaccaaaat taatagcact ctctcacctc    540
              ttgcatcatc tgagactcac caacaccacc actatcctca acactatggc tcctttctct    600
              atcatcatca ccctccttca aggtcctctg gcattggctt gtcttttgaa gacaacagtg    660
              ctcccttgtt tcttgacact ggctcatgct ctcagtccaa cacagactgc aggagtaggt    720
<removed-apn>
              atgtttatgg agagaaagag gaggtggatg agcatgcttt cttcacagaa ccttgtggtg    780
              ttatgaaaag cttctctgct tcctctatgg atgactcatg gcaactcaca ccattgacta    840
              tgagctcctc atcttcatct tccaagcaga ggagttcctt tggcttgtcc agtgattact    900
              cttgcttgca acttcagagc cactcaaagc agcagcagca agagcatcat caagatcagg    960
              gttgctacat gtttggtgct ggtcaagttg tgaaagaaga acctcagaaa acggttcatc   1020
              gcttctttga tgaatggcca cacaaaggaa gagaaggctc ttggcttgat ttggatgaca   1080
              aatcttccac aacccaactt tcaatttcca tccccacatc ttctcatgat ttttcaactt   1140
              tcagttccag aacccaccat gatggttgag tgtaggtttc caataatggg tcctctgtac   1200
              ggaaatcaaa ggccaaaaat gtacctataa gggtggggtt taagatgctt tggggtctta   1260
              tttccaacca caccctcttc ttttttcttc tgccataaag gcacttgaaa gggatttctg   1320
              tctccatgga gagatctaat gtgtaatgct atatgatgct aatgctttct tagttataag   1380
              tgcttccttc caaacatagt ataaaaaatt ctctgtgaca aagcctgaac tgtttaatat   1440
              ttttgagcta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1500
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                                      1528
              <210>   254
              <211>   1872
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 254
              atcccctttt aacagttttt tattattcac acggaaaaaa agtaagaaaa gaagcttttt     60
              tcccccttga tcatcactat cagatacaga ccctctagag aaaaaggaaa aaaaagcctt    120
              catgtgaatg tgacaatgga agctaagcct cttcgaactg ttccctcttc acacaacact    180
              tctggggtag gaggtggacc ccagaagaag attgacatgg gacacaagat ggtaggtgat    240
                                                    276

<removed-date>
              gttggtggtc ttgttgttga ttaaagaaag gggaaaaaaa gccttatgtg aatgtgacaa    300
              tggaagctaa gcctcttcga actgttccct cttcacacaa cacttctgga ggtggacccc    360
              agaagaagat tggcatggaa cacaagatgg aaagtcgtgt tgttgatgag aggaagaggg    420
              ttgttatggt caaggaagag aacagcactt cttctcccaa cagtgttgaa cttcatctcg    480
              ggtttgatgc ttctcattcg actccacaag aaataaacca tgtgatcact gaagctcaga    540
<removed-apn>
              ggcgtgagct tcaccatcaa gttttcatct tcaaccattt ggcttataat cttcctcctc    600
              cttatcacct tgtgcaattc cctagcaaca tgtcagaata cagtttcctg ggttttgatc    660
              atgggattat ggtggatcca gaacctcata ggtgtagaag aactgatgga aagaaatgga    720
              ggtgtggtaa gaatgtggtg cctaaccaga agtactgtga aaggcacatg cacagaggtc    780
              gaaatcgttc aagaaagcct gtggaaacat ctcaagttaa ctctcctttg gcaacaaagc    840
              cttgtagcaa gtcacacacc aaaccatcct caaagacaca atttgaaatt tcaagtccaa    900
              accttatcgc cattccacat attgacacat caagtacccc atcaaggagc ctcagtgtca    960
              ccaattgctc ttctgctaat aataggtcga aaaatagggc aggttatgct gactacctca   1020
              tgtcgttttc ttccgcgtcc acagtgtccc ctggaaccac tcttgccact ccagttgccc   1080
              ctaagatagc tgccttcagc agtgcgacat ccgttgttgc ttcagatagc aaaagttgcc   1140
              taaagatatg ccagaaagat aaccagtcca agagctgtat cagcaacaac atcggtgtta   1200
              aaagcggtgg gaaaggaagc attgttggtg atactaatac taatggcatc tctactggaa   1260
              taagcttctc cccaacgagt gttcttcaag tttcagtttc tggttgcaac ccttcatacc   1320
              tgaatgacgg aaccaacata gaagctgcat ccggtaggtg ccggagaaca gatggtaaga   1380
              agtggcagtg caagagtgct gttcttcctg gtcagaaata ctgtgccaca cacatgcata   1440
              gaggtgccaa aaagcgtctc acaagccatg aaccagcagc tactgctacc agttccgccg   1500
              ttaccgttgc gcggttgcct tactcttcag ccactaccaa catacagaaa gcgcattgtg   1560
              caattccaaa cacaaatctt tccatgtcag tccaagccag ggaagcattc atacaatgta   1620
              atgagaaaag tcaaagtagc agtgacactg atactactat cagtgacacc ttgaatgagt   1680
              atagctatgc ttctttctga gaagctcttt tgttttttgt tttttgaaac ttgcatcatg   1740
              tttacacgaa caaaagtaaa caagtaactt gtaacatttg aggtcagtta tgtgtggact   1800
                                                    277

              gaacaatgat ctccatgaag aaaagattaa ccacgtgttt gttgttttta atcgaaaaaa   1860
<removed-date>
              aaaaaaaaaa ag                                                       1872
              <210>   255
              <211>   1647
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 255
<removed-apn>
              atccctacca ttgagatatt tttatctatc aaacaaaaca atcatgtctt aactcctcct     60
              ccttctgctt ctctccgagg taaccgcccc cacttttttc taatgcagaa tatttccctc    120
              tctctctttc cctctttatc ttcctctttc agattcaccc tcgttttccc tctttcgcat    180
              aaataaataa ataaatataa acaccatgag cgttcctccg ccgtctacgg cggcgatgtg    240
              gacgccgttc acggcagcgc agtggcacga gctggagcac caggccctca tcttcaagta    300
              cctcaaggcg ggtctctcgg ttccccctga cctccttctc cccattcgca agagcctcca    360
              attgatatcg tctcacccat cgatggggta ttatgggaag aagatagacc ctgaaccggg    420
              tcggtgcagg agaaccgatg ggaaaaagtg gaggtgttcg agggatgcac accctgactc    480
              caagtactgc gaccgccata tgatacgacg tcgttaccgt tcaagaaagc ctgtggaatc    540
              atctcaaact cactcttctt cttctgcttc tgctgcttct tcaaattcaa accctgttgc    600
              tgctgctggt ggtggtggtt ctgttgctaa tgtttctgca actgctgcaa aaaaccttca    660
              cacacttccc ttgcacatca atggcgcaag ggaaggtttc actttcaccc ttgggaacaa    720
              caccagcacc aacaccaaca ccaacaccaa caccctccct caccttcaca tgaaccccct    780
              cactctttca gctgacaata ccaagaaaac ttacaggttt ggactgaact cagaagcaga    840
              tgagcacaac gtcttacaga aagatctggg aagtgtgagg tatcaaggtt atgactttac    900
              ctcagatgcc atgtggtctc aaatgtctca cattccatca aatactgttt cggaatcaag    960
              aatcggttct actatgctgg gcaactgctt ccagcatcaa acaatgcgag atgctgagct   1020
              gttgaatctg gaaacggcga ggaccaaaga ccttgtcttt agtggccagc taagttctgc   1080
              agggggtatg aaacaggaat atcagtctcc ccagtctctc ttcagtgact gggactggaa   1140
              gaaggattta agttcctctg cccttgagta taggcccaac aaggatttta actgcaaccc   1200
              agatgtcaat gttgattaaa atgcttcttt ataaggcttg gaaagagtgt ttttgtttcg   1260
                                                    278

              tgtcgtgata tgtcagcatc catccgaagt ccattttaat caggaactgg ttccctaccc   1320
<removed-date>
              ttttgttttt tcccaaacca atgaaaatac aagtcctcag gcagtgatga tttttcatcc   1380
              atagctttca gagacccgag ggagtcatgg tttaatttcg tgttgttctt ttatataaac   1440
              ttaaaatact tgaaggagtt atgctttctt taaatgtaaa cctgtaatag tatttgactg   1500
              tttttgttgt tcttcgttgt aatgtcatgt aatttgactc ttgtctccta tggttgtagt   1560
              cccttgattg ttagacagat tgtgctattt tcaggcagca agcaaggtca caagtatgtt   1620
<removed-apn>
              taattattgt atgaatgatt gtgattg                                       1647
              <210>   256
              <211>   862
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (753)..(753)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (771)..(771)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (805)..(805)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 256
              ggctcgagca cattttgcat ctttcaatag aagtaaatgg aggcagcagc agaagcactt     60
              ccgtgccgag cttacccttt ctgaatcccc ttttaacagt tttttattat tcacacggaa    120
              aaaaagtaag aaaagaagct tttttccccc ttgatcatca ctatcagata cagaccctct    180
              agagaaaaag gaaaaaaaag ccttcatgtg aatgtgacaa tggaagctaa gcctcttcga    240
              actgttccct cttcacacaa cacttctggg gtaggaggtg gaccccagaa gaagattgac    300
              atgggacaca agatggtagg tgatgttggt gttgttgttg ttgatgaaag aaagagggtt    360
              gttgtggtca aggaagagaa agagaacact tcttcctaca gtgttgaact tcatctcggg    420
              gttgatgctt ctcattctgc tccacaagaa ataaaccatg tgatcactga agctcagagg    480
                                                    279

              cgtgagcttc accatcaagt tttcatcttc aaccatttgg catataatct tcctcctcct   540
<removed-date>
              tatcaccttg tgcaattccc gagcaacatg tcagaataca gtttcctggg ttttgatcat   600
              gggagtatgg tggatccaga gcctcatagg tgtagaagaa ctgatggaaa gaaatggagg   660
              tgtggtaaga atgtggtgcc taaccagaag tactgtgaaa gacacatgca tagaggtcga   720
              aatcgttcaa gaaagcctgt ggaaacatct canattaact ctcatctggc nacaagccat   780
              ctagcaagtc acacaacaaa cccgnctcaa ggacacattt tgaaatttta aatccaaacc   840
<removed-apn>
              ttatggccat tcgacatagt ga                                            862
              <210>   257
              <211>   379
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (17)..(17)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 257
              gtctaatgta gacccanaac caatcataaa ccatgccttg cagacacgat ggggacccac    60
              tgtcgcaaat gcctacacca taaatggact tgccagccct ttgcattatt gcgcttctga   120
              agcatacata cacagtcaaa gtgatagcca ggccagacat atcttgctaa tactaattaa   180
              tgctgcactc aacgaagagc ttctcttcac attagaccac ctcaccctta ctgaggttga   240
              agcacatgcc atattcacca acccatttga cacatacaca ctgctactag cccctggcca   300
              aaccacaaac gcagcttctg aaaaccaagc catataatgc cgaagccaca tttcatatgt   360
              ctgctacgcc ttatttcac                                                379
              <210>   258
              <211>   524
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (448)..(448)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                    280

              <400> 258
<removed-date>
              atggacttcc agggccattg tataactgtt ctgctaaaga tacattcaag ctaaaggtca    60
              agccaggcaa aacatacctt ctccgtttga tcaacgctgc acttaatgac gaactcttct   120
              tcagcattgc aaatcacact ctcacagtgg ttgatgtaga tgcaatttat gttaagccat   180
              ttgacactga cactattctc atttcccctg gacaaacctc caatgttctt ctcaaaacca   240
              aatctcacta tcctaatgcc acattcttga tgagtgctag accatatgcg actggccagg   300
<removed-apn>
              gcacttttga caactcaact gtggctgcta tccttgaata tgaagtttca ccacacgctc   360
              ttcactcaac aacttcaatc aagaagcttt cactcttcaa gcccattctc cctgccctta   420
              atgacacttc tttcgcgaca aacttttnca acaagcttcg tacctttaca agggcttagt   480
              ttcagccaat gtaccccaga atttgataag cctttttctt caca                    524
              <210>   259
              <211>   1814
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 259
              cttcagcatt cacactaagg tgttccttgc tcgccaaaag atcatggagc ctgccaaaac    60
              cattcacaac aatgtcaaat actcccccat cttcttagcc atctttgttc tgatcttagc   120
              ttcagcattg tcttcagcaa atgccaaaat tcacgagcac gagtttgttg ttgaagcaac   180
              tccagtgaag aggctgtgca aaacccacaa cagcatcacc gtgaatggac aatacccggg   240
              cccaacgttg gaaatcaaca atggagacac tttggtcgtc aaagtcacta acaaagctcg   300
              ttacaatgtg accattcatt ggcacggtgt taggcaaatg agaacagggt gggcagatgg   360
              accagaattt gtgacttcag tgcccgattc gtccaggagg aagttacacc taccgtttta   420
              ccgttcaagg acaagaaggc acactttggt ggcacgctca tagctcatgg ttaagggcca   480
              ccgtttacgg tgctttaatc attcgtccta gggaaggaga accctaccct ttccccaagc   540
              ctaagcgcga gacacccatt cttcttgggg aatggtggga cgcaaaccct attgatgttg   600
              tgaggcaggc cacacgaact gggggagccc caaacgtgtc tgatgcatac actatcaatg   660
              gtcaacctgg tgatctttac aagtgctcca gcaaagacac caccattgtc ccaatacatg   720
              ccggcgagac caaccttctt cgtgtcatca atgctgcact caatcaacct ctcttcttca   780
              ccgtcgcaaa ccacaaactc acagtggttg gtgccgacgc ctcctacctc aaacccttca   840
                                                    281

<removed-date>
              ccaccaaagt cctcatactg ggccccgggc aaaccaccga cgtcttaatc accggcgacc    900
              agccaccttc ccgctactac atggcggcgc gtgcgtacca atccgcccaa aacgctgcct    960
              tcgacaacac cactacaacc gccatactcg aatacaaatc accgaatcac cacaataagc   1020
              attctcacca tcgtgccaaa ggagtaaaga acaaaaccaa acctataatg cctccactcc   1080
              ctgcttacaa cgacacaaac gcagtcactt ccttcagcaa aagcttcaga agccctagaa   1140
<removed-apn>
              aagttgaagt acccactgaa attgaccaga gcctcttctt cactgtgggt ttaggtatca   1200
              agaagtgccc caaaaacttc ggaccaaaga ggtgtcaggg acccattaat gggacgaggt   1260
              tcactgcgag catgaacaac gtgtctttcg ttctcccgaa caacgtgtcc atcttgcagg   1320
              ctcaccacct cggaatccct ggagtgttca ccactgattt tccggggaag ccgccggtga   1380
              agtttgatta caccggcaat gtgagccgtt cgctgtggca acctgttccc gggacaaagg   1440
              cacacaagtt ggagtttggg tcgagggtgc agattgtgtt gcaggatact agcattgtca   1500
              ctcctgagaa ccaccctatc catcttcatg ggtacgattt ctacattgtt gcagagggtt   1560
              tcgggaactt cgacccaaag aaagatacgg cgaaattcaa ccttgttgat ccacctttga   1620
              gaaacacagt ggctgtgcct gtaaatggat gggcagttat tcgatttgtg gctgataacc   1680
              caggtgcatg gcttttgcat tgtcacttgg acgttcacat tggatggggt ttggctacgg   1740
              tgttgttggt ggagaatgga gttgggaagt tgcaatccat agagcctcct cctgtggatc   1800
              ttcctctttg ttag                                                     1814
              <210>   260
              <211>   596
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 260
              ctgaatctgt aactcaatgt ccaatacgtc ctggtggaaa gtatacctat agatttaaca     60
              taacaggaca agagggtacc ctatggtggc attcccactc ttcttttcta cgtgcaaccg    120
              tctatggagc tcttatcatt cgccctagaa gaggaaactc acacccattc ccttcagttt    180
              accaagaagt ccccatattg cttggggaat ggtggaatgg taatgttgtt gatgtggaga    240
              acaacgcaat tgaaaccggt attggtccaa atttgtcaga tgcttacaca attaatggct    300
              tgcctggaga tacttacaat tgctcccaaa atcagacata ccaactccaa gtgaaacatg    360
                                                    282

<removed-date>
              gagaaaccta cctgttgcgc attatcaacg ctgcactcaa tgcacaacac ttttttaaga    420
              tagccaacca cacattcaca gtggtagcca tcgatgcttc ctacactcaa ccctacaaca    480
              ccgatgttat aatccttgcc ccaggccaaa ccgtggatgc aatcataacc acaaaccaaa    540
              ctttgggttc ttattacatg gccttcactc catatcattc cgccccaggc gtttca        596
              <210>   261
<removed-apn>
              <211>   2166
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 261
              atggaaaata agcacacaga aacaagtctc tacatgtgtg gagtccttgt tgttgtggtg     60
              tgccggaaaa caaattcaac agttcattga ataacataac catctaggtg caccttcaca    120
              ctttctcact gaagctttat agagtcatat aggttgataa ttcagagaaa agcttctatc    180
              ctactatttc tttggattcg ccacttcatc aacatgaagc tttctgtgtt ctggtttgca    240
              tgggcttttt ctcttctaat ttccatggct tctgctgcta cagtagaaca cactttcatt    300
              gttcaaaaca aggctgtcac actcttgtgc aaagagcgag tgattgtcac agtgaatgga    360
              ctttaccctg gaccaaggat agatgtccga gaaggggacg ctgtggttgt tcacgtaatc    420
              aacaagtcac cctacaatat cactattcat tggcatggag tgtttcagct ctttagtgca    480
              tgggcagatg gtcctgaata tataacccaa tgcaatattc gtcctcaaaa tagttatacc    540
              tataaattca atgttataca acaagaaggt acattgtggt ggcatgctca ctcaggagtt    600
              ttacgtgcca cggttcatgg tgctttcatc attcaccctc gttcgggtct gtttcctttt    660
              cccaaacccc acaaacaagt accaataata ttaggtgatt ggtatgacgg taatattgtg    720
              gatatttatc agcaagtact ccttctcggg gatgtaaggc cctctgctgc ctacaccatc    780
              aatggtttgc ctggtgatct ctacaattgc tctagaaatc agatgttcaa gctaaaggta    840
              aagccaggga agacctactt gctaagaatg atcaacgctg cattcaataa caaccttttc    900
              gtcaagatag ccaaccacag cttcacagtt gttgccatgg acgcttccta catcgaaccc    960
              tatgtgaccg acatcatcac catcgcccct ggccaaactg ctgacgtgct cttcaaagcc   1020
              gaccaaccca taggctcata ttacatggca gcctctcctt acgttgtggg ccagccagaa   1080
              gccctattcg acaccacgac aactcgcggc attgtcgctt acgaaggcta cacgacatca   1140
                                                    283

<removed-date>
              tcaaaaaatt attcaaagcc cattgtgcca atactcccac acttcaacga caccccaatt   1200
              gctcacaaat tttttagcaa catcacgagc ttgatggggg ccccacattg ggtcccggtc   1260
              ccacttgagg tggatgagca catgttcatc accattaaca taaaccttga aaggtgtccc   1320
              aagaatggca cgtgtcaagg tgtgtttgga cagaaattct ccgcaagcat gaacaacgaa   1380
              tcatttgtgc accccgttgg aaaaggatac tctatgttgg aagcatcgtt ttacaatgtg   1440
<removed-apn>
              agtggtgtgt atactactga tttccctgac aagcctccaa tcatattcga tttcacggac   1500
              cccaaaattg ctttggatac gaagtatttg tttacgccgc caaaatcgac caaggtgaag   1560
              aaactcaagt tcaattcgac cgtggaggtt gtgtttcaaa atacacaaat tatgaatgcg   1620
              caaagccacc ccatgcacct tcatgggttt agtttccatg ttttggctca agattttggg   1680
              aatttcaatt acaccaaaga taaatacaag tttaatttgg tgaatccaat atttcgcaac   1740
              acgattgctg tgccagttgg aggatgggct gttataagat tcaaagctaa caatccaggg   1800
              atgtggtttg tgcattgcca tgtggatgat catcagttat ggggactaga catggttttc   1860
              gaggttgaga atggaccaac tccttcaact tctctccctc caccacctgc tgatctacct   1920
              aaatgttagc tatatatttt cctggagaat gcaatcacaa aatcacatgt caatattaat   1980
              ttcccctctt ctttttcagt gtatttagta agccattttt tttaaatttc aagcaataaa   2040
              ttaataatag tttcacttaa acacaacatc aagcaagata agtaaaccag aattatctgt   2100
              aaattcttgc tataattaat taataaaagt accttactgc taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2160
              aaaaaa                                                              2166
              <210>    262
              <211>    2105
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Glycine max
              <400> 262
              ccgggaaaac tccaagtaaa cttattcata gcaatagtct tatcctatca tttagtttcc     60
              ccgcctaaac atgaagctat tctcgttttc tctagcatgt gtttttgttt ttgcccttct    120
              agcttcttcc ctggcttcag cagctatcgt ggaacacatt ttcaaagttc aaaacacgac    180
              tatcaaacgt ttttgcaagg agcaagtgat tgtgacagtt aatggacttt tcccagggcc    240
              aacgataaat gtccacgaag gtggcactgt aattgtccat gtattgaacg agggaccgta    300
                                                    284

<removed-date>
              tgatatcact cttcattggc atggagtgtt acagctcttt agtccttggg cagacggtcc    360
              tgaatatata actcaatgta caattagacc cagaagtaaa tacacatata aattcaacgt    420
              gacacaacaa gaaggaacag tatggtggca tgctcatgca tcatatttac gagcaacagt    480
              tcatggtgct ttcatcatta agcctcgttc aggccgattt ccatttccta aaccgtacaa    540
              gcaaattcct cttatattag gagacttgta taattctaga gttgaggata ttactactga    600
<removed-apn>
              agcacaggcc agtggcggac gaccaaacat atcttacgcc tttacaatca atggttttac    660
              tagcggcctt ctcattaata attgtactga aaatgagaca tttaagatga aagtccagca    720
              agggaaaacc tacatgctcc gaatgatcaa cgctgcactc aattacgacc tattcttcaa    780
              gatagcgaac cacaatttca cagtggttgc cgtcgacgcc tcctacaccg accactacgt    840
              caccgacctc atcgtcattg cccccggcca gagtgctgac gtgttattca cagcgaacca    900
              acccatcggc tcgtactaca tggttgcatc tccttacgtt gttggtctcg atcactttga    960
              cgtcaacgta ggtcgcggca cggtcattta cgaaaatgcc ccgccgtcac caaagcccgt   1020
              gatgccaatt ctacccccct tcaacgacac ggacacagct tataacaaat tctacaacgt   1080
              cataactagc aaggtggggg cccacactgg gttcctgtgc ctcgtaaggt tgatgagcac   1140
              atgttcatta ccattgggtt caacacagaa ttttgtgatt ccaagaatcc caacaatgcc   1200
              tcgtgtaagg gcccaaatgg tcaaagattt tctgccagca tgaacaacga gtcatttgct   1260
              gttcccgcgg gtgtgaagtt ttctttgttg gaagcattct atgaaaacat gagtggagtt   1320
              tacactacgg atttccctaa caagccacca gttatgttcg acttcacaaa tctgaacaac   1380
              gctaataata tgaaccttct atttgcgcct aaatcaacca aggcgaagaa actcaggttc   1440
              aattcgacgg tggagattgt gtttcagaat acagcacttc ttgggggcca gaaccacccc   1500
              atgcacattc atgggtatag cttccatgtt ttggctcaag ggttcgggaa tttccacaag   1560
              aaggataggg ctaagtttaa tttggtgaat ccgcaatttc gcaacactgt tggtgtgcct   1620
              atgggaggat ggactgtgat cagattccaa gcaaacaatc caggggtttg gcttgtgcat   1680
              tgccatatgg aagaccatgt gccatgggga ctagccatga tttttgaggt tgagaatgga   1740
              ccaactcctt caacttcagt ccctccacca cctgctgatc tacctaaatg ttaatcaggt   1800
              tgcagagtac agtactactt atgattagaa atcaacacca tctgtcgcat tttcttctgt   1860
                                                    285

              gtcataagta tatctagtgg tatctaatgt taccaaatgg catcatcttg ccagcaaaaa   1920
<removed-date>
              ataatttcta gtagaaatgt ttaggaattt ccaagtgaaa tgaccgatcg accttggaag   1980
              tcaataatat aaataatagt tattgtttta tgtggaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gcacattctc   2040
              agggtcgcag tcctcgagga gcgtctcgct atgttaaaca caataaagtt ggaactggag   2100
              ggggg                                                               2105
<removed-apn>
              <210>   263
              <211>   860
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 263
              accgggaatg gactgggccg gacccacgcg acggctcgag atttattaaa ctacattttt     60
              tgttacaaca tgaaacgttt tgtgttttct ctggcatggg cttttgctct ttttctagca   120
              tgttccttgg cttctgctgc tgttgtggaa cacattttca atgtggaaaa cattactgtg    180
              caacgtttgt gtcgtcaaca agtgatcact gccgtcaatg gaaccctgcc aggaccaaca    240
              attaacgctc gagagggtga cactgtagac tatcacgtat tcatcagcta actaggcccc    300
              cccacccccc attggcacgg aatttttcaa tttttaacac cgtggtcaga cggtcctgaa    360
              tttgcaactc aatgcccaat agcttctggt agcagttaca catacagatt taacctaact    420
              ggacaagaag ggactctttg gtggcatgca cactcatctt ttctacgtgc tacggtctat   480
              ggtgctcttc taattcggcc acgactagga cactcgtacc cgtttcctaa agtttatcaa   540
              gaaatcccta tactagttgg agaatggtgg aatgctaatg ttgtagaggt tgagcaaaat    600
              gcaacagaaa ctcaacagcc gccaattgaa tcagatgcat atacaattaa tggtttaccc    660
              agcgatctct ataactgctc tcaggatgga acataccagg tcaaagtaaa gcaaggaaaa    720
              acctacttgt tgcgcataat caactctgca ctcaataatc aacacttttt tgaagtagcc    780
              aaccatacat taaccgtagt tgccattgat gctacctata ccaatcacta cgacaccaag    840
              gttgtagtgc ttgctcctgg                                                860
              <210>   264
              <211>   615
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                    286

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (592)..(592)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 264
              attcattggc atggggtgtt tcagctgttt agtgcatggg cagatggtcc tgaatatgta    60
              actcaatgca caattagtcc gggaactaag tatacttata aattcaatgt gacacaacaa   120
<removed-apn>
              gaaggaacct tatggtggca tgctcatgca tctgttttac gtgccactgt tcatggtgct   180
              ttcatcattc accctcgttc agggcaattt ccctttccta aacctttcaa gcaagttccc   240
              attatattag gtgattggta tgatgctaat gttgtggatg ttgaaaccca agcactggcc   300
              tccggtggtc ctccaaatgt atctaatgct ttcacaatca acggcttgcc tggcgatctc   360
              ttcaattgtt ctcgaactca gacattcaag atgaaggtga agcaaggaaa gacctacatg   420
              ctacgaatga tcaatgctgc actcaataac catcttttct tcaagatagc aaatcacact   480
              ttcacatttg ttgccttgga tgctgcatat accgaccact acatcaccga aatcattgtc   540
              attgcccctg gccaaaccat tgatgcacta ttcacagcaa accaaccctt angttcatac   600
              tatatgagct gcatc                                                    615
              <210>   265
              <211>   2143
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 265
              cttcagcatt cacactaagg tgttaattgc tcataaaaaa aatggagtct gtcaagttca    60
              ttaacatgaa tgccaaacac tcctccatct tcttattagc catgatcttt gttctgatct   120
              tagcttcagc aaatgccaaa attcacgagc acgagtttgt tgttgaagca actccagtga   180
              agaggctgtg caaaacccac aacagcatca ccgtgaatgg gcaatacccg ggcccaacgt   240
              tggaaatcaa caatggagac actttggttg tcaaagtcac taacaaagct cgttacaatg   300
              tgaccattca ttggcacggt gttaggcaaa tgagaacagg atgggcagat ggaccagaat   360
              ttgtgactca gtgcccgatt cgtcctggag gaagttacac ctaccgtttt accgttcaag   420
              gacaagaagg cacactttgg tggcacgctc atagctcatg gttaagggcc actgtttacg   480
              gtgctttaat cattcgtcct agggaaggag aaccctaccc tttccccaag cctaagcacg   540
                                                    287

<removed-date>
              aaacacccat tcttcttggg gaatggtggg acgcaaaccc tattgatgtt gtgaggcagg    600
              ccacgcgaac tgggggagct ccaaacgtgt ctgatgcata cactatcaat ggtcaacctg    660
              gtgatcttta caagtgctct agcaaagaca ctaccattgt tccaatccat tccggcgaga    720
              ctaaccttct acgtgttatc aatgctgcac tcaatcaacc tctcttcttc accgtcgcaa    780
              accacaaact caccgtggtt ggcgccgacg cctcctacct caaacccttc accaccaaag    840
<removed-apn>
              tcctcatgct aggacccggt caaaccaccg atgtattgat caccggcgac cagccacctt    900
              ccccctacta catggcggcg cgtgcgtacc aatctgccca aaacgccgcg ttcgacaaca    960
              ccaccaccac cgccatactc gaatacaagt cacctcatca cagtaatcat tctcaccatc   1020
              attccaaagg agcactgaag aaaaaaacca aaccgatcat gccctcactc cctgcctaca   1080
              acgatacaaa cacagtcact gccttcagca aaagctttag aagccctaga aaagttgaag   1140
              tccccgctga aatcgaccag agcctgttct tcactgtggg cttaggaatc aacaagtgcc   1200
              ccaaaaactt tggaccaaag aggtgtcagg gacccattaa tgggacgagg ttcactgcga   1260
              gcatgaacaa cgtgtctttc gttctcccga acaacgtgtc catcttgcag gctcaccacc   1320
              tcggaatccc cggagtgttc accactgatt ttccggggaa gccgccggtg aagtttgatt   1380
              acaccggcaa cgtgagtcgt tcgctgtggc aacctgttcc cgggacaaag gcacacaagt   1440
              tgaagtttgg gtccagggtg cagattgtgt tgcaggacac tagcattgtt actcctgaga   1500
              accaccctat ccatcttcat ggctacgatt tctacatcgt tgctgagggg ttcggaaact   1560
              tcgacgccaa gaaagatacg gccaaattca accttgttga tccacctttg aggaacactg   1620
              tggccgtgcc tgtaaatgga tgggctgtta ttcgatttgt cgctgataac cctggtgcct   1680
              ggcttttgca ttgtcacttg gacgttcaca tcggatgggg tttggctacg gtgttgttgg   1740
              tggagaacgg agttgggaag ttgcaatcca tagagcctcc tccgctggat cttcctcttt   1800
              gttaggatat catttcaaaa taatcgttgg tccccaacaa ttggagtttt gcagtttcat   1860
              tttcttagtt tggaagctgg tttatgtttg cattttggga gggttttttt tttgcttcat   1920
              tgcttgtttt gattctacgt tctttttata gacagataaa ttgggtttga aacctaggaa   1980
              aggtggtgat gcggttttaa cccaaatata taccatctaa atagtcatag cccaaccagt   2040
              taaattgatg atgttatttt tccctcagag ttcatgttac aaacagattg caagttttga   2100
                                                    288

              atataaatat atcacctgga ttttattttt tttgttacaa aaa                     2143
<removed-date>
              <210>   266
              <211>   589
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (184)..(189)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (207)..(211)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 266
              ggtgttcgcc aattacggag tgcttgggca gatggacctg cctatgtgac acagtgtcca     60
              attcaaacag gccaaacttt tgtgtacaac ttcacagtca ctggccaaag aggaacattg   120
              tggtggcatg cccacatctc atggctaaga acaactcttt atggtcctat tgtcattctt    180
              cccnnnnnnc atgtgcctta cccattnnnn naaaccttta aggaagtccc tatcatattt    240
              ggtgaatggt ggaaagcaga cacagaaact gttattaacc aagcaatgca aacaggattg   300
              gcacctaatc tctcagatgc ttacaccatc aatggttttc caggttttct ctacaatggc   360
              accacaaaag ataccttcaa actcaaggtc aaggctggga aaacttatct cctgcgtctg   420
              ataaacgctg cactcaacaa cgagctcttc ttcggcattg caaaccacac actcactgtg   480
              gttgaagctg atgcagtata tgtaaagccc ttcagaacaa actatgtact aataacacca   540
              ggacaaacta ttaatgttct tctcaagacc aagtctaagg ctccaaatg               589
              <210>   267
              <211>   933
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 267
              ccacgcgtcc ggttagagaa ggagacagag tactagtcaa cgtaaccaac catgcaaaat     60
              ataacatgac aattcactgg catggaatta aacaatatcg caatggttgg gcagatggac    120
              cagcttacat tacacaatgt ccaatccaga ctggtaatag ctacacttat gacttcaacg   180
                                                    289

              tcacagggca aagaggaact ttgtggtggc atgctcatat tttttggttg agagcaactg   240
<removed-date>
              tgtatggtgc aattgttatc atgcctaaac ctgggacccc atttccgttc ccacagccag   300
              ccagagaatt tgaaattctg ctaggagaat ggtggcacaa agacgtggaa gagattgaaa   360
              cgcaagggaa tcaaatgggg ttgccaccaa atatgtcaga tgctcataca atcaatggga   420
              agccaggacc actctttcct tgctcagaga aacatacatt tgcaatggag gttgaacaag   480
              ggaagactta cctacttaga atcatcaatg ctgccctcga tgacgagctt ttctttgcca   540
<removed-apn>
              ttggtggtca caacttgaca gtagtggagg ttgatgcagt ttacacaaaa ccattcacca   600
              ctcaaaccat tctaattgca cctggtcaaa ccacaaatgt tctagtcaag gccaaccaag   660
              tagcaggaag atacttcatg gctacaagga cctttatgga tgcaccaata ccagttgata   720
              gcaaagccgc aacagctata ttccaataca aaggcattcc aaacactgtc cttccttctc   780
              ttccttctct tcctgctgcc aatgacacac gttttgcttt gagttacaac aagaaattaa   840
              gaagcctaaa cactcctcat taccctgcta atgttccact ccacgttgat cggaccctct   900
              tctaccccat ctgctcgtcc ccaaattctt gcc                                933
              <210>   268
              <211>   1573
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 268
              gtctatggtg ctcttttaat tcggcctcga gttggacact cctacccttt tcctaaagta    60
              tatcaagaag tccccatact gcttggagag tggtggaatg ctaatgttgt agaggttgag   120
              cacaatgcaa cagaatccca aacagcgcca atcccctcag ctgcgtatac aattaacggt   180
              ttacccggcg attcctataa ctgctctgaa aatcaaatgt atcagctcaa agtcaagcaa   240
              ggaaaaacct acttgctacg cattatcaat gctgcactca atgagcaaca cttcttcaaa   300
              atagcaaatc acacattcac agtggtagcc atcgatgctc tctacaccca acactacaaa   360
              actgatgttg tagtgcttgc tccaggccaa accgttgatg tcctctttag cacaaatcaa   420
              catgtggatt cttattacat ggcattcact ccataccatt cggccccaca aatcccaatc   480
              aacaactcaa caacaagagg gctggtaatt tatgagggtg ccacatcagt agaaaagccc   540
              atattgccaa atctaccggc ccaaaccgac acaccaacgg cccacaagtt ctacaccaac   600
                                                     290

              atcacagggt tggctggtgg accccactgg gtcccggtgc cacgtcaggt ggatgagcac    660
<removed-date>
              atgttcatca cttttgggct taactttgac ctttgcaaaa atgtttcaac accaaatggt    720
              tgctctgcaa ggcaacctcc actctctgcc agcatgaaca atgagtcatt tgtgttgcct    780
              cggggaaaag ggttatcaat gcttgaagca ttctataaca atgatgttaa cggagtgtac    840
              actagagatt ttccaaatca gcctccgatt gtgtttgact ataccgaccc aaacataacg    900
              agcactacag aattagcctt caaaatcgca cccaaatcaa cgaaagtgaa gacgttgaag    960
<removed-apn>
              ttcaattcaa ctgttcagat tgtacttcaa aacacggcca ttgtctctgc agagaaccac   1020
              cccattcaca ttcacggctt caatttccat gttttggctc aagggttcgg gaattacaac   1080
              gccactagag acgagcccaa gttcaatctt gtcaaccctc agatacgtaa cacaatttct   1140
              gtccccgtcg gaggatggtc cgttgttaga ttccaagcaa ataatccagg tgtttggctt   1200
              gtgcattgcc atttggaaac tcatttgccg tgggggctag ccatggcttt cgaggttgag   1260
              aatgggccca ctccttcttt atcagtgcct ccgcctccag ctgatcttcc taggtgctaa   1320
              gcgcacgcca tgcgttcatg actaaaaaca tttatagatt ggttaatgtt tatacacata   1380
              catactttca taatgtggat ttctaatatc atttgtttga ttgagaaaaa taaggtgtaa   1440
              taaaggagga aagtttggct attctttcaa ccatgtgact tgatggccaa ttgtactcta   1500
              tcaaataaca tatgttaatc tgtcattaat tatatttttt tattttctcg tggaattaac   1560
              tgtttcctgt gtg                                                      1573
              <210>   269
              <211>   325
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 269
              gtttaatgtt gacccagaag cagtcataag tcaagccttg cagacaggag ggggacccaa     60
              tgtttcagat gcatacacca tcaatggact tcccgggcct ttgtataatt gttcttctaa    120
              agatacatac acattaaagg tgaagccagg caagacatat ctgctaagac taatcaatgc    180
              tgcactcaac gaagagcttt tcttcagcat agccaaccac accctaactg tggttgaagc    240
              agatgccaga tacaccaaac catttgacac agacacactc ctcatagccc ctggccaaac    300
              cacaaacgtg cttcttaaaa ccaaa                                          325
                                                    291

<removed-date>
              <210>   270
              <211>   1165
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1050)..(1050)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 270
              gatccaaaga aaaaacaaga agctcaattg tctagttgaa gagcttcaaa acaagattta     60
              caagagaaaa aggggaaatg ggtattgctt atctcaacat gccaggcttc atgagggcaa    120
              tgtttattat gttatgtgct atgatgatat tgccggaact aacacatgca aagcatgcaa    180
              gagtcactag gcactacaag tttaatatca aaatgcaaaa cttcacaagg ctttgccaaa    240
              caaagagcat tgtaactgtc aatggacgat ttcctggtcc tagaatcata gcaagagaag    300
              gagacagaat tatggttaaa gtggttaacc acgttcaata caatgtcacc cttcattggc    360
              atggaattcg ccaactgaaa agtgcatggg cagatggacc tgcctatatc acacagtgtc    420
              caattcagac aggccaaagt tttgtgtaca acttcacagt cattggtcaa agaggaacat    480
              tgtggtggca tgcacatatc tcatggctta gaacaactct ctatggtccc attgtcattc    540
              ttcccaaaag acatgtccct tacccattcc ctcaaccttt cagagaagtc cccatcatat    600
              tgggggagtg gtggaaagca gacacagaag cagttataaa ccaagcaatg caaacaggat    660
              tggcaccaaa tatctcagat gttcacacca tcaatggtct tccaggtcct gtctccaact    720
              gcgcagccaa agaaacattc cagctcaagg tgaagcctgg aaaaacatat ctgcttcgtc    780
              tgatcaacgc tgcacttaat gatgagatgt tcttcagcat agccaaccac acccttacca    840
              tggttgaagc tgatgcagtg tatgtaaagc ccttcagcac aaagattggt ctgatcacac    900
              ctggtcaaac cgtcaacgtc cttctcaagg ccaaatccaa ggctccaaat ggcacatgtg    960
              ccatatccac aaggccctat gctacaggtc cagcttcttt tgatacacca cagccacagg   1020
              gttccttgag tacaagaaaa cttcacatgn cgagcacaag tcaaacacca agaagcttcc   1080
              tcttcttaga gcagtgttcc ctaaattcaa tgacactgtc tttgcaatga acttccacaa   1140
              caggggtcgt agcttggcca atgca                                         1165
                                                    292

<removed-date>
              <210>   271
              <211>   800
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 271
              gagtcttctg cagagcatca tccatcccat ccccaggtca taaacccaag tcggactcgc    60
              cttcctcctc gcccaactac tcctctctct cctccgcgca tcgcaccgca ccgggggtca   120
<removed-apn>
              cctgagatca catacacaat ggtgaaggct gtggctgtgc ttaccggcag tgagggtgtc   180
              aagggcacca tcttcttcac ccaggaggga gatggcccga ccaccgtgac gggaagtgtc   240
              actggactca aggaagggct ccacggcttc catgtgcacg ctcttggtga caccaccaat   300
              ggctgcatgt caactggacc acacttcaac cccgctggtc atgtgcatgg ggcacccgaa   360
              gatgaaatcc gccatgctgg tgatcttgga aatgtgacag ctggagtgga tggtgttgct   420
              agcatcaata ttactgactg ccatatcccc cttactggac caaattcaat tgttggccgt   480
              gctgttgtcg tccatggtga tgctgatgat cttggcaagg gtggacatga gctgagcaag   540
              agcactggaa acgctggtgc acgtgttgct tgcggaatca tcgggctcca gggctaagat   600
              gtcatcttcg ccgaccaacg tcgcacagat atgggaacct tttcagaatg cagatttgca   660
              atctctattc taaataagca catgatcttt gatcacttgt tagtgtgcac cagtcgtgtc   720
              aattcctatg tgttactctg aactttatcg ctgtcatttg gctatcgaga tgtgtgactg   780
              gaacaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                               800
              <210>   272
              <211>   495
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 272
              tacaatactt tgcttggtgc ttgtgctcat agggggttag gtgatgaggc tgaaatggtg    60
              tttaggacta tgaatgagag tgggattgtt cctgatatta atacttatag ttatcttgtt   120
              cagacgtttg ggaagttgaa taggcttgag aaggtttcgg agcttcttag ggagatggag   180
              tccgggggta atttgccgga tattacttct tataatgttt tgttagaggc ttatgctgag   240
              ttggggtcta tcaaagaggc gatggacgtg tttaggcaga tgcaggctgc ggggtgtgtg   300
              gcgaacgcgg ccacgtatag tgttttgttg aatttgtatg ggaagcatgg gaggtatgat   360
                                                    293

<removed-date>
              gatgttcgcc atatttttct tgagatgaaa gtgagcaaca cggaccctga tgcggtgact   420
              tataacattc ttatacatgt ttttggggag gacgtctact tttaggaggt ggttcctttg   480
              tttaatacat ggtgg                                                    495
              <210>   273
              <211>   605
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 273
              acacaagtaa ttgtcagcat taatcagcag gaatttccag aatcatacaa ataatttgca    60
              taccaatcat taattgaaag attggtatgc aattccaatc tccaagacca tttccaagac   120
              aaagtgaacc ttcatgcctc ccttttgaga tcaggcacat aagaaaaggt ccccatgaga   180
              tatctcagta aaatcagcat ttattaggca attgggcaaa tgttcctgca ttggggctac   240
              accccacaac catcatcttc ttgaagacag aaaaggctcg atctttgttt cctgacttac   300
              tatgcccacg gatgagagca ttataagtga agacatttgg ttcaagaccc ataaattgca   360
              gttcctcgaa catctttccg gcttggtcca ccattccagc atttccaaaa tgaagaatca   420
              atgcattgta agtataaagt tcaggagaaa ttcccctatt cttcatttca ctaaaaagag   480
              aaagagcttc ctccaaccta cgtgattttc cgaggccatt gatcataaga ttgtaagaaa   540
              cagtatcagg atcgaggcca gttaacttta gttcctcaaa gtagtgcaca gcatcatctc   600
              gagcc                                                               605
              <210>   274
              <211>   506
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 274
              gggatgaaat gatagaaaaa ggtgttaagc ccactttggt tacttgcaac actgttataa    60
              agggccattt gcgggctggc aatgtgttaa aggcaaatga cttcttcgaa aagatgattt   120
              tggaaggagt ttctcctgat tgcatcacgt ataatactct tataaatggt tttgtaaagg   180
              aagagaattt cgacagggct tttgtcttgg ttaataacat ggaagaaaaa gggctactgc   240
              cagatgtcat cacttataat gcaattctcg gtggatattg taggcaaggc agaatgcggg   300
                                                    294

              aggctgagat ggtgttactc aagatgattg actgtggcat caatcctgat aaatcaacat   360
<removed-date>
              acacatcatt gataaatggg catgtatctc tagacaactt gaaagaagca ttccgtttcc   420
              acgatgaaat gctgcaaagc ggatttgtgc catacgacca attctgatgc ttttaccgct   480
              gcagctcttg ttacagatac ctgata                                        506
              <210>   275
              <211>   956
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (775)..(775)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (794)..(794)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (803)..(803)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 275
              gtcaaaggaa ttgagccaaa tcttgttact ttgaacatcc ttatcaattg tttcttgcca    60
              cttgggccaa atggcctttt ctttttctag tattgggcaa aattctaaaa ttaggttatc   120
              agccgaatac cgtaaccttg aatacactca tgaaaggtct gtgtctcaag ggtgaggtca   180
              agaaatcact gcactttcat gacaaggtcg tagcacaagg atttcagatg gaccatgtta   240
              gttacgggac cctgctcaat ggactatgta aaataggaga aacgagatgc gccgtcaagt   300
              tgctgagaat gattgaagac agatcaacta ggcctaatgt ggtaatgtac aacaccatca   360
              ttgatggctt atgcaaagat aaacttgtaa acgaggctta tgatttatat tctgagatga   420
              atgctagagg aatttttcct gatgctatca cttacactac tctaatatat ggtttttgcc   480
              ttgcgggtca gttaatggga gcattcagtt tattaaatga aatgatattg aagaacatca   540
              acccggatgt ttataccttt gctatattga ttgatgcatt atgtaaagaa ggaaaggtga   600
              aagaagccaa aaatttatta gctgtgatga tgaaagaagg agtaaaacct aatgttgtta   660
                                                    295

              cttataatac tttaatggat ggatattgtt tagttggtga agtgcagaat acaaaacaga   720
<removed-date>
              tattacacgc catggtccaa acgggagtaa atcctaatgt tcgtagctac actantatga   780
              ttaatggatt atgntagagt aanaggatgg atgaggccat gaatctccta agagaaatgc   840
              tgtataaaga tatgattcct gatacagtga catacagttc tcttattgat gggttctgta   900
              gatcagggag aattacttct gccttgaatc cttttgaaga gatgcaccac agaggt       956
<removed-apn>
              <210>   276
              <211>   986
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 276
              gtctgactcc agattgtgtt acatataact ctgtaatgaa cacatatttc atacaaggta    60
              aaacagaaaa tgctttggat ctgttgaatg agatgaagag ctatggggta atgccaaata   120
              tggtcactta taacattctt attggtgggc tttgtaaaac tggtgcaatt gaaaaagtaa   180
              taagtgtttt gcatgaaatg ttagctgtgg ggtatgttcc tacacccatt attcacaagt   240
              ttctgcttaa agcatattca agaagtagaa aagcagatgc aattttgcaa attcacaaga   300
              agcttgtgga tatgggcccc gctccctacc cccccccccc caacacacta atcactgtat   360
              tatgcagatt agggatgact aaaaaagcaa atgtggtgct tacggaaatg gtgataaaag   420
              gaatttcagc tgacattgtt acttataatg ctcttattcg tggttattgt acaggcagtc   480
              atgtggagaa ggcttttaat acttattcac agatgttggt gagtggaatc tctccaaata   540
              ttactactta caatgccctt ttagaaggtc tttcaactaa tggtttgatg agagatgcag   600
              ataaattagt tagtgagatg agggaaagag gacttgtccc aaatgccact acttataaca   660
              tattggtttc tggccatggt agggttggaa ataaacgaga ttctataaaa ctttattgtg   720
              aaatgataac caaaggtttt attcccacaa caggtaccta taatgtgctt attcaagatt   780
              atgcaaaagc aggaaagatg cgccaagcta gagaactttt gaacgagatg ttgacaagag   840
              gaagaattcc taattcttca acatacgacg ttctaatttg cggatggtgc aaattgtcct   900
              gtcagccaga gatggacagg ttacttaaac tgtcatatca gaatgaggca aaaaattgct   960
              gagagaaatg tgtgaaaaag gacatg                                        986
              <210>   277
                                                    296

              <211>   2464
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 277
              cttgttcaat gttttgatta ggcagaataa ggtagttgat gctgttgttt tgtttaggga     60
              gcttatcaga ttgcggtata agcccgtgac ctacacagtc aatattttaa tccgagggtt    120
              gtgcagggtc ggagaaattg acgaggcttt taagcttctc aaggatttaa ggagttttgg    180
<removed-apn>
              ttgtttgccg gatgtaatta catataatac tctcattcat ggtttgtgtc tgattaatga    240
              ggtggataga gctagaagtt tgctaaggga agtttgcttg aatggggagt ttgcacctga    300
              tgttgttagt tacaccatga ttatttcggg ctattgtaag ttgagaaaga tggaggaggg    360
              gagtttactt tttgatgaaa tgattaattc tggaactgca cctaatacgt tcacgtttaa    420
              tgctcttatt gatggctttg gtaagttggg tgacatggct tctgcactag ccttgtactc    480
              gaaaatgctt gttcaaggtt gtctgcctga tgttgctact ttcacttctc taattaatgg    540
              gcattttcga gttaggcagg tgcaccaagc aatggatatg tggcataaaa tgaatgaaaa    600
              aaatattggc gctagtttat atacatactc tgttcttgtc agtggtcttt gcaataataa    660
              cagactacat aaagctcgtg acattttgag actgttgaat gagagcgaca ttgttccaca    720
              accatttatc tataatcctg tcattgatgg atattgcaaa tctggcaatg ttgatgaggc    780
              taataaaatt gtagcagaaa tggaggtgaa taggtgcaag cctgataagt tgacatttac    840
              cattcttatt attggacatt gtatgaaagg gagaatgcct gaagcaattg gtttctttga    900
              taagatgttg gctgttggtt gtgcaccaga tgaaatcact gtaaataatt taagatcctg    960
              tcttttgaag gctggaatgc ctggtgaagc tgcccgcgtt aaggaagttc ttgctcagaa   1020
              cctgacattg ggtactacat catcaaagaa atcttatcat gaaaccacat atgtaagtat   1080
              acctgttgct gtttagtgaa gtgctatggc aaagtgcaaa ccagtggatt gacacggcat   1140
              tccaccatta tgcctcgagt acttggtgca ggtgtttcca gcttgtggat caatggcatg   1200
              ctatcatcgg acagggtgtc tcttgtttct ggagattatc agtatttaca tttgcattgc   1260
              cattccctcc aagtttctgc tgattatttt tggacctgac attaggtata ctctatttaa   1320
              ttttgttgag ttgatttttc acttttcatg gtctcatggc tggtctcaag tccaggtaga   1380
              ggaggagggt tggatggttg tgacataaaa cttgtcaaaa tcccaaacat ggatttttca   1440
                                                    297

              tttttcctat agatttgaaa attagtttct aacatgaaat aggttttatt tagtctcttt   1500
<removed-date>
              gtttgtaaaa tgtagtgcta gtaattgata ttcttgttca tatgatagtg catttgcttc   1560
              agagtatact gaattctctt tgtaagaaat tgaataaaat gtgaaacatt tgaaaagggg   1620
              tcttaaggaa attcttttgt tcttaggctc ggtaacttac aagatagaag gtggttgtat   1680
              cgtaaaattg ttcaagatta ttgtcattca tgattgtgta gaaagattta aagacttggg   1740
              ccaaaatgca aagaaccctc tataaccaca gttcgattgc agaaaatctc ctgtggttca   1800
<removed-apn>
              aaacacaaca gcacaactcc ttgatcttaa gtaaaccgtg tattgactcc atacaggtgg   1860
              ttttatgcac ttgcagtggt taaattcact ctactctgca agacttggta agccttactt   1920
              gagttgctga gtttttttaa ccatatggga gtttttggca acatatagtt ggtacacttt   1980
              tacatttgac aaggtattta atcatggggc ttctcaacaa gatgctttta ttgagatatc   2040
              acaactggta caaagtgcgc ttcatgggta caaggatacc cctcaaccga tgagaagttg   2100
              tttactcaca aaattagact tcaatttgat gaactgagtt atttgaagac aaactggctc   2160
              catggcaatt ggaaccaaag tgtggccctc tatcaaagcc tagcaagctt aactgcggag   2220
              ctagcattgg ggtggtttct ttgatgctct gcttttagta ggttaataat cctattggat   2280
              catggttcag agtaatttct agaagggtat cgttatttgc agtttgacgc ccctttttct   2340
              ctatttgatg cactccttat aagaataaga tgtcctagat acactccttt tataagttat   2400
              ttaacgaata tcttattctt caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2460
              aaaa                                                                2464
              <210>   278
              <211>   579
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 278
              tcagctacgt aggccccccc cccaaaaact cctcacattc tcactttcac tctcagcccc     60
              catccattca aaatgttgac gatgccgttt cactctctgt attgaccaag attctcaaga    120
              ggggttaccc gcccgacacc gtaaccttga atacactgat caaaggtctc tgtcttaagg    180
              gacaagtcaa ggaagcactg cactttcacg acaagctatt agcacaagga tttcaactca    240
              accaagttag ttacgcgact ttgatcaatg gagtatgtag aataggagac acaagagctg    300
                                                    298

              ccatcaagtt tctgagaaag attgatggac gactggctaa acctaacgtg gaaatgtaca    360
<removed-date>
              acacaattat tgacgccctg tgcaaatatc aacttgtaag tgaggcttat ggtttatttt    420
              ctgaaatgac tgtcaaggga atttctgcta atgttgtcac ttatagtact ctaatatatg    480
              gcttctgcat cgtgggtaag ttgaaagaag cacttggttt gttaaatgtg atggtattga    540
              aaactatcaa cccaaatgtt tgtacctata atatactgg                           579
<removed-apn>
              <210>   279
              <211>   2903
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 279
              acgagctcaa ctgctaaact aaggtaccct ttcctgtcct tcaaacttgt cgacttgttt     60
              cctaactatt atgaacaaca ccatcaacta tgcagcatgc actatggtat agtttacttc    120
              tgagtcatca taaactgtat cttaatgctg aaaactgacg acgtgatcat ctaattgata    180
              tttcaactgt ttgctttgtc agttacaatt gggtgattgt ttgttccttc tgtattattg    240
              ttgctatata tagatagcaa attcccatga tccacgttca gcttctaaac ttcccacccc    300
              aaacataatg ttgagttatg gattttcttc ttggctgttt atttaaggat tacattttta    360
              cattttgtgc accagtttgt taataaaatg aagatttctg gagcaaatgt gactgggtgt    420
              ggggtttgcc agtttgtgta tggattttaa gaataatcca ggatgaggca tctccgttat    480
              tatgtgccgg tataattaag ccagcactcc ggcttggtct tgtagccaga atctgattct    540
              ggctagaata gtagtttgct gaggctttca gaagcagtca agaatcaaga tagatttctg    600
              agaatcagat caggtctact cattagtcat ggatagcagc aagaagggag ccctcatgag    660
              taatgaaagc gcaaaagatt tatcagtcat gcatcagtac aagaagaacc aaccaaagtt    720
              aagttctacc ccgcaagaga gacgtgatca atcccactgc cttatctgta ggggaaacaa    780
              cagttgtcaa acagttcatg caagaacaaa actgatgaat actttgattg gaaaagggaa    840
              gccacatgaa gctcaggccg tcttcaacaa cttaactgaa gaagggcata agccaactct    900
              cataacatac acaactcttg tggctgctct aacccgccaa aagcgtttca agtctattcc    960
              tgcacttctt tctaaagttg cagacaatgg gatgaagcct gattcaatac ttctcaatgc   1020
              tatgatcaat gccttttctg agtctggcaa ggtagatgag gccatgaaaa tctttcagaa   1080
                                                    299

              aatgaaggag tatggatgta aaccaacgac tagtacttat aatactctca tcaaaggatt   1140
<removed-date>
              tgggattgct ggaaggcctt atgaatctat gaaattgcta gagatgatgg gtcaagatga   1200
              aaatgtgaaa cccaatgata gaacatataa tattttcatc caagcctggt gtaccaagaa   1260
              gaaactggaa gaagcatgga atgttttgca taaaatggtg gcttctggca ttcagcctga   1320
              tgttgtaaca tacaacacca tggcaagggc atatgctcag aatggtgaga cagagagggc   1380
              tgaaaggcta atattgaaaa tgccgtacaa catagtgaaa cctaatgaac gaacttgtgg   1440
<removed-apn>
              catcataata agtggttatt gcaaggaagg caatatgcca gaagccttga ggtttctata   1500
              cagaatgaag gagcttggtg tggatccaaa tccagtagtt ttcaactctc ttatcaaagg   1560
              atatctagac actacagaca caaatggagt agatgaggca ctgacgttga tggaagaatt   1620
              tgggatcaaa ccagatgtag taacctttag caccatcatg aatgcatgga gttcagcagg   1680
              gcttatggaa aattgtgagg agatattcaa cgacatggtg aaggccggta tagaacctga   1740
              catccacgca tatagcatcc ttgcaaaagg ctatgtgcgt gccggacagc cacgaaaagc   1800
              cgaggctctt ctgacttcta tgagcaaata tggcgtacaa ccaaacgtgg tgatcttcac   1860
              taccatcatc agtggatggt gtgccgcagg caaaatggat cgtgcattta gactttgtga   1920
              gaaaatgcat gaaatgggaa cttccccaaa tttgaaaact tatgaaactt taatatgggg   1980
              atatggagaa gcaaaacaac catggaaagc agaagagtta cttactacta tggaagagag   2040
              gggtgttgtc cctgaaatgt cgactatgca actggtggct gatgcttggc gtgccattgg   2100
              tttattcaaa gaagccaaca gaattcttaa tggttcagaa gaagaatctg agctagatca   2160
              agaatttgat agtgacaaga tacaagtgca aagcttggag agtatttata agaaacagaa   2220
              actcagtgct tctccctcta atctgcttca aatacctgac gtagtggtga ctcatccaac   2280
              aagaacaact aatggaaaca taagatgcag aatggtagtc aaactatctg acaacatgcg   2340
              gaatgttacc acttccatgt tttttgttcg cacaagaagt tcatatggag tgcaaccact   2400
              gattgtaagt aggcagcaga ttcaaaatca ggttgttagg ccattccttg actgttgcag   2460
              agtagtgtca atactttgtt gaggtgactt accactgtga tgaaacacaa atcctttctg   2520
              aatagatttg gttgtttcca tgacagtaca ccatgccaat gagttcaggt ggaaaaactg   2580
              tagataccat tcatggactt cagaaatcag aacatacact tacaattttg acaaaatgct   2640
              ggtgtaattt caattgttga actgctgcta ctcgtattca gtaatcactt gccaatgaaa   2700
                                                    300

<removed-date>
              tgtgtatcct attacatcac tataaaattc gttttgtatt gttgtgtaca ctgagcattg   2760
              ttggaaaatc ttacttttat aaatagtact tataaggaaa acactgaaaa gaatagatac   2820
              catattaatc aaatgaaatt gcacgagacc aacatgctta cttagattac atatgagaag   2880
              agaccattat taaattcatg gct                                           2903
              <210>   280
<removed-apn>
              <211>   381
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 280
              atgtctcagg gaagaggcag tgcatcttta cctattgtgg tcactgtggt ttcactactg     60
              tgccttttgg ttcttttgga acgtgctgat gcagcaactt acaccgttgg aggacctggg   120
              ggatggacct tcaacactaa tgcttggccc aaaggaaaaa gattcagagc tggtgatatc    180
              ctaatcttca attatgattc aacgacccac aatgtggttg ctgtggacag aagtggatac    240
              aacagctgca aaacgccagg gggtgctaaa gtgttcagtt cagggaagga ccaaatcaaa    300
              ctagcaagag ggcagaacta cttcatatgc aactaccctg gtcactgcga atctgggatg    360
              aaagttgcca ttaatgcagt g                                              381
              <210>   281
              <211>   905
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 281
              tacggctgcg agaagacgac agaaggggga cacaatcaat cccattatta aagggataag     60
              ccttcaacct tgcaacacaa cactacaacc taaggtctgc actacgagaa tgtctcaggg   120
              aagaggcagt gcatctttac ctattgtggt cactgtggtt tcactactgt gccttttggt    180
              tcttttggaa cgtgctgatg cagcaactta caccgttgga ggacctgggg gatggacctt    240
              caacactaat gcttggccca aaggaaaaag attcagagct ggtgatatcc taatcttcaa    300
              ttatgattca acgacccaca atgtggttgc tgtggacaga agtggataca acagctgcaa    360
              aacgccaggg ggtgctaaag tgttcagttc agggaaggac caaatcaaac tagcaagagg    420
              gcagaactac ttcatatgca actaccctgg tcactgcgaa tctgggatga aagttgccat    480
                                                    301

              taatgcagtg tgatggtgct taatacttct tgagttgaag tgaaaattaa gttaatggtc   540
<removed-date>
              aattagctag cattagtaaa tgttagtgtg tgctcatgta tgtacttttt ttatatgaag   600
              ctgttatata tatttattaa tcactatagt tttgtgaagc aaagtgggag tgagctggct   660
              tggtagatca attgttccta tgtttggtat gtgttgtgta gtgggagtat aaaaatggtc   720
              cattagtcac gggctcttct tattagacat tggatctaca tattttgaag ttattgaaag   780
              tctcagagcc aattatctgt atctgtgtgt cggtgtcaca gtgtatggtt ctattactga   840
<removed-apn>
              ttttgtttgc ttcaataaat taaatttcct aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaat   900
              aaaaa                                                               905
              <210>   282
              <211>   1896
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 282
              cccacgcgtc cgtacggctg cgagaagacg acagaagggg acaaccaatt ccattattaa    60
              agggataagc ctcaaccttg caacccaaca caaccaaaat tcgctacttg ttaagggctg   120
              cactatacca gaatgtctca gggaagaggc agtgcatctt tgcctattgt ggtcactgtg   180
              gtttcactac tgtgcctttt ggaacgtgct aacgcagcaa cttactccgt tggaggacct   240
              gggggatgga ccttcaacac taatgcttgg cccaatggaa aaagattcag agctggtgat   300
              atcctaatct tcaactatga ctcaacgacc cacaatgtgg ttgctgtgga cagaagtgga   360
              tacaacagct gcaagacacc agggggtgct aaagtgttca gttcagggaa ggaccaaatc   420
              aaactagcaa gagggcagaa ctacttcata tgtaactacc ctggtcactg cgaatctggg   480
              atgaaagttg ccattaatgc gctgtgatat actagtagtg ctcaatactt cttgaaatga   540
              agtaactgtt aagttaatgg tcaattaact agcattagta aatgttagtg tgtgatattg   600
              tatgtagtct tttttttata tgaagctgtt atatatatta attactatag tttgtgaagc   660
              aagtgggagt gagctggctt ggtagatcaa ttgtgatatt atcagtatgt ggacccatag   720
              agagtaccat tatgaacaat caggaaagca tgtgattaat aaagattgaa tctgtgaatg   780
              caggattagt aacatgcagt tggaactgac attcatcaat tggtataagt atcgtgaaca   840
              cgttaagatc atcattagta aattagcata gatctgagtc taatctcttt tccccatgca   900
                                                    302

              gtcttctctt cataaccaca gctaataaca tgaatggcct ctttgatcag catcgaggga    960
<removed-date>
              tcagaagatt caggaagtcc tccattctcc atcagtgtag attcaatgaa aacagtggac   1020
              aaaccaaatg ttttctcaaa gctcatttgt gaaatcagca ttgacctctc gtattcatca   1080
              tagtctgcaa gaagtaaaaa agaaacaaga agtattttcc tcattgaaga gtctgctacg   1140
              tgtttaagta aaactggtag acaaaactag ctagctgtgc ttactgtcaa tctccctgag   1200
              attaaaaatg gcggcatcaa gttcttccct ctttgcatct ctataaagct ctgagactcg   1260
<removed-apn>
              tttggtttgc ttctttgagg ggcagcaaca gcaggatgat gattttggta atttgggcat   1320
              agatggtgga ctgtagccat aaagtgcttg tctattgaaa acacatccag ttcccacata   1380
              cataggtcct tgaatgccat caagtccttt catgttaacc tgaaagtgat caaggttgga   1440
              aactacaata agttttgtgt ccatgatttt tacttcatac aagttatgcc accattttaa   1500
              tattgttaac aaagaaaaat tatctggaca tagaagcaga taaattccaa attaattgga   1560
              ctttttatca ttcacaaaaa gaaaacacat aaaggtttga atgcttcttt gatgggtcaa   1620
              tatttcttcc acactgaggc tacaatagtt attaagtttt aaaactctta attttattta   1680
              aacttacatc aaagaaaact gtgtttcgat tggcatatcg atcactacga tctataccat   1740
              caaatctctg gggaaactgc acataacaca aatctctgcc aactactgga tccatcagaa   1800
              aacacattgc ttcccgtaca gccttgctat tgttcacata atgatcacag tcaagattag   1860
              aataagggag catttgtaga actgcaggca tgcaag                             1896
              <210>   283
              <211>   651
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (576)..(576)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (604)..(604)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                    303

              <222>   (606)..(606)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (613)..(613)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (622)..(622)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (628)..(628)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (633)..(633)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (637)..(638)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (647)..(648)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 283
              caacaacact acaaccaaaa ttcgctactt gttaagggct gcactatacc agaatgtctc    60
              agggaagagg cagtgcatct ttgcctattg tggtcactgt ggtttcacta ctgtgccttt   120
              tggttctttt ggaacgtgct gacgcagcaa cttactccgt tggaggacct gggggatgga   180
              ccttcaacac taatgcttgg cccaatggaa aaagattcag agctggtgat atcctaatct   240
              tcaactatga ctcaacgacc cacaatgtgg ttgctgtgga cagaagtgga tacaacagct   300
              gcaagacgcc agggggtgct aaagtgttca gttcagggaa ggaccaaatc aaactagcaa   360
              gagggcagaa ctacttcata tgcaactacc ctggtcactg cgaatctggg atgaaagttg   420
              ccattaatgc gctgtgatgt actagtagtg ctcaatactt cttgaaatga agtaactgtt   480
              aagttaatgg tcaattaact agcattagta aatgttagtg tgtgatattg atgagtcttt   540
              ttatatgaag ctgtatatat ataattacta tagttnggaa gcagggggag gaactggctt   600
                                                    304

<removed-date>
              ggtnanaatt gtnctgattg gnatggtngg tgngganntt aaattgnnct t            651
              <210>   284
              <211>   896
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 284
              agaaaaagtc atgtttgtgt catcaaataa caaagatagc ttagccattg ggtaggggtg    60
<removed-apn>
              gaatataagc gaaattttgt tttttgatta ttttttagtt ttgtttagtc atttgtttac   120
              ttcaattatt attattatta ttattattat tattattatt aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaact   180
              cgagactagc tctctccctc gtgccgaatt cggcacgagg tcagctacgt aggccccccc   240
              ccccccccaa aaaaacaaat ctccttcttg aactcaagga gatggctctg ggaagaggca   300
              gtgcagtggt tctactactt tgcttcttgc tgcttcactc tcagatggct cgtgctgcca   360
              cctacacagt tggagattct gggggttgga cctttaacac tgttgcctgg cccaaaggaa   420
              agctctttcg ggctggtgac acacttgctt tcaattatag ccctgggact cacaatgtgg   480
              tggccgtgaa caaggctgga tatgatagct gcaagactcc aagaggagcc aaagtgtata   540
              agtcagggac ggatcagatc agacttgcca agggacagaa ctacttcatc tgcaattatg   600
              ttggtcactg cgagtctggg atgaaaattg ccatcaacgc tgcctgagtt taataatatg   660
              gttaactacc catacatatt gtattgtaat gcaaattgca ccctttagtg ggaagttagc   720
              tcctttaaat aatgttaaga aaaaaagtag ctatgtgtgc tcttctataa atgtcactta   780
              tctataaaga ataaatgtcg gcagtcggtg atctcaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   840
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagaaa aaagaaaaaa aaaaagaaaa gggggg       896
              <210>   285
              <211>   680
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (91)..(91)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
                                                    305

              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-date>
              <222>   (627)..(627)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (649)..(649)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (654)..(655)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (657)..(659)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (664)..(664)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (676)..(676)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 285
              acaacactac aacctaaggt ctgcactacg agaatgtctc agggaagagg cagtgcatct    60
              ttacctattg tggtcactgt ggtttcacta nctgtgcctt ttggttcttt tggaacgtgc   120
              tgatgcagca acttacaccg ttggaggacc tgggggatgg accttcaaca ctaatgcttg   180
              gcccaaagga aaaagattca gagctggtga gatcctaatc ttcaattatg attcaacgac   240
              ccacaatgtg gttgctgtgg acagaagtgg atacaacagc tgcaaaacgc cagggggtgc   300
              taaagtgttc agttcaggga aggaccaaat caaactagca agagggcaga actacttcat   360
              atgcaactac cctggtcact gcgaatctgg gatgaaagtt gccattaatg cgctgtgata   420
              tactagtagt gctcaatact tcttgaaatg aagtaactgt taagttaatg gtcaattaac   480
              tagcattagt aaatgttagt gtgtgatatt gtatgtagtc ttttttttat atgaagctgt   540
              tatatatatt acttactata gttagtgaag caagtggcag tgagctggct tggtcgatca   600
              attgaacgtg catttgacta gcattantac atgttagtgt gtatattgnt tgtnntnnnc   660
              tttngtttgc tgtttntttt                                               680
                                                    306

<removed-date>
              <210>   286
              <211>   652
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 286
              actcacctcc aaaacatatc tccttcttta cttagttcaa ctcaacccaa ggagataatt    60
              aatatggctc tgggaagagg cagtgcagtg gttctactac tttgcttctt ggtgcttcag   120
<removed-apn>
              tctgagatgg ctcgtgctgc cacttataga gttggagatt ctaggggttg gacctttaac   180
              accgttacct ggccccaagg aaaacgcttt agggcaggtg acacacttgc gttcaattat   240
              agtcctgggg ctcacaatgt ggtggcggtg agcaaggctg ggtatgatag ctgcaagaca   300
              ccaagaggag ccaaagtgta tcggtcaggg aaggatcaga tcagacttgc taggggacaa   360
              aactacttca tctgcaatta cgttggtcac tgcgagtctg ggatgaaaat tgccatcaac   420
              gctgcatgac tttcttctct actcatacgc atctattcta acgcaaactg caccccttta   480
              gtgggaatca acttgtctcc tttaaataaa tggatagata taggacgtgt gtgttattta   540
              agaaaaaggg tagctatgtg tgctctccta tgtatgtaac ttattatcta ttgatgattc   600
              agaataaatg tcggcagtat atcataaaaa aaaaaaaaaa tcacgtaaaa aa           652
              <210>   287
              <211>   630
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (167)..(167)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (240)..(240)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (503)..(503)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400>   287
                                                    307

              aaaaaaaaca aatctccttc ttgaactcaa ggagatggct ctgggaagag gcagcgcagt    60
<removed-date>
              ggttctacta ctttgcttct tgctgcttca ctctcatatg gctcgtgctg ccacctacac   120
              agttggagat tctgggggtt ggacctttaa cactgttgcc tggcccnaag gaaagctctt   180
              tcggactggt gacacacttg ctttcaatta tagccctgtg actcacaatg tggcgaccgn   240
              gaacaaggct ggatatgata gctgcaagac tccatgagga gcccgagtgt ataagccagg   300
              gactgatccg accagacttg ccaggggaga aaactactcc ctcctgcatt atgttgggcc   360
<removed-apn>
              ctggcaggct ggaatgaaaa ttgccatcaa cggtggccgg gcctaatatt aggggtaacc   420
              ttccccacca tattggatgg aaaggccaat tgctcccctt aagggggaaa ttagccccct   480
              ttaatttaag gttaaaaaaa aanaaaagcc aagcgggggc cctttctaat aagggccccc   540
              ttatctaata aaaaataaat tggcccgcgg cgcgaaaaca aataatataa aacaaggttt   600
              atccatatac cccgcgaagc ctcgaggggg                                    630
              <210>   288
              <211>   776
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 288
              tctcgagccg aatcggctcg aggttttcct tgtttcccct attattatct cgctctcaca    60
              aaatcatggc attctctagt gctttgattc tgtggtcgtt gctagcaatc aacatggccc   120
              tgccaaccct cgcaaccgtc tacaccgtgg gagatacttc aggttgggca attggtactg   180
              attatagcac ttggactggc gacaagatct tttcagtggg tgatagtctc gcgttcaact   240
              atggagctgg gcacacagtg gatgaagtta aagagagcga ttacaagtcg tgcaccgcag   300
              ggaattctat tagcacagac agtagtggtg cgaccacaat tgcccttaaa agtgcaggca   360
              ctcattactt catatgttct gttcctggac attgttctgg cggtatgaaa cttgccgtca   420
              ctgtcaaatc aggaaaagcc tctgatgcca cacccactac ttccactact accgccacta   480
              aatcaaactc gtcttcagcg agtagtgtct caccaattgt tgctatgttc attgtttcct   540
              cgatctctta ctatgttttg cgtatgctat aagtttcccc actcagtcag gacagaggca   600
              gtgctttctt tctttcttat attattatca ctctgttttc tggtttgatt tatctctgag   660
              tactaatcca ggtcacttgt tgtcgtgtat taattatcta aaaaaaatcc catgtttgtc   720
                                                    308

              tttcattctt tttttttaat atatgcttgt ttttatggtg aagagaaaca catgag        776
<removed-date>
              <210>   289
              <211>   1282
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 289
              cacgcgtccg ccttcttgaa ctcaagagat ggctctggga agaggcagtg cagtggttct     60
<removed-apn>
              actactttgc ttcttgctgc ttcactctca gatggctcgt gctgccacct acacagttgg    120
              agattctggg ggttggacct ttaacactgt tgcctggccc aaaggaaagc tctttcgggc    180
              tggtgacaca cttggtcagt tccaattatt ctatctcata aatccctctt aagttctttt    240
              catttctcaa ttccctacca cccactaatt gatacctcaa ttctttgttt taaagaaatt    300
              tataatacct caaatctgat tctaattaat ataaaaatat tttgttttaa tttaacttgg    360
              taagttaaaa aaattatttt ggttattaaa gtattttttg ttagactaat taaactgatc    420
              cttttgtcag attgtatatc aataatatta attttaactg acgtgataaa tattgatgat    480
              aaatactgat gtgacataac attttatagt ttgtcacgtg tgactaaatt gattacatga    540
              gtgtaataaa ttgataataa aagtgactta attatataga taagtgaaga gtgtgttact    600
              taatttttat tattaggtaa aattaataca agtctcttaa aaatatgtga agagtttgtt    660
              acagtgtctt ccatacagta tataacacat ggaagaagtt tcatttttta taattctttt    720
              atatagctaa cttttgaaag catgtgatac attttggtgt atggggtgca tcagctttca    780
              attatagccc tgggactcac aatgtggtgg ccgtgaacaa ggctggatat gatagctgca    840
              agactccaag aggagccaaa gtgtataagt cagggacgga tcagatcaga cttgccaagg    900
              gacagaacta cttcatctgc aattatgttg gtcactgcga gtctgggatg aaaattgcca    960
              tcaacgctgc ctgagtttaa taatatggtt aacttcccat acatattgta ttgtaatgca   1020
              aattgcaccc tttagtggga agttagctcc tttaaataat gttaagaaaa aaagtagcta   1080
              tgtgtgctct tctataaatg tcacttatct ataaagaata aatgtcggca gtcggtgatc   1140
              tctctctctc tccctctcta ctcctgtgtg taggtcttac atcagaactt ataagtttag   1200
              tataatacaa acttgcttag gtcactttca ttttcacaca ctaaaaaaca acttaaatat   1260
              aattattgaa tcatttggta at                                            1282
                                                    309

<removed-date>
              <210>   290
              <211>   2075
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 290
              ctcgagccga atcggctcga gcggctcgag ccttaaccat cactggcaca taggtgttta     60
              ttgctacaca ctagaagaat tatggaagct ctcaagaccc tcttcttagc catttttgtt    120
<removed-apn>
              gtcttggctt ccgcattgta ttcagccaat gccaaaatcc aggagcatga atttgttatt    180
              caagcaacgc cagtgaagag gctgtgcaac acccacagca ccatcacagt gaatggacaa    240
              ttccctggtc caacattgga agtcaacaat ggtgacactt tggtcgtcaa agtcactaac    300
              aaagctcgtt acaatgtgac tattcactgg catggaattc ggcaaatgag aacaggatgg    360
              gctgatggac cagaatttgt gactcagtgc cctattcgtc ctggagaaag ttacacctat    420
              cgttttacca ttcaaggaca agaaggaaca ctttggtggc atgctcatag ctcatggcta    480
              agagccactg tttatggtgc tttaatcatt caccccaggg agggagaggc gtatcctttc    540
              actaagccaa agcgcgagac tccaattctt cttggggagt ggtgggacgc aaacccgatc    600
              gatgttgtga gacaagcttc acaaacagga gcagcaccta atatttctga tgcatacacc    660
              atcaatggtc aacctggcga tctttacaag tgttctagcc aaggcaccac cattgttcca    720
              atagattctg gcgagacaaa cctcctaaga gtgatcaatg cagcactgaa ccaacccttg    780
              ttcttcacag tggccaacca caagctcaca gtggttggtg ccgatgcctc ctaccttaaa    840
              cccttcacca ccaacgtcat catgctggga ccaggccaaa ccaccgatgt cctcatccaa    900
              ggtgaccaac ctcccacacg ctactacatg gccgcacgtg cctaccaatc cgcccaaaac    960
              gcaccgtttg acaacaccac taccaccgcc attctcgaat ataaatccgc accgtgcccc   1020
              gccaagggtt cttcgatcaa acccgttatg ccgtctctcc cagcctacaa cgacaccaac   1080
              acagtcactg ctttcagcaa aagcttcaga agccccagaa aagttgaagt ccccgcagaa   1140
              attgatgaca atcttttctt caccattggc cttggactca acaattgccc gaaaaatttc   1200
              aatgcgaacc aatgccaggg accgaatgga acgcgtttca ctgccagcat gaacaatgtc   1260
              tcgtttgttc tcccaaacaa cgtttcaatc ttgcaggctc atcaccttgg tgtgcaagga   1320
              gtgttcacca ctgattttcc tacgcaacct cctgtcaagt ttgattacac tggtaatgtg   1380
                                                    310

              agtcgttctc tgtggcaacc tgttcaaggg accaaagtga ccaagttgaa gtttggatcg   1440
<removed-date>
              agggtgcaga ttgtgttgca ggatactagc attgtgaccc ctgagaacca ccccattcac   1500
              cttcatgggt atgatttcta catcgtggct gaggggtttg ggaattttga tccgaacaaa   1560
              gatacttcca agttcaacct tgttgatcca cctatgagga acactgtggc tgtgccagtg   1620
              aatggatggg cagttatcag atttgttgct gacaacccag gagcttggat catgcattgt   1680
              cacttggatg ttcacatcgg atggggtttg gccgctgtgc ttttggtgga taatggagta   1740
<removed-apn>
              ggcctgttgc aatccataga gccccctcct gaggatctgc ctctatgtta ggataatcaa   1800
              aatcaaaatt attgaatttg ttaccatagt tcagttccaa aattttccta gttcattgtt   1860
              gtttccctgt attggaggta tttctccttt tgcttttatt ttgttgttct tttcatatag   1920
              agataacccg ggtttaaaag agacggtggt gtgtgatttc aacacggaat gccatcttat   1980
              atggtcacaa gcccgattga ttaaattgat gtcggttgtt ttcttcccct tgtggttaat   2040
              gttattaaga aagatgattt tgactaaaaa aaaaa                              2075
              <210>   291
              <211>   2344
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 291
              ccacgcgtcc ggtctaaaag tagctgcact ttagaacaaa tcagctacgt aggccccccc     60
              ccccttcaca gcccaagaaa ctccattaaa caaaaccaga gcaacaatga agactttcca    120
              actctctggt aagttatgtt gctcttggtt cttacttggc ctgcttgctc ttattggttc    180
              ccttgcttca gctacagaga ttcatttcca tgaatttgtc attcaagcta agccagtgag    240
              gaggctgtgc aaaacccaaa acataatcac tgtcaatggg cagttcccag ggccaacagt    300
              ggaagctaga aacggggatt ttgttgtaat caaagtagta aatgcagcac agtacaacat    360
              ctccatccac tggcatgggt taaggatgct gagaaatcca tgggcagatg gaccaagtta    420
              tgtgactcag tgtcccatcc aaccaggggg aagttataca taccgattta gaatcaggga    480
              ccaggaaggg acactatggt ggcatgctca caccggcttc ctaagagcca ctgtttatgg    540
              agctttcatc atctatccta gattgggttc tccttatccc ttctctatgc ctaagcaaga    600
              agttcccctc cttcttgggg aatggtttga tacggatctt gtgcttctcc aaaggcaggc    660
                                                       311

              agattttgca ggattacctc caaatacatc tgttgcatac accattaatg ggcaacctgg    720
<removed-date>
              tgatctgtac agatgctcaa gccaagaaac tgttcgtgtt ccagtagatg ctggggagac    780
              aattatgttg agaatcatca gcagtacact taatcaagaa ctcttcttct ccattgccaa    840
              ccacacaatg actgttgttg gtacggatgc tgcatatact aagcccttca aaaccacagt    900
              cctcatgata ggacctggtc agacattcaa tgtcatagtc actgctgatc aacccccagg    960
              tttctactac atggcggcac atgcctatga atcagctgta aatgctccct ttgacaatac   1020
<removed-apn>
              caccaccact gcaatccttg aatacagatc tactagacgc agaaaccaaa acagatcaag   1080
              accagttttg ccagctttgc cagccttcaa tgataccccc actgcaactg cattcactgc   1140
              taggatcagg ggtcttaccc gggttagagt ctttaagaaa gttgatgtga atctatattt   1200
              catagtggga ttggggttaa tcaactgtac taatcctaat agtccccggt gtcaaggacc   1260
              aaatggaacc cgcttcacag ccagcatgaa taatgtatct tttgtactcc caagtactac   1320
              ctccttaatg caagcctact atgaaggaat acccggtgtc ttcaccacag actttccccc   1380
              cgttccccct ttacaatttg attacactgg caatgtgcca ccggggctat ggacaccttc   1440
              tcgaggaact aagctctaca aggtgaagta tggctccaag gtgcaaattg ttctgcagga   1500
              cacaagcata gtgactactg aggaacaccc tatgcatgtt catggattcc acttctttgt   1560
              agttggttca ggttttggca acttcaaccc agcaactgat cccctcaagt tcaaccttgt   1620
              agacccaccc gtgaggaaca ccattggaac acctcctgga ggatgggtgg ccattcgttt   1680
              tgtggctgac aatccaggaa tttggtttgt ccattgtcac atagactcac atctgaattg   1740
              gggtttggga atggcacttc tggtagaaaa tggagttggc ctttcacagt cagtattacc   1800
              tccaccacca gatctacccc aatgttaagg ttaatgaagc atcattagtt aataaattta   1860
              ttgttctgta ttacaagttc tacaagaatt tgccaaacaa acagtatggc tttctgcagt   1920
              ttccaatacc agaattagat tatgcttaat tgagctgtat gttggcggta tgttgattag   1980
              gtggcattgc aaacctatac taacaaaaat aaaatttaaa tgatttcttt tcattactac   2040
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaatg ccacagtgtt aagaccaaga aagcatcatt agtcaaaaaa   2100
              agttatttaa tttcctcaat tattggcttg ttgttctagt gttttaccag gtctttaaat   2160
              acttgcaaaa tagacagtat ttgtcctgta tttcaaggtc cagaattgga ccatgctcaa   2220
              ttgagcagct atgtttgtgt ttttcttgat tgagtgcaag gtgatagtgc ttttagaaca   2280
                                                    312

<removed-date>
              aaaaatagca taacttgtga tctctcgtca ttactattaa gagttactct ttttctttta   2340
              aaaa                                                                2344
              <210>   292
              <211>   663
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 292
              atggggagag gaaagatcgt gattcgaagg attgacaatt ccactagccg gcaagtgacg     60
              ttttccaaga gaagaaatgg gttagtgaag aaagctagag agctatctat tctgtgtgat   120
              gcagaagttg gattgattgt gttctccagc actggcaagc tttatgacta tgcaagcacc   180
              agcatgaaat ctgttattga gcgctataac aaggtcaaag aagaccatca acagttaata   240
              aatcctgcat cagaagtcaa gctttggcag agagaagtag caagcttgcg gcaacaagtg   300
              cagtacatgc aagaatgtca caggcaaatg atgggccaag agctttctgg attgggtatc    360
              gaagagttag gaaatctgga aaagcgactg gagatgagtt taaagggtgt tcgcatgaag    420
              aaggatcaaa ttctgattga tgaggtcaaa gaactacacc aaaagggaag ccttgctcat   480
              caagaaaatg tagaacttaa tagaaagata aatctcatcc gcaaggaaaa tgaagaacta   540
              caaaaggtta ttgaagctaa gtgtagaaaa ggtgttgcag catccaatcc tccattcact   600
              atcaactatg gatgtaatat gcttgctcct atcagtctcc agctaagcct gccagagtca   660
              acg                                                                 663
              <210>   293
              <211>   714
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 293
              atggggagag gaaagattcc cattcgaaga atcgaaaatt cgacgaaccg acaagtgact     60
              ttctgtaaga gaagaaatgg gttgctgaag aaaactagag aactatccat tctctgtgat    120
              gcagaagttg gagtgatagt gttttccagc actggcaagc tttatgaata ttcaaacacc    180
              agcatggaaa caatcattga gcgctttaac aagcaaaaca ataatcatca tcggctaatg   240
              gatgctactt cagcaatcaa gggagaagca gcaagcttga ggcaacaact gcagcatttg   300
                                                    313

              caagaaaacc acaggcaact gatgggtgaa gaactttctg gtttgggtat taatcagcta   360
<removed-date>
              aaacatctgg aaaatcaact acaaatgagt ttgaataacg ttcgcaataa aaaggatcac   420
              attttcagtg atgagatcaa ggaattacaa caaaagggaa gcttgattcg tcgacaaaat   480
              gaagaacttc ataagaagat agaccttatc cacaatgaaa atgcagaact aaagaaggtt   540
              attgaagcaa ggcataagga agaagaaagg gcagcactca aacctccatg tgctatcaaa   600
              aatagatatg atacacttga ccctaacagt ctgcaacaaa ggcagtccca accccaaccc   660
<removed-apn>
              agtgaaccat cagccgaagt gatgattatg gggtactccc tcaaattgaa gatg         714
              <210>   294
              <211>   723
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 294
              atggggagag gtaagattgc gattcgaagg atcgacaact ccactagccg gcaagtgact    60
              ttctcaaaga gaagaaatgg attgctgaag aaagctagag aattatcaat tctttgtgat   120
              gctgaagttg gattgatggt gttctccagc actgggaagc tttatgacta tgcaagcaca   180
              agcatgaaag cggttattga acgctacaac aagctaaaag aggaaaccca tcacctcatg   240
              aatccggctt cagaagagaa gttttggcag acagaagcag caagcttgag gcagcagctt   300
              cagtacttgc aagaatgcca caggcaatta atgggggaag aacttacggg tttgggtatt   360
              aaagaactac aaaatctgga aaaccaactg gagatgagtt taaagggtgt ccgcatgaaa   420
              aaggatcaaa ttttaactaa tgagattaaa gaactacgcc aaaagggaaa tatcattcat   480
              caagaaaatg ttgaactcta tcaaaagatg gagcagatcc aaaaagaaaa tgcagagcta   540
              caaaagaagg tttatgaagc aaggagtaca aatgaagaaa atgtggcatc caatccttct   600
              tacaacgtca gaaatggata tgattcactt gcatctatca gtctccagct aagtcagcca   660
              cagtctcaat acaaatacag tgaaccatca accaaagcaa tgaaactcgg attgcagctg   720
              cat                                                                 723
              <210>   295
              <211>   997
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                    314

              <400> 295
<removed-date>
              ctgcgcgatg tgtttgctca taggtgggag ggaggaaaac attttgtgtt tggaaagggg    60
              tgtgtgcata tttcccctta taccgcgccg aaggcacgcg tttttgccag agtcgcgagc   120
              gatcagctac gtaggccccc cccccccttc tagctccatc ttccagttat cctttttcag   180
              ttccataatt ttcaaatggg gagaggaaag atcgtgattc gaaggattga caattccact   240
              agccggcaag tgacgttttc caagagaaga aatgggttag tgaagaaagc tagagagcta   300
<removed-apn>
              tctattctgt gtgatgcaga agttggattg attgtgttct ccagcactgg caagctttat   360
              gactatgcaa gcaccagcat gaaatctgtt attgagcgct ataacaaggt caaagaagac   420
              catcaacagt taataaatcc tgcatcagaa gtcaagcttt ggcagagaga agtagcaagc   480
              ttgcggcaac aagtgcagta catgcaagaa tgtcacaggc aaatgatggg ccaagagctt   540
              tctggattgg gtatcgaaga gttaggaaat ctggaaaagc gactggagat gagtttaaag   600
              ggtgttcgca tgaagaagga tcaaattctg attgatgagg tcaaagaact acaccaaaag   660
              ggaagccttg ctcatcaaga aaatgtagaa cttaatagaa agataaatct catccgcaag   720
              gaaaatgaag aactacaaaa ggttattgaa gctaagtgta gaaaaggtgt tgcagcatcc   780
              aatcctccat tcactatcaa ctatggatgt aatatgcttg ctcctatcag tctccagcta   840
              agcctgccag agtcaacgta gtaagccatc agccaaagca atgaaattgg gatattccct   900
              caaactataa ctattgccta ggtctataaa tatgtttaag gtccttatta atatactaaa   960
              ttttggtttt agactatcta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa                            997
              <210>   296
              <211>   1248
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 296
              tcgatcagct acgtaggccc cccccccact tcttttcttc ttcttcaact cttccttaac    60
              agagcataat tttctatgaa aggtgaatct ggccattaat tagtattcga tatctcagat   120
              atcgttgatt aattgttatt ccaaaagaag agaagaaaat ttggtgaagg aaaccctagt   180
              aagtagatgg ggagaggaaa gattcccatt cgaagaatcg aaaattcgac gaaccgacaa   240
              gtgactttct gtaagagaag aaatgggttg ctgaagaaaa ctagagaact atccattctc   300
              tgtgatgcag aagttggagt gatagtgttt tccagcactg gcaagcttta tgaatattca   360
                                                    315

<removed-date>
              aacaccagca tggaaacaat cattgagcgc tttaacaagc aaaacaataa tcatcatcgg    420
              ctaatggatg ctacttcagc aatcaaggga gaagcagcaa gcttgaggca acaactgcag    480
              catttgcaag aaaaccacag gcaactgatg ggtgaagaac tttctggttt gggtattaat    540
              cagctaaaac atctggaaaa tcaactacaa atgagtttga ataacgttcg caataaaaag    600
              gatcacattt tcagtgatga gatcaaggaa ttacaacaaa agggaagctt gattcgtcga    660
<removed-apn>
              caaaatgaag aacttcataa gaagatagac cttatccaca atgaaaatgc agaactaaag    720
              aaggttattg aagcaaggca taaggaagaa gaaagggcag cactcaaacc tccatgtgct    780
              atcaaaaata gatatgatac acttgaccct aacagtctgc aacaaaggca gtcccaaccc    840
              caacccagtg aaccatcagc cgaagtgatg attatggggt actccctcaa attgaagatg    900
              taaaaaattt aacgtgcatg tgatgtaatt taaattaaag tagaaatatt ttaaaaaaat    960
              aagcgattat tctctaaata taaactgcac taaacatgct ttaagtctat agatttttat   1020
              ccttaattac tttcgttata aagtaacaag ccaagtgtgc agtgcactag attacagctg   1080
              cattggtcaa aacctgttag atagcgatcg aacccatata tggagatgaa tatgttcggt   1140
              ccatatgatt tctaaatctg tactgtgtat catgaatcat gaaacgaata atgcatctta   1200
              atgtacatct atatctatat attggccaat aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                1248
              <210>   297
              <211>   1041
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 297
              ggcacgagga agattgttga tgatgtcttc gacaagatta ataaagctga agcaagtata     60
              tatgttgcgg atcacccggt tggattacac ttagaagtgg aaaaaataag gaaacttttg    120
              gaggctggat ctagtgatgc tatctccatg atagggatcc acggaatggg cggggtagga    180
              aaatcaacac ttgctcgagc agtttataat ttgcatactg atcattttga tgattcgtgt    240
              ttcctacaaa acgtgagaga agaatcaaac agacacgggt taaaacgcct acaaagcatc    300
              cttctttcac aaatacttaa gaaggaaatc aacttagcaa gtgagcaaca aggcacttcg    360
              atgataaaaa ataagctcaa gggaaagaag gttctcttag ttctagatga tgttgatgag    420
              cacaagcaat tacaggcaat tgttggaaaa tctgtttggt ctgagtctga gtttggcacc    480
                                                    316

<removed-date>
              agattggttc tgatcatcac cactcgggac aaacaactcc taacatctta tgtagctttg    540
              atgctttgga ggaggagaaa aagtgttttt cagacattac ttgttgcttg aaaggctata    600
              aatgcagaga gattgaagat atacttcaac gtctttatga taactgcatg aaataccata    660
              ttggggtgct tgttgacaag tctctcatac agattagtga cgatagagtt acattgcatg   720
              acttgattga gaacatgggt aaagaaattg acagacagaa atcacctaaa gagacaggga   780
<removed-apn>
              agcggaggag attatggtta ctaaaagata taattcaagt cttaaaagac aactcgggga   840
              ccagtgaagt taaaatcatt tgtcttgatt tccccatatc tgacaaacaa gaaacaatag   900
              aatggaatgg aaatgccttc aaggagatga aaaaccttaa agcacttatt atcagaaacg    960
              gtattttatc ccaaggtccc aattatatac cagaaagttt gagaatattg gaatggcaca   1020
              gacatccttc ccattgttta c                                             1041
              <210>   298
              <211>   1765
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 298
              tttttttctt ttttatttgt tgatgataaa ttgataatca acatttgaaa tgtaactttt     60
              cttgtatgtt tcatgtgtgc atcaacaata tctcagtcaa cacttcaaaa cataaagacc   120
              attatagccc tcaacaaaaa aggtcaaaat aaggggatta gaactaaaaa aatagtcaga   180
              tacaagtact ggagaaataa atttacaata acaatattta taatgtgaaa aatcaaaaaa   240
              gttgtctggt gttttgaaac tctagcgtgt gaatattgga agccagtatc tctttaagaa    300
              ctgccagtac cggaatctga acatctcaag tgctccacaa attcatcata taaaatctga    360
              tgagccttga tgtcatgcca tgtgtctatg gtttcaacta ccaacttcag caaattacta    420
              aatttaacct aatcattgct tgagtaactg tgtgtaaatc atttccaaat aatgtcaccc    480
              agaaatttga gagctggaac acctcttatc tcaacatcta tgagtggtgc ctggatcatc   540
              aataagctgg agagttctgg atcgttctga actatatcaa gagcacgcat ttgatccttt   600
              cttttcatag cacaaaactt gcaatcagat gtagatggtg gaagaatctg gttgacaata   660
              agtctcttca caggaacatt ttccttcttc agggaagcac tcaatctaga tgactcacta   720
              attgccatca ccgtggggat tgtaacaatg acaaattcgg tcgaatcagt atcacgaaag    780
                                                    317

<removed-date>
              agttcgcgca cttttatcat cctctctctg agtttctcca atttgtcagc agcattctgt    840
              cgggtttctt cttgcccaaa cacggattta attgctgagg tagcagaagc tattttttgt    900
              cttagcttca gtatctttcc aatggatgca tccaagaaat cgggtaagga caataatcgt    960
              aatgtgtgac ccgtaggtgc tgtatcaaat actattcgag taaacatgct atattcctgt   1020
              gattcaagaa attgcataac cttggagatc gcaatagctt catccagtcc aggaggagga   1080
<removed-apn>
              gaatccagta attctcccag ttttagttct cccaactggt ctgcaatcat tccaagaccc   1140
              atgccatcca tgaagtcttt gactccagtt ccaccatttt tctgggcggc atttcgaaac   1200
              tcttccctag acttctcagg gtttatttca agagcaaaaa gaggataatc aggtccttct   1260
              actggcacca atgcaccccc tgtcaaatcc tgagcaaaag aatcactcaa agaatgcgct   1320
              ggatcggtgg aaaccacgag agtagggtgt ccattattgg caaatttaac agcaagtgaa   1380
              gcagcacagc ttgtcttccc tactccccct ttcccaccta gcatgtaata cttcctctta   1440
              gtcccagaaa ccatctcatc aaaccccgat gcagcttctg tagtaccagc aattgatctc   1500
              acttgaaaag acttagtggg ggatttagtg gaagcagaaa aggaaagaaa ggtgacagct   1560
              ttggggagac gaagaagcag aggaggattt ggtgcgaagg agaggacacc cttgatggcc   1620
              atggagttcg ttatgtgaag aaaagatgaa agaacagagc cacatgccat ttccgtactc   1680
              ctcctgctac tcactttgcc tttcgttttg gtttactcta tctctgtctc tttcactctt   1740
              caccgctgca aggtttttct tttca                                         1765
              <210>   299
              <211>   654
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (566)..(566)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 299
              cacgcgtccg acaattcatt gctgcttccg cggtgaagac acacgcaata gcttcactgg     60
              ttttcttttt caagctctta gtagaaaagg caccattgat gcattcaaag atggtaaaga    120
              tctcaagaaa ggcgaatcca tagcgccaga gctgatccaa gccattcaag ggtctcgcct    180
                                                    318

<removed-date>
              tttcttcatt gtggtgtttt caaacaacta tgctttctca actatccgaa aaaagctaca   240
              atatgcagag attgaagatc ttgaaaagat aacaaatata ctgggtcaca aattttcaag   300
              tcttccaaat gatgatctgg ttgggatgga atcttgtgtt aaagaattag caaagctttt   360
              acgtttgggg tccgttaatg acattcaagt tgtggggatg agtgggatag gtggaatagg   420
              aaaaacaact cttggtcatg gtttttatgt agaaatctct cattaatatg attttggttg   480
<removed-apn>
              tttcattgat gatgtaagca aaattgatca gaattctagt gtatcaggtt tacaaaaaca   540
              attaccttgt caatctcaga atgaanaagt ttagagattt accatctatt taagggaaca   600
              tgtttgttat tgactaggct atgctagcaa gggaattgat agttcttgat aatg         654
              <210>   300
              <211>   1093
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 300
              atgtcctggc aacaagtatt cttatcaaaa aaaagaaaaa acaaaaagac ccagaaatct    60
              catcatcaag ttcttcccat tgcagaagtt gaaaagaaag ttatggcaga tagttcagta   120
              tcctttttat tggacaagct gagttcgtta cttgaagcag aagtgaaact acagagaggg   180
              gtccgtgaag atgttcagca catcaaatat gagctggaag gctacaaggg catcttgagg   240
              gtggctgatg ctctggaaga caaaaaccct gaactcaaag catgggttaa acgagtaaga   300
              gatgttgctc atgacatgga agatgctata gatgaattca gccttggcct tgttgatcaa   360
              catggacaag gcaacaattc ttcgtttcat atgaactttt tcacccggca taagattgct   420
              tcaaatatac aaaatatcaa atccagagtg gacattatct cccaggacgt ccaaacatag   480
              ctgggatagg ctcaggctca agtcaacgat tcatcaaggc ttgatagcca aggagatgca   540
              cttctgctag aagaagctga tttggtgggt attgacaaac ccaaaaagca gctcagtgac   600
              ttgcttttca atgaagaagc aggtagggct gtgattccca tttatgggat gggggggttg   660
              gggaaaacca ccttggcaaa acaagtctat gatgatccaa aagtgaagaa gcgtttcagg   720
              attcatgctt ggattaatgt ttctcagtct tttcaactag aagagctcct gaaagacctg   780
              gttcaacagc tccataatgt cattggcaaa ccatctccgg aagcagttgg acaaatgaag   840
              agtgaccagc tcaaagagtt gatcaagaac ttgcttcagc aaagcaggta tctcattgtg   900
                                                    319

<removed-date>
              ctggatgatg tgtggcatgt aaaggtatgg gattctgtca aacttgcttt gcctaataac    960
              aaccgtggca gtagagtgat gcttaccaca cgcaagaaag atatagcttt gtattcctgt   1020
              gctgaattgg gtaaggattt tgacctcgaa ttcttacccg aggaagaagc tggtatcttt   1080
              tctgcaagaa aac                                                      1093
              <210>   301
<removed-apn>
              <211>   2188
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 301
              aaaaaaagca gcatgtgggg aacaaaagta aagagactcc caaaaagcat ccaggccaac     60
              gtgataagtc agccaccacc accataataa ataaaaaaac cgttcatagc aaccaattcc    120
              ttgcctttgt ctttctactc tgatcatctt ttgttcttga gataatggca gcagcactgg    180
              taggtggtgc ctttctctct gctttccttg atgtggtttt cgacaggctg gcttcacctg    240
              attttgttca cttgatcctt ggaaagaagc ttagcaagaa gttgcttcaa aagttggaga    300
              ccactctcag agtggttgga gctgtgcttc atgatgccga gaagaaacag atcacaaaca    360
              ccaatgtcaa acactggctc aatgatctca aagatgctgt ctatgaggcc gatgacttac    420
              tcgaccatgt tttcaccaaa gctgccaccc aaaacaaggt aagaaacttt ttttctcgct    480
              tttccgatag gaagatcgtt agtaagttgg aggacatagt tgtcacactt gagtctcatt    540
              taaaactcaa ggagagtctt gatttgaaag agagtgcagt ggagaacttg tcatggaaag    600
              ctccatcaac atctgtggaa gatggatctc atatatatgg tagggaggaa gataaggagg    660
              ccataatcaa gttgttgtcg gaggataaca gtgacggtag tgaagtgtcc gtggttccta    720
              ttgtgggcat gggtggggtt ggaaaaacaa ctttggccca attggtgtac aatgatgaga    780
              atttgaaaca gatatttgac tttaaggcat gggtttgtgt ttctcaagaa tttgatattc    840
              tgaaggtcac aaaaactata acagaggcgg ttactggaaa gccttgtata ttgaatgatc    900
              tgaatctact tcatcttgaa ttgatggaca agctgaaaga taaaaaattc ttaattgtct    960
              tggatgatgt ttggacagag aattatgtta actggagact tcgggggggg cccttcgtcc   1020
              ctgggattag gagaagtaag attcttctaa caacccgcag tgaaaaaaca gcctctgtag   1080
              tccaaactgt tcacacctat catctaaacc aattgtcgaa tgaagattgt tggtcagtgt   1140
                                                    320

<removed-date>
              ttgcgaacca tgcgtgtctt tcctccgaac cgaacgagaa cacagaaata ctagaaaaaa   1200
              ttggaaagga gattgttaaa aagtgcaacg gactgccttt agcagcacag tcgcttggag   1260
              gcatgttgag aagaaagcat gacatcaggg attggaataa tattctgaat agtgacattt   1320
              gggaactttc tgaaagtgag tgtaaagtta ttccagcact gagacttagt tatcattatc   1380
              tccctccaca tttaaaacgg tgctttgttt attgttcgtt gtatccacaa gattaccaat   1440
<removed-apn>
              ttgaaaaaaa tgaattaatc ttgttgtgga tggctgaaga tcttttgagg aaaccaagaa   1500
              aaggtgggac tttagaagag gttggtcagg agtattttga tgatttggtt ttgggatcat   1560
              ttttccaacg ttcaaataca agtagttggc ctcatcgcaa atgttttgtg atgcatgacc   1620
              tcatgcatga tctagccaca tcactcggtg gagattttta ttttagatca gaagaacttg   1680
              ggaaagaaac aaagatcaat accaagactc gtcatttgtc atttgccaaa ttcaattctt   1740
              cagtcttgga caactttgat gttgttggta gagcaaaatt tctgagaacc ttcttgtcca   1800
              ttatcaattt tgaagctgct ccattcaaca atgaggaggc acaatgtatc ataatgtcga   1860
              agcttatgta cttgagagtt ttatcatttc gtgacttcca aagtctggat tctttgcctg   1920
              attcaatagg taaattgatc catctgcgct atttagatct ctcttgttca agtgtagaaa   1980
              cactgccaaa gtcattgtgt aatttgtaca atctgcaaac tttgaagttg tctcattgca   2040
              gaaaactgac taagttgccc agtgacatgc gcaatcttgt taacttgcgt catcttgaga   2100
              tacgtggaac tcgtataaaa gagatgccga gaggaatggg taaattaaat catttacaac   2160
              atctggattt ccttgttgtg ggcaagca                                      2188
              <210>   302
              <211>   515
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 302
              gtggtaattt ggttgggatg gaatcccgtg ttgaagaatt agaaaagtgt ttagcattgg     60
              agtcggtcac tgacgttcaa gttgtcggaa ttagtggaat ggggggaata ggaaaaacga    120
              ctcttgccct tgctttatac gaaaagattg cttatcaata tgatgttcat tgttttgttg    180
              atgatgtaaa caaaatttat caacattatg gttcattagg tgtacaaaaa caattacttg    240
              atcagtgtct aaatgatgaa aatctagaga tttgtaatgt ttctagggga acatatttga    300
                                                    321

<removed-date>
              tagggactag gctacgcaat aaacgaggac ttatagttct tgatgatgtt aatcaggttg    360
              aactactaca catgtttaca gggagtagag agactctatt acgtgagtgc ctaagtggag    420
              ggagcaggat catcataatt tctagggatg aacacatatt aaggacacat ggagttaata    480
              tgtttcagag tcaggccatt gaataagaca atgct                               515
              <210>   303
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1693
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 303
              gcaaacactt gttcttcttc cttcacagtt ttgcaattga aatggcttct acttctaatg     60
              ccatcatcca atgcacctct tcttcttctt cgtttgagta tgacgtgttt gtgagcttcc    120
              gcggtgaaga cacacgaaac agcttcacag gttttctttt tgaagctctg aaaaaacaag    180
              gcatcgaggc cttcaaagat gataaagata tcaggaaagg cgaatccata gcaccagagc    240
              taatacgagc cattgaaggg tctcatgttt tccttgttgt cttttccaag gactatgctt    300
              cctcaacttg gtgcctgcgt gaactagcac atatctggaa ttgcattcga acatcttcca    360
              gacttcttct gcctattttc tatgatgttg atccatcaca agtgcgaaaa cagagtggag    420
              actatgagaa agccttttcc caacaccaac aaagttccag gttccaagag aaggaaatta    480
              aaacatggag agaagttctg aaccatgtag gcaatctctc tggttgggat atcagaaata    540
              agcaacaaca tgcagtgatt gaagaaattg gtcagcagat aaaaactatc ttgggttgca    600
              aattttctac tcttccatat gataatctaa ttgggatgga atctcatttt gctacattat    660
              caaagctaat atgtctgggg ccggttaatg atgttccagt tgttggaatt actgggatgg    720
              gtggaatagg aaaatctact cttggtcgat ctttatatga aagaatctct catcgattta    780
              attcttgttg ttatattgat gacgtaagca aactttatcg acttgaaggt acattaggtg    840
              tacaaaagca actactttct caatctctaa atgaaagaaa tctagagatt tgtaatgtat    900
              gtgatggaac acttctggca tggaagaggt tacccaatgc aaaggcactt atagttcttg    960
              acaatgttga tcaagataaa cagcttgata tgtttactgg gggtagaaat gatctgttac   1020
              gtaaatgcct aggtaaaggg agcatagtca ttataatttc tagagatcaa caaatattga   1080
              aggcacatgg agtagatgtt atttaccaag tggagccatt gaatgacaat gatgctcttc   1140
                                                       322

<removed-date>
              aattgttttg caaaaaagca tttaaaaata attatattat gagtgatttt gaaaagttga   1200
              cttctgatgt actatcacat tgtcaaggtc atcccttagc aattgaagta ataggctcat   1260
              atttgtttga taaagatttc tttcattgga ggagtgcatt ggtttcgtta agagaaaata   1320
              aaagtaaaag tattatgaat gtgttgcgaa taagttttga tcaattagag gatacacaca   1380
              aggaaatatt tctagatatt gcatgtttct tcaacgatga tgatgtggaa tatgtgaagg   1440
<removed-apn>
              aagttctaga ttttcgtgga tttaatcccg aatatgacct acaagttctc gttgataaat   1500
              cacttataac catggatgag gaaattggaa tgcatgactt gttgtgcgat ttgggaaagt   1560
              atattgttag agaaaaatca cctaggaagc catggaagtg gagcaggttg tgggatatta   1620
              aagattttca caaagttatg tcagataata aggtagaata atttataaat ataaagtcct   1680
              cctattattc tag                                                      1693
              <210>   304
              <211>   2187
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1933)..(1945)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1948)..(1957)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1962)..(1964)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1967)..(1978)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2078)..(2080)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                    323

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2109)..(2109)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2127)..(2129)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 304
<removed-apn>
              cgattgggta ccgggccccc cctcgagtca gctacgtagg cccccccgac tattcaatta     60
              tcttcaggaa gcaggtttag tttccacctt ctgcaatggc ttgtattaga atccaaagag    120
              gctcttcatc acacacgaag aattttgatg tgtttgtgag ctttagaggt ctggatactc    180
              gtaatagttt cactgatcat ctttttgctg ctcttcaaag gaaaggcatt tttgctttca    240
              gggataacca aaatatcaac aaaggggaac tcttggagcc tgagctcttg caggcaatcg    300
              aaggatcaca tgttttcatt gttgtcttct caaaagacta tgcatcatcc acatggtgct    360
              tgaaagagct gagaaagatt tttgatgggg ttgaagaaac agggcgaagt gtactcccta    420
              ttttctatga tgtcactcct tctgaggtcc ggaaacagag tggaaagttt ggaaaagctt    480
              ttgctgaaca cgaagaaagg ttcaaagatg aattggaaat ggtaaaaaaa tggagggaag    540
              ctctcaaagc aattggcaat cgtagtggtt gggatgtaca aaataagcca gaacatgaag    600
              aaattgaaaa aattgttgaa gaagtaatga acctactggg tcataatcaa attcatagtc    660
              aaatttggag tttctctggt gatttagttg atatggactc tcgtgtgaaa caattggaag    720
              agcttctaga tttgagcaca aatgatgttg ttcgcgttgt gggaatttgg gggatgagtg    780
              gagtaggaaa gacgacactt gttactgctt tgtttggtaa aatctctcct caatatgatg    840
              ctcgttgttt tattgatgat ttaaacaaaa aatgtgggaa ttttggagca ataagtgcac    900
              aaaaacaact tctttctcta gctctacatc aaggaaatat ggagatacac aatctttccc    960
              acggaaccat gttgataaga actaggctat gtcacttaaa gacacttatt gttctggata   1020
              atgttgatca ggttgaacaa ttagagaatt tggctttgca tcgtgaatat ttaggtgaag   1080
              ggagtagaac catcataatc tctacaaata tgcatatctt aagaaattat ggagtagatg   1140
              gagtttacaa tgttcaactc cttaataagg ataaggctct tcaattactt tgcaaaaaag   1200
              ctttcaaatc tgatgatatt gtgaaagggt atgaagaggt aacacatgat gtactgaagt   1260
                                                    324

              atgtcaatgg ccttccacta gcaatcaaag tattgggctc atttttgttt gatcgacatg   1320
<removed-date>
              tttttgagtg gagaagtgca ttaactagaa tgaaagaaaa tccaagtaaa gatatcatgg   1380
              atgtgttgcg aataagtttt gatggattgg agacaatgga aaaagaaata tttttagata   1440
              ttgcttgttt cttttcaagt gatcaattcc ggggttatga cgggtggttt gaaacttcta   1500
              agaaaattct aggctatcga ggattttatc ccgaaattgg tatgaaggtt cttgttgaaa   1560
              aatcactcat aagttatcat agggggaaaa tttgtatgca tgacttgttg aaagagttgg   1620
<removed-apn>
              gcaagactat tgttcgagaa aagacaccca aggaacctag aaagtggagt aggttatggg   1680
              actacaagga tctccaaaaa gttatgatag aaaataagga agccaaaaat cttgaagcga   1740
              tagttattga tattgaaaaa tatcaagaag agtttctaca acgaacaatg acagtagatg   1800
              ctctatcaaa actgattcat cttaaattac tcatgtttaa gaatgtgaat ttttcaggaa   1860
              tcctcaatta tctttctaat gaaatgacgt atttatattg gaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag   1920
              aattcctgca gcnnnnnnnn nnnnnggnnn nnnnnnnggg gnnnggnnnn nnnnnnnntt   1980
              aaagggcgcc ccccccccgc ggggggggac ccccccccct ttttttcctc cttttttggg   2040
              gggggggtat atttctcccc ggcggggggg agaaaaannn ggtggaacac ccccctcttc   2100
              ctctccctna aaaaaaaaaa aataggnnnc cccccccccc aattcccccc accaaaaaaa   2160
              taaaaagagg gggggggggg gacagag                                       2187
              <210>   305
              <211>   3760
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (569)..(569)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 305
              ggttccctta ggtgatgatt tgccattctt tgttttcttt aaacttttag gcaacaacat     60
              gcagtgattg aagaaattgt tcagcagata aaaactatct tgggttgcaa attttctact    120
              cttccatatg ataatctagt tgggatggaa tctcattttg ctacattatc aaagctaata    180
              tgtctggggc cggttaatga tgttccagtt gttggaatta ctgggatggg tggaatagga    240
                                                    325

              aaatctactc ttggtcgatc tttatatgaa agaatctctc atcgatttaa ttcttgttgt    300
<removed-date>
              tatattgatg acgtaggcaa actttatcga cttgaaggta cattaggtgt acaaaagcaa    360
              ctactttctc aatctctaaa tgaaaaaaat ctaaagattt gcaatgtatc taatggaaca    420
              cttctggtat gggagaggct atccaatgca aaggcactta taattcttga caatgttgat    480
              caagataaac agcttgatat gtttacaggg ggtagaaatg atctgttagg taaatgccta    540
              ggtaaaggga gcatagtcat tataatttnt agggatcaac aaatattgaa ggcacatgga    600
<removed-apn>
              gcagatctta tttaccaagt gaagccattg gatgacaccg atgctcttcg attgttttgc    660
              aaaaatgcat ttaaaaataa ttatattatg agtgatttta aaacgttgac ttctcatgta    720
              ctatcacatt gtgaaggtca tcccttagca attgaagtat tgggctcatc tttgtttggt    780
              aaagatgtct cttattgggg gagtgcattg gtttccttaa gagaaagtaa aagtattatg    840
              gatgtgttgc gaataagttt tgatcaattg gaggatacac acaaggaaat atttctagat    900
              attgcatgtt tcttgtacga tcatgatgtg atatatgtga aggaaattct agattttcgt    960
              ggatttaatc ccgaatacgg cctacaagtt ctcgttgata aatcacttat aaccatgcgt   1020
              aggatagttg aaatgcatga cgttttgcgc aatttgggca agtatattgt tagagaaaaa   1080
              tcaccttgga atccatggaa gtggagtagg ttgtgggatt tcaaagatct caacatagtt   1140
              tcgttggata ataaggtaaa ataattttta aatataaagt cctactatta ttctagaatt   1200
              tgtaaatact tttaaatatc taatattttc tttcctcttt tcaatgttca aggcaacaga   1260
              aaatgttgag gccatagttc atgaagaaga ctatgacatt gaaaagactc tgacttagaa   1320
              gaagactcta acttagaaga ctctgactta gaagaagact ctgacttaga agaagactct   1380
              gacttagaag actatgactt agaagaagac tctgacttag aagaagactc tgacttagaa   1440
              gactatgact tagaagaaga ctctgactta gaagactctc actttcttcc aacagtgagg   1500
              gtggatgctc tatcaacaat gagtaacctt aaacttctca aatttagata cgctggctac   1560
              gaaatcaatt attcaggaac acttactaag ctttccaatg aattaggata tcttacttgg   1620
              gtaaagtatc cttttgagtg tttgccacca agttttgagc cggacaaact tgttgagttg   1680
              attctaccta aaagcaacat caaacaactt tgggaagata gaaaggtaat atcaattatt   1740
              attattatta tttttctata ttgttttcat ttaaataaac aaataaaaag gcaaactttc   1800
              ttaagataat ccttttttct ctatttaatt aaagaaacaa aagaaaggct gaatgtcatt   1860
                                                    326

<removed-date>
              attaattttg tttcctacta ttggtcttgt attgtagcct ctacccaatt tgaggcattt   1920
              ggatctctct ggctccaaaa atctaataaa aatgccatat attggagatg ccctatatct   1980
              tgagtggctt gatctcgaag gatgtataca actcgaagag atcggtctgt ccgttctttc   2040
              acgaaagctt acttctctga atttgagaaa ttgcaaaagt cttatcaagt tgccacagtt   2100
              tggagaggac ctaattctta aaaagctata tctcgaagga tgtcaaagtc tcagtcacat   2160
<removed-apn>
              tgatcaatcc atcggttttc taaaaaaacc tcgatcattt gaatatggaa aactgcaaac   2220
              aactcaaacg cattgatcca tccatcggtt tactagaaaa gctcagagaa ttgaatttga   2280
              aaaactgcaa aaatctagaa agcttaccca atagcatact aggtctcaat tctcttaaat   2340
              atctgaatct ctctggctgt gtaaaactgt acaacaccga gttattatat gaactaaggg   2400
              atgcagggca attgaagaag attggtatag atggagctcc tattcatttc caatcaacat   2460
              cttcctactc cagacaacat aaaaaatcag ttagttgctc aatgccttcc tccccaatat   2520
              ttccatgtat gcgtcaactt gatctaagtt tctgtaattt agttgaaatc cctgatgcta   2580
              ttggaaatat gtgttgctta gaatggctag atttaagtgg taacaatttt gctacactgc   2640
              ccaacctcaa gaagctttcc aaactgttgt gtttaaagtt acaacattgc aagcagttga   2700
              aatctttgcc tgagctccct tcacggattg aaatcccaac tggtgaaagc tattttggaa   2760
              acaaaacagg attatacatt tttaattgcc caaaattatt tgataggaaa cgctgcagta   2820
              acatggcttt ttcgtggatg atgcaattgt atcaggtgat ccattctttt tacagatctg   2880
              aaggtgttag tcctggaagt gaaataccaa agtggttcaa taatgagcat gagggaaatt   2940
              gtgtaagctt agacgcatct catgttatgc atgacgataa ttggattggc gttgcgtttt   3000
              gtgcaatatt cgtcgtacct catgaaacaa tctcagcgat ggctttttca aaaacagatg   3060
              ggtactactc gggttttagt gatattccag tggattttta tgaagatcta gatcaagaac   3120
              ttgttttaga caaatcagat cacatgtggc tattcttttt tgatcgaaaa atgttcattt   3180
              ttaaattcca tctccagccc gaaaatcttg gaagattgct tttgaaatgt gatggaagga   3240
              gaaagtggaa agagtcatat gctgaggtga agaaatacgg atatcgctgg gtatataaag   3300
              gggataatga acaaaggaag cgcaaatttg gggaaattga agaaaatgaa ggaatgatgt   3360
              cagaagaagg gagaaaagat gatgcaagct cctcccagga aaacacaatc aacttggatc   3420
                                                    327

              ttagcctgta gaatcatttc ttctctcatt ttattcattt cagtcgtcct tcaaattttg   3480
<removed-date>
              aataagcttg gtggcgtaaa ataaggtttt tggttgttat gggatgcttg tgtagctgtc   3540
              tttgttggtt aagaatattg tttttttttt tttttttttc ttgtttggtt tgagtaatgt   3600
              ttaacagaga ctgatgcaat ttctcgtttt cagtcctttt tacttttagt gcatgacagc   3660
              taaaaaaaag tacaaataat ttttttttaa aattctcgtg tcagtcgatc caggaatcag   3720
              gaagtcaaac taaggaataa aaaatttaaa tttattaatc                         3760
<removed-apn>
              <210>   306
              <211>   2327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 306
              ctcaataatc acttttatca tttcaaacaa agaaagttgt tagtgcttaa cattcctttg     60
              aatattaaac taagttcaat ttttatttct taccattagc gtgacatgaa aaaataaatt    120
              tattaattcc aatatatatt ggtggtataa agcacttcca tatatgattg gtcacaattt    180
              ttttttactt agattccatc ttcattgaaa aaagttaaaa cacatgaaaa attaattatt    240
              tcagttaaat taattccttt cactttttaa atatattctt tatttgggta aaataattcc    300
              tttttgttat gtgtgagttt gaaattcttt taatttaata tatttgtaaa taaattattt    360
              tgacctaata tattgtaaat caattcaaaa atagaattta ctgtctaaag actcattatt    420
              caaccaaacg agagagttgt gttattctat agtgacggag caacagaaag gttaagaatg    480
              tagcataacc aaaacaatga aacaggtgat gtagaagatc atgctgtgaa cggaggtagc    540
              aatggcgatg atgctttgac tataaataat ttgctatccg atctagcaag gcaagaagac    600
              tactttgata aagaattaca gtgggcggga gttccaggcc attaagcgta agagacaaga    660
              tgacgattgg tcggataaac taaaggacct gaaaaaaaga gttattgatg tgaaaaactc    720
              actgcatcag tctgggtcga ctaatgaaat gcccaagcct tctgaattgc atgctaagtt    780
              tatttattta ttgatagaga agctttggga gttgcgagat gaaaatgtga agaagatgtg    840
              ggatcttctg gaggatgagg aagtcttcat tattggcata gatggaatgg ggggagttgg    900
              aaaaacattc atggcaactc atttcaagaa tgagattaaa agaaagggga ctttcaagga    960
              tgtcttctgg gtcactgttt cccatgattt caccattttc aaattgcaac atcacattgc   1020
                                                    328

              agaaacaatg caggttaagc tttacggaga tgagatgact agagcaacaa ttttgacgtc   1080
<removed-date>
              agagttggag aaaagagaaa aagcactgct tattttggat gatgtttggg aatatattga   1140
              tctgcaaaag gtggggattc ctcttaaagt gaatggcatt aaattgatta tcacaactcg   1200
              tttgaaacat gtgtgtctac agatggattg ccaaccatat aatataataa caatattccc   1260
              ctttgaagaa gaagaagaag aagaagaaga agaaaaagaa gaagaagaag aagcttggga   1320
              gttatttttg ctaaaacttg gacaccgtgg aacacctgca agacttcccc ctcatgtact   1380
<removed-apn>
              agagattgca agatctgttg taatgaaatg tgatggttta ccacttggaa tcagtgtgat   1440
              ggctcgaacc atgaaaggga aaaatgagat ccattggtgg agacatgcat tgaataaact   1500
              tgacagattg gaaatgggag aagaggtctt aagcgtacta aaacgtagct atgacaattt   1560
              aattgaaaag gacatccaaa aatgtttctt acggtctgca ctgtttccta caattattag   1620
              gaaagaggaa tgggttacga tggttgttga gagtgggttg ttaaatggaa agaggagttt   1680
              ggaggaaaca tttgatgagg gacgcgtcat aatggataaa ctcattaacc attctttgtt   1740
              gttagatcgt gggagtttac gaatgcatgg tctggtgagg aagatggcgt gccatatctt   1800
              gaacgagaat cacacttaca tgataaaatg tgatgaaaat ttgagaaaga tacctcarat   1860
              gcgggaatgg acagctgatc tggaggcagt ttctttggcg ggtaatgaga tagaagaaat   1920
              agcagagggc acatcaccta attgtccagg cttgtccacc ttgattttat ctcataattt   1980
              gatcagtcat attcccaagt gttttttcag acacatgaat gctctaacac tacttgattt   2040
              atcatataat tatgagttaa catctttgcc aaagtctctg tctaagttga ggtctcttac   2100
              ttctttagtg ctccgtcaat gttcaaaatt gaaagatata cctccactgg gagatctaca   2160
              agcattgtca agattggaca tttcaggttg tgattcgctc ctcagggtac cggaaggctt   2220
              gcaaaatcta aaaaagttgc aatgccttaa tctttcccgc gatttgtatt tatcattggt   2280
              acccggatgc gcacttgccg gtttgagcaa tatgcaatat ctggatc                 2327
              <210>   307
              <211>   1321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 307
              tcagctacgt aggccccccc ggccagttct gaagagaaaa tctcccttct ttcactagta     60
                                                    329

              aaattttcag atattcaaat agatcccgtt gctgcattca gtaatcacaa ccacctggaa    120
<removed-date>
              cgccattatt caattcaatt ggaaataaat catgggtcga cctagaggtg atgaaaagta    180
              ctggaatgaa gtaacgagtt ttgaagagaa cgggaagcag aagtggaagt gcaagcattg    240
              tgaaaaaacg tatggtggag gttattcaag aattaaactg catttagata aagaacaaaa    300
              aggacaaggc attactaaat gccccgttta ttgtagcaat gaagaagttc tcaacatcat    360
              tgcttccact tcaatccatc cacaagaaac tgtaaataca ctgaatccat tacaagtggt    420
<removed-apn>
              tgaagatgtt gttgctggcg aaatgattgt ccctgttggt gctccaatta accatcaaac   480
              aaataatgaa tcaacaagtt tattcgaagg ttgggcacca gagcatgcta ttgtcggaag    540
              caacaattcg aatggtattt tccaaagtaa gattagtgtg ataaatgagt tggtttccga    600
              tctatcaaga gaggaagatg acatcaagga acaattagaa tggctagaat ctcgcggcaa    660
              gaagcgcaag ggtgatgttg atgactggat ggatgaacta cgagacctga agaaacatgt    720
              tgctgatgtg gattggttag ggttcactaa cttttatgca tcggatttgg ttgataaatt    780
              gcgaaagcat aagattgata agcctctggt gttgtcaaat gaatttgttg gtgaacaatt    840
              tgagttaaat gttggaaaga tgtggaagct tctggtggat gaccaagttt tcgttattgg    900
              cataaatgga atggggggag tggggaaaac attcctagca acttatatgg agaatgagat   960
              aaaaagaaag ggaagtttca ggcatgtctt ctgggtcact gtttctcatg atttcaccac   1020
              tttcaaattg caacatcaga ttgcaaaaaa aataggggta aaacttgatg gagatgatga   1080
              gagatgtaga gcaacaattt tgtcatcgga gttggagaaa atagaaaatt cagtacttat   1140
              tttggatgat gtttggagat atattgatct acaaaaggtg ggaattcctc ttaaagtaaa   1200
              tggcaaagta aatggcatta agttgatcat gacaagtcgt ttgaaacatg tgtgtcgaca   1260
              gatggattgc ctaccagata atacaataca aatataccct ttgaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1320
              a                                                                   1321
              <210>   308
              <211>   532
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 308
              aattcggcac caggagcctg atattaggac ttgcaatttc ttgctgaaat gcttggttga     60
                                                    330

              ggcgaataga gtggagtttg ttagacgggt ttttgaggaa ttgaaggacc gtggtccatc   120
<removed-date>
              gccaaatatc tacacttata caatcatgat gaatttttat tgtagtgatg ttgggtgtga   180
              tgcaggtatg agacaggctg ctgtgattct gggaaaaata tatcggagtg gggaaaagcc   240
              aactgttgtc acatatagta cttatattca tggactttgt aaagttggta atgttgaggc   300
              tgctctgatg ttaattcgca acttgcacta tacaaaccag cccctcaata gccattcttt   360
              taatgatgga atttatggat tttgtaaaag aggtgaagtg tttgaggctt tgcaagtttt   420
<removed-apn>
              ggaagaaatg aagagctctg ggatattacc agatgtttat agctacagca tcttaattaa   480
              tgccttctgc gggaaaggtg atgtaatgaa atgtcttgac ttgatggagg aa           532
              <210>   309
              <211>   543
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 309
              tggccttatt cactcgcttg attactatgc accctcttcc atctgttgta gaatttaaca    60
              tgattttagg gtcaatagtg aagatgaagc attacccaac tgctatatca ctttctaaac   120
              aaatggggtt gagaggaatc acaccgtcca tagtgacttt gagtatcttg atcaattgtt   180
              actgccactt gggtcacatg ggttttgctt tttctgtgtt gggcatggtt ctcaagaggg   240
              gatatcagct caatgccata accttgacca caatcatgaa agggctttgt atcaatggtg   300
              aggttaggaa agcattggaa tttcatgaca gtgtggtggc acaggggttt ctgttggatg   360
              aagttactta cgggaccttg atcaatgggt tgtgtaagat aggactgaca agagaggcct   420
              ttgagttgct gcacaagatg gaagggcaag tggttaggcc gaatgtagta atctacaaca   480
              tgattgttga tggtttgtgc aaagatggac ttgtaactga ggcgagggat ttatattcgg   540
              atg                                                                 543
              <210>   310
              <211>   646
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 310
              tatgtttggg atctttttga tgagatgctt gatagaggtc aacctcctga tgtaatcacc    60
              tataataact tgatagatgc tttatgcaaa aacggtcatc ttgacagggc aattgcattg   120
                                                    331

<removed-date>
              ttcaacaaaa tgaaagatca gggaattcga ccgaatacat tcacattcac tatacttctt   180
              gatggactat gtaaaggtgg aagacttaag gatgcacaag aggtttttca agatcttttg   240
              actaaaggat atcatctcaa tatctacaca tacaatgtta tgatcaatgg acattgtaaa   300
              cagggcctgc tcgaggaagc attgaccatg ctgtcaaaaa tggaagacaa tggttgcatc   360
              cctaatgctg ttacttttga cattatcatc attgctctct ttaaaaaaga tgagaatgat   420
<removed-apn>
              aaggcagaga aacttcttcg acaaatgatt gctagaggct tgttgtaaga ctaaaactat   480
              gtgagatgtt tctagtgact cactatgtta ttttgaattt ggtgatgtta tttatttctt   540
              ttgtttaaaa taatcaatgt aatgggctca ctatgccttt acttttgatt aaaagtcata   600
              tgtacttagc tgcatttttt ttatgttata aatataccaa tagccc                  646
              <210>   311
              <211>   457
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 311
              gattcctgat attgtgactt atacctctct tattgatggt ctgtgcaaaa atcatcatct    60
              ggagagggca attgcattat gcaagaaaat gaaagagcag ggaattcagc caaatgtata   120
              ctcatacaca atacttcttg atgcactgtg caagggtgga agacttgaga atgcaaagca   180
              gtttttccag catcttttgg ttaaaggcta tcatctgaat gttcggacat ataatgttat   240
              gatcaatggg ctttgtaaag cgggcctgtt tggtgatgtg atggatttga agtcaaaaat   300
              ggaaggcaaa ggttgcatgc ccaatgctat aacttttaaa acaattattt gtgccctact   360
              tgaaaaagat gaaaatgata aggcagagaa attcctccga gaaatgattg ctagaggcct   420
              actgaaagtg taaaactaga tgcgatggtt tccaatt                            457
              <210>   312
              <211>   2130
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 312
              cggacgcgtg gggctgtgcc tactgtggtg acctacaata cgattatgta tggcctttgc    60
              aagtggggga gagtgagtga tgctaggaag ttgcttgatg ttatggtgaa taagaatctg   120
                                                    332

              atgccggatt tggtttcgta taacactctg atttatggtt acaccagatt gggaaacata    180
<removed-date>
              ggggaggctt ttctcttgtt tgccgagtta agatacagaa gtcttgctcc cagtgttgtg    240
              acctataata cacttatcga cggtctttgc agattggggg acttggatgt tgccatgcgg    300
              ctaaaagatg aaatgatcaa acatgggcct gatcctgatg tatttacttt tacgactttt    360
              gttagaggat tttgcaagat ggggaacttg ccaatggcta aggaattatt tgatgagatg    420
              cttaatagag gattgcagcc agatcgtttt gcgtacataa cccgaatagt aggtgagctg    480
<removed-apn>
              aagcttggcg acccatctaa ggcttttggt atgcaagaag aaatgctagc cagaggcttt    540
              cctcctgatt tgatcactta taatgtcttc attgatggtc tccacaagtt gggcaatttg    600
              aaagaagcaa gtgaacttgt gaagaaaatg ctctacgatg gacttgttcc agatcatgta    660
              acatatacta gcatcatcca tgctcacttg atggctgggc atcttaggaa ggctagagca    720
              ttgttccttg agatgttgag caaagggata tttccttcag ttgtcactta cactgttctt    780
              attcattcat atgcagttag gggaaggctg aaacttgcta ttttgcactt ttttgagatg    840
              catgagaagg gtgtacatcc aaatgtgatc acctacaatg ctttaatcaa tggactttgc    900
              aaggtgagaa agatggatca ggcatacaat ttttttgcag aaatgcaagc aaagggcatt    960
              tctccaaata agtatactta cactatttta ataaatgaga actgcaacct gggccattgg   1020
              caggaagctt tgaggttgta taaggatatg ctagatagag aaattcagcc tgattcatgc   1080
              acacatcgtt ctctattgaa gcatctaaac aaagactata aattgcatgt agttcggcat   1140
              cttgagaatg ttattgcagc tggtgaataa atttatgatg taaggatgaa gaatggttat   1200
              ttattattat cattttggct ttctcacatg gctgatgagt aaaagaaaac cctatatttg   1260
              aatgggtttt gccttttgag gtgtaaattc ccccagacag aatcttgtat atttttctga   1320
              ctgtcacggt tgaagatgcc tgtggtgttc ttgatgatta agatggacag acttcaacta   1380
              ttaacaagtt ttcactcgtt atatccctag actagtcagg ggaaccaatt tgctttgtgg   1440
              ctatttaagc agtgtgtaac tgctaatttt tcttcagctg ttatttgact tctgacatag   1500
              atactggacc tgcatagttg gtggtcaatt caaatacaga agccaaacaa tcagaaaaga   1560
              tttaatcata attgattcct gatgcattga agtatataga ttctgatgat atgaaaaaga   1620
              tcaaaaatca gttcccacca ttcgttaaat tcaaaatggt cctttaataa tgttatggac   1680
              aggtcaaagt aggcagattt gatgttccat gatcatgagg tcaattatgg gaacctcatg   1740
                                                    333

<removed-date>
              tatggactga tgaaggagta tatccaacat aactgaaagg tcctgtctga gtcctatgaa   1800
              tttttccatg agcatcatct tcatcaagag ataaaaaata aataacagat tgtccttcag   1860
              gcatcaccaa cagggtagat ggcaagcaag aattggccaa gttgcaggaa acaaggatct   1920
              atactttgat atgcatcatt tcaaccagtg gtcttctaac ttgaaggagc agctgtctta   1980
              ggggggttat gtctctgttg tttttgcttt tgtgtctatc tttatgttgg gttaggcaac   2040
<removed-apn>
              ttgccttgta tatttgtatc ctatttccag tacacctagt actgagttat atataataat   2100
              atctgatttt tgctgtgcaa aaaaaaaaaa                                    2130
              <210>   313
              <211>   547
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 313
              ctctttggaa agttataact tatggttgtt gggtttgctt gggaatggag agctgttgga     60
              ggctcgattg gttcttgatg aaatggcggc taaagacatt gagccgaatg cttacacata    120
              taacattatg gtggatgggc tgtgcaggaa ccatatgttg tcggatgcat gagggttgat    180
              ggatctgatg atgaagaatg gggtttaccc tgatacggtt acttatagta ccctcctgca    240
              tggatactgc agcagaggga aggtttttga agctaaaagt gttcttcgtg aaatgataag    300
              gaatgattgt cagcctaata cttacacttg caacacattg ctggatagct tgtggaaaga    360
              ggggaggacc ctagaggcag aggaaatgct gcaaaagatg aatgaaaaat gctatcaacc    420
              ggatacagtg atctgcaata ttgtagtcaa tggtctctgt agaaatggag aactaaacaa    480
              agcaaggttt ttaatttgcc tgatggaatc acatagacaa cttcaattaa tggactttgc    540
              aaagttg                                                              547
              <210>     314
              <211>     621
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>     misc_feature
              <222>     (568)..(568)
              <223>     n is a, c, g, or t
                                                    334

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (600)..(600)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 314
              tcagctacgt aggccccccc ccccccgcaa atgtaatcac ctacaattcc ttaatagatg    60
              gtttatgcaa aaatggtcat cttgacaagg caattgcatt attcatcaaa ataaaagata   120
<removed-apn>
              agggaattcg actgaatatg ttcacattca atatactttt tgatggacta tgtaaaggtg   180
              gaagacttaa ggatgcacaa gaggttcttc aagaactttt ggataaaggc tatcatgtag   240
              atatctacac atataatgtt atgatcaatg ggctttgtaa acaggacctg cttgatgaag   300
              cattggccat gctgtcaaaa atggaagaca atggatgcaa ggctaatgca gtaacttttg   360
              aaattatcat cagtgctctc tttgaaaaag atgagaatga taaggcmgaa aaacttcttc   420
              atgaaatgat tgctagaggc ttgttgtaag actaaactac gcgagaacta tctagttaca   480
              cgtgaaaaag aagatgaaca atgcaatggg ctcaatatca ctttacttww gattaaaggt   540
              gatatgtact tagcttcatt ttttatgnta taaatataac aatagtcaaa tgattattgn   600
              cttgatttaa aaaaaaaaaa a                                             621
              <210>   315
              <211>   684
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 315
              ggagaaatgc tgcataaaaa tagacccacg cgtccggtga cgtacaattc tcttattgat    60
              gggttgtgca aatcagggaa aattacttct gctttggatc ttatgaatga gatgcaccac   120
              agaggtcaac cagctgatgt agtcacctac acttccttat tagatggttt atgcaaaaac   180
              caaaaccttg acaaggcaac tgcactattc atgaaaatga aggaacgggg aattcagcca   240
              actatgtaca catacacggc acttattgat ggattatgta aaggtggaag acttaagaat   300
              gcacaagagc tttttcaaca tctcttggtt aaaggctgtt gtatagatgt ctggacatat   360
              actgtcatga tcagtgggct ttgtaaagag ggcatgtttg atgaagcttt ggccattaag   420
              tcaaaaatgg aagacaatgg ttgcatccct aatgctgtaa cttttgaaat cattatttgt   480
              tctctttttg agaaggatga aaatgataag gccgagaaac ttctccatga aatgattgct   540
                                                    335

<removed-date>
              aaaggcctat taggttttag gaattttcat ggggagtgat ctccagatac aaattaagtt   600
              attgttaatt ttcatggtga gcgaccaatg tttattgcgt ttgattgttt gatagactac   660
              gctatggaca tttcatttga ttat                                          684
              <210>   316
              <211>   932
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (36)..(36)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 316
              aaatggataa gaataacttt aaacccgtca ccactntgaa taactcgctc tccgtttttt    60
              atcgcgacgg gaaagtgttg aaagagtttg tgtaagctga agaggtcttc ggaggcaaag   120
              gcgttgctcg gggggatggt ttgtaatggg aggaagccga attcggttag ctacgcttgc   180
              ttgatccatg ggttttgtaa agagggggac cttgaggctg ttcaagtaca tgaagaggag   240
              agggtacttg cccgaggggg agtgttattt tacgctcgtg cattttctgt gtcgcggtgg   300
              tgagtttgag gccgcattgg atgttgctaa ggagtgtatg gggaaaggtt gggtgccgaa   360
              ttttactacc atgaagagtc tcgtgaatgg gctcgctggt gcattgaagg tggatgaggc   420
              gaaggaggtt attaagcaga ttaaggagaa gtttgctgag agtggggata agtgggatga   480
              gattgaagct gggttgcctc agtgagaaag agtgtggtct cctttgtatt gtacaattct   540
              ttgatcaatt ggaggggagc actgaaaatt gaattaacta tggaatatca gctttggaat   600
              agctttattt tgttttgcca tttcttctag ccattggcct ttttgcttgc tcgaatgaat   660
              tcatcggtga ctggtaattt tgccaggtta gtttaacatg ttcgctgttg ttaggcatgc   720
              tttgttttcc ttgattgagt aataaataga tttggaaatg gttttgcagc cagttttctg   780
              tttgtttcca tctgttttgc ctctttaaaa ttgtattacc cccttttttt ccgaagggag   840
              aatgatcata cactgcatgg gagctcttat ggacctgtat atttcatttc tgtattaatt   900
              tattactttc tggtttggtt tcttggtctg ct                                 932
                                                    336

              <210>   317
<removed-date>
              <211>   870
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 317
              attcaaaggg catttggtct ctgctcttga attcttctat gatatggtag caaaaggctt    60
              tgagccaaat gtgatcacat acacaatatt gataaatggt ttctgcaagc aagggcgatt   120
              agaggaagct gctgaaattg tgaatagcat gtcagccaag ggtctgagtc tgaatacagt   180
<removed-apn>
              acggtacaat tgtttgattt gtgcactgtg caaggatggg aagattgaag aagctttaca   240
              gatttttggt gaaatgtcaa gcaaaggatg taaacctgac ctttatgcat ttaattcttt   300
              aataaatgga ctttgcaaga atgataagat ggaagaggcc ttgagtttat atcatgacat   360
              gttcttggag ggtgttattg ccaacactgt aacatacaac acgttggttc atgcatttct   420
              tatgagagat tcagttcaac aagcatttaa gctttgtgga ttttggttga agtgctattt   480
              tgagttatat catcaatatg gtcgaagttt tctgtagttc aagcataaac attcattttt   540
              tatgtatata tcagtagaga gaaagatagg tgtggctgat tccactgctc gttaagaggt   600
              aaccaactat tgccatgcca tgtcgaactg tctcccctca gattgattga tatgattttt   660
              tttgttttta aaaactatga catgtttgtt gtttgtcctt tgattattat tattcaattt   720
              atttatctcc ttctctggtt acttggttgg attgatatga ttgtgaaact gagcttttag   780
              acataatggt ggctttggtt ttagctttgt ttttgttttt tgttttctgt atttgtagct   840
              tgtgcttatg ttgcaattgg tttgagctcc                                    870
              <210>   318
              <211>   822
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 318
              gaggagagag agagagagca cacaaaatgg tttccaaaga gcaaaagaga gcagcactgc    60
              atgagaagct gcaacatctt cgttctatta ctaactctcg tgctctaaat aaaacttcga   120
              tcatagtcga tgcatcaaag tatatcgaaa agttaaagca aaaggtagaa agactgaatc   180
              aagagatagc ctctgcagaa acttcaagtg tccacaaccc tttgcctatg gttacagtag   240
              aaaccctaga aaagggattt cttataaatg ttttctcggc aaaagggtgt tcaggtctgc   300
                                                    337

              ttgtttccat attggaggcc tttgaagaga tgagactcac tgtgcttgaa gctagggttt   360
<removed-date>
              cttgtacaga cacttttcga tttcaagcag ttggagaaaa tgaagaacaa gtggagacaa   420
              ttgatgcaca tgttgtgaaa caagctgtgg tacaagcaat aaagaattgg agcaaaagtg   480
              gcgatcaaga agagtaaatc agtaatcaaa tgtttgctat atatattgca attttccaat   540
              ttttttttcc cattttcttt catgttggct aactggtaaa ttgttccttg aggaatcagg   600
              cgtcgtacaa gatagcttcc aatttttaat gaaaatatat atgtgccagc tgtaagagaa   660
<removed-apn>
              tgataaaaag tagttgatgg ttgataaaat ttatgtatgg agccagcatt tacatatgta   720
              atatataccc acatatatac atataatgat gcataaacca atgcatatat aatgcatttt   780
              aattatttta tataaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aa                      822
              <210>   319
              <211>   505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 319
              acgagggaga gtgtgataaa tttaagagag agagagaata tggtttccag agttcacaag    60
              agaatagcca tgtacaggaa cctacaactg cttcgttcaa tcagatactc aaattcgcgc   120
              cttaaagcct tattgttact cgagctgtca gattacatac aaggtttaaa gcaaaaactg   180
              gaagaattga accagctgtt aacagtggca acggcacgaa aaatcgctga ctatgatcca   240
              atgcctaagc ttgaagttga aacacaagaa gaggcttttg tgatcaaggt gctgagtgaa   300
              agcagttgcc aggggttgct ggtgtttata ttggaagcct ttgaagagat gggtcttgat   360
              gtgctccaag ctagggtttc ttgtgcggac agcttcagtt tagaagccat cggaaataat   420
              aaagtaataa tgtgacaccc acatacataa ttatctaaat cctaaaagca atacttaata   480
              ttgtactgtg agtgcaatgt ttgta                                         505
              <210>   320
              <211>   491
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 320
              ggctcgagga ggcgaagaag atgggtgtgc agatggagtg aggcttgttc agcttctaat    60
              agcatgtgcg gaagcggtgg cttgtcgtga caaatcacac gcttccatat tactatccga   120
                                                    338

<removed-date>
              acttaaagcg aatgctttag tgttcggatc ctcattccaa agagttgctt cctgtttcgt   180
              ccaaggcctg atcgagaggc tcaatctgat tcagcccatc gggcctgctg gccccatgat   240
              gccctccatg atgaacatca tggacgtggc ctcagacgaa atggaggaag cattcaggtt   300
              ggtttatgaa ctgtgtccgc acatccagtt cggacactat ttggctaatt ccacaatatt   360
              ggaagccttt gagggtgaga gttttgtcca tgtcgtggac ctaggcatga gcctgggtct   420
<removed-apn>
              acgacacgga caccaatgga gaggtctgat ccagaatctt gccggtcgtg taagcggcga   480
              acgtgttcgt c                                                        491
              <210>   321
              <211>   1954
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 321
              gtgagcttag cggagctgaa gaagcagcta cctaaagaga gactcacaca ctcacattgt    60
              ttatttgatg tgggttaaat ggataccttg tttagactag taagttttca tcaacagcaa   120
              caaccacaac aacaacctga tccatccctc aactccacca ccagcagaac ctccagcagc   180
              tccagatcct ccagacaaaa ctactaccct tattcccatc aagaagaaga agaatgcttc   240
              aacttttaca tggatgaaga agacttatcc tcgtcttctt ccaaacacta ctaccaccct   300
              tatcaacccc atcatcatca acaacacaac gtatccaaca tttctacaaa caccttcagc   360
              accaccccta acactgatta ctcctactcc tactccttct ctcccacgca acctgttcaa   420
              gacttcaact tcgaattctc ctcccccaac tggtcccaca acctcctcct cgaatccgca   480
              cgcgccgtcg ccgacaacaa ctccacgcgc ctccaccacc tcctctggat gctcaacgag   540
              ctcagctccc cctacggcga caccgaacaa aaacttgctg cgtatttcct ccgagccttg   600
              ttcagccgcg tcaccgaagc tggcgaccga acctaccgaa gcttagcttc ggcgtctgag   660
              aaaacatgct catttgaatc cacaagaaaa acggtcctga aattccaaga agttagccct   720
              tggactacct tcggacacgt ggcatccaat ggcgccatct tggaagcctt ggagggaaac   780
              tccaaattgc atatacttga catcagcaac acttattgca cccagtggcc aatgcttctg   840
              gaagcattgg ccactcggag cgaagaaact ccacacctat gtttaacaac aattgttact   900
              ggttctagaa tcggtaacaa cgtccagcgc gtgatgaagg aaatcggaac gcgaatggag   960
                                                    339

<removed-date>
              aaattcgcca gactcatggg cgttcctttt aagttcaacg tcgttcatca ctacggcgat   1020
              ctatccgagt tcaatttctc agagcttgat atcaaagacg atgaggcttt ggctgtgaat   1080
              tgtgtgaact cgctgcattc ggtttccgcg ctaggaaaca accgcgacgc gttgatatcg   1140
              gcgttgcaag cgttgcagcc gcggattgtg acggtggtgg aggaggaggc tgatttggac   1200
              gttggaatcg acggttacga gttcgtaaaa ggctttgaag aaagtttgag gtggtttagg   1260
<removed-apn>
              gtttactttg aggctttgga tgagagtttt gtgaagacga gcaacgagag gctgatgctg   1320
              gagcgcgcgg cggggagggc ggtggtggac ctggtggcgt gctcgccggc ggattccgtg   1380
              gagcgccgcg agacggcggc gcggtgggcg gcgaggcttc acaacggagg gctaaacgcg   1440
              gcgccgttta gcgacgaagt ttgcgacgac gtgagggcgc tgttgaggag gtacaaggaa   1500
              gggtggtcga tggcggcgtg ctccgacgcc ggaatattcc tctcgtggaa ggacacgccg   1560
              gtggtgtggg ccagtgcatg gaggccataa cgtaaagatc gtatcataat agtatcattt   1620
              ggctttgaca tgggtgaatc cctcgcacgt gttctcggtt tttttggcac gtgcggaagg   1680
              atatatattg atggagtttt ttttcttctt ttcagtatta ttaattatta ttattattgg   1740
              gctttatttc ctatttttgt tcttttggtt aaatatatat aagtttggta agacaccggg   1800
              attcatgggc gtttgcttgt gttgaaaaag gaactaagta aattattatt ttcttaactt   1860
              tttatgattg atttttttgt ttaccaaaga atagcttgtg tctttggatc gatatttgta   1920
              tgacatgttt ttcaatcgct tcaaaaaaaa aaaa                               1954
              <210>   322
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 322
              ggaatgggtg gtgtggggaa gacaacactt gctcgagcaa tttacaattt gattgctgat     60
              caatttgaag tattgtgttt tcttgataat gtgagagaaa actcaattaa aaatggattg    120
              gtgcatctcc aagagacact tctttctaaa acaattggag agaagggtat taagttagga    180
              agtatcaacg aagcaattcc aataataaag cataggctcc accgaaagaa ggttcttttg    240
              gttctggatg atgttgacaa accagatcag ttgcatgcaa ttgctggagg gatggattgg    300
              tttggttctg gtagcaaaat catcatcaca actagg                              336
                                                      340

<removed-date>
              <210>   323
              <211>   336
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 323
              ggaatgggcg gggtgggaaa aacaacactt gctcgagctg tctataatga attgataatt    60
              gctgagaagt ttgatggttt gtgttttctt gcaaatgtga gggaaaactc aaacaaacac   120
<removed-apn>
              gggttagaac acctccaagg aaagctgctt ttagaaatac tcggagagaa gagcatcagc   180
              ttaacaagta agcaacaagg aatttcaatc atacagtcta ggctcaaggg aaagaaggtt   240
              ctcttgatta tagatgatgt tgacacacac gaccaattgc aagcaattgc tggaagacct   300
              gattggtttg gtcgcggcag caggatcatc gtcaca                             336
              <210>   324
              <211>   2479
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 324
              gaatttggga accggggcgt accgggcccc ccctcgagtc agctaagtag gccccccccc    60
              ccccccgaat aatactaaac ttttttcttc gaatggctaa aacatgttcc ggtgcatcca   120
              gatacgatgt gttcattaac ttcagagggg aagacacacg ttttgcattt accgggcatc   180
              tccacaaagc tctttgtaac aagggaatcc gtgctttcat ggatgaaaat gacattaaga   240
              gaggagacga aataagagca acacttgagg aggcaattaa agggtcgagg attgccatca   300
              ctgtgttctc taaagactat gcttcttcct cattttgctt agatgaactt gcaaccatcc   360
              ttggctgcta ccgcgagaaa actctgttgg ttattcctgt cttttataag gtggatcctt   420
              ctgatgtaag acgcctgcaa ggaagttatg cagaaggatt ggctaggctt gaggaaaggt   480
              tccatcctaa catggagaat tggaagaagg ctctgcagaa agtagcagaa ttggctgggc   540
              atcatttcaa agatgggtat ccctccttac caagcttttg ctttataatt tttgttaaaa   600
              ttgaaagaga aaataaatgt ttattaacct tgacaagata tggatacaag ggttttagtt   660
              taacttcact acaactataa tttcttgttt gaaacagagc tggatatgaa ttcaagttta   720
              ttaggaagat tgttgatgat gtcttcgaca agattaataa agctgaagca agtatatatg   780
                                                    341

              ttgcggatca cccggttgga ttacacttag aagtggaaaa aataaggaaa cttttggagg    840
<removed-date>
              ctggatctag tgatgctatc tccatgatag ggatccacgg aatgggcggg gtaggaaaat    900
              caacacttgc tcgagcagtt tataatttgc atactgatca ttttgatgat tcgtgtttcc    960
              tacaaaacgt gagagaagaa tcaaacagac acgggttaaa acgcctacaa agcatccttc   1020
              tttcacaaat acttaagaag gaaatcaact tagcaagtga gcaacaaggc acttcgatga   1080
              taaaaaataa gctcaaggga aagaaggttc tcttagttct agatgatgtt gatgagcaca   1140
<removed-apn>
              agcaattaca ggcaattgtt ggaaaatctg tttggtctga gtctgagttt ggcaccagat   1200
              tggttctgat catcaccact cgggacaaac aactcctaac atcttatggg gtcaaaagaa   1260
              cacatgaggt gaaagaattg agtaagaaag atgctattca attgcttaaa cggaaagctt   1320
              ttaaaacata tgatgaagtt gatcaaagtt acaatcaggt cttgaatgat gtagtaactt   1380
              ggacttctgg ccttccattg gctttggaag tgataggttc gaacctgttt ggaaaaagta   1440
              ttaaagaatg ggaatcagct atcaaacaat atcaaagaat tcccaataag gaaatcttga   1500
              agatacttaa agtaagcttt gatgctttgg aggaagaaga aaaaagtgtt tttcttgaca   1560
              ttacttgttg cttgaaaggc tataaatgca gagagattga agatatactt cacagtcttt   1620
              atgataactg catgaaatac catattgggg tgcttgttga caagtctctc atacagatta   1680
              gtgacgatag agttacattg catgacttga ttgagaacat gggtaaagaa attgacagac   1740
              agaaatcacc taaagagaca gggaagcgga ggagattatg gttactaaaa gatataattc   1800
              aagtcttaaa agacaactcg gggaccagtg aagttaaaat catttgtctt gatttcccca   1860
              tatctgacaa acaagaaaca atagaatgga atggaaatgc cttcaaggag atgaaaaacc   1920
              ttaaagcact tattatcaga aacggtattt tatcccaagg tcccaattat ctaccagaaa   1980
              gtttgagaat attggaatgg cacagacatc cttcccattg tttaccgtct gattttgata   2040
              caacgaatct tgccatacgc gacttggaat agttccatcc cgtcattggg gtgtggtggc   2100
              atatccaagg caagtttaaa gaatacattt tccttgtaaa ttaataaatt cacagcagta   2160
              ttattcattc agttctgttt aaatttttcc atcattttct ttttgcagaa gttgatgtat   2220
              ctaactatct aagggttttg gatagctgat gcatctggtc tctcaaattt gaaggaattt   2280
              tcatttgaat attgtgagaa tttaattata gttcagagtc aattggtttt ctgaataaac   2340
              tttaaatatt gagtgctggt tgtttccgca aacttaggag ttttctaccc atcaagggat   2400
                                                    342

<removed-date>
              ggattgaatg aatgaaacaa ctgtgactca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2460
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa                                                2479
              <210>   325
              <211>   1720
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 325
              tttttttttt ttttttttgc acaaaatgat aataatttaa ctttaaagag aactccatga     60
              tcatcaacca tccaacgatt taagacgaaa ggaacaagta caaccctcga aagtgaatta    120
              ggaagaaaac acaaggaagg aaaaccatac acagaagaag aatgctccaa ggtagtctgt    180
              gttcttgaat gactttgacg acccagcact ccattcacaa tcatactaag ttaactaatt    240
              aacctttttt tagttctcag tgctatgcaa tcatcctcat cttcctttag ttacagattc    300
              agcaacgatg tgttcctcag cttccgaggg gaagatactc gtcacagttt taccggcaat    360
              ctctataaag ctctctctga cagaggaatt cacaccttca tcgatgacaa gaagctccct    420
              agaggagacc aaatcagctc agcacttgag aaggcaattg aagagtccag aatattcatc    480
              atcgtgctct ctgaaaacta tgcatcgtcc tccttctgct taaatgaact tggttacatc    540
              cttaagttta ttaaggggaa gggcctattg gttttgcctg ttttttataa ggttgatcct    600
              tctgatgtga gaaaccatgc aggtagtttt ggagagtcat tggctcatca tgaaaagaag    660
              ttcaacgctg ataaggagac tttcaagtgt aacctggtga agctggagac atggaagatg    720
              gctcttcacc aagtggctaa cttgtctggt taccatttca aacatggttg gactagagtc    780
              acgaatgcaa gaagtaaaag cacttctgga tgttggatct gatgatgttg tccacatgct    840
              ggggatacat gggctgggtg gagtagttgg agagcataag ttaataggtg tgaaacaagg    900
              aatttccata atacagcata ggcttcagca acagaagatt cttttgattc tagatgatgt    960
              tgacaaaagg gagcagctac aggcgcttgc tggaagacct gatttgtttg gtcttggcag   1020
              tagagtcatc atcacgactc gggacaaaca attgctagca tgtcacggtg ttgaacgaac   1080
              atatgaggtg aatgaattga atgaggaaca tgctcttgaa ttacttagtt ggaaagcttt   1140
              caagttggaa aaagttgatc cattttacaa ggatgttctg aatcgagcag caacttatgc   1200
              ttcgggcctt ccattagctt tagaagtaat aggttccaac ttatatggaa gaaatataga   1260
                                                    343

<removed-date>
              acaatggata tctgctttag atcgatacaa aagaatccct aataaagaga tccaagagat   1320
              acttaaagtg agttatgatg ctttggaaga agatgagcaa agtgtttttc ttgacattgc   1380
              ttgttgcttc aaaaaatatg gtttggtaga ggttgaagat atacttcatg ctcatcatgg   1440
              gcattgcatg aaacatcata ttggagtgtt ggttgaaaaa tctctcataa agattagttt   1500
              tgatggtaac gtaacactac atgacttgat agaggacatg ggtaaagaaa ttgtcaggca   1560
<removed-apn>
              agaatcagtc aaagaacctg ggaaacgtag cagattatgg tttccaaagg atatagttca   1620
              agttttagaa gaaaataagg tgaataagat tgatacttga attatctctt ttgattatta   1680
              tatccttatg tcccaacctc gtgccgaatt cggcacgagg                         1720
              <210>   326
              <211>   567
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 326
              gggtctcgcc ttttcgttgt ggtcttctct aagaactatg cttcctcaac ttggtgcttg     60
              cgtgaacttg cacacatctg caactgcact attgaagcat ccccgggtcg tgttcttcca    120
              attttctatg atgttgatcc atcagaggtg cggaaacaga gtgcttatta tgggatagcc    180
              tttgaagaac acgaaggaag attcagagaa gataaagaga agatggagga agtactgaga    240
              tggagagaag ctctgacaca agtggccaat ctctctggct gggatatccg aaataagtca    300
              caacctgcaa tgattaaaga aattgttcaa aacataaaat atatattggg tcccaaattt    360
              caaaatcctc caaatggtaa tctagttggt atggaatcca gtgttgaaga attagaaaag    420
              tgtttagcat tggagtcggt tagtgacgtt cgggttgtcg gaattagtgg aatgggagga    480
              ataggaaaga caactcttgc ccgtgcttta tacgaaaaga ttgctgatca atatgatttt    540
              cattgttttg ttgatgatgt aaacaat                                        567
              <210>   327
              <211>   1753
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 327
              aaggctcaca aggctcgaag aatgaaaatt ccaagacaca attattagat ttataatatt     60
                                                    344

              tcttcactgc ccacaataat tgtcctcgca ttccgcttct gaaattgcaa tggcttctaa    120
<removed-date>
              ggccatcatc caatacagct cttcttcttc ttcatctcat gcgatcatca ctacatatga    180
              tgtgtttgtc agcttccgcg gtgaagacac gcgcaacaac ttcactgctt ttctctttga    240
              tgctctcttt gaaaatggca tccatgcctt caaagatgat acacatcttc agaaaggcga    300
              atccatagca cccgagctgc tacaggccat tcaagggtct cgccttttcc ttgtggtatt    360
              ctctaagaac tatgcttcct caacttggtg tttgcgtgaa cttgcacaca tctgcaactg    420
<removed-apn>
              cactgatgaa gcatccccga gtcatgttct tccgattttc tatgatgttg atccatcaga    480
              ggtgcggaaa cagagtggtt attatgggat agcctttgca gaacacgaag aaagattcag    540
              agaagatatg gagaagatgg aagaagtgca gagatggagg gcagctctga ttcgtgtggc    600
              caatctctct ggttgggata tccgaaataa gtaagtacaa atttatatgc agtcagtcat    660
              attatatcca tgtgcataca tttcatcatt tcttagtcac gttgttttat caaacttact    720
              atcgctttct aaagtagagt tcagagaagt tgaggaggta acatgcaaat tgactctaaa    780
              tttatacatg tttaacgcga atggtgttta aaaactttga aattatctta tcctgtacat    840
              atatacattc tgttgtggtt ctgataattt gccattcttt attttcttta aattttcagg    900
              tcacaacctg cactgattaa agaagttgtt caaaatataa aatatatcct aggtcccaac    960
              tttcaaaatc ttccaaacgg taatctagtc gggatggaat ccagtcttga agaattagaa   1020
              aagtgtttac gattagagtc ggttaatggc gttcgtgttg ttggaattag tggaatgggg   1080
              ggaataggaa agacaactct tgcccgtgca ttatacgaaa agatttctga tcaatatgat   1140
              tttcattgtt ttgttaatga tgtaaacaaa atttatcaac attctggttc actaggtata   1200
              caaaaacaat tactttctca gtgtctaaat gatgaaaatt tagagatttg taatgtttct   1260
              aagggaacat atatggtatc aactatgcta cgcagtaaac aaggacttat agttcttgat   1320
              aatgttaata aggatgaaca actatgtatg tttacagggg gtagagagac tctattacat   1380
              gaatgctttg gtgaaggaag cagaatcatt ataatttcaa ggaatgaaca catattaagg   1440
              acatatggag taaatcatgc ttaccaagtc cggccattga atcaagacaa ggctgttaag   1500
              ttattttgca taaatgcttt ccattgtaac tatattatga gtgattatga atggttgaaa   1560
              cgtgatgtac tatcacatgc tcaaggccat cccttggcaa ttaaagtaat aggcaaatct   1620
              ttgtttggtc gaaatgtttc acagtggaga ggtacattgg ttaggctaag tgataataaa   1680
                                                    345

<removed-date>
              agtaaggata ttatggatgt gttgcgaata agttatgatg atctagaaga aaaagataaa   1740
              gaaatatttt tag                                                      1753
              <210>   328
              <211>   1335
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 328
              acagttttgc aattgaaatg gcttctactt ctaatgccat catccaatgc acctcttctt     60
              cttcttcttc gtttgagtat gacgtgtttg tgagcttccg cggtgaagac acacgcaaca    120
              gcttcaccgc ttttcttttt gaagctctga aaaaacaagg catcgaggcc ttcaaagatg    180
              ataaagatat caggaaaggc gaatccatag caccagagct aatacgagcc attgaagggt    240
              ctcatgtttt cgttgttgtc ttttccaagg actatgcttc ctcaacttgg tgcctgcgtg    300
              aactagcaca tatctggaat tgcattcaaa catcacgcag acctcttctg cctatttttt    360
              atgatgttga tccatcacaa gtgcgaaaac agagtggaga ctatgagaaa gcctttgccc    420
              aacaccaaca aagttccagg ttccaagaga aggaaattaa aacatggaga gaagttctgg    480
              aacaagtagc cagtctctct ggttgggata tcagaaataa gcaacaacat gcagtgattg    540
              aagaaattgt tcagcagata aaaaatatct tgggttgcaa attttctatt cttccatatg    600
              ataatctagt tgggatggaa tctcattttg ctaaattatc aaagctaata tgtctggggc    660
              cggttaatga tgatgttcga gttgttggaa ttactgggat gggtggaata ggaaagtcca    720
              ctcttggtcg agctttatat gaaagaatct ctcatcaatt taattctcgt tgttatattg    780
              atgatgtaag taaactttat caaggttatg gtacattagg tgtacaaaaa gagttacttt    840
              ctcagtctct aaatgaaaaa aatctaaaga tttgcaatgt atctaatgga acacttctgg    900
              tatgggagag gctatccaat gcaaaggcac ttataattct tgacaatgtt gatcaagata    960
              aacagcttga tatgtttaca gggggtagaa atgatctgtt aggtaaatgc ctaggtaaag   1020
              ggagcatagt cattataatt tctagggatc aacaaatatt gaaggcacat ggagtagatg   1080
              ttatttaccg agtggagcca ttgaatgaca atgatgctct tggattgttt tgcaaaaaag   1140
              cattcaaaaa taattatatg atgagtgatt ttaaaaagtt gacttctgat gtattatcac   1200
              attgtcaagg tcatccctta gcaattgaag tgctaggctc atctttgttt ggtaaagatg   1260
                                                    346

<removed-date>
              tctctcattg ggggagtgca ttggtttcgt taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggcca   1320
              ccgactagtg agcac                                                    1335
              <210>   329
              <211>   898
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (51)..(51)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 329
              aaatttcctg tttcacagaa atggctgata gtgttgttgt ttttctacta nataacttgt     60
              ctcggctgct tgaagatgaa cacaagttgc tttctggcgt ggaggacaaa atcaactctc   120
              tttgcaatga gctcaagttt atacacatct tcctcaagaa ttctgagggc aagcgcagtc   180
              acgggctcgt gaaagaagtg gtgagccaga tcagagatgt cgccctcaaa gctcaagatg    240
              tggttgacac ctacctttcc aacatcgccc cacaaaaaca gaggagcaaa ctgagcaagt    300
              tattccacct caaagaacat gtcatggtgc ttcaccaagt caactctgac atagagaaga    360
              tcaggagtcg gatcgatgag atctataaga acagggacag atatggcatt ggagaaagtg   420
              aattccgaag cgaagaagct gctgcagaag cagaatcact cctcaaaaga aggagggagg   480
              tggaggaaga agatatagtg ggcttagtgc atgactcaag ccatgtaatt catgaactca   540
              tggaaagtga gtcacgtctt aaagttgtgt ccataattgg aatgggaggg ttgggtaaga   600
              ccactcttgc ccgtaagatc tataacaaca atcaagtgca gctgcggttt ccttgccttg   660
              catgggtttc tgtgtccaat gattacagac ccaaggaatg tcttctcagc cttctcaaat    720
              gttcaatgtc ttccacatct gaatttgaaa aattaagtga ggaagatctg aagaagaagg    780
              tagcagaatg gttgaaaggg aagagttatc tggtagtgct tgatgacatc tgggaaacca   840
              aagtatggga tgaggttaaa ggagcctttc cagatgacca aataggtagt agaattct     898
              <210>   330
              <211>   3892
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                    347

<removed-date>
              <400> 330
              gttttgcaat tgtaatggct tctacttcta atgccatcat ccaatgctcc tcttcttctt     60
              cgtttgagta tgacgtgttt gtgagcttcc gcggtgaaga cacacgcaac agcttcaccg    120
              ctttcctttt tgaagctctg aaaaaagaag gcatcgaggc cttcaaagat gataaagata    180
              tcaggaaagg cgaatccata gcaccagagc taatacgagc cattgaaggg tctcatgttt    240
              tccttgttgt cttttccaag gactatgctt cctcaacttg gtgcctgcgt gaactagcac    300
<removed-apn>
              atatctggaa ttgctttcaa ccatctacca gacatcttct gcctattttc tatgatgttg    360
              atccatcaca agtgcgaaaa ctgagtggag actatgagaa agcctttgcc caacaccaac    420
              aaagttccag gttccaagag aaggaaatta caacatggag agaagttctg gaacgagtag    480
              ccagtctctc tggttgggat atcagaaata aggaacaacc tacagtgatt gatgaaattg    540
              ttcagaagat aaaaaaaatc gtgggttgca aattttctat tcttcgaaat gataatctag    600
              ttgggatgga atctcatttt tctacattat caaagcagct ggggccggtt aatgatgttc    660
              gagttgttgg aattactggg atgggtggaa taggaaagtc cactcttggt cgagctttat    720
              atgaaagaat ctctcatcaa tttaattctt cttgttatat tgatgacgta agcaaacttt    780
              atcgactgga aggttcagca ggtgtacaaa aagacttact ttctcagtct ctaaatgaaa    840
              caaatctaaa gatttggaat ttatcttatg gaacagaact ggcatggagg aggctacaca    900
              atgcaaaggc acttatagtt cttgacaatg ttgaagaaga taaacagctt aatatgttta    960
              ctgcgaatag aaagaatctg ttacgtgaac gccttggtag aggaagcata gtcattataa   1020
              tttctaggga tcaacaaata ttgaaggcac gtggagcaga tcttatttac caagtgaagc   1080
              cattggatga caccgatgct cttcgattgt tttgcaaaaa tgcatttaaa aataattata   1140
              ttatgagtga ttttaaaacg ttgacttctc atgtactatc acattgtgaa ggtcatccct   1200
              tagcaattga agtattgggc tcatctttgt ttggtaaaga tgtctcttat tgggggagtg   1260
              cattggtttc cttaagagaa agtaaaagta ttatggatgt gttgcgaata agttttgatc   1320
              aattggagga tacacacaag gaaatatttc tagatattgc atgtttcttg tacgatcatg   1380
              atgtgatata tgtgaaggaa attctagatt ttcgtggatt taatcccgaa tacggcctac   1440
              aagttctcgt tgataaatca cttataacca tgcgtaggat agttgaaatg catgacgttt   1500
              tgcgcaattt gggcaagtat attgttagag aaaaatcacc ttggaatcca tggaagtgga   1560
                                                    348

<removed-date>
              gtaggttgtg ggatttcaaa gatctcaaca tagtttcgtt ggataataag gcaacagaaa   1620
              atgttgaggc catagttcat gaagaagact atgacattga aaaagactct gacttagaag   1680
              aagactctaa cttagaagac tatgacttag aagactctga cttagaagaa gactctgact   1740
              tagaagacta tgacttagaa gaagactctg acttagaaga ctatgactta gaagaagact   1800
              ctgacttaga agactctcac tttcttccaa cagtgagggt ggatgctcta tcaacaatga   1860
<removed-apn>
              gtaaccttaa acttctcaaa tttagatacg ctggctacga aatcaattat tcaggaacac   1920
              ttactaagct ttccaatgaa ttaggatatc ttacttgggt aaagtatcct tttgagtgtt   1980
              tgccaccaag ttttgagccg gacaaacttg ttgagttgat tctacctaaa agcaacatca   2040
              aacaactttg ggaagataga aagataatat caattattat tattattatt tttctatatt   2100
              gttttcattt aaataaacaa ataaaaaggc aaactttctt atgataattc ctttttctct   2160
              atttaattaa agaaacaaaa gaaaggctga atgtcattat taattttgtt tcctactatt   2220
              ggtcttgcat tgtagcctct acccaatttg aggcgtttgg atctctctga ctccaaaaat   2280
              ctaataaaaa tgccgtatat tggagatgcc ctgtatcttg agagtcttaa tctcgaagga   2340
              tatatacaac tcgaagagat cggcctgtcc attgttcttt caccaaagct tacttctctg   2400
              aatttgagaa attgcaaaag tcttatcaag ttgccacggt ttggagagga ccttattctt   2460
              gaaaatctat atctggaagg atgtcataaa ctcagacaca ttgatccatc catcggtctt   2520
              ctataaaagc tcaaatattt gaatttggaa aactgctaaa atctagtaag cttacccaat   2580
              agcatactag gcctcaattc tcttgaatat ctgtatctct ctggctgttc aaaactgtac   2640
              aacaccgagt tattatatga actaaggggt gcagagcaat tgaagaagat tgatatagat   2700
              ggagctccta ttcatttcca atcaacatct tccaactcca tagaacataa aaaatcagtt   2760
              agttgctcaa tgccttcctc cccaatattt ccatgtatgc gtgaacttga tctaagtttc   2820
              tgtaatttag ttgaaatccc tgatgctatt ggagttatga gttgcttacg atggctagat   2880
              ttaagtggca acaattttgc tacactgccc aacctcaaga agctttccaa actgttctgt   2940
              ttaaagttac aacattgcaa gcagttgaaa tctttgcctg agctcccttc acggattaac   3000
              aattttgatg gactaagaca agcaggatta cacattttta actgcccaga attagttgat   3060
              agggaacgct gcactgacat ggctttttca tggatgatgc aattgtttca cggatggatg   3120
                                                    349

              aacaaccagg tggattacat gattggaagt gttagtccag gaagtgaaat accaaggtgg   3180
<removed-date>
              ttcaataatg agcatgaggg aaattgtgta agcttagacg catctcctgt tatgcatgac   3240
              cataattgga ttggcgttgc gttttgtgca atattcatcg tacctcatga aacactctca   3300
              gcgatgcctt ttacagaaac agaatggcca tggtctttgc ttggtgatat tccagtggat   3360
              ttttatgtag atctagatct agaacttgtt ttagacaaat cagatcacat gtggctattc   3420
              tttctggatc gagatgactc cattcgcgaa ttacatctca agcacaaata tcttggcaga   3480
<removed-apn>
              ttgcttttgc aatgtgatga tgaagggaca gtgttgaaag agtcatatgc tgaggtgaag   3540
              aaatacggat atcgctgggt atataaaggg gatatagaat cgttgggtag aaagcgcaaa   3600
              tttggggaaa ttgaagaaaa tgaaggaata atgtgagcag aagggagaaa agatgatgca   3660
              agctcctccc aggaaaacac aatcaacttg aatcttaggg tgtagaatca tcatttcttc   3720
              tctcatttta ttcatttgag tcgtctttca ctcatcccaa caattcacaa gtggcataaa   3780
              ggggactgat gcaaattttg ttggtggcat aaaatcaggt ttttggttgt tatgggataa   3840
              ttgtgtagtt gtctttgttg gttaagaatt ttttttttcc tttttttggt tt           3892
              <210>   331
              <211>   3128
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 331
              atggcagaaa ctgcagtatc ttttgccttg gaaagagtgt tccaaatcct aacggaagaa     60
              acaaacctgc taagaggcac ccacaaagat tttttaggca tcagagatga actagagagc    120
              attcaagctt tcctcaaaga tgcagataga agggctgcag atgaagccaa caccaaggct    180
              ggaatcagaa catgggtgaa gcaggtcaga gaagcatcat ttcgaataga agatgtcatt    240
              gatgaatacc tcagggtgat tcatggggtc caacatcttg gatgtggggc ttcaatttgc    300
              aagattacga gcctcatcag cacagtgact tctcgtcatc agatagcaac tgagattcag    360
              gacatcaaag tgtcactttc tctaatcaag gaaagaagtg aaagatataa gtttcaagtt    420
              tcacaagaac aacaatcaag cagcaacact gaagcgatag aaggcagtag atggcatgat    480
              tctagaatga gatccctttt cattgaagaa actgaaattg taggatttga attccctaaa    540
              gatgaattgg ttggttggtt gttgaagggc acaaaagagc ccacggtgat ttcagtagta    600
                                                    350

              gggatgggag gacttggaaa aaccacactt gccaagcacg ttttttgcag tgaaaaggta    660
<removed-date>
              aaaaggcact ttgattgtcg ggcttgcatc acagtttctc aatcatacac tgtgaaaggg    720
              ttattcatag acatgataaa acaattttgt aaggagacca aaaaccctct tccagaaatg    780
              ttacacgaaa tggacgagaa gtcactaatt tctgaagtga ggcaatactt gcagcataaa    840
              aagtacttga tattctttga tgatgtatgg catgaagatt tttgtgacca agttgaactg    900
              gccatgctta ataacaatga aagtagcagg atcataatca ccactagaat gatgcatgtt    960
<removed-apn>
              gctgagtttt tcaagaaatc ctttcctgtt catattctca gcctacaact gttgcctcca   1020
              gacaaagcat gggaactctt ttgcaagaag gcattcagat ttgagctaca cgggcaatgt   1080
              cctgcactgc ttgaaggtat gtcagatgaa attgttagaa aatgcaaggg gctgcctttg   1140
              gcgattgtag ccattggtgg tctactttca acaaaatcaa aaactgtctt tgaatggcaa   1200
              aaggtgaatc aaaatctaaa cctcgagttg cagcgtaatg cccatctcac tagtataaca   1260
              aagattttat ctctcagtta tgatgacctg ccttactatt tgaaaccatg cattttgtat   1320
              tttggaatat atccacagga ctactccatt aatcataaca ggttaacacg acaatggata   1380
              gctgaagggt ttgttcagtc tgatggaaga agaacttcag agcaaattgc agatgagtac   1440
              ttatccgagt taatttatag aagcctggtt caagtctcaa cagttggctt tgaagggaaa   1500
              gttaaaagtt gtcgagtcca tgatttatta cacgaagtga tagtaagaaa aatgaaggac   1560
              ttaagttttt gccattttgt gaatgaaggt gatgatgaat cagccacaat tggagcaact   1620
              agacgcctat ctatagacac tagttccaac aatgtgttaa agagcactaa cagcacacat   1680
              attcgtgcta tccattgttt tggaaaagga gaacagctcg agccttttat gggtcaacta   1740
              ttttcgaagt ctagggttat gaaagtactc aaccttgaag gtacattgtt aaattatgtt   1800
              cccagtaatc tagggaatct tttccactta aggtacataa atctaaagaa tactaaagta   1860
              cggattcttc ccaattctgt tggtaagtta cagaacctag agaccttgga tatcagaaac   1920
              acgttggttc atgagttacc aagtgaaata aacatgctca aaaagttaag atatcttctt   1980
              gctttccatc gaaactatga agcagattat tctcttttgg gatctacaac tggtgtgcta   2040
              atgaaaaaag gtattcaaaa tttgacttcc ttacaaaacc tttgttatgt ggaggcagat   2100
              catgggggca tagatctcat ccaagagatg agatttttaa ggcagttaag gaagttaggc   2160
              ttaaggtgtg ttcgaaggga atatgggaat gcaatatgtg cttcagtgga agaaatgaaa   2220
                                                    351

<removed-date>
              caacttgaat cacttaatat cactgcaata gctcaagatg aaatcattga cttgaactct   2280
              atatcatccc taccccaact tcgacgactt catttgaaag caagactgga gaagatgcct   2340
              aattggattt caacacttga gtttcttgtt aaaataaggc tggctttatc caatttgaaa   2400
              gatgatccgt tgagatcgct agaaaagttg ccaagtttgt tgaaggttag tatttgggac   2460
              aatgcctatg atggtcaaat tttgcatttt cgaagtggag ggtttcgcaa attgaaggaa   2520
<removed-apn>
              ttgtatctag ctcgcttgga tagagtaaat tctgtcctaa tagataaagg aagtttgctt   2580
              tctcttgaaa attttataat ttgcaaaatc ccccatctca agaagctacc ctctggcatc   2640
              gaagccttgg ataaccttaa agttattgac ttccgtgata tgccaactga gcttgttgag   2700
              agcattgatc caaaaaaagg tcaagattat gagattatca atcaagtgcc cctagtaatc   2760
              attcgtcatt ggattggccc aaaactcagt gattttgaag tccgcgctat tcactcgtcc   2820
              tcccagaaat cataaacata atgattatgc tttgatgcct aatatgaaga tttccaggtt   2880
              ttagtttatg caattcgtct tgaaaggtga acctctgagt agagatagca atgagtagga   2940
              tttaggctgt tggagctgct cttaaagctt gcaatcaaga cgacttcatt tgaatgagca   3000
              ttttcatttt catgataaag acaaatgtaa tttctgtatt gtcattggat tcgttgtcat   3060
              gatggaacct actgttgttt gccaattatt tttcctgtat tctaaacttt agtctgcctt   3120
              ctattggt                                                            3128
              <210>   332
              <211>   1121
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1039)..(1040)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 332
              acacgtcatc aaacacgaca acatacctat tgtggctcaa gtgatttctc acctcacgta     60
              tcaacgatgc tttatccatt gtagaatcct ctcttttttc tgcttctaga aacttgagca    120
              acaacccttc tatggtgtat gactgagaca ctgtgatcca gacatggcga gggaagtgtg    180
              tctggacttt gtcaaaaact ttcttggcaa gagtagtttt tccacttcct cccattccta    240
                                                    352

<removed-date>
              ccacagagac aacagtgagc tttttccgcc cctctttcaa ccatctttcc aatgtgtctc    300
              tagggctgtc aaagcccaca acctcagcct ccttaagaaa cagaggagcc attcgaaggt    360
              tgtcgaacgt gatgttttgg ggtcctcgag aagattgaat ttgggagcaa tcctcagttt    420
              tgttcctctc cttgatccca cgaaattctg atttcacgtc ctggttcatg tatgcaaatt    480
              gaagacgaga ggccgtagtt ttgacgaaat caatagcctt acaaggtaaa gatgcacatc    540
<removed-apn>
              caggatcatc agcaagctgc ctttcctcat ggataatgta ttcatcaacg atatcttcca    600
              tgcaaaaaga tgtttccacc agctgcttca cctttgcttt gagaccatca cgtgagttgc    660
              cttcttcagc tgctgccatc ttgtccacat catgaatcat ggcttgaatc ccatcaagtt    720
              tgtctttcat gtctgcagca tcttttggaa cctccatgac tgaattcact gctttcttta    780
              agggtggaag caaataatca acagccaagg acactgcaat ttcttgcaat ttctgcatct    840
              tagtatagat ctagtttctg ctattgttat gtgttgagag tgagatgaga agaaagtaaa    900
              gtgtgtcttt caagaggaag actttcactt tcccttggtc attctttagt gttcaattat    960
              tgagcaagtt gcacggaggg cacggtcaat gagattgtct tattgctgat ctgttaatgt   1020
              aattaaacaa ataaaagann tagtgaggag caagttgcag gagcgtaccc agtgagattg   1080
              tgattgtaat ttaccaatag aaaaaaaaat gtcacacttg g                       1121
              <210>   333
              <211>   1885
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1832)..(1833)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 333
              cgacgccgcc ctcatagaaa agaaattaat tgtattgata ctgtatttga gaagatgaag     60
              aatcttcgaa ttcttatcgt tcgtaacaca agcttttgac atgagcctcg ttatctccca    120
              aaaaacttaa ggctacttga ttggaagaac tacccttcaa agtctttgcc atcagaattt    180
              aatcccacta aaatcagtgc cttcaatgga agtcctcaac tcttactgga aaagccattt    240
              cagtttgacc atttgactta catgaatatc tccggttgtg ataaggtttc tgaatttcct    300
                                                    353

<removed-date>
              gatgtgtcta gagccatgaa tttaagaaaa ttgatacttg atggatgcga gaacctggtt    360
              agcattcata aatcagttgg acatctcgct aaccttgttt ctcttagtgc ttcaaattgc    420
              acacaactcc atagttttgt gccaacaatc tatttgccat ctcttgaatc cctttccttt    480
              gttctttgca caacactcgc acactttcca gatatcgaag gaaagatgga taagccatta    540
              gagattgtta tgtcatatac agctattcag aagcttccag attccatcaa ggaacttaat    600
<removed-apn>
              ggccttacct atcttgagat gacaggttgt gaggaactcc gatatttacc aagtagctta    660
              tttaagttgc caaatttggt cacattaaaa cttgcagaat gtgctttcct tccaaggtca    720
              ttgagaatgt ttataggaag tccttcaacg tgcgcaaaac tagagacatt acatttcgac    780
              aatactgggc tgacagacta tgatcttaag actattgttg ccatttttcc taacttgaaa    840
              gacttgaatg tatcgcggaa cagattttct gatctcacat tgagcattgg gaaatttact    900
              aacttgacaa gtcttgacgt gagttattgt acggacctta aaggaatgcc ttcaatactg    960
              ccatcaagtg ttcagaaagt agatgcaaga gaatgtcgat ccttaaatca attttcatca   1020
              aacgccttat ggattcaggt ttactagcac tactttagct gataacgagc aaatgttttc   1080
              tgacgaaaaa tgatcacata aatatcatag tcattaagat atattttctg ttgaccggtg   1140
              tagttccaca atttcatttc cattcattcc tcccatttta tttcattgtt aacaaaagaa   1200
              aacacaatta aaagacaata attaagattt tgttttttgt ttgtgggatg tgtcgcaggt   1260
              aaaaaaagaa aagaatgaat tagaagtcat gatgccaaaa agggagattc caaaatggtt   1320
              ccactatgtt aacaagggac ggtttccgga tttcaaggct cgtgggaagt tccctgcggt   1380
              tgctatagcg tttgtatttg gggaagtgaa tgccattgac aaagctaata gaagtataaa   1440
              tgttggcatt cacttgttga ttgaggatga aaggagaaag tttcgtaatg tccctgtccc   1500
              tgagaatcat gtgttcttgt gtgacctacg aggtttgttc agtttggaag aatgggagga   1560
              tgtaggtgtt ggagttggta atgattggaa gaccatacag gtttactgtg acacaaagtt   1620
              gcctctatgt tcatggggag tttatgtgta caagagtgaa agtaacatga aatatatcca   1680
              attcccgtct aatgatccct gttcctcctt ctaaactagc cgagcgttgc tgcagcaacc   1740
              tccatccacc acaatggttc aatgatgtca tttgctaagc agcctttttg ttttcttagt   1800
              tttcaataat tgctagagta catacgtgta anngctcaga ttatctgacc atgaaattaa   1860
                                                    354

              agtagcttta tattgtgttg acaga                                         1885
<removed-date>
              <210>   334
              <211>   419
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 334
              gaaaatcagt caaccaaagt ttgtatcgta gggatatggg gaatgggagg attgggtaaa     60
<removed-apn>
              actaccacag ccaaagccat ctacaatcga atccatcgta gattcacggg tagatgtttc   120
              attgaagata ttcgagaagt ttgtgaaaca gatagaagag ggcatgttca tttgcaagaa   180
              caacttcttt caaatgtcct taaaacaaag gtgaacataa aaagcgttgg gataggaaga   240
              gctatgatgg agagcaaact ttctggaaga aaggcactca ttgtacttga tgatgttaat   300
              gagtttggcc agttaaaagt cctatgcgga aatcgtaaat ggtttggtca aggaagtata    360
              gtaatcatta caactagaga tgtacgccta cttcacaaac ttaaagttga gtttgttta     419
              <210>   335
              <211>   2832
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 335
              atggcagaaa cagcagtatc ttttgcctta ggagaagttt acgaaatcct aaaggacgaa     60
              gcaaagctgc taagaggcat ccacaaagac ttttcagaca tcaaagatga actagaaagc   120
              attcaagcct tcctcaaaga tgcagataga agggctgcag atgaagcaaa caccaatgat   180
              ggaataagaa cttgggtgaa gcaggtcaga gaagcatcat ttcgtataga agatgtaatt   240
              gatgaatacc tcagggtgat tcatgtggtc caacatcttg gatgtggggc ttcaatttgc   300
              aagattacac acctgatcag cacattgatt tctcgtcatc agatagcaac agagattcag    360
              gacattaaat tgtcactttc tgtaattaag gaaagaagtg aaaggtataa gtttcaagtt    420
              tcacaagaac aaccatcaag cagcagcact ggagggatag aaggtagtag atggcatgat   480
              cctagaatga gttccctttt catcgaggaa actgaaattg taggatttga attgccaaga   540
              gatgaattgg ttgcttggtt gttgaagggc acagaagagc gcacagtaat ttctgtggta   600
              gggatgggag gacttggaaa aaccactctt tgcaagcacg tctttgatag tgaaaatgta   660
              aaaagtcact ttgattgtcg tgcttgcatc acagtttctc aatcatacac tgtcagaggg   720
                                                    355

<removed-date>
              ttattcatag acatgataaa gcaattctgt agggagacaa aagaccctct tccacaaatg    780
              ttacatgaaa tggatgagaa gtcattaatt tctgaattga ggcaatactt ggagcataaa    840
              aggtatttga tattctttga tgatgtatgg catgaagatt tttgtgacca agttgaattt    900
              tccatgccta ataacaataa aagaagcagg atcataatca ccactagact gatgcacgtt    960
              gctgagtttt tcaagaaatc ctttcctgtt catgttcaca gcctacaact gttgcctcca   1020
<removed-apn>
              gacaaagcat gggaactctt ttgcaagaag gcatttagat ttgagctagg tgggaaatgt   1080
              ccagcagagc ttcaaggtat gtcaaacaaa attgttagaa aatgtaaggg gctacctttg   1140
              gcgattgtgg ccattggtgg tctattgtca acaaaatcta aaactgtgtt tgaatggcaa   1200
              aaggtgatcc aaaatctaaa cctggagttg cagcgtaacc cccatctaac tagtttaact   1260
              aagattttgt ctcttagtta tgataacctg ccttaccatt tgaaaccatg ccttttgtat   1320
              ttgggtatat atccagagga ctactccatt aatcacacaa gtttaactcg acaatggata   1380
              gctgaaggat ttgttaaatc tgatgggaga agaactatag agcaggttgc agatgagtac   1440
              ttatctgagt taatctatag aagtctgatt caagtctcga gcataggctt tgaagggaaa   1500
              gttaaaaatt gtcaagtcca tgatttatta catgaagtga tcgtaagaaa aatggaggac   1560
              ttgagttttt gccatttttt gtatgaaggt gatgatgaat cagccacact tggaacaatt   1620
              agacgcctat ctatagacac tagttccaac aaagtgttga agagcactaa caacgcacac   1680
              attcgtgcta ttcatgcttt taaaaaagga ggactgcttg acatttttat gggtctctta   1740
              tcttcgaagt ctaggccttt gaaagtactc gaccttgaag gtacattgtt aagttatgtt   1800
              cctagtaatt tagggaatct ttttcactta aggtacctaa atctaaggaa tactaaagta   1860
              caggttcttc ctaaatctgt tgggaagtta aagaacctag agaccctgga tataagagat   1920
              acgttggttc atgagtttcc aagtgaaata aacaagctca aacagttacg acatcttctt   1980
              gctttccatc gaaactatga agctgagtat tctctgttgg gatttacaac tggagttgta   2040
              atgaaaaagg gtattaaaaa cttgacttcc ctacaaaatc tttgctatgt ggaggttgaa   2100
              catgcaggaa ttgatctcat ccaagagatg agattcttaa ggcagttaag gaagttaggc   2160
              ttaaggtgtg ttcgaaggga atatgggaat gcaatatgtg cttcagtgga agagatgaaa   2220
              caacttgaat cacttaatat cactgcaata gctcaagatg aaatcattga cttgaactct   2280
                                                    356

              atatcatccc taccccaact tcgacgactt catttgaaag caagactgga gaagatgcct   2340
<removed-date>
              aattggattt caacacttga gtttcttgtt aaaataaggc tggctttatc caatttgaaa   2400
              gatgatccgt tgagatcgct agaaaagttg ccaagtttgt tgaaggttag tatttgggac   2460
              aatgcctatg atggtcaaat tttgcatttt cgaagtggag gttttccaaa attgaaggaa   2520
              ttgtatcttg ctcggttgaa tagagtaaat tctatcctca tagacaaagg agctttgctt   2580
              tctcttgaaa attttaaact taacaaaatg ccccatctca aggaggtacc ctctggcatc   2640
<removed-apn>
              aaagccttgg ataacctcaa agctcttgat ttccttgaca tgccaactga atttgttgag   2700
              agcattgatc cacaaaatgg acaaaattat tggatcatca atcatgttcc ccttgtattc   2760
              attcgccact ggattggccc aaaactcaat gattttgaag tccgcaccat tcgcttgttc   2820
              tacagggagt ga                                                       2832
              <210>   336
              <211>   3129
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 336
              atggcagaaa ttgccgtagc atttgccttg gggcaagtgt tccaaatcct aaatgatgag     60
              acaaacctgt taggaggcat ccacaaagat ttttcaaaca tcagagatga actagaaagc    120
              attcaagctt tcctcaaaga tgcagataga aaggctgcag atgaagcaaa caccaaccat    180
              ggaataagaa catgggtgaa gcaagtgaga gaagcatcat ttcgtataga agatatcatt    240
              gatgaatacc tcagggtgat tcatgtggtt ccccaccttg gatgtgaggc ttcaatttgc    300
              aagattacaa gcctgataaa aacatcaatt tctcgccatc agatagctac taagattcag    360
              gacattaagt tgtcaatttc tgtaatcaag gaaagaagtg aaaggtataa gtttcaacct    420
              tcacaagaac caccatcaag cagcagcacc agaatgggtt ccctttttat tgaagaaact    480
              gaaattgtag gatttaaatt gccaagagat gaattggttg gttggctgtt gaagggcaca    540
              gaagagcgaa cagtgatttc agtggtaggg atgggaggac ttggaaaaac cactcttgcc    600
              aagcatgttt ttgatagtga aaaagtaaaa ggtcactttg attatcgtgc ttgcatcaca    660
              gtttctcaat catacagtgt cagagggtta ttcatagaaa tgataaagca attttgtagg    720
              gaggcaaaag accctcttcc agaaatgtta cacgaaatgg acgagaagtc actaatttct    780
                                                    357

              gaagcgaggc aatacttgca gcacaaaagg tatttgatat tctttgatga tgtatggcat    840
<removed-date>
              gaagattttt gtgaccaagt tgaatttgcc atgcctaata acaatagaag tagcaggatc    900
              ataatcacca ctagaatgat gcatgttgct gagtttttca agaaatcctt tcctgttcat    960
              attctcagcc tacaactgtt gcctccagac aaagcatggg aactcttttg caagaaggca   1020
              ttcagatttg agctacacgg gcaatgtcct gcactgcttg aaggtatgtc aaatgaaatt   1080
              gttagaaaat gcaaggggct gcctttggcg attgtagcca ttggtggtct actttcaaca   1140
<removed-apn>
              aaatcaaaaa ctgtctttga atggcaaaag gtgaatcaaa atctaaacct cgagttgcag   1200
              cgtaatgccc acctcactag tataacaaag attttatctc tcagttatga tgacctgcct   1260
              tactatttga aaccatgcat tttgtatttt ggaatatatc cacaggacta ctccattaat   1320
              cataacaggt taacacgaca atggatagct gaagggtttg ttcagtctga tggaagaaga   1380
              acttcagagc aaattgcaga tgagtactta tccgagttaa tttatagaag cctggttcaa   1440
              gtctcaacag ttggctttga agggaaagtt aaaagttgtc aagtccatga tatattacat   1500
              gaaatgatag taagaaaatt gaaggacttg tgtttttgcc attttgtgca tggaggtgat   1560
              gagtcagcca caagtggaac aactagacgc ttatctgtag acattagttc caacaatgtg   1620
              ttgaagagca ctaactacac acacattcgt gctattcatg tttttgggaa aggaggactg   1680
              cttgagcttt tcacgggtct cttatcttca aagtcaaggg ttttgaaagt actcgacctt   1740
              catggtacat ccttaaatta tatttcaggt aatttaggga atctttttca cttaaggtac   1800
              ctaaatctaa ggggtacgaa agtacaggtt cttcctaaat ctcttggtaa gttgcagaac   1860
              ttagagacct tggacataag agacacattg gttcatgagt taccaagtga aataaacatg   1920
              ctcaaaaagt taaggcatct tcttgctttc catcgaaact atgaagcacg ttattctctc   1980
              ttgggattta caactggtgt gctaatggaa aagggtatta aaaacttgac ttccctatta   2040
              aaactttgct atgtggaggt agatcatggt gggatagatc tcatccaaga gatgaaattc   2100
              ttatggcaat taagcaagtt aggcttaagg cgtgttcgga gggaatatgg gaatgcaata   2160
              tgtgcttccg tggtagagat gaaacacctt gaatcacttg atatcactgc aataggtgag   2220
              gatgaaatca ttgacttgaa ccctatatca tccctacccc aacttcaacg ccttaaattg   2280
              aaaacaagac tggagaagat gcctaattgg atttcaaaac ttgagtttct tgttgagata   2340
              aggctgggtt tatccaattt gaaagatgat cttttaagat cggtagaaaa cttgccaaat   2400
                                                    358

<removed-date>
              ttgttgaagc ttggtatttg ggacaatgcc tatggtggtg aaattttgca ttttcaaagt   2460
              ggagggtttc caaaattgaa ggaactgtat ctagctcgct tgaatagagt aaattctgta   2520
              ttaatagata aaggaagttt gctttctctt gaatatttta taattgccaa aatcccccat   2580
              ctcaagaagc tatcctcagg catcaaagcc ttggataacc ttaaagttat tgacttccgt   2640
              gatatgtcaa ctgagcttgt tgagagcatt gatccaaaaa aaggtcaaga ttatgagatc   2700
<removed-apn>
              atcaatcatg ttccccaact tttcaaaatg ttcgtgtatt tcctttatca ccttcatcct   2760
              ctcacccact tgaaagttct caaaattatg ttatcgaatt cacgactctt ccctcacgct   2820
              gatgatcatc tttttcgaga agcactgtcc aagctcgcag agcgtcgatt ggatgcaggc   2880
              ataggggtac acgtagaact gcaccagcca gccacgggag ccgccatcat cgtccatcaa   2940
              gcaacgcagg tgctcgccag cgtagagggt ctgggtcatg tcttgcgact gaatgttgtg   3000
              gtcgagtgtg gtggtgattg tcgtatcttg gttccctgtg aactccacat gccacatagt   3060
              attattctct ttggaagtac accaactata tcttctttgc attcattttc tttcatcctc   3120
              acattttaa                                                           3129
              <210>   337
              <211>   1019
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 337
              attcggctcg agcactttcc tacaattttc ttttcatcac aaaacaaccc ctcgcatata     60
              ttatatttgt tgattcatta tttgtatcca caaacacttg ttcttccttc acagctttgc    120
              aattgaaatg gcttttactt ctaatgacgt catccaatgc acctcttctt cttcgtttga    180
              gtatgacgtg tttgtgagct tccgcggtga agacacacgc aacagcttca ccggttttct    240
              tcttcaagct ctgaaaaaag aaggcatcga ggccttcaaa gatgataaag atatcaggaa    300
              aggcgaatcc atagcaccag agctaatacg agccattgaa gggtctcatg ttttcctttg    360
              tcttttccaa ggactatgct tcctcaactt ggtgcctgcg tgaactagca catatcagga    420
              attgcattca aacatcaccc agacatcttc tgcctatttt ttatgatgtt gatccatcac    480
              aagtgcgaaa acagagtgga gactatcaga aagcctttgc ccaacaccaa caaagtttca    540
              ggttccaaga gaaggaaatt aacatatgga gagaagttct ggaactagta gccaatctct    600
                                                    359

<removed-date>
              ctggttggga tatcagatat aagcaacaac atgcagtgat tgaagaaatt gtccagcaga    660
              taaaaaatat cttgggttcc aaattttcaa ctcttccata tgataatcta gttgggatgg    720
              aatctcattt tgctaaatta tcaaagctaa tatgtctggg accagctaat gatgttcgag    780
              ttgttggaat tactgggatg ggtggaatag gaaagtcaac tcttggtcga gctttatatg    840
              aaagaatctc tcatcaattt aattctcttt gttatattga tgatgtaagc aaactttatc    900
<removed-apn>
              aacgtgatgg tatattaggt gtacaaaagc aattactttc tcaatcttta aatgaaagaa    960
              atctagagat ttggaatgta tctgatggaa catttctggc ttggaaaaag ctatcccat    1019
              <210>   338
              <211>   850
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 338
              catagttttg caattgatca aatggcttct acttctaagg ccatcatcca atgcacctct     60
              tcttcttctt cttcttcgtt tgagtatgac gtgtttgtga gcttccgcgg tgaagacaca    120
              cgcaacagct tcaccgcttt tctttttgaa gctctgaaaa aacaaggcat cgaggccttc    180
              aaagatgata aagatatcag gaaaggcgaa tccatagcac cagagctaat acgagccatt    240
              gaagggtctc atgttttcct tgttgtcttt tccaaggact atgcttcctc aacttggtgc    300
              ctgcgtgaac tagcacatat ctggaattgc attcgaacat cttccagact tcttctgcct    360
              attttctatg atgttgatcc atcacaagtg cgaaaacaga gtggagacta tgagaaagcc    420
              ttttcccaac accaacaaag ttccaggttc ctttataagg aaattaaaac atggagaaaa    480
              gttctgaacc atgtaggcaa tctctctggt tgggatatca gaaataagca acaacatgca    540
              gtgattgaag aaattgttca gcggataaaa aatatcttgg gttgcaaatt ttctactctt    600
              ccatgtgata atcgagttgg tatggaatct cattttgcta cattatcaaa gctaatattt    660
              ctggggccgg ttaatgatga tgttcgagtt gttggaatta ctgggatggg tggaatagga    720
              aagtccactc ttggtccagc tttatatgaa agtatctctc atcaatttaa atccttgttg    780
              ttatattgat gatgtaagaa acaatcataa acgtgaaagg ccattaggtg tacaaaagca    840
              attactttct                                                           850
                                                    360

              <210>   339
<removed-date>
              <211>   1765
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 339
              attcggctcg aggagactat gagaaagcct ttgcccaaca ccaacaaagt tccaggttcc     60
              aagagaagga aattacaaca tggagagaag ttctggaacg agtagccagt ctctctggtt    120
              gggatatcag aaataaggaa caacctacag tgattgatga aattgttcag aagataaaaa    180
<removed-apn>
              aaatcgtggg ttgcaaattt tctattcttc gaaatgataa tctagttggg atggaatctc    240
              atttttctac attatcaaag cagctggggc cggttaatga tgttcgagtt gttggaatta    300
              ctgggatggg tggaatagga aagtccactc ttggtcgagc tttatatgaa agaatctctc    360
              atcaatttaa ttcttcttgt tatattgatg acgtaagcaa actttatcga ctggaaggtt    420
              cagcaggtgt acaaaaagac ttactttctc agtctctaaa tgaaacaaat ctaaagattt    480
              ggaatttatc ttatggaaca gaactggcat ggaggaggct acacaatgca aaggcactta    540
              tagttcttga caatgttgaa gaagataaac agcttaatat gtttactgcg aatagaaaga    600
              atctgttacg tgaacgcctt ggtagaggaa gcatagtcat tataatttct agggatcaac    660
              aaatattgaa ggcacgtgga gcagatctta tttaccaagt gaagccattg gatgacaccg    720
              atgctcttcg attgttttgc aaaaatgcat ttaaaaataa ttatattatg agtgatttta    780
              aaacgttgac ttctcatgta ctatcacatt gtgaaggtca tcccttagca attgaagtat    840
              tgggctcatc tttgtttggt aaagatgtct cttattgggg gagtgcattg gtttccttaa    900
              gagaaagtaa aagtattatg gatgtgttgc gaataagttt tgatcaattg gaggatacac    960
              acaaggaaat atttctagat attgcatgtt tcttgtacga tcatgatgtg atatatgtga   1020
              aggaaattct agattttcgt ggatttaatc ccgaatacgg cctacaagtt ctcgttgata   1080
              aatcacttat aaccatgcgt aggatagttg aaatgcatga cgttttgcgc aatttgggca   1140
              agtatattgt tagagaaaaa tcaccttgga atccatggaa gtggagtagg ttgtgggatt   1200
              tcaaagatct caacatagtt tcgttggata ataaggcaac agaaaatgtt gaggccatag   1260
              ttcatgaaga agactatgac attgaaaaag actctgactt agaagaagac tctaacttag   1320
              aagactatga cttagaagac tctgacttag aagaagactc tgacttagaa gactatgact   1380
              tagaagaaga ctctgactta gaagactatg acttagaaga agactctgac ttagaagact   1440
                                                    361

<removed-date>
              ctcactttct tccaacagtg agggtggatg ctctatcaac aatgagtaac cttaaacttc   1500
              tcaaatttag atacgctggc tacgaaatca attattcagg aacacttact aagctttcca   1560
              atgaattagg atatcttact tgggtaaagt atccttttga gtgtttgcca ccaagttttg   1620
              agccggacaa acttgttgag ttgattctac ctaaaagcaa catcaaacaa ctttgggaag   1680
              atagaaagat aatatcaatt attattatta ttatttttct atattgtttt catttaaata   1740
<removed-apn>
              aacaaataaa aaggcaaact ttctt                                         1765
              <210>   340
              <211>   687
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 340
              atggggagag gtaagatcgt gataaggagg atcgacaatt ccacgagcag gcaagtgacg     60
              ttctcgaagc gaaggaacgg tttgctgaag aaggcgaagg agcttgcgat cttgtgcgat    120
              gctgaagtcg gagttatgat cttctccagc accggaaaac tctacgattt cgccagctcc    180
              agcatgaaat cagtaatgga ccgatacagc aaatcaaaag aagaaccttg tcaacttggg    240
              agttcagcct ctgaaattaa gttttggcaa agggaggcag caatgttaag gcaacaatta    300
              cacaatttgc aagaaagtca ccgcaggaaa atgatggggg aagaactgtc aggcttgaca    360
              gtcaaagaat tacaaaattt ggagaaccaa ttagaaatta gccttcatgg tgtccgaatg    420
              aaaaaggatc aacttttaat gggtgaaata caagagctaa atcgaaaggg aaacctcata    480
              caccaagaaa atgtggaact gtataagaag gtctatggaa cacaagatga taacgaaaca    540
              aacagagatt ctgttctgac aaatggtcta ggcataggag aggatttgca agtgcctgtg    600
              aatctccagc taagccagcc acagcaacag caacaacact acaaggcatc ttcaggaact    660
              acaaaattgg gattgcaatt gcattga                                        687
              <210>   341
              <211>   684
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 341
              atggggagag gtaagatcgt gataaggagg atcgacaatt ccacgagcag gcaagtgacg     60
                                                    362

              ttctcgaagc gaaggaacgg tttgctgaag aaggcgaagg agcttgcgat cttgtgcgat   120
<removed-date>
              gctgaagtcg gagttatgat cttctccagc accggaaaac tctacgattt cgccagctcc   180
              agcatgaaat cagtaatgga ccgatacagc aaatcaaaag aagaaccttg tcaacttggg   240
              agttcagcct ctgaaattaa gttttggcaa agggaggcag caatgttaag gcaacaatta   300
              cacaatttgc aagaaagtca ccgcaggaaa atgatggggg aagaactgtc aggcttgaca   360
              gtcaaagaat tacaaaattt ggagaaccaa ttagaaatta gccttcatgg tgtccgaatg   420
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaggatc aacttttaat gggtgaaata caagagctaa atcgaaaggg aaacctcata   480
              caccaagaaa atgtggaact gtataagaag gtctatggaa cacaagatga taacgaaaca   540
              aacagagatt ctgttctgac aaatggtcta ggcataggag aggatttgca agtgcctgtg   600
              aatctccagc taagccagcc acagcaacag caacaacact acaaggcatc ttcaggaact   660
              acaaaattgg gattgcaatt gcat                                          684
              <210>   342
              <211>   684
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 342
              atggggagag gtaagatcgt gataaggagg atcgacaatt ccacgagcag gcaagtgacg    60
              ttctcgaagc gaaggaacgg tttgctgaag aaggcgaagg agcttgcgat cttgtgcgat   120
              gctgaagtcg gagttatgat cttctccagc accggaaaac tctacgattt cgccagctcc   180
              agcatgaaat cagtaatgga ccgatacagc aaatcaaaag aagaaccttg tcaacttggg   240
              agttcagcct ctgaaattaa gttttggcaa agggaggcag caatgttaag gcaacaatta   300
              cacaatttgc aagaaagtca ccgcaggaaa atgatggggg aagaactgtc aggcttgaca   360
              gtcaaagaat tacaaaattt ggagaaccaa ttagaaatta gccttcatgg tgtccgaatg   420
              aaaaaggatc aacttttaat gggtgaaata caagagctaa atcgaaaggg aaacctcata   480
              caccaagaaa atgtggaact gtataagaag gtctatggaa cacaagatga taacgaaaca   540
              aacagagatt ctgttctgac aaatggtcta ggcataggag aggatttgca agtgcctgtg   600
              aatctccagc taagccagcc acagcaacag caacaacact acaaggcatc ttcaggaact   660
              acaaaattgg gattgcaatt gcat                                          684
                                                    363

<removed-date>
              <210>   343
              <211>   941
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 343
              gggagaggta agatcgtgat aaggaggatc gacaattcca cgagcaggca agtgacgttc    60
              tcgaagcgga ggagcggttt gctgaagaag gcgaaggagc ttgcgatctt gtgcgatgct   120
<removed-apn>
              gaagtcggag ttatgatctt ctccagcacc ggaaaactct acgattttgc cagctccggc   180
              atgaaatcag taattgaccg atacaacaaa tcaaaagaag aaccttgtca acttgggagt   240
              tcagcttcag taattaagtt ttggcaaagg gaggcagcaa tgttaaggca acaattacac   300
              aatttgcaag aaagtcaccg gaaaatgatg ggggaagaac tgtcaggctt gacagtcaaa   360
              gaattacaaa atttggagaa ccaattagaa attagccttc gaggtgtccg aatgaaaaag   420
              gatcaacttt taatggatga aatacaagag ttaaatcgga agggaaacct catacaccaa   480
              gaaaatgtgg aactgtatca gaaggtaaac ctaatctgtc aagaaaacat ggaattgaaa   540
              aagaaggtct atggaacaaa agatgataac aaaacaaaca gagattctgt tctcacaaat   600
              ggtctaggca taggagagga tttgcaagtg cctgtgaatc tccagctaag ccagccacag   660
              caacaacact acaaggaacc ttcaggaact acaaaattgg gattgcaatt gcattgatcc   720
              atttacagga cgtgtgtttc tcaattgcta tcaaggaaaa tggactcaaa ttttaacctc   780
              aatgttttca tataaatgtg gcatatagac cacaaacaaa ttagcttaaa gattttaatt   840
              tgaaattatc aaaaaaagaa aaggcaaccc tatcatgtat gtaagaaaca atgaaagcat   900
              cttatgagaa accaagactc aaatcaagga agaaattctt c                       941
              <210>   344
              <211>   1015
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 344
              attcggctcg aggcgctttg tctgttataa tcaacgcgct cctcacgagt gaatttctgg    60
              ttcggaagga tctgattgtt agggtttggt atggggagag gtaagatcgt gataaggagg   120
              atcgacaatt ccacgagcag gcaagtgacg ttctcgaagc gaaggaacgg tttgctgaag   180
              aaggcgaagg agcttgcgat cttgtgcgat gctgaagtcg gagttatgat cttctccagc   240
                                                    364

<removed-date>
              accggaaaac tctacgattt cgccagctcc agcatgaaat cagtaatgga ccgatacagc    300
              aaatcaaaag aagaaccttg tcaacttggg agttcagcct ctgaaattaa gttttggcaa    360
              agggaggcag caatgttaag gcaacaatta cacaatttgc aagaaagtca ccgcaggaaa    420
              atgatggggg aagaactgtc aggcttgaca gtcaaagaat tacaaaattt ggagaaccaa    480
              ttagaaatta gccttcatgg tgtccgaatg aaaaaggatc aacttttaat gggtgaaata    540
<removed-apn>
              caagagctaa atcgaaaggg aaacctcata caccaagaaa atgtggaact gtataagaag    600
              gtctatggaa cacaagatga taacgaaaca aacagagatt ctgttctgac aaatggtcta   660
              ggcataggag aggatttgca agtgcctgtg aatctccagc taagccagcc acagcaacag    720
              caacaacact acaaggcatc ttcaggaact acaaaattgg gattgcaatt gcattgatcc    780
              atatacagga tgtgtgtgtt tcacaattgc tatcaagaaa aatggactca gatttaaacc    840
              tcgatgtctt cgtataaatg ttgtggcata tagaccacag actaattggc ttaaagattt    900
              taatttgaaa ttattagaaa aagtaaaagc aaccctagca tgtatgtaag aaacaatgaa    960
              gcatcttatg agaaactaag actcaaatca aggaagaaat tcttcaaacc gcaca        1015
              <210>   345
              <211>   825
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 345
              atgggaagaa aggccaactg tgacaatcaa tatgctatga acagaggtcc ttggtctgct     60
              gaagaagaca aaattcttat gaactacgtt caagtccatg gagaaggaaa atggagagag    120
              ctttccaaaa gagcaggctt gaaaagatgt gggaagagtt gtagactccg atggctgaat    180
              tatctcaagc cagatatcaa gagaggaaac atttcttcgg atgaagaaga tctcattatt    240
              agactgcata agctcttagg gaatagatgg tctctaattg cgggacgctt accagggcga    300
              acagacaatg aaattaagaa ctattggaat acttatttga gaaagaaggc agagcacaag    360
              catgacaaaa ttcctagcca taacgataac attcctatca aattaagaat tgaatctccg    420
              ggttgctcaa aaaattcctt tggtaatgtt cttgatccta caaaatcccc tcacccaatg   480
              aggtgtacca aggttatgat gccagtcaat gattcagtca acacaacgaa tttgattaca   540
              acgagctggg acaatcataa cccttcttct gcatccatgc aactagatga ctataatcat    600
                                                    365

<removed-date>
              tgcttaacag gtgtcctcca agaatttgac atcagtgact tgttaatgtc gtatgaggat   660
              gattttcgtt ttaatggata tgcttgtgtc gaaatacccc aacatatttt tgaagatgag   720
              acttgcaggc ttgatgattc gttgggtgaa gaagcatggt atgagaattg gaagaatgac   780
              ccctattttc cacaagatca agatatgggt ttttcttcct tttaa                   825
              <210>   346
<removed-apn>
              <211>   654
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 346
              gcacgaggaa agagggttag agaaataaaa agagaagaaa gaaaacacga tagtatcatc    60
              atatcaccac cacacacata gatagagaga ggaaaacgac ctatattttt tttcctttga   120
              gagcttcagg ggctaggaaa attagaagga cagccacaag tataaaggcg gtgaaataaa   180
              agagaaagac aagaaggaat caagcgtggt aacttcacag aacaagagga gaagatgata   240
              atccatcttc aagatctttt aggaaacaga tgggctgcaa tagcttcata ccttccacaa   300
              agaacagaca atgacataaa gaactattgg aatacccatt tgagaaagaa gctgaagaag   360
              atgcaagcag gcggtgaagg tggtagctat ggagaagggt tttcagcctc aagtcaaatc   420
              cctagaggcc agtgggaaag aaggctccaa actgatatcc aaatggcaaa gagagccctc   480
              agtgaagctc tgtcaccaga gaaaaagcca tcttggttat ctgcctcaaa ctcaaaccct   540
              tcagatagta gcagctcctt ctcttgcaca agaccgacaa caacacaatc tgtgtgctat   600
              gcatcaagtg ctgacgacat agctagaatg cttaagggta ggatgaagaa cccc         654
              <210>   347
              <211>   1558
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 347
              cccccccgaa ataaaagaga aagacaagaa gaagacatgg gaacgaccac cttgttgtga    60
              caaagaaggg gtcaagaaag ggccttggac tcctgaagaa gacatcatat tggtgtctta   120
              tattcaggaa catggtcctg gaaattggag ggcagttcct gccaaaacag ggttgtcaag   180
              atgcagcaag agttgcagac ttagatggac gaattacctg aggccaggaa tcaagcgtgg   240
                                                    366

              taacttcaca gaacaagagg agaagatgat aatccatctt caagatcttt taggaaacag    300
<removed-date>
              gtacaagtca atcttccaag cacctactta cttggagttt tgtgttcaat tcaagcaatt    360
              aagttactaa tgaaatcttt tagcttataa aaaagaaaaa aactttgttt tgaagattta    420
              ttttttataa ctgtttttga gtattttgat ttgggaagtt ctatcttttg gatccacatg    480
              cttaactgga tcacattggt tattggtaca gatgggctgc aatagcttca taccttccac    540
              aaagaacaga caatgacata aagaactatt ggaataccca tttgagaaag aagctgaaga    600
<removed-apn>
              agatgcaagc aggcggtgaa ggtggtagct ttggagaagg gttttcagcc tcaaggcaaa    660
              tccctagagg ccagtgggaa agaaggctcc aaactgatat ccaaatggca aagagagccc    720
              tcagtgaagc tctttcacca gagaaaaagc catcttgttt atctgcctca aactcaaacc    780
              cttcagatag tagcagctcc ttctcttcca caaaaccaac aacaacacaa tctgtgtgct    840
              atgcatcaag tgctgacaac atagctagaa tgctcaaggg ttggatgaag aacccaccaa    900
              agtcctcaag aaccaactcg tctatgactc agaactcatt caacaactta gcaggtgctg    960
              atactgcttg tagtagtgga gcaaagggac cactaagcag tgccgaattg tctgagaata   1020
              attttgaatc cttgtttgat tttgatcagt ctttggagtc ttcaaactct gatcaattct   1080
              ctcagtcctt gtctcctgag gccactgttt tgcaagatga aagcaagcct gatattaata   1140
              ttgctgcaga aattatgccc ttctctttgc ttgagaaatg gctccttgat gaggcaggtt   1200
              gccaagagaa attagttggt tgttgtggtg atgccaagtt tttctaagtt gggttcattt   1260
              tgtgacatat gagcctgtgg gattttttta ttttatttta ttttatttca taagttatag   1320
              gtagggcctc atcaattaat ctcgcttcgg ccttattaga gagagaagtt ttccagcctt   1380
              tggtgctaga cgtgtatatg ttaattatta ttgacattat gatgattatt atcatactgt   1440
              gttagttgcc atacactggc aaacttgctt ctcttatgta aagttgatct tgcgacgaga   1500
              tcttgcttta tgaattaatt gtttttaaag taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagg     1558
              <210>   348
              <211>   757
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                    367

              <222>   (689)..(689)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (701)..(701)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 348
              gaaataaaaa gagaagaaag aaaacacgat agtatcatca tatcaccacc acacacatag    60
<removed-apn>
              atagagagag gaaaacgacc tatatttttt ttcctttgag agcttcaggg gctaggaaaa   120
              ttagaaggac agccacaagt ataaaggcgg tgaaataaaa gagaaagaca agaaggagac   180
              atgggaagac caccttgttg tgacaaagaa ggggtcaaga aagggccttg gactcctgaa   240
              gaagacatca tattggtgtc ttatattcag gaacatggtc ctggaaattg gagggcagtt   300
              cctgccaaaa cagggttgtc aagatgcagc aagagttgca gacttagatg gacgaattac   360
              ctgaggccag gaatcaagcg tggtaacttc acagaacaag aggagaagat gataatccat   420
              cttcaagatc ttttaggaaa cagatgggct gcaatagctt cataccttcc acaaagaaca   480
              gacaatgaca taaagaacta ttggaatacc catttgagaa agaagctgaa gaagatgcaa   540
              gcaggcggtg aaggtggtag ctttggagaa gggttttcag cctcaaggca aatccctaga   600
              ggccagtggg aaagaaggct ccaaactgat atccaaatgg caaagagagc cctcagtgaa   660
              gctctttcac agagaaaaag ccatcttgnt tatctgcctc naactcaaac ccttcagata   720
              gtagcagctc cttctcttcc cacaaaccaa caacaac                            757
              <210>   349
              <211>   1079
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 349
              gagaaattga gaagatggga agaaaggcca actgtgacaa tcaatatgct atgaacagag    60
              gtccttggtc tgctgaagaa gacaaaattc ttatgaacta cgttcaagtc catggagaag   120
              gaaaatggag agagctttcc aaaagagcag gcttgaaaag atgtgggaag agttgtagac   180
              tccgatggct gaattatctc aagccagata tcaagagagg aaacatttct tcggatgaag   240
              aagatctcat tattagactg cataagctct tagggaatag atggtctcta attgcgggac   300
              gcttaccagg gcgaacagac aatgaaatta agaactattg gaatacttat ttgagaaaga   360
                                                    368

<removed-date>
              aggcagagca caagcatgac aaaattccta gccataacga taacattcct atcaaattaa    420
              gaattgaatc tccgggttgc tcaaaaaatt cctttggtaa tgttcttgat cctacaaaat    480
              cccctcaccc aatgaggtgt accaaggtta tgatgccagt caatgattca gtcaacacaa    540
              cgaatttgat tacaacgagc tgggacaatc ataacccttc ttctgcatcc atgcaactag    600
              atgactataa tcattgctta acaggtgtcc tccaagaatt tgacatcagt gacttgttaa    660
<removed-apn>
              tgtcgtatga ggatgatttt cgttttaatg gatatgcttg tgtcgaaata ccccaacata   720
              tttttgaaga tgagacttgc aggcttgatg attcgttggg tgaagaagca tggtatgaga   780
              attggaagaa tgacccctat tttccacaag atcaagatat gggtttttct tccttttaaa    840
              gtgtttaaaa tttaggcaca ttaccttaaa gtgtttttag tattgttctt taatcaaaat    900
              tagaatttca ttttagtatc atgtgcaatt aaggttgaca tgaaatgttg gtactaagat    960
              gaaattttaa ttttgaatca agaacaggtc taaaatccct taaagtattg tggctaaata   1020
              gtctcctttt aaaaaactga acttgaatga aatggttgag gatgttaaat taacaaaaa    1079
              <210>   350
              <211>   757
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 350
              actggcaagt gagcctaact tttttttttt ttttttaacc caaatgaaat acactttcaa     60
              tgatacaaac caaaaagatt aaattacaaa gcattttgta acataaaaac aaacaaacac   120
              acagcgttta catcacatga tgtaagattg tagggacact caatttatta tgatcagtac    180
              aaagacataa ggatgactac aatggaaatt ttgacccagc agcacatgca ccataattag    240
              gctttaaatt acatatttat cacaacacca atcatattta tcacacgatt cttatccttt    300
              cgacttctaa agattcccat tggcagacat ttgagattta cgaaatctcc tctgtttgga    360
              tagtcgttcc gcaaacctct tcaaggcttc tccatttgtt tcatgagagt taacaggttc    420
              gtgaacgcca gtctgcaagt taatctttga aactggtttc tttaacaatg actccccaac   480
              tttcacgaga tcattcaaat tcttctccgt ggccaagtct accgaagaca tgtccccatt   540
              taatgaatcg tcctggatac ggagatagtt atgttcagaa ttgagtgctt ggaaaaggga   600
              ggtgatgtga aagtcaacca tgtctgaact tgcatggcta aaggcatcaa ttaaaggggt    660
                                                    369

<removed-date>
              gccaccattg gttgtagtta cccaactaaa gatgccccat tgagctgcct catctgcact   720
              gtatttcatt tccttttgct gagaacccga cagcaac                            757
              <210>   351
              <211>   741
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 351
              atgggaaggt ccccttgctg tgagaaagct cacacaaaca aaggtgcatg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatgaca gactcatatc ttatattcga gctcacggcg aaggctgctg gcgttcactc   120
              cccaaagccg ccggccttct ccggtgcggc aaaagctgcc gtctccggtg gatcaactac   180
              ctccgccccg accttaaaag aggtaacttt accgaagaag aagacgagct catcatcaaa   240
              ctccacagtc tcctcggtaa caagtggtct ttgatagctg gaagattgcc ggggagaaca   300
              gacaatgaaa taaagaacta ttggaacacg cacataagaa ggaagctttt gaacagagga   360
              atcgaccctg caactcatag gccactcaac gaagctgcaa ctgctgcaac tgttacaact   420
              aatatatctt ttggcaaaca acaacaacaa gagacaagtt cgagtaacgg aagcgttgtt   480
              aaaggttcca tcttggaacg ctgccctgac ttgaaccttg agttaaccat tagtcctcct   540
              cgccaacaac aacagactca gaagaatctt tgtttcgttt gcagtttggg tttgcacaac   600
              agcaaggatt gcagctgcaa cgtttccaac gctgtcactg tcaacaacac cactccttct   660
              tctgctgctg ctgctgctgc ttatgatttc ttgggcatga aaaccagcgg tgtttgggat   720
              tgcacccgct tggaaatgaa a                                             741
              <210>   352
              <211>   744
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 352
              atgggaaggt ccccttgctg tgagaaagct cacacaaaca aaggtgcatg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatgaca gactcatatc ttatattcga gctcacggcg aaggctgctg gcgttcactc   120
              cccaaagccg ccggtcttct ccggtgcggc aaaagctgcc gtctccggtg gatcaactac   180
              ctccgccccg accttaaaag aggtaacttt accgaagaag aagacgagct catcatcaaa   240
                                                    370

              ctccacagtc tcctcggtaa caagtggtct ttgatagctg gaagattgcc ggggagaaca   300
<removed-date>
              gacaatgaaa taaagaacta ttggaatacg cacataagaa ggaagctttt gaacagagga   360
              atcgaccctg caactcatag gccactcaac gaagctgcaa ctgctgcaac tgttacaact   420
              aatatatctt ttggcaaaca agaacaacaa gagacaagtt cgagtaacgg aagcgttgtt   480
              aaaggttcca tcttggaacg ctgccctgac ttgaaccttg agttaaccat tagtcctcct   540
              cgccaacaac aacagactca gaagaatctt tgtttcgttt gcagtttggg tttgcacaac   600
<removed-apn>
              agcaaagatt gcagctgcaa cgtttccaac gctgtcactg tcaacaacac cactccttct   660
              tctgctgctg ctgctgctgc ttatgatttc ttgggcatga aaaccagcgg tgtttgggat   720
              tgcacccgct tggaaatgaa atga                                          744
              <210>   353
              <211>   744
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 353
              atgggaaggt ccccttgctg tgagaaagct cacacaaaca aaggtgcatg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatgaca gactcatatc ttatattcga gctcacggcg aaggctgctg gcgttcactc   120
              cccaaagccg ccggtcttct ccggtgcggc aaaagctgcc gtctccggtg gatcaactac   180
              ctccgccccg accttaaaag aggtaacttt accgaagaag aagacgagct catcatcaaa   240
              ctccacagtc tcctcggtaa caagtggtct ttgatagctg gaagattgcc ggggagaaca   300
              gacaatgaaa taaagaacta ttggaatacg cacataagaa ggaagctttt gaacagagga   360
              atcgaccctg caactcatag gccactcaac gaagctgcaa ctgctgcaac tgttacaact   420
              aatatatctt ttggcaaaca agaacaacaa gagacaagtt cgagtaacgg aagcgttgtt   480
              aaaggttcca tcttggaacg ctgccctgac ttgaaccttg agttaaccat tagtcctcct   540
              cgccaacaac aacagactca gaagaatctt tgtttcgttt gcagtttggg tttgcacaac   600
              agcaaagatt gcagctgcaa cgtttccaac gctgtcactg tcaacaacac cactccttct   660
              tctgctgctg ctgctgctgc ttatgatttc ttgggcatga aaaccagcgg tgtttgggat   720
              tgcacccgct tggaaatgaa atga                                          744
              <210>   354
                                                    371

              <211>   741
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 354
              atgggaaggt ccccttgctg tgagaaagct cacacaaaca aaggtgcatg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatgaca gactcatatc ttatattcga gctcacggcg aaggctgctg gcgttcactc   120
              cccaaagccg ccggtcttct ccggtgcggc aaaagctgcc gtctccggtg gatcaactac   180
<removed-apn>
              ctccgccccg accttaaaag aggtaacttt accgaagaag aagacgagct catcatcaaa   240
              ctccacagtc tcctcggtaa caagtggtct ttgatagctg gaagattgcc ggggagaaca   300
              gacaatgaaa taaagaacta ttggaatacg cacataagaa ggaagctttt gaacagagga   360
              atcgaccctg caactcatag gccactcaac gaagctgcaa ctgctgcaac tgttacaact   420
              aatatatctt ttggcaaaca agaacaacaa gagacaagtt cgagtaacgg aagcgttgtt   480
              aaaggttcca tcttggaacg ctgccctgac ttgaaccttg agttaaccat tagtcctcct   540
              cgccaacaac aacagactca gaagaatctt tgtttcgttt gcagtttggg tttgcacaac   600
              agcaaagatt gcagctgcaa cgtttccaac gctgtcactg tcaacaacac cactccttct   660
              tctgctgctg ctgctgctgc ttatgatttc ttgggcatga aaaccagcgg tgtttgggat   720
              tgcacccgct tggaaatgaa a                                             741
              <210>   355
              <211>   738
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 355
              atgggaaggt ccccttgctg tgagaaagct cacacaaaca aaggtgcatg gactaaagaa    60
              gaagatgaca gactcatatc ttatattcga gctcacggcg aaggctgctg gcgttcactc   120
              cccaaagccg ccggtcttct ccggtgcggc aaaagctgcc gtctccggtg gatcaactac   180
              ctccgccccg accttaaaag aggtaacttt accgaagaag aagacgagct catcatcaaa   240
              ctccacagtc tcctcggtaa caagtggtct ttgatagctg gaagattgcc ggggagaaca   300
              gacaatgaaa taaagaacta ttggaatacg cacataagaa ggaagctttt gaacagagga   360
              atcgaccctg caactcatag gccactcaac gaagctgcaa ctgctgcaac tgttacaact   420
              aatatatctt ttggcaaaca agaacaacaa gagacaagtt cgagtaacgg aagcgttgtt   480
                                                    372

<removed-date>
              aaaggttcca tcttggaacg ctgccctgac ttgaaccttg agttaaccat tagtcctcct   540
              cgccaacaac aacagactca gaagaatctt tgtttcgttt gcagtttggg tttgcacaac   600
              agcaaagatt gcagctgcaa cgtttccaac gctgtcactg tcaacaacac cactccttct   660
              tctgctgctg ctgctgctta tgatttcttg ggcatgaaaa ccagcggtgt ttgggattgc   720
              acccgcttgg aaatgaaa                                                 738
<removed-apn>
              <210>   356
              <211>   397
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 356
              ctaaactact tgcgtcccga tgttcgtcgc ggaaatataa cactccaaga acagataact    60
              attctggagc tccactctcg ctggggcaat aggtggtcga aaattgctcg gcatcttccg   120
              ggtagaacag acaacgaaat aaagaattat tggaggaccc gagtgattaa gcaagcaagg   180
              aacctcaagt gtgacgtgga cagtaaacag ttccaagatg ccttgcgtta cgtctggatg   240
              ccccgtttga tagagcggac tcacccttca ctaccaatac catcggaaac tcacggcccg   300
              gcccatgttg acccaaatcc aaccgctccg gcccaacacg agttgcatgg ttctggttcg   360
              ggctcgggtc cctctgcctt ggaggatgtc tcatcag                            397
              <210>   357
              <211>   405
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 357
              aacagatggt cggctattgc ggcaaggttg tcagggagaa cagacaacga gataaaaaac    60
              gtgtggcaca cccacttgaa gaagaggctg ccacaaaatt accaacaaag ccatcacact   120
              aaaaaacgaa gcaaaaaaca accaccaaag ttggatgcgg acgcctccaa atccaaccaa   180
              gacgccaaac tagaacaaca agaccccgtt aatattcatg gatcgaactc tgaggacatg   240
              atgatgccac tatctcctcc tcattgttct agcgacatgt cctcctccct caccaccagt   300
              gacaacaata gtaacgttaa tattattaat aataatcatg atatgtcctt aaatgttaat   360
              gattatgata ttgacaccga ataatcacga atcggctata gcggc                   405
                                                    373

<removed-date>
              <210>   358
              <211>   919
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 358
              attcggctcg agttgcggct gagttaccag gaagaacaga taacgaaata aagaaccatt    60
              ggcacaccac actcaagaag aggtctcaac aaaacacact cacaaaggaa gaagctagag   120
<removed-apn>
              cctccaaatc aaaggataag gtacttccca acaagggtgt tactgttact cttccagcta   180
              cttcttccca gatttcagat aattcatcat tatcgccagc ttcatccacc agcagcgagt   240
              tttccaacat aacttcagat ccttccactg ctgccagcat gcaaaatttg gtgtttgaag   300
              atgatgatga gttcggtttt ctggattcat acattgatcc tatgaataat gaaagtttct   360
              ggaaagagct aactctggat gacatttcct ttaataatgt accaatagtt tcagaagata   420
              ccaatggctg ttttcaaagt acaagttcta gcaatagcaa cacccttgat tctctgcata   480
              aatcaaccag cgaaagtatt gttgcggata atgactttgg cggctttttc gatgcatacg   540
              cagaagcaac cgttgacaac ttttggacac aaccatatgt ggctggcatg tcctcccacg   600
              ttccaactga actacttgct ccctccgttg cagaatctga atattttact ccaatatatg   660
              atgatctgtg gggccaaact catttgtatt attagcttat attctgatat acaaaaaata   720
              gtgcttgttc agtttgagag taactactac tattatacac agtcatgaat aatgataatt   780
              attgttactt attgcaggtg tgtattagtc gggttaataa acgagagtgt atatatatat   840
              aaataaagta tgtatattga agttgcttta gggtaataat ccagcctata tgtaaatttg   900
              gtttgcaata caaaaaaaa                                                919
              <210>   359
              <211>   1396
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 359
              caacggccac tctctctctt taacctgcct caccaactcg catctagaag caattatagg    60
              gtctttctct cttctctctc tatgttctgt cccctctact ttggagtcaa aagcctataa   120
              aaccacaccc aaacttcctc ttgagccggc ttcttaattt gttgctgcaa gccaatccta   180
              attcctattc tcctatcctt ttacataact ctaaagtaag aaaaaataga gcaatttcac   240
                                                    374

<removed-date>
              aacacaactc ttagaattgt gagttaagta tgggaaggtc cccttgctgt gagaaagctc    300
              acacaaacaa aggtgcatgg actaaagaag aagatgacag actcatatct tatattcgag    360
              ctcacggcga aggctgctgg cgttcactcc ccaaagccgc cggtcttctc cggtgcggca    420
              aaagctgccg tctccggtgg atcaactacc tccgccccga ccttaaaaga ggtaacttta    480
              ccgaagaaga agacgagctc atcatcaaac tccacagtct cctcggtaac aaggcatata    540
<removed-apn>
              taccaaactc ctcgttaatt tcaccatcat atcaattgat tcaaaagaaa tcttatctct    600
              ttatcttatc taaattaaaa caaacaaaac aacaacgttg ttgttgttgt ggtttcaggt    660
              ggtctttgat agctggaaga ttgccgggga gaacagacaa tgaaataaag aactattgga    720
              atacgcacat aagaaggaag cttttgaaca gaggaatcga ccctgcaact cataggccac    780
              tcaacgaagc tgcaactgct gcaactgtta caactaatat atcttttggc aaacaagaac    840
              aacaagagac aagttcgagt aacggaagcg ttgttaaagg ttccatcttg gaacgctgcc    900
              ctgacttgaa ccttgagtta accattagtc ctcctcgcca acaacaacag actcagaaga    960
              atctttgttt cgtttgcagt ttgggtttgc acaacagcaa agattgcagc tgcaacgttt   1020
              ccaacgctgt cactgttact gtcagcaaca ccactccttc ttctgctgct gctgctgctg   1080
              ctgctgctta tgatttcttg ggcatgaaaa ccaacggtgt ttgggattgc acccgcttgg   1140
              aaatgaaatg aaaattcaac gaaattatac caattagtta gtgtttttgg agagaagtcg   1200
              agagaatgaa attcgtttat ttttgaattt tctctcctat tttttctttt ttttcttctc   1260
              ttatttgtat aaataattag tcgctgatat gcataatata tagtaacggt acagttgaac   1320
              attttattgc ccaattttcc cttttgttgt tactcttcac tttcttttct tccggcaatt   1380
              gatggtagtc ataaag                                                   1396
              <210>   360
              <211>   760
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 360
              tttctataaa ggtagagaga agagaggacc cttctcttgc atagttcaag tgagtgagag     60
              tgccaaaaaa tgggaagggc tccttgttgt tccaaagtgg ggttgcacaa aggtccatgg    120
              actcctaaag aagatgcatt gcttaccaag tatatccaag ctcatggaga aggccaatgg    180
                                                    375

<removed-date>
              aaatcactac ccaaaaaagc aggtaattaa ggttttagat gctcaacttt cccaattcat   240
              ttctcaattt gatgtctcat gttctggttt cgatcacaaa ttattatgtg taacttttat   300
              aataattata ttaatattga tatatgattg aatgacagta tataattata tgtgtataat   360
              cattaaattc ataatataaa attacatgta tcttttatcc gaaaaattat gctggagtcg   420
              gatagaataa attctgattc ataactctga atatacaggg cttcttagat gtggaaaaag   480
<removed-apn>
              ttgtagattg agatggatga actatctgag accagacata aagagaggga acatagcacc   540
              agaagaagat gatcttataa tcagaatgca ttcacttttg ggaaacagat ggtccctcat   600
              agcaggaagg ttaccaggga gaacagacaa tgaaataaag aactactgga acacccatct   660
              aagcaaaaag ctgaaaattc aaggaacaga agacacagac acacacaaaa tgttagagaa   720
              tcctcaagaa gaggctgcaa gtgatggtgg caacaacaac                         760
              <210>   361
              <211>   1595
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 361
              ccagtgaatt gttatacgac tccctatagg ggcgaatggg gtacccggcc ccccccctgg    60
              aggtcagcta cgtaggcccc ccccccggca aatccaagca cagatgagtt tgatcctcaa   120
              atctctttat ataatgacct tcactagaat cagccaaacc aaaactatta cctctctctg   180
              acacaagaat taagttgtga gatggagaga agtagtgaag aggagatgtt aataacgaaa   240
              ggtccatgga cagagcaaga ggattctctt ctcttcaatt acatcactgt ccacggcgaa   300
              ggtcactgga actctgtcgc tcgctacaca ggtctaaaac gaacgggcaa aagctgcaga   360
              ttaagatggt tgaactactt gcgtccaaat gttcgacgtg ggaacataac cctccaagaa   420
              cagctcttga ttcttgacct ccattcccgt tggggcaaca ggtggtcgaa aatagctgaa   480
              catttaccgg gaagaacaga caacgagata aagaattatt ggagaacgag agtggtaaag   540
              caggctaagc aactaaaatg tgatgtgaac agcaagcaat tcagggacac gttgcgtttt   600
              gtgtggatgc cacgtatgct agagcggatt cgggctcagg cctcatcatc ggcccaagcc   660
              caccaaagca gcttaatctc caacagtaac actcaagcac acagtggatt gttgtcatca   720
              gcgcttcatg cccacgcgcc ttctctctct gactcgagcg cgtcgtacaa tcttatgggt   780
                                                    376

<removed-date>
              gctgatgctg gaagttgctc atctcatagc tactactcag acatagcagg caatggtttt    840
              ggtggtgcgg acttgtggac ggatcaaaac atttgctttc tgcaacacca gcttgctcat    900
              catgacttgt tctgatcatg catacttcaa catcttgctc caaaattcac tctaaactgc    960
              aacatataaa gcaattgtaa cactagtcgt gaaacatgca tgtttctttt tatgttaatt   1020
              tggtgtgaaa tttaataatc tatacttcaa ttaatttcaa gagaactgcc atttgttgtt   1080
<removed-apn>
              agttaagcgt gatttgtacg agatagtgat gagtattttt cgcttaacta agacaattaa   1140
              ttttgttcga aacaaataga actgataata agaaagtaac aaaacgtgat tcgcacaaat   1200
              catacaaatg catgtgatga gtttgtattt ggccggaaac aagcagatga taaataaata   1260
              taataatttt ttttttaaaa aaaagaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagaattcc tgcagctgtt   1320
              taaacacaat aaagtgggat agggggggcc ccccccccgc gggcgaccat tccagctttt   1380
              tgttcccttt ttgtgggggt tggtttccgt tgcgtgcttg gacgtagtct ggttgcccgg   1440
              gttgcttgtg cccaggtggg tgttccgttg ttaacccccg ctcacaatac gaccccgaaa   1500
              actaaaagtg gaaaacccct ggggggggcc taaggggggg gccaaccccc actttaattg   1560
              ggggtggggt ccacgtgccc cttttccaag gggaa                              1595
              <210>   362
              <211>   2130
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 362
              cccacgcgtc cgtacagctg cgagaagacg acagaagggg gagcgtgagc acgaggccag     60
              accaaatcaa agttatttta gtacaaagaa aaggagacac attattattg tgtggcagtg    120
              cagtgaccga ccatgacgag aactccttgt tgtgagagaa tgggattgaa gaagggacct    180
              tggactgctg aagaagatca gatattggtt tctcatattc aacgatatgg ccatggaaac    240
              tggcgtgcgc ttcctaaaca agctggtttg ttaaggtgtg gcaagagttg taggcttcgt    300
              tggataaatt acttgaggcc agatattaaa cgagggaaat tcagcaagga agaagaggat    360
              accatcctaa agctacatgg aattcttgga aacagatggt ctgctatagc ggcaagtttg    420
              cccggaagaa cagacaacga aataaagaat ttttggcata cccatttgaa gaagaggatc    480
              cagaaaagtg gagtgcacaa tggcaatcct tcctcacgta tcttgcaaga ggcacaagca    540
                                                       377

<removed-date>
              aatactagtt cgaatgcatc aagtgtaatg attgccaatt acggtttacc ctcaaggaat    600
              attaatccac ctattgcagg attttacggt gcagtctcct cagatacttt tggagaaatt    660
              aaggacaatc atggttcttg tcagctcagt gaagaaatgg aattttggta caatatatat    720
              tcatcaaatc agggcaaaca tcatgagaca atggaaatct aggatattat atagctagat    780
              tgcatgagat actacatata atttgtctca ctcctacaaa ttaacttttt atttttattt    840
<removed-apn>
              ttagatatca acctttaatt ggtttcagct tggtgtttgt gtacaaaact taaaatccat    900
              tttggcaaag caaattgcca gatgaaaact aaagatgatc gatggataat ttttaaataa    960
              aggctcgaga gaagtttgta aatgcatata tactgaaaca aagtactttt gactgccatt   1020
              ttttttggta gtgacttttg actgttattt gaggcaaagg caaacttttc cttcaacttt   1080
              aaacttcaat tcaattatgt agttcttagt tcttaggaat cattgcaatt acaattatta   1140
              tttttgaaaa cttttttctg tttttaaaaa taaaaataga aaaaagaaac agtgataata   1200
              attttttaaa gtattttcca gtataacatc ttctttttaa aaaataatta atattctact   1260
              ttcaatattt tatcatttat atttttccaa ttcagtatct tatctttttt gctttttatt   1320
              tctattctaa aaaaaattgt ctttttaatt acaaaaataa tacatacact tattgtgtac   1380
              tttaccaata aaaaaaacct tactgtgtaa ttttttctaa tgttgacaat acttgcctat   1440
              tattaaattc tttttaaaac tgaagaatcg aagtaaaatc taacacggct tgccgaataa   1500
              tattaaactc ttaaaaaata acaagtctta aaatagattg actgtactgc acagtggtga   1560
              tattaaacac tttgtttttt ttatgataat ataataatgg cccgttgatg tcgctttatg   1620
              attactatgt tagtttcaaa tgttttccac agtaggaaaa ttattttggt tgtaggatat   1680
              accgtaagac ttcctcctac actggattat tctttttctt tttaaaaaaa aaacaatgtt   1740
              ttcctttcct attatgcaaa tcaagttcac tgtctccctt ggttccatca agcttcttcc   1800
              tttgcttccc acagtgtcat gacctcgtct acaagaagct gtcgttggtg tcaaaaagct   1860
              ctccatggat gcctactagg gctttttttg ggttcaccac ggaaatcaaa atatcctgag   1920
              taaactccac cacaccaaga tcgcataagt gttttttttt tcagtttagt ttttatatat   1980
              tttaatttat tttattatgt tcttaaaaaa aattatattg atgcttgtaa tttaatttgg   2040
              gatctggtga atatatggtg atgtttgtaa tttaatttta gatgttggtg aataaattgt   2100
                                                    378

              ggcttattta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag                                    2130
<removed-date>
              <210>   363
              <211>   1186
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 363
              ggaatcaact ttggtgtatc tcgagccgca agagagagct agcagtgcaa gctttcaaca     60
<removed-apn>
              tccaaaacaa cagagagttt ttggctttag aagctgaagg aatatagtta tcacaatggg    120
              gagagctcca tgctgtgaga aaatggggtt gaagagaggg ccatggactc cagaagaaga    180
              tcaaattctc atcaattaca tcaacactta tggccatgct aattggcgtg cactgcccaa    240
              actagctggg ctattaaggt gtggaaagag ttgtagactc cggtggataa attatctgag    300
              accggacatc aaacggggca actttaccag agaagaagag gacactataa tcagtttgca    360
              tgaaatgttg ggaaacagat ggtcggctat tgcggcaagg ttgtcaggga gaacagacaa    420
              cgagataaaa aacgtgtggc acacccactt gaagaagagg ctgccacaaa attaccaaca    480
              aagccatcac actaaaaaac gaagcaaaaa acaaccacca aagttggatg cggacgcctc    540
              caaatccaac caagacgcca aactagaaca acaagacccc gttaatattc atggatcgaa    600
              ctctgaggac atgatgatgc cactatctcc tcctcattgt tctagcgaca tgtcctcctc    660
              cctcaccacc agtgacaaca atagtaacgt taatattatt aataataatc atgatatgtc    720
              cttaaatgtt aatgattatg atatcgacac gccggagaat aatctcttgc attggacgag    780
              gatttctggt cggaagtgtt gtcgtctgat aattccggtg agacaacaag cggatttccg    840
              accattgact atgatcatca gtttctaccg atgtctcctc taatgaccga agaaggggtc    900
              cttatagatg ctagttcgtc gagtgtgtgc gacgacggca tggacttttg gtgcaatgtt    960
              tatgccagag ctgaggaatt tacgcagtta ttggaattgt gatgttagtt aatgttgctc   1020
              ttaattagta gagaccaagt ccttcattca acggaaaaca aaagatcatg tcattgttct   1080
              tctattgttt ggacttgaat taatttccta gatagaaatt aataaagtgt gtccattacg   1140
              actgttactc gatgtgatta taataaaggt gtgtgtgttc attact                  1186
              <210>   364
              <211>   1916
              <212>   DNA
                                                    379

              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-date>
              <400> 364
              ccacgcgtcc gcggacgcgt gggttgcaga gaaacacaaa cactgaaaca ctcaagtgag     60
              ttcgatagta tatttgtttt tctttttcac aaagatggtg agaaccccgt cttgtgacaa    120
              aagtggaatg aggaaaggta cttggactcc agaggaagat atgaagttaa ttgcttatgt    180
              cactaggtat ggctgctgga attggcgcca actccccaag tttgcaggtc ttgcaagatg    240
<removed-apn>
              tgggaaaagt tgtagattga gatggatgaa ttatctaagg cctaatatca aaagagggaa    300
              cttcactcaa caggaagaag aatgcatcat cagaatgcac aaaaaacttg gtaacagatg    360
              gtctgctatt gcggttgagt taccaggaag aacagataac gaaataaaaa atcattggca    420
              caccgcactc aagaagaggt ctcaacaaaa cacactcata aatgaagaaa ccaaagccat    480
              caaatcaaag aataaagaat cagttcacaa caacggtgta tttgttactc ttccagcaac    540
              ttctcagatt tcagataatt catcattatc gccagtttca tccacctgca gcgagttttc    600
              ctccataact tctgatcttt ccactgctgc cagctgtatg gaaaatttgg tgtttgaaga    660
              tgatgacttg ggttttctgg atttatacaa tattgatcct atgaatggaa atttgtggac    720
              agaactaaat ctcgatggca tttccttcaa tacaccatgt gaaatagttt caggagatac    780
              taatagcact ttccaaagct caagttctag caatagcaac acccttgatt ctccgcatca    840
              atcaaccagc gaaagtattg ttgtgaataa tgactttggt cgctttctcg attcatacga    900
              agaggcaaca gtcgataact tttggacaca gtcatatgta gctgacatgt cccacgttcc    960
              aagcgaacta tttgttccct ccgtggcaga atctgaatat tttactccat tatatgatga   1020
              tctgtggggt caaactcatt tgtaccatga aaatcattgc ttattctgat gaacaaaatt   1080
              actccatctc tagagatcaa tagttttgag agtgttatta gagttggtga ttccaattct   1140
              tgatccaacc tagatggatg aatcttttta tatttttggc ttaggggttt gtatagtatt   1200
              gtagcagttg ctctcctata tttctcttgt accaattttt tataaagtga attgcttctg   1260
              ctttggccag gtagtggacc catggatcga gtcagctacg taggcccccc ccccccgtac   1320
              ttgcagctgc tgatacatct aattctaaag aagaagaaaa gctagccatt gaaaagatta   1380
              tgtccggtcc gtatgatgca catcaagcct ttccagaaga acctgaagag cttgaagacg   1440
              atactcagta taaaaatcaa gacaaagatt ctggtgggaa catgaaaaac aacatggaat   1500
                                                    380

              ctttactctc aaagcctgca gtggcagaag agccagttat ttctaaggaa attacttgtt   1560
<removed-date>
              caactcattt attctccaat gagatcttgg aggagcttga gcctgctgag ctatcagcac   1620
              cattgttaag tgggcctcct gcacctttac caatgaagaa gccgcttatc aggttgaact   1680
              tcacctcctt aggcaaagct gctgacaaaa gtgcttaagc tgcaactagc tgatttatgt   1740
              aaaattgaca tttctagttc cttgtttatt tatgtaataa ttatgatgca gtaaataaac   1800
              ctgagctaga aaagccatca attttcattg atatgtacat gagaatatgt tgcaccggca   1860
<removed-apn>
              aaataaaaca gattttgatg agttaaaaaa aaaaaaagaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa       1916
              <210>   365
              <211>   520
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 365
              acaatgaact tagaagaggg ccttggactc ttgaagagga taatttgctc tcccaatata     60
              tttctagtca tggagaaggg cgatggaatt tgctagctaa acgttcagga ttaaagcgaa    120
              ctgggaaaag ttgcagatta aggtggctaa attatctaaa gccagatgta aaacggggaa    180
              atttaacccc acaagagcaa cttataatcc tcgaactcca ctcaaagtgg ggaaacagac    240
              aaatgcgacc aatgcagcct tgaaacggtc acaaagactc tcaaagcctt aaggtcgcgg    300
              ccaaaatcgt gatcacatac tgttttttaa aacctgcctc ttcaaaatgc tggtggtcaa    360
              aaattgcaca aaatttgcca ggcagaacag acaatgaaat caagaactat tggagaacta    420
              ggattcagaa acaagcaaga catttgaaaa ttgacactga cagcagagag tttcaggaac    480
              ttgttaggcg tttctggatg cctagattgc ttcaaaaagc                          520
              <210>   366
              <211>   1317
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (27)..(27)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 366
              ttactaaggg agtggtctcc cggtccngga aggacactac caccccaccc cgggtcggtc     60
                                                    381

<removed-date>
              tttcgattga aagggaaggg accgatctcg ggctcggcgg ataggataag aaaatgagct    120
              gcttaaacat aacttgaacg tgaatctaac ataaacgctt acgatttcac tttccctttt    180
              ccgttctggc aactcatgtg aagggaagtc ggatcgggcc tgtcctctac tctaccacgc    240
              gaccaaaggg ggatgtgatg caatgcgatt cgattaggtt gggtcagggt tttgcctttc    300
              cagtcgttgt gaagtgaagg gccgtccatt gtgatcgcgt catccgtatc gcgaataggg    360
<removed-apn>
              ggaccggggc ccccctgccc cccctcgacg taggcccccc cccccccgga gtgagaatag    420
              ccatgtctac ttcaaagagc gtcagcagtt ctagtgaaga tgacaatgaa cttagaagag   480
              ggccttggac tcttgaagag gataatttgc tctcccaata tatttctagt catggagaag    540
              ggcgatggaa tttgctagct aaacgttcag gattaaagcg aactgggaaa agttgcagat    600
              taaggtggct aaattatcta aagccagatg taaaacgggg aaatttaacc ccacaagagc    660
              aacttataat cctcgaactc cactcaaagt ggggaaacag gtgcttatct tgtgcatttg    720
              attcttgagc tccacaggtt ttaaattgtg gtccaggttg tgcttacagt cggcgtttta    780
              tcgcgatttc tttgtattgt gagaaattgt agacaaatgc gaccaatgca gccttgaaac    840
              ggtcacaaag actctcaaag ccttgaggtc gcggccaaaa tcgtgatcac atactgtttt    900
              ttaaaacctg cctcttcaaa atgctggtag aagcaaagat gcaaatcttg ccactatcaa   960
              caagcatgct ttccattcca aaatattgtc ttttctctgg attttcattt ctttctttaa   1020
              tgactgtagg tggtcaaaaa ttgcacaaaa tttgccaggc agaacagaca atgaaatcaa   1080
              gaactattgg agaactagga ttcagaaaca ggcaagacat ttgaaaattg acactgacag   1140
              cagagagttt caggaacttg ttaggcgttt ctggatgcct agattgcttc aaaaagccaa   1200
              agaatcatct tcttcagcca tgtcaattca aaaccaggca actcctatgc cttttgatgg   1260
              tgtttctcag cattcaactg ttgggaccat accatcacat tcacacaccc cttggca      1317
              <210>   367
              <211>   465
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (340)..(340)
                                                    382

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (360)..(360)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 367
              ttcgggtcat gagggaagaa aatctctagc tgtgccacac ttttgggaag aaacacacaa    60
              acccattatt cgtattactc acaaaagtgg taaaggaaca aaggaaacac cgattaatta   120
<removed-apn>
              ttgttgtgga gattgatgat ggtgagaacc ccgagctgtg acaaaaatgg agtgaagaaa   180
              ggaacatgga caccagagga agacaagaag ttggttgagt acattaccag atatggccac   240
              tggaattggc gattactccc caagttcgca ggtcttgcga gatgtggaaa gagttgcaga   300
              ctaaggtggc tgaattactt aaggccaaac ctcaaaagan ggaactacac caaggaagan   360
              gaggaaacta ttatcaagct gcacagacat ctgggtaaca gatggtctgc catagctgca   420
              cggatgccag gaagaacaga caacgaaatt aagaaccact ggcac                   465
              <210>   368
              <211>   899
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 368
              ccaaagagat caacaaaggt gcttggtctc gagaggaaga tgaaaccctc tccaaatatg    60
              tttccatcca tggagaagga aaatggcaga aggttgccca aaatgcaggt ttaaagagat   120
              gcggaaaaag ttgcagacaa agatggttga attatctcaa gcccggcata aaaagaggcc   180
              acatctctgt tgatgaagag tttatgatta taagacttca tcgtcttctt ggtaacagat   240
              gggcattgat tgcaaagagg ctacctggac gaacagacaa tgaaatcaag aactactgga   300
              acactaatct gtcaaggaag ttacagaaac atcctacatc atcagtttct tcacttcaac   360
              acaaacgtca tgaaaaggaa aagaccaaac aaatgcatgt agcacccgaa gctccacggc   420
              gtaggagggt taatgcagtt gaatacagta aaaatttgga gaatggtggg tgtggaaata   480
              ggcctagtac aactcccagt ccctcaaata tagaagaggg tagtagtgaa gaagcttctt   540
              ttagtgattt tctcatggat attgatcaaa ttgatgattc aaactcaaag gtcccacaaa   600
              aggaagagga tcaccaccac aacaaggtag agttaataac caacaacagt cctagctctt   660
                                                    383

              catcactttc tgatcattgt caccatctct tgccagagaa atttgaccct tttgagacct    720
<removed-date>
              ttctggatgt ggagcttcag aggatggctt cctttcttgg agttgaaaat gattgatcaa    780
              gagattttat ttattgcatg cagtgaaaaa ggtcaagtac acttggggag tgttatagat    840
              aatatgccat ctatatatgg aatgcctaat taactaagca tctagctcta gctagatgt     899
              <210>   369
              <211>   1511
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 369
              ccacgcgtcc gaaatccccg catttgatcc aggcaataaa aggccaatga gggaacaaaa     60
              gctcgggatt cggctcgaag aagaagaccc ttgcacgcac atagcttcaa agaaattaat    120
              taagatgggt caccattctt gctgcaacca acagaaggtt aagagaggcc tttggtcccc    180
              cgaggaagat gagaagctca tcagatacat taccactcac ggctatggtt gctggagtga    240
              agttccagag aaagctgggc ttcaaaggtg tggtaagagt tgtcgcctga gatggattaa    300
              ttatttgagg cctgatatta gaagaggcag gtttacacct gaagaggaga agttaattat    360
              aagtcttcac ggggtcgttg gcaacagatg ggctcacatt gcaagccact taccaggtag    420
              aactgacaac gaaataaaga actactggaa ttcttggatc aaaaagaaaa ttagaaagcc    480
              ttcttcggtg acttcatcaa tgaccactac acaaagtgtt gatcatacca cccccaattc    540
              aattttaatt ccaatcaact agatcactat ggcaaccaag aaaatttaac agcaaagcca    600
              ccgatgcaag aaaccttatt ttcctcgacg tgccccctat ttatgtttga cactagttca    660
              ttagatcaag ggacaacaac agtagacacc accaccaatg tacgagcaga attgttccaa    720
              gattcattgg gtttgagcag tagtgaaacg tggaacatga gccaccatca agtccatgct    780
              cttcctcctc aactagcagc aacttttaca gcagcaacag ttattgatac tacgaattat    840
              ctgccaccat tgatagagaa cgttgaaaac atggtgccaa atatggaagt acagtcttgt    900
              agtatagacg aggaaggaga aatggcacta gagtgtttgc ggagacaaga tttgaatgag    960
              tgggtggaga atcaacaaca atgtcccagc tttcttttct gggacaatat taatgttgaa   1020
              ggacaacttc gaggggaaga actagcacca aacacgtcaa atatgggaaa caatacactt   1080
              tcaccttttc cttcctcttt atgactgcaa caaggactgt ccccactccc cactatactc   1140
                                                    384

              tttttctcat gctccctcta accaggaaga gttttcagga atggtccggc ccaggctgaa   1200
<removed-date>
              acttatattg cagagattgc tttttcttct tttgtttttt ttccaacctc tttcgattgc   1260
              tgattggaaa gattcagaaa aatgagtgaa gataagatat gttatatata tataaccaag   1320
              cgtgatgggt ttattacttt ttattgagtg ttttgacatg gaagagggaa aaaaaaaaga   1380
              gaaggaataa taataaaggc gattgtaacc cgaaggaaag tttgattttg aagatatata   1440
              tggaaagcat cttcaatttg cttgtttttt gactgtaaaa atggtgggtt ttgaatgaga   1500
<removed-apn>
              ataaataatg g                                                        1511
              <210>   370
              <211>   1138
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 370
              gggtgttttg agttttgatc aatgagacta gccatgtcta ctccttccaa gagcataatc     60
              tgttcaagtg aagatgatta tgaacttaga agagggccat ggagtgttga agaggattat    120
              cttctcaccc attacattgc caatcatggt gaagggagat ggaatttgct agctatacgt    180
              tcaggactaa ggagaacagg taagagttgc agattgagat ggctcaatta tctaaagcca    240
              aatgttaaga gaggaaattt aacctcggaa gagcagcttt tgatttttga actacactca    300
              aagtggggca acaggtggtc aaaaattgcg caacagctgc caggcagaac agacaatgaa    360
              atcaagaact attggagaac aaggattcag aaacaagcaa tatatgcgaa atttgaggat    420
              cacagaagag caggatttgt agaatttgtc aagggtctac agatgacaag atgtcttcat    480
              aaatcacaag aatcatctcc ttcggccatg tcaacccaag accaagcaat tcctttacct    540
              tttgatggtg ttactgttcc tcattattca tcatttggga ttgggacaac accaacaata    600
              caaatcactt gccatggaga tctcaatcat ttgaatcagc atgagcagaa ctcagactct    660
              gaacaccaca atagttcatg catttcctct tcagaatcag caaatatccc aaatatgagt    720
              cagccttttg gatacactac tagtcaattt caggccttag ataactgtga ctttggcatg    780
              tgtttatatg atggctatag catagataac aattcctatg acagggatgc cttgaacctg    840
              acaaccacaa tggttgctgg gaatctggaa ctcccagtgt ttgattgcca aacattagaa    900
              accaataggc taaacaagga atttgcaagt agcacatgga gcatggatga attatgacaa    960
                                                    385

              tttaggaaca tacaaagatt atcatttaga ttctagagta tctttttaga accactcact   1020
<removed-date>
              atctctttta taatatgtag tgcttgtcat tagataatcg attattcaat agcttagcta   1080
              taaatataaa tgtaaagact aaagagtagt tgttttataa tttataggac atttgggc     1138
              <210>   371
              <211>   1085
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-apn>
              <400> 371
              attcggctcg aggcaagcca atcctaattc ctattctcct atccttttac ataactctaa     60
              agtaagaaaa aatagagcaa tttcacaaca caactcttag aattgtgagt taagtatggg    120
              aaggtcccct tgctgtgaga aagctcacac aaacaaaggt gcatggacta aagaagaaga    180
              tgacagactc atatcttata ttcgagctca cggagaaggc tgctggcgtt cactccccaa    240
              agccgccggc cttctccggt gcggcaagag ctgccgtctc cggtggatca actacctccg    300
              ccccgacctc aaaagaggta actttaccga agaagaagat gaactcatca tcaaactcca    360
              cagtctcctc ggtaacaagt ggtctttgat agctggaaga ttgccgggga gaacagacaa    420
              tgaaataaag aattattgga acacgcacat aagaaggaag cttttgaaca gaggaatcga    480
              ccctgctact cataggccac tcaacgaagc tgcttctgct gcaactgtta caactgccac    540
              cactaatata tcttttggga aacaacaaga acaagagaca agttctagta acggaagcgt    600
              tgttaaaggt tccatcttgt aacgctgccc tgacttgaac cttgagttaa ccattagtcc    660
              tcctcgccaa caacaacctc agaagaatct ttgttttgtt tgcagtttgg gtttgaacaa    720
              cagcaaggat tgtagctgca acgttgccaa cactgttact gttactgtca gcaacactac    780
              tccttcttct gctgctgctg ctgctgctgc tgcttatgat ttcttgggca tgaaaaccaa    840
              cggtgtttgg gattgcaccc gcttggaaat gaaatgaaaa ttcaacgaaa ttataccaat    900
              tagttagtgt ttttggagag aagtcgagag aatgaaattc attaattttt taattttccc    960
              ccctattttc tttttcttct cttgtttgta taaataatta gtcgctgatg cataatatat   1020
              agtaccggta cagttgaaca ttttattgcc caattttccc ttttgttgtt actcttcact   1080
              ttctt                                                               1085
              <210>   372
                                                    386

              <211>   941
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 372
              ttgatcccct gtatatataa acactcttcc tctcctccaa attaaaacac ttatcatgga    60
              tgttaagaaa ggtgggtctg tagtacaagc acaagtgaag ttgcagaagc ataacgaaaa   120
              ggagatgggc atgagaaaag gtccatgggc ggttgaggag gacaccattc tggtcaatta   180
<removed-apn>
              catcgccaca cacggtgaag gccactggaa ttccgtggca cgatgtgcag gtctaaggag   240
              gagtgggaag agttgcagat taaggtggct aaactacttg cgcccagacg tgcggcgtgg   300
              aaatatcaca ctccaagaac aaatattaat tctcgacctt cactctcgct ggggcaacag   360
              gtggtcaaag attgctcaac agctgccagg aagaacagac aacgaaataa agaactattg   420
              gaggaccaga gtgataaaac aagcgaagca gctaaagtgc gatgtgaata gcaaacagtt   480
              cagagacacg ttgcgttacg tttggatgcc gcgcttgctg gagcggcttc agcccacatc   540
              acaagcactg gagccaaacc aaagtggact tgtgttacac gcttcatcat cactgcttcc   600
              ttcgaattcc gaccatagta ttgaaagggg gtcggatctg tggccaggtt tcaataacca   660
              aatgttgttg gaacagggga gtggcggtga cttgttggaa agtttgtggg atgacgacaa   720
              tatgtgcttt ttgcaacagc tttcttatga cctccaaatg aaataaaata caattccctt   780
              ccgtcacgca ttctgcaatg cacagtgctg aaagttgagc atgcgttcaa tgaatattgt   840
              tttcctcact ttcatgtaca tattaaatct tagagactaa actagtcacg tgcctaaaag   900
              ttgataccag ttgaaataat atggtttatt aatcttaatt g                       941
              <210>   373
              <211>   562
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 373
              cagcatttga tcaaggcaat acaaggccac ttagggaaca agaatataaa agaaggaaaa    60
              agaagaagac gacatagcaa agcctagaaa catgggtcac cattcttgct gcaaccaaca   120
              gaaggttaaa agaggacttt ggtctcctga ggaagatgaa aagctcatca gatacattac   180
              tactcatgga tatggctgtt ggagtgaagt tccagaaaaa gctgggcttc aaaggtgtgg   240
              caagagttgt cgcttgagat ggattaatta tttaagaccc gatattagaa gagggaggtt   300
                                                    387

<removed-date>
              tacacctgag gaggagaagt taattataag ccttcacggg gtcgtaggaa acagatgggc    360
              tcacattgca agccacttgc caggtcgaac tgacaatgaa ataaagaact attggaactc    420
              atggataaaa aagaaaataa gaaagacttc ttcggtgtct tcaacaacca ttgcacaaag    480
              tatcgatcac aattcttctg accagttcaa ttacaattct aatctaatac tataccactt    540
              tcccaaccat gataacaatc ta                                             562
<removed-apn>
              <210>   374
              <211>   1490
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 374
              ccacgcgtcc gtacggctgc gagaagacga cagaagggca attatttaag gcctgattta     60
              aaaagaggaa cattctcaca agaagaagaa aaccttatca ttgaacttca tgcagtatta    120
              gggaacaggt aattgtaatt gtaattttaa ttcagtctct ctcatgattg aattaatgaa    180
              ttctctccct ttttcttttc tactgtggtt aacatttatt tttctttttc atttgcttga    240
              catgcatatt attatcctgt gctgtctcag gtggtctcaa attgcggcac agttgccggg    300
              gagaacagac aatgaaataa agaatctgtg gaactcttgc ttgaagaaga aactgaggca    360
              aaagggaata gaccctgtca cacataaacc actgtctgag gttgagaatg gagagaaagc    420
              agcagaagtg tctaatgaac tgaacctcct gaaatcagag agctccaagt ctgattcagc    480
              atcctatgag cagagaacat caatttctcc aaaagcctat gcacctgaga tggatggttc    540
              ctgcagctcc aagattgaaa tcaattttgt aaccaacaac aactgttaca acaaagactt    600
              gttcctagac aggtttatga gtagtagccg ccaagagagt tacaccacta gttgccagcc    660
              ctcagatttg atggggaatt ttccaattca gatgagttat gcaaccaatg atcagtgtct    720
              ccctaatgat tcaaactcta gtcattggtt cagccaaact ggaaggtctt ttgatatgaa    780
              cactgagttt cctttcaatg ccgctgtcac ttctatcaat cctacaccta caaccaactt    840
              gtttcttcct aataattctt tttgctacaa gccttcactt gctgttccct ctgacaatgt    900
              ttccataccc tatggatccc attactggga agccagtgcc tccaacaaca gcaatagcag    960
              cattaggagt aatagcagca cagaattgag aagtagcagc cccttgaaca tcttttcttc   1020
              ttggggattg gcagattgtg gcacctctac tactaaagag gcacaaattc atatgatgga   1080
                                                    388

<removed-date>
              gaatcataat acagaagaag ctaagtggga tgagtacctt cataacccta tctcaatgct   1140
              ggcttcttct gtacaaaacc aagctcctga gtctctatgc aatgatataa aaacatccat   1200
              gcatttggta cctgatactt taggggctat gttacctcat aaccatacca agcagcaaga   1260
              acagtctcaa acttctagtt tcttttccaa ggacatccag aagctcaggg cagcctttgg   1320
              acacatgtaa aaggattgga gagaaaaaca cagattttag aaagggttcc aattcaaggg   1380
<removed-apn>
              attgctattc ttagtacagg tgtgtgaaac cacagatttt ttgctcttgt atgtaggtct   1440
              aatacaaaac atttatttac aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa              1490
              <210>   375
              <211>   1495
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 375
              ccgtaagggg ggggagactc atttcgattg gacagcgagg gaattggggt cgagtttaag     60
              tcctgcatat atatgcgtag ttttttttat agttttaggg agtgagaata gccatgtcta    120
              cttcaaagag cgtcagcagt tctagtgaag atgacaatga acttagaaga gggccttgga    180
              ctcttgaaga ggataatttg ctctcccaat atatttctag tcatggagaa gggcgatgga    240
              atttgctagc taaacgttca ggattaaagc gaactgggaa aagttgcaga ttaaggtggc    300
              taaattatct aaagccagat gtaaaacggg gaaatttaac cccacaagag caacttataa    360
              tcctcgaact ccactcaaag tggggaaaca ggtggtcaaa aattgcacaa aatttgccag    420
              gcagaacaga caatgaaatc aagaactatt ggagaactag gattcagaaa caggcaagac    480
              atttgaaaat tgacactgac agcagagagt ttcaggaact tgttaggcgt ttctggatgc    540
              ctagattgct tcaaaaagcc aaagaatcat cttcttcagc catgtcaatt caaaaccagg    600
              caactcctat gccttttgat ggtgtttctc agcattcaac tgttgggacc ataccatcac    660
              attcacacac cccttggcag ggaccttgta tgaatgaagc tggtcccact tacatggacc    720
              aacatgagca gaactcagac tctgaacaca acaatggttc atgcatctcc ttgtctgagt    780
              cagcaaattt tccaaaagtg cctcagcatt ttggacgcac caccatcacc caatatcatg    840
              ccttgaataa caatgacttt ggcaccttca catatgacgg ctacaatgta agcaacaatg    900
              tctatgagat ggacaacttc aaaacgccta ctacaagggt ggctgaggat gcgcaatacc    960
                                                    389

<removed-date>
              caactggtga ttgtcaaatg gtaggaagca attgggtaaa cagcgatttt gcatgtaaca   1020
              tgtggaacat ggatgaattg tggcaattta gcaagttaca aaaataagat tttagggttt   1080
              ggtttttttg gagttaccaa gactctatct ttggtgatgt tattattgtt atcatgaact   1140
              gttgattagc tactaccaaa ttaattaata cagatggtga ttgttttctg tacatctgtt   1200
              ttgcattact ctgttttgca atttgtattg attgagaaaa gtcattaatt agtcactagt   1260
<removed-apn>
              tcaaaacaca aacagttgga gattgagtgc taataaagat ttcgtaaata tatagaagta   1320
              aacactttta gaaactttgg tgcatttgta ggggaaatcg gaatgccgaa tgcagccact   1380
              atgatatcta aatgaagagg gcccgtgatt gaatgaggat ttaattggag atgaaagtag   1440
              aaagctgcaa aatgactcat agcgtgtttg cttatccatt cacgacgtag atttc        1495
              <210>   376
              <211>   1664
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 376
              ccacgcgtcc gaaaaattac aaagcacgag ggtctcgttt agcaacttgt aaaggacaca     60
              acagcatcac ttacataaca tgcacttccc cttctccacc gcattctgtg ttctctagtc    120
              aatagaaagt gagcactgaa tttgctttgt gccgttcctg ttttcttata atttgtgcat    180
              ttttttgcac ataaacaaaa cccatgggaa gggctccttg ttgtgagaaa gtgggattga    240
              agaaggggag gtggacagca gaggaggatg agatcttggc aaaatacatt caggccaatg    300
              gggaaggttc ttggaggtca ttgcctaaaa atgcaggatt attaaggtgt gggaagagtt    360
              gcaggctgag atggattaac tatttgagag ctgaccttaa aagaggaaac atttctgctg    420
              aagaggaaaa taccattgtt aagttgcacg cttcttttgg taacaggtgg tctttgatag    480
              caaatcactt accaggaaga acagacaacg agataaaaaa ctactggaat tctcacctca    540
              gcaggaaaat ttacagtttc ccaggtgcag gtgcaggtgc aagtgcaggg atcatggata    600
              cacctaaggt agtatatatt cctcccaagc gcaaatgtgg tagaacaagt cgttgggcca    660
              tgaagaaaaa caaaacatac acccaaaaag tcaatgatag gattaaccag agacacacac    720
              aaattggttt ccctcaacag aacagtgaca ccgcagttcc gacgccacca actccgtctc    780
              tagagagtga gggtttgtca aacgccgtta atgacttcaa ggtcctggac ggtgacgtgg    840
                                                    390

<removed-date>
              cagagtttga tgagccgaga acggaggagc tggaggcgga ggtaaataaa cgtgacaata    900
              gcgttggagg cgtggaagaa agtagtaata ccgatgaaga catcttggga ctgtgtgaac    960
              tagagggcat taatgaggac agtgggatgt tgttgggttt tagtgacatt ttggaaagtt   1020
              gccttgcgga aacaacatgt ggggtttggg acataagtga agagagagaa agcaatgacg   1080
              tggtggcggc tgatgcttgt cgcgacaaaa tagcatcgag tgaggaaggg tcatgctctt   1140
<removed-apn>
              ccatgaatca agactgggac tgggagagcg tgttagagtt tagtaacgct gttgataatt   1200
              gggaggacca agacaaattg ctcacttggc tgtgggagga cgatgactgc aagagattgg   1260
              gagagacaga tactcagata ctacaaaacg acatggttat tgattggttt ctctcttgat   1320
              tcatccaaga ataaaatagg cttagtgtgt gtgccccctt ggtcatgttt ctttaatctg   1380
              ttcttcttgg attgattagg gaatgtgtaa acttaataaa tacttttttt agttacttat   1440
              ataatcatcc ttaagacaca ctagttagga atactctttt ccttttactt taatttgcat   1500
              gtcacatgat tcgaaaatat catgcagaag aattggacca gacattagtc actgtagcat   1560
              tcctaggttg tttgaaaata tggatcttat tatatacgag ttagagtttg atttttttat   1620
              aattaattta tagtacataa ataaatatag aattttctgt gata                    1664
              <210>   377
              <211>   2010
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 377
              gactacgacc cttctcatgg ggcctcgctc ttatattagt tcaacttctt ttctcagctg     60
              ccagttcatt ttccttcttc atatcatctc tctcactgtc acatgctctc tatctatccc    120
              agccactcca atagctttgg ttcactgcca cccctgctga catttttctc gttggaataa    180
              acaaactttg tgttaactta aaaggtttaa gggaaaaaga aaaactacaa aatgggaagg    240
              cactcttgtt gttacaagca gaagcttagg aagggtcttt ggtctcctga ggaggatgaa    300
              aaacttctga ggcatattac taagtatggt catggatgtt ggagttctgt gcctaagcaa    360
              gcaggtctgc aaaggtgtgg taagagctgc aggcttaggt ggatcaatta tttaaggcct    420
              gatttaaaaa gaggaacatt ctcacaagaa gaagaaaacc ttatcattga acttcatgca    480
              gtattaggga acaggtggtc tcaaattgcg gcacagttgc cggggagaac agacaatgaa    540
                                                    391

<removed-date>
              ataaagaatc tgtggaactc ttgcttgaag aagaaactga ggcaaaaggg aatagaccct    600
              gtcacacata aaccactgtc tgaggttgag aatggagaga aagcagcaga agtgtctaat    660
              gaactgaacc tcctgaaatc agagagctcc aagtctgatt cagcatccta tgagcagaga    720
              acatcaattt ctccaaaagc ctatgcacct gagatggatg gttcctgcag ctccaagatt    780
              gaaatcaatt ttgtaaccaa caacaactgt tacaacaaag acttgttcct agacaggttt    840
<removed-apn>
              atgagtagta gccgccaaga gagttacacc actagttgcc agccctcaga tttgatgggg    900
              aattttccaa ttcagatgag ttatgcaacc aatgatcagt gtctccctaa tgattcaaac    960
              tctagtcatt ggttcagcca aactggaagg tcttttgata tgaacactga gtttcctttc   1020
              aatgccgctg tcacttctat caatcctaca cctacaacca acttgtttct tcctaataat   1080
              tctttttgct acaagccttc acttgctgtt ccctctgaca atgtttccat accctatgga   1140
              tcccattact gggaagccag tgcctccaac aacagcaata gtagcacaga attgagaagt   1200
              agcagcccct tgaacatctt ttcttcttgg ggattggcag attgtggcac ctctactact   1260
              aaagaggcac aaattcatat gatggagaat cataatacag aagaagctaa gtgggatgag   1320
              taccttcata accctatctc aatgctggct tcttctgtac aaaaccaagc tcctgagtct   1380
              ctatgcaatg atataaaaac atccatgcat ttggtacctg atactttagg ggctatgcta   1440
              cctcataacc ataccaagca gcaagaacag tctcaaactt ctagtttctt ttccaaggac   1500
              atccagaagc tcagggcagc ctttggacac atgtaaaagg attttagaaa gggttccaat   1560
              tcaagggatt gctattctta gtacaggtgt gtgaaaccac agattttttg ctcttgtatg   1620
              taggtctaat acaaaacatt tattttcacc ttttgttttt ccttcacttt gtttaacatt   1680
              tgtgagccaa aaaccatttg tcttttactt tcttctttcg ggtgtggggt agaattgaag   1740
              aagaataagg gttgctattc tgtcttcttt ctactctttc tttgctacac tgtaaccgca   1800
              atggtgcatt ttgcatgtcc aagttcaaag ccatcacaga ttttaattgg tccatgcaaa   1860
              gtttcatttc cattttgatg ccagggacag agttacttta cctgcaaaca attttcagaa   1920
              tcacttttac ccggttcccg atatgatctt cttttcccac tttcatacta ctgaaaatga   1980
              caccaaacta gtgtaaccag cacttttacc                                    2010
              <210>   378
                                                    392

              <211>   1090
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 378
              attcggctcg aggtcacttt acattggttg ctagcaagtg gtatggggag gcaaccctgc     60
              tgtgacaaac ttggggtgaa gaaaggtcca tggactgctg aggaagacaa aaaactcata    120
              aacttcattc tctccaatgg ccagtgctgt tggcgagctg ttcccaagct tgctgggctt    180
<removed-apn>
              cggcgttgtg gtaagagttg tcgtcttcgt tggactaatt atctaaggcc tgacttgaag    240
              agagggctcc tcacacaggc tgaagagcag cttgttatcg atctccatgc ccgtcttggc    300
              aacaggtggt ccaagattgc tgccaggtta ccaggtagga cagacaacga aattaaaaat   360
              cactggaaca cccacatcaa gaaaaagctc cttaagatgg gtattgatcc tgttactcac    420
              gaacctctta acaaacaagt ctcatccaaa gatagttcat cccctgcaga gcatttctca    480
              caagtgaata acattaacat tcatcaggtt gagcaaaatg atggggttct caactcagaa    540
              gagaattcaa cctcatcacc ggctgaaaat tcttctgggg aagaatccct tttggtggat    600
              agcatttgca gtgatgtttc tctaattaac agcatgtggc tggatgaaac tcctctgatg    660
              gacacattat gggacaatac acctaaagtt gagaatgcaa ataataacat gggcttacca   720
              ataggggagg ataattgtgc ttggttgttg gactgccagg actttggtat tcatgatttt   780
              ggcttcaatt gtttcagcga ggttgaaaca aatgtactgc aagctatagg catggacaga   840
              aaagggcttt aggatgcagt acatatggta attaaagtta gttgtcctta agaaacagag    900
              catgcaatca aaaaatatgt gtatatgtga atgtgacaaa atgggaataa atcctctcgt    960
              gtccatgtca cgttcaaatt ttgtgtttat aactttcttg atgaatatta gataaagttc   1020
              tccttattta ttatttgtca agaaagtgat acacacgaga tttgaacgtg aaaaaaaaaa   1080
              aaaaaaaagg                                                          1090
              <210>   379
              <211>   1762
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 379
              cccacgcgtc cgctttctat aaaggtagag agaagagagg acccttctct tgcatagttc     60
              aagtgagtga gagtgccaaa aaatgggaag ggctccttgt tgttccaaag tggggttgca   120
                                                    393

<removed-date>
              caaaggtcca tggactccta aagaagatgc attgcttacc aagtatatcc aagctcatgg    180
              agaaggccaa tggaaatcac tacccaaaaa agcaggtaat taaggtttta gatgctcaac    240
              tttcccaatt catttctcaa tttgatgtct catgttctgg tttcgatcac aaattattat    300
              gtgtaacttt tataataatt atattaatat tgatatatga ttgaatgaca gtatataatt    360
              atatgtgtat aatcattaaa ttcataatat aaaattacat gtatctttta tccgaaaaat    420
<removed-apn>
              tatgctggag tcggatagaa taaattctga ttcataactc tgaatataca cactttcttt    480
              attttctcac gtctccaaaa gcttctccct ctttcttttt ttttctatca cgcaaactca    540
              tcatttagct atagtagctt aattaagtag ctcaacaagt tcaaattaca atgggtagat    600
              caccttgttg taacaaaaca aagcgggggc tctgcttcag tacttgctac ctttctataa    660
              aggtagagag aagagaggac ccttctcttg catagttcaa gtgagtgaga gtgccaaaaa    720
              atgggaaggg ctccttgttg ttccaaagtg gggttgcaca aaggtccatg gactcctaaa    780
              gaagatgcat tgcttaccaa gtatatccaa gctcatggag aaggccaatg gaaatcacta    840
              cccaaaaaag cagggcttct tagatgtgga aaaagttgta gattgagatg gatgaactat    900
              ctgagaccag acataaagag agggaacata gcaccagaag aagatgatct tataatcaga    960
              atgcattcac ttttgggaaa cagatggtcc ctcatagcag gaaggttacc agggagaaca   1020
              gacaatgaaa taaagaacta ctggaacacc catctaagca aaaagctgaa aattcaagga   1080
              acagaagaca cagacacaca caaaatgtta gagaatcctc aagaagaggc tgcaagtgat   1140
              ggtggcaaca acaacaaaaa gaagaagaag aagaagaacg gtggcaaaaa gaacaagcag   1200
              aagaacaaag gcaaagaaaa tgatgagccg ccaaagacac aagtttacct accaaaacca   1260
              attagagtga aggcaatgta tttacaaaga acggatagta acaccttcac ctttgattcc   1320
              aattcagcta gtggatcaac aagccaagag aaggaggaaa gccccgtgac aaaagaatca   1380
              aacgtggtta gtgaagttgg taatgtggga gaagaaagtg atggttttgg cttcttcagt   1440
              gaggaccatg acttagtcaa cgtctcagat attgaatgcc actcttattt tcccacagat   1500
              catggcaacc tacagcaatt gtatgaagaa tatttccagc tcttgaacat ggaccatggc   1560
              caattcgaac tgaattcatt tgcagaatct ttattagatt aaaagaatat caacaaagat   1620
              ttgttcagtt catgaagatc acattgctta catataaact ttgttgatag atcatatgta   1680
                                                    394

              aatatatctg taaatgatct ctgagttatg agatcttttt tgtctttaat aaatatcgcc   1740
<removed-date>
              atctaactca aaaaaaaaaa aa                                            1762
              <210>   380
              <211>   1133
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 380
<removed-apn>
              ttcctaagat gctgatcata attgtaataa caaagaccaa tattttgtgt gtgccagtga     60
              gctagttagg tgttaaatat ttgattgcaa tattaatatg aaggcacagt gtgagtagtg    120
              agaaggggca ttagtaaaga ggatgggtag acgaccctgc tgccccaaag agatcaacaa    180
              aggtgcttgg tctcgagaag aagatgaaac cctctccaaa tatgtttcca tccatggaga    240
              aggaaaatgg cagaaggttg cccaaaatgc agggttaaag cgatgtggaa agagttgcag    300
              acaaagatgg ttgaattatc tcaagcccgg tataaaaaga ggccacatct ctgtggatga    360
              agaggatatg attataagac ttcatcgtct tcttggtaac agatgggcat tgattgcaaa    420
              gaggctacct ggacgaacag acaatgaaat caagaactat tggaacacaa atctgtcaaa    480
              gaagttacaa aaacatccaa catcatcagt ttcttcactt caacacaaac gtcatgaaaa    540
              agaaaaaacc atacaaatgc atgtatcacc cgaagcacca cggcctagga gagttaatgc    600
              agttgaatac agtaaaaatt tggagaatgg tgggtgtgga aatagaccta gtacaactcc    660
              cagtccctca aataaagtag agggtagtag tgaagaagct tcttttagtg atttcctcat    720
              ccacgacatt gatcaaaacc aatttttgat tgctgatgat tcaaactcaa aggtgccaca    780
              aatggaagaa gatcaccacc acaacaacaa ggtggaatta ataaccaaca acagtcctag    840
              ctcttcatca ccttctgatc attgtcacca tctcttgcca gagaaatttg acccttttga    900
              gacccttttg gatgtggagc tggcttcctt tcttggattt gaaaatgatt gatcaagaga    960
              ttttatttat tattattgca tgcagtgaga tgaatgaaaa aaggtcaagt acttagggag   1020
              tgttatagat aatatcccat ctatatatgg aatgcctaac taattatgca tctagctata   1080
              gctagatgta atatacaaat ccagggtttc tttttcgaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaa          1133
              <210>   381
              <211>   1133
              <212>   DNA
                                                    395

              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-date>
              <400> 381
              attcggctcg agctctgaca caagaattaa gttgtgagat ggagagaagt agtgaagagg     60
              agatgttaat aacgaaaggt ccatggacag agcaagagga ttctcttctc ttcaattaca    120
              tcactgtcca cggcgaaggt cactggaact ctgtcgctcg ctacacaggc atgcaaagca    180
              ttaattatat tcatcatctt aatcctagct tctttcttac tcacactcat cacgttttca    240
<removed-apn>
              atcacaggtc taaaacgaac gggcaaaagc tgcagattaa gatggttgaa ctacttgcgt    300
              ccaaatgttc gacgtgggaa cataaccctc caagaacagc tcttgattct tgacctccat   360
              tcccgttggg gcaacaggtg gtcgaaaata gctgaacatt taccgggaag aacagacaac   420
              gagataaaga attattggag aacgagagtg gtaaagcagg ctaagcaact aaaatgtgat    480
              gtgaacagca agcaattcag ggacacgttg cgttttgtgt ggatgccacg tatgctagag    540
              cggattcggg ctcaggcctc atcatcggcc caagcccacc aaagcagctt aatctccaac    600
              agtaacactc aagcacacag tggattgttg tcatcagcgc ttcatgccca cgcgccttct    660
              ctctctgact cgagcgcgtc gtacaatctt atgggtgctg atgctggaag ttgctcatct    720
              catagctact actcagacat agcaggcaat ggttttggtg gtgcggactt gtggacggat   780
              caaaacattt gctttctgca acaccagctt gctcatcatg acttgttctg atcatgcata   840
              cttcaacatc ttgctccaaa attcactcta aactgcaaca tataaagcaa ttgtaacact    900
              agtcgtgaaa catgcatgtt tctttttatg ttaatttggt gtgaaattta ataatctata    960
              cttcaattaa tttcaagaga actgccattt gttgttagtt aagcgtgatt tgtacgagat   1020
              agtgatgagt atttttcgct taactaagac aattaatttt gttcgaaaca aatagaactg   1080
              ataataagaa agtaacaaaa ctgtttaaac acaataaagt tggaacggga ggg          1133
              <210>   382
              <211>   1073
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 382
              attcggctcg agggaattga acactggggt caggatcatc aacctagcta gctagtgtat     60
              acaacaacaa tatgaggaag cccgaggttt ctggaaaaaa caacaacatt aataacaagc   120
              ttagaaaggg gttgtggtca cctgaagaag atgacaagct catgaactac atgctaaaca    180
                                                    396

<removed-date>
              gtggacaagg ttgttggagc gatgtagcca gaaatgcggg ccttcaaagg tgtggcaaaa    240
              gttgtcgcct tcgatggatc aattacttga ggcctgatct taaacgaggt gcattctcac    300
              cacaagaaga ggaaatcatc atccatttgc attcccttct cggaaacaga tggtctcaaa    360
              tagcggcgcg cttaccaggg agaacagaca atgaaattaa gaatttttgg aattcaacaa    420
              taaagaaaag actcaagaac atgtcatcca acacctcacc aaatggaagc gagtcctcat    480
<removed-apn>
              atgagcctaa taacagagac cttaacatgg cagggtttac tacttctaat acccaagatc    540
              aacaacatgc tgattttatg cctatgttca attcatcatc tcaatcaccc tccatgcatg    600
              ccatggttct caattccata attgacaggt tgcctatgct agagcatgga ctaaacatgc    660
              catgttctgg tggattcttc aatagcacag ggccatgctt ctcatcatca caaagtggag    720
              ttgacaacaa agggatttat ttggaaaatg gaggagtatt tgggagtgta aatattggtg    780
              cagaagggga tgtgtatgtt ccccctctag agagtgttag cactacttct gaccataacc    840
              tgaaagtgga gagcacatgc aacacagata ctaacaatag ttactttgat gacataaaca    900
              gtatcctcct taataattgc aacattaata gcaacaataa gagagctgaa aatagggctg    960
              gtggggtgga gaatttgttt caggaagagt taaccattgg agagtgggac ttggaggagt   1020
              taatgaaaga tgtttcatcc tttccctttc ttgatttttc aaatatccaa taa          1073
              <210>   383
              <211>   1226
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 383
              gaagtgaaac catcaatccc ctgtatatat aaccactctt cctctcctcc aaattaaaac     60
              acttatcatg gatgttaaga aaggtgggtc tgtagtacaa gcacaagtga agttgcagaa    120
              gcataacgaa aaggagatgg gcatgagaaa aggtccatgg gcggttgagg aggacaccat    180
              tctggtcaat tacatcgcca cacacggtga aggccactgg aattccgtgg cacgatgtgc    240
              aggcatgcat gcatcttaat tataatttaa tttctgcatg tgccaagtaa taatggtata    300
              tatgttaatt atgagattta tcaattacag gtctaaggag gagtgggaag agttgcagat    360
              taaggtggct aaactacttg cgcccagacg tgcggcgtgg aaatatcaca ctccaagaac    420
              aaatattaat tctcgacctt cactctcgct ggggcaacag gtatggtata aaaatattcc    480
                                                    397

<removed-date>
              actctctctc tctctctata tatatattaa tttgttttat aaggttggat gtacacatat    540
              ataacatagt atgaatgaat gaatgttttt tgataggtgg tcaaagattg ctcaacagct    600
              gccaggaaga acagacaacg aaataaagaa ctattggagg accagagtga taaaacaagc    660
              gaagcagcta aagtgcgatg tgaatagcaa acagttcaga gacacgttgc gttacgtttg    720
              gatgccgcgc ttgctggagc ggcttcagcc cacatcacaa gcactggagc caaaccaaag    780
<removed-apn>
              tggacttgtg ttacacgctt catcatcact gcttccttcg aattccgacc atagtattga    840
              aagggggtcg gatctgtggc caggtttcaa taaccaaatg ttgttggaac aggggagtgg   900
              cggtgacttg ttggaaagtt tgtgggatga cgacaatatg tgctttttgc aacagctttc    960
              ttatgacctc caaatgaaat aaaatacaat tcccttccgt cacgcattct gcaatgcaca   1020
              gtgctgaaag ttgagcatgc gttcaatgaa tattgttttc ctcactttca tgtacatatt   1080
              aaatcttaga gactaaacta gtcacgtgcc taaaagttga taccagttga aataatatgg   1140
              tttattaatc cttaattgaa aaaaatagtc tatgcctttg tttatgtagt tatcataaga   1200
              attactccct ccactacata ttgatt                                        1226
              <210>   384
              <211>   1634
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 384
              cggctgcgag aagacgacag aagggggtgg caatgactat ggaaggtgaa tggaaggtgt     60
              cgtatggaat ttagagcatg attttagaga agtattaaag tgtatagtat tcactttgac    120
              ttgatctcac tccccaaaat gggatacaga catagtaata gtatattata cactatgcat    180
              cttgcgtagg ccaatttgct ttgtaacttt agtttctccc ttgaccccat ttaagtcctg    240
              catatgtatg cgtagttttt ttatagtttt agtgagtgag aatagccatg tctacttcaa    300
              agagcgtcag cagttctagt gaagatgaca atgaacttag aagagggcct tggactctgg    360
              aagaggataa cttgctctcc caatatattt ttaatcatgg ggaagggcga tggaatttgc    420
              tggctaaacg ttcaggatta aagagaactg ggaaaagttg cagattaagg tggctaaatt    480
              atctaaagcc agatgtaaaa cggggaaatt taaccccaca agagcaactt ataattcttg   540
              aactccactc aaagtgggga aacaggtggt caaaaattgc acaacatttg ccaggcagaa    600
                                                    398

<removed-date>
              cagacaatga aatcaagaac tattggagaa ctaggattca gaaacaagca agacatttga    660
              aaatttacac tgacagcaga gagtttcaag aacttgttag gcgtttctgg atgcctagat    720
              tgcttcagaa agcaaaagaa tcatcttctt caaacatgtc aattcaaaac caggcaattc    780
              ctatgccttt tgattatgtt tctcagcatt taactgttgg gaccatacct ccttggcagg    840
              gaccttgtat gaatgaagct ggtcccactt acatggacca acatgagcag aactcagact    900
<removed-apn>
              cggaacacaa caatggttca tgcatctcct tgtctgagtc agcaaatatt ccaaaagtgc    960
              ctcagcattt tggacacacc accatcaccc aatttcatgc cttgaatacc aatgactttg   1020
              gcaccttcac atatgaaggt tataatgtaa acaacaatgt ctatgagatg gacaacttca   1080
              aaacgactac tacatgggtg gctgaggatg cgcaataccc aattggtgat tgtcaaatgg   1140
              taggaagcaa ttgggtaaac aacgattttg catgtaacat gtggaacatg gatgaactgt   1200
              ggcagtttag caagttacaa aaataagatt ttagggtttt gttttttttg gaataaccaa   1260
              aagtccaaaa ctctttcttt gatgacgtta ttattgttat catgaactgt ggattagcta   1320
              ccgaattaat taatacagat ggcgattgtt ttctgtacat ctgtcttgta ttactctgtt   1380
              cagataagta cttttgtaat ttgtattgat tgagaaaagt cattaattag tcactagtac   1440
              aaaacacaaa cagttggaaa ttgagtgcta ataaagaatt cgtaaatata tagaagtaaa   1500
              cacttttaga aactttggtg catttgtagg ggaaatcgga atgccgaatg cagccactat   1560
              gatatctaaa tgaagagggc ccgtgattga atgaggatgc aattgaagcc aataaagata   1620
              gttcgttttt cagt                                                     1634
              <210>   385
              <211>   852
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 385
              tgcagatctt ggtggtagta gcaaatattc aaatgttaac tgcaggtttc agaagagaga     60
              gtaaattgca aagtaaatat gaataaggat ttcatagctg aagaacttga caatgacatg    120
              caagaagaag aagaagaagg tgttgggggt gatcatggtt tcccagatga tgaaaagaag    180
              aagaaaggtt atggaaggag aggagccgct ggtggcggtg gtggggtgtc gccgcctgct    240
              tgtcaagtgg aaaaatgtgg gcttgattta tctgatgcca agcgatacca caggcgccat    300
                                                    399

<removed-date>
              aaggtgtgtg agattcatgc caaggcgcca tttgtggttg ttgctggtct caggcaacgc   360
              ttctgtcaac aatgcagcag attccatgag ctaccggagt tcgatgaagc aaaacggagc   420
              tgtcgaaggc ggttggccgg gcataacgaa aggcgtcgga agagctcagc tgaatcatca   480
              tcagcagcag aaagttcaag tcgcagaggg atgatgatca gtgctcaact gaaagagtct   540
              cattacctag ctgatgatca aagagccaga gtcaatccaa tggcaatcca tggcagttca   600
<removed-apn>
              tcttttaagc gttcccaaat cagataagga agcttaagcg accaaaacaa tacgctccct   660
              ctcttctgtc atccgatggt tcatgtcttg cactatgtac tacttactag attttaatgg   720
              aggattttaa taacaatgtc aggcatcaac tcgattatcg agatttcaca aagtttgttt   780
              tcatgcgaac ttgccttgct gtataatgat gataatatcc ctttatctat ggagtcttca   840
              attgtatttg ca                                                       852
              <210>   386
              <211>   756
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (671)..(671)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (701)..(702)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 386
              ggattgcaag agaaatggaa atcaatttca taaagtgctc ttatcctgcc tgccccttgt    60
              gttcaattct ttttttgttg catttcataa tgataagtga ttagtttatg gtgaatgaag   120
              gtttcattgt ttggcggagt ttgatgaagg aaaacgaagt tgcaggaagc gtctcgatgg   180
              acataaccga agacggagaa aacctcaacc tcaacctcaa cctcattctc tatctgtaaa   240
              tccaggaaga tgtctttcca atctcgcagg ttctagacat ttaccgtcca gtagtcccca   300
              aatatttgcc actactgcca taacctcttc ttggttggga actgccaaaa tggaacctga   360
              tataggctcg gaatccagcc gaaatggttt cttccgtgga tcctttccac acagctacaa   420
                                                    400

              aagggaagaa cagttgtcat tattacaaac caatcattca tcactccatg gagtttctgt   480
<removed-date>
              ttatcagtta cctttattaa gcaatggtgt aggcagcagc caaaaaatgt tctcaaatgc   540
              gatcgactcc gatcgtgctc tctctcttct gtcatcacag ccggctgaga actcggagat   600
              tggtttgaaa accatggtgc tatctggtcc aacttcatca ctgatcccaa acatgcaata   660
              taatggtgta ncaatggaag gtgagcatgt ttttggcact nngacgcatg ataacacaac   720
              atctatggac aaaaaatgtt tggatctgca aatgtc                             756
<removed-apn>
              <210>   387
              <211>   960
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 387
              ggcagagaaa aaaaggagag acaaagatta tggaacatga tgatatgttc atggggaacc    60
              gaagccaaac tggtaataag tataacccca acaatgcaac caccaacagt ttcaacttcg   120
              agaccacgct cactgagtct cacgcgctga accacccgca ccaacaacaa caacgatact   180
              ctctttacgc cggcgatggg tcgagtcgta ttcaccaatc ggcagatcct catcttgttt   240
              gtttgaagct tgggaagaga cattactttg agggttcaac agatctgaac aacaatcgtc   300
              actccgccgg tgggttctct attggaaaga aaggtaaacc ctattatgat aatcttagcg   360
              gcgaaggagg tggaccttct tcgtcgacgg gaccgaggtg tcaagttgaa gggtgtaatg   420
              ttacactagt caacgctaaa gactatcacc ggagacataa agtttgtgaa acacactcta   480
              aagcacccaa ggtggtggtg ttagggttag agcaacgctt ttgtcaacag tgtagcaggt   540
              ttcatttagt gtcagaattt gacgactcta agaggagttg cagaaggaga ttagcaggtc   600
              ataatgagcg tagaagaaaa acctctcaag attctgctac caggaacttt gctcatgata   660
              ataaaccgat gactgggagt tttccgtatg tatcgtcgcc aacaggacgt gctctctctc   720
              ttctgtcatc caaggttgat tcttggatct ccccgtctaa tctctccaca agatctagtg   780
              ccgccttgcg tgagctgatt gtggaaaacc gtgctgctgt cctcgcacgg cagctcgtac   840
              tcgagcgtga ctggcactat ataggtgagc cccagcctgc agggtccaat cctatattag   900
              ttcagcatca ctcaatgctt gaccctcatc gttgggactt tccgttcccg gaaatcggtg   960
              <210>   388
                                                    401

              <211>   1591
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 388
              aagtgtcagg tgcctaactt ttagcttcaa gttctattca gattattgaa aattaaatcc     60
              atttactaac attttggttt attttgattg ggtgttgtat attgagataa gaaaaaagag    120
              tttttgttta tcattattat tcatgaccca cgaaaaataa agaaaaaaga ccccatgaac    180
<removed-apn>
              gggctgtagg caggcagagc tcatggaaat gggttcgggc tctttgacag actcaggtgg    240
              ttcttcctcc aactcctcca ctgagtcact caacggcttg aaatttggtc aaaaaatcta    300
              ttttgaggat acatcagctg ctggcaccgg tggtggtacg accatgggga ctccactcaa    360
              gtcaggtatc gggtcttcaa gctcatccgg gtcgggtaag aaggccaggg gtggagtggt    420
              gcaaggtggt cagcctccaa gatgtcaagt agaagggtgt aaagtggatc tgactgatgc    480
              aaaagcttac tattcaaggc ataaggtttg tggtatgcac tctaaggcag ctaaagtcat    540
              tgttgctggt cttgagcaaa gattttgcca gcaatgtagc agatttcatc agcttcctga    600
              atttgaccaa aggaaacgga gttgccgtag acggttagca ggtcacaatg agcgacggag    660
              gaaaccacca ccgggatcat tattatcctc tcgttatatc cggctttctt cgtctattat    720
              cgaaagcagc agaggtggaa gctttatcat ggatttcaca gcctatccaa ggctttccag    780
              aagggatgtg tggctaacat caagatcatc ggaacatgta ccgggaaatc aatacactgg    840
              aacaggatgg ttgcttccac atccatgtca aaacaactca gagaatcctc cacctaacct    900
              ttacaggcag gaattaccag ggggaactgg tgttcctagt ggccggattc ctccgggaga    960
              atgcttcacg ggagttgttg actcaaactg tgctctctct cttctatcaa atcaaccatg   1020
              gggcttcaga aatcagggat tgactcttgg gttaaatgac atgatcaact ccgagctttg   1080
              ttcaatgtct caaccagcaa tgcctcatgg tgcagttacg aatccttact caaatgcctc   1140
              ttggggtttc aagggcaacc actcctgtag tcgctcccag gatatgctgc ctcaaatccc   1200
              agagcctatt aacagtcaat tgaccggggg acttcagttg tctcaccaaa gcagggggca   1260
              atacatggag catgagccat ctaatgcgga tgacacctcc atgcagcata ttcaccaatc   1320
              cttctaagtc tgctgtgata atcattcctg caaatattgg tcagtttttg tgcccagtct   1380
              tacttagtgc gtgatttttg gtgtttctgg cattatcgtt tcttttttgg gttggagttt   1440
                                                    402

              gttaaaaacc caaactaccc cttcatgttg tgtgtgccta tggttaaaac atgattaata   1500
<removed-date>
              ggtgagaaag ttttagccta aaaaaaaaag taagcataaa taaaattcag agactatttc   1560
              tctagaaatt attttttttt tttttttggg c                                  1591
              <210>   389
              <211>   1237
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 389
              aaaagagtaa atttgactaa aataggatca ggaaaaatta cattatcttc aacgtgtgaa     60
              ccttaccaag ttaaaaatta aagtttaaga tttgtggcaa tcaattcatc tgattggaat    120
              aaaagctatt atcatatgga accttgagaa tctgaaactc ttgaagatgg ttgtcaccct    180
              caacttggga ttgagtagtc tgctcttgtt ccatctgcca gttttcagat aaggcatatg    240
              gaatggggaa actctgcgaa atcacattca tcgtgggctg agacatgctg ctaccactaa    300
              catgcacagg gtacgcaagt gaaccatgtt gttttggctc acaagaaacc gaagactcat    360
              ttgacagaag agagagagca cgatgaagat cttgcgtcgt acccatattt gaagcaactg    420
              tggattcttc tacaccttgg ttgagaacct caactgtgtt ttgcttgccc tttacaggca    480
              ggaatctgtt ggaatcgtaa caccgagatg tcatggaatt caacagctgg ttgcctggca    540
              gttgcagctg tccatttgca tttcccgctt ttgtaggtgc ataacctttc gtttcagagg    600
              acttggagac aaatgtgcct tcccatgtaa aattttcatt gggcctagca ttatgaagaa    660
              atggcacttt attccagaca aaactcatca gttgtttccc atcatatgct gctggtgaag    720
              gccttgcagc actgaagtgg attgcatctg tctgtggttt gcggcgcctt gcattgtggt    780
              cagaaagacg ccggcggcag cttcgcttct tttcatcaaa ctctgacaga gcatggaacc    840
              tgctacactg ctggcagaac cggagctcca gaccacctac aataacctta gggctctttg    900
              agtgactttc acaaactctg tgtttccgat ggtaatcctt agccgaagaa aggtcaaggt    960
              tacagccttc gacttggcaa cgcagaatat gttttgtctg acaattgggt ttggatctct   1020
              ttgccgggga aggggatggt ccaggagtgg ctgaataagg tgaagtcttt gaattgcttc   1080
              ctgtgcaaac atcttcaaag tatgtttgct tgccaagctt taaagtgagc aatggctcac   1140
              cagagccaac tgaagcctca aatattgggg aactaccggt gtgctcaacc ttggaaacct   1200
                                                    403

              ttttcttgtt gctaatttca tgtggtatag cttcaaa                            1237
<removed-date>
              <210>   390
              <211>   1780
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 390
              agcattagtg atgacttgca aagaacattg agcagcatag gggctatagt tggtatgtac     60
<removed-apn>
              tttttggtaa aattgatgtt cgaggccgag tcagattcag gtttgatcta ttttggttaa    120
              attaattcag ttcacttcaa gtttaatcag ttaactgaat ttttgcagag ccgccgcggc    180
              gccattttgg ttaaattaat tcagttaact gaatttttgc atatacccat agatcgatac    240
              atggtgttaa gagacattgt ccgattcatg agtaaaagcc aacatcatat ggagccttaa    300
              gcaataggaa ctcccgaaaa cggtcgtcga cgtcgctagt atgcatgcgg gacttggtgg    360
              ttgtttcttc ttgttgttcg atctgccagt tttctggcaa ggcatgttga aaaccttgtg    420
              ggattgcatt cattgctggc tgagatgtac tggtaaggtt gacatgcata atggggtagg    480
              taagtgaacc gtgtttcggt tcacttgaaa tctgggaatc atttgacaga agagagagag    540
              cacgttgaag ttcttgagct ctgccggtgt ttgaagcaac catagattgt tctacacctg    600
              caaaatttga caaaaaacct gtaagctcgt aacatcagtt ccatcactgg tttatcagtc    660
              gccgcggccg ctattggccc gaaaatactt atccaagaat gaaatctagt acataacggg    720
              gtagcacatt gagacttcac ctcaacggtc tcaacagcat cggtgttcaa gaataaaagc    780
              acttttcgtg ttaaaagtag cagtaaaaga tggcaacatt tatagacatt caagcaaatg    840
              catatcatat accttgtttc ctagtagaaa agtgaaaaca tacctccatc aagaacctca    900
              gccgtgtttt gcttaccctt agagggtagg aatttgttga aatcatgaca tcgcatcgtg    960
              atggcggccg cctgctgatt gattggaagt tgcacctgtt cattgatgtt tccaagtttc   1020
              ataggcatat aacttgtcat tcgagaggac ttggagtaga acgtgccttc catcgcaaat   1080
              ttcttcttgg gtctaacatt atgaagaatt gggacttcat tccagacaaa actcgtatgt   1140
              tgcttcccat ctgcaaaaag cataacttat caaagcctta cgtattcaca tcccgatatc   1200
              tatcatattt acatgaccac aagatgaaga tgatgattta gttaacgagc aactcaagca   1260
              gataatttga gagctaaaag gaaagaaacc gaacagagtg tcatgatgat ctatctattc   1320
                                                    404

              acgtaacagg atcatacaac aaaaaacaat aaaagtcaag tttaaaatgg taccatatga   1380
<removed-date>
              tgatgaaatc cttgcagcat tgaagtgggt agcttcagtt tgtggtttgc ggcgtcttgc   1440
              attgtggtcg gaaagtcgcc gacgacagct tcgtttgttt acatcaaatt ccgacagcgc   1500
              atggaacctt tagcatcagc aacaacaata caacatgatt atgatttcaa cattcattac   1560
              gaaatagacc caaaccaaat aaataaaaat ttcacctgct acattgctgg cagaaccggc   1620
              gttccagacc gcttacaatg accttcggac tctttgaatg gctttcacaa actttgtgtt   1680
<removed-apn>
              tccgatgata atctcgagca gaagagaggt caaggttaca accttcgact tggcaacgca   1740
              caacatgtgt gcttcgacaa ttcagtttgg atctctttgc                         1780
              <210>   391
              <211>   935
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 391
              agaaagagca cattttctat cttattttcg taacccagaa aaacaaaaac cccatgaagg     60
              ggcactaggc aaaactcatg gaaatgggtt cgggctcttt gactgagtcg ggcggttctc    120
              ccaccaactc ttccgccgag tcactcaacg gcttgaagtt cggtaaaaag atctactttg    180
              aggatacagc cgctgtcgcc gccgccgctg gtggtaaaag tgttggtggt ggtgcaaaca    240
              tagggactcc atccaagtcc ggtccagcat cttcaagctt agccgggtcg tgtaggaaag    300
              ccagggttga tggaatggcg caaggggttc tgccttctag gtgtcaagta gaagggtgta    360
              aagtggatct gagtgatgct aaggcttact attcaaggca taaggtttgt tgtatgcact    420
              ctaagtcatc taaagtcatt gttgctggtc tcgagcaaag attttgtcag cagtgtagca    480
              gatttcatca gctttctgaa tttgacaaag ggaaacggag ttgtcgtaga cggcttgcag    540
              gtcacaatga gcgacgcagg aaaccaccac ctggatcatt attttcctct ccttatggcc    600
              ggctttcttc ctctattatt gaaaatggca gtagaggtgg aagctttata gtggatttct    660
              cagcataccc aaggctttca ggaagggatg catggccagc agctcgatcg ttagaatgca    720
              taactggaaa tcgaagcaca gccactggaa gctcattttc acatccacgg caaaacaact    780
              ccagcaaacc tcctcatgac catttcttgc aaggttcacc atgtgggact agtttctcca    840
              gcactggaat ttctccagga gaatgcttca cagggtctgg tgactcaagc tgtgctctct    900
                                                    405

              ctcttctgtc aaatcaaccg tggggctcca ggaac                               935
<removed-date>
              <210>   392
              <211>   2395
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 392
              acttaaggtt agttatgaat cttaaattaa aaataggggc ctaatataag gtctcatatg     60
<removed-apn>
              ctagtctttt aggtctattt agcccatata acccatagtc atagtcagac atgaactcta    120
              aacatataga gaaacatact aataaaaacc gaactcatcg aatagcctga tacttctttc    180
              atatctgaaa tagctaccta caatggcggg aaatgcggct aacgtgggca tcgatattaa    240
              ctaagaaagt tgattgaatg gttgtgcgga caattcagcg gccgcgtcga cagacgtcga    300
              agatgcctga tcgaagaaaa taccaaaggg actgggccaa gctgcagggc gaccggtgaa    360
              aactgattga tccgatgaaa gaacaagatc atatccatat ttcattaaaa tctgttctct    420
              attcactacc tttttttgaa gaaattacaa tttcttatca tttttatgtc tcttttgttc    480
              aatatattag cctgcttgtt caaaatttct aatgaatgtt ttttaatcca aaacttctca    540
              gagctgaagc attagtgatg ttcaattgga tgacttgcaa agaacactga gcagcatggg    600
              ggctatagtt ggagtaaaag ccaacatcat atggagcctt aagcagtagg aactcccgaa    660
              aacggttgtc gacgtcgcta gtatgcatgc gggacttggg ggttgtttct tcttgttgtc    720
              cgatctgcca gttttctggc aaggcatgtt gaaaaccttg tgggattgca ttcattgctg    780
              gctgagatgt actggtaggg tcgacatgca taatggggta ggtaagtgaa ccgtgttttg    840
              gttcacttga aacctgggaa tcatttgaca gaagagagag agcacggtga agttcttgag    900
              ctctgccggt gcttgaagca accatagatt gttctacacc tccatcaaga acctcagccg    960
              tgttttgctt acccttagag ggtaggaatt tgttgaaatc atgacatcgc atcgtgatgg   1020
              gatttgacag ctgattgatt ggaagttgca cctgttcatt gatgtttcca agtttcgtag   1080
              gcgtataact tgtcatttga gaggacttgg agtagaacgt gccttccaat gcaaatttct   1140
              tgttgggtct agcattatga agaattggga cttcattcca gacaaaactc gtacgttgct   1200
              tcccatcata tgacgaggat gacaacgatg gaatccttgc agcattgaag tgggtagctt   1260
              cagtttgcgg tttgcggcgt ctcgcattgt ggtcggaaag tcgccgacga caacttcgtt   1320
                                                       406

              tgttttcatc aaattccgac agcgcatgga acctgctaca ttgctggcag aaccggcgtt   1380
<removed-date>
              ccagaccgct tacaatgacc ttcggactct ttgaatgatt ttcacaaact ttgtgtttcc   1440
              gatggtaatc tcgagcagaa gaaaggtcaa ggttacaacc ttcgacttgg caacgtacag   1500
              catgtgtgct tcgacaattc agtttggatc tctttgcaga taaaggagat gatgttccca   1560
              gagtggcaga ataagatgaa tccgtagcat tggttcccgt actaacatct tcaaagtatg   1620
              tttgtttgcc aagctttaaa ctgagtaatg gctcaccaga gccaacagaa gccacgagtg   1680
<removed-apn>
              tcaaggaagt actggttgtc tcaatcccag aaacttcttt cttattgctt atatcatctg   1740
              ggatagcttc agaagcctcc aaagtaaatt tggtcaattt tgcctccccc atagataaag   1800
              aatcaatgga tgccgatttc aaatttttag acaaagacac aaggcctaaa tccgagccag   1860
              aaccaccact acaaccagca acactggaag aattgacaga cacagagtcc aatcctcctt   1920
              ccccttcatc aatatcccac tctacgggtc ttagccttct cgggatttca gttgcttttg   1980
              cgtttaacat taggttttcc cagtcccatt gcaacggggt ctgttcgttc cactccatca   2040
              gagagataaa actcatagaa cacttcacac aatcatcatt ttataaactg gaaaattcag   2100
              tccccagatc cactaaatct cacagcattg gacttcaacc atcattctcg gatcttgcaa   2160
              attctggata agattagcta tactggcttt cctccttcct ttcattatga ctaatacgaa   2220
              ctagctgaag ttcaaaagtg atctatccgt tcgagctcat acaatcaaaa gccaatcaga   2280
              agaaaatggg aaatgagtgg aaagttaaga gcttgaaagg gaaaggaaat caaaaggcag   2340
              agctgagttc tgactcactc cttttattag aggctgaagt cagcggacgc gtggg        2395
              <210>   393
              <211>   766
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 393
              cctcttcttt ttctcccttt ttttaacctt attatctctc aaagagacta ttttttttat     60
              tcttcttctt catagaaaac ctcttcatct cattcatctc ctcttttctt ttgtgatttt    120
              ttaagcaaaa cccagaaatg gcaacaagca aagctgaagg gaaaaggaga ccgaaggaaa    180
              tgggggagga ggaagaagaa gaagaagagg acgaggataa tagtactact ggtgacgatg    240
              acaagaagaa aaaaggcaaa agagggtcca gtacggtggt cggaggctcc tgtcttccag    300
                                                    407

              cctgtcaggt cgagaactgc actgccgaca tgaccgatgc caaacggtac catcggcgac   360
<removed-date>
              ataaggtgtg tgagttccat gccaaggctg ctgtggttcg agttgctggg atccatcaac   420
              gcttttgtca acaatgtagc aggttccatg agttatcaga gtttgatgaa acaaaaagga   480
              gctgtcgacg acgtttggcc ggacacaacg agcgccgtcg gaaaagttca tcggaatatc   540
              atggagaagg ctcaaatttt taaaactagc taagaaggca agcctaagat atatatatat   600
              atatgcaaaa aagagtcaat tcagtcttga atttaatatg atcctatgta tgggaacgga   660
<removed-apn>
              ctttcccaga tgatcatgta actatatgga atttactaat taagcatgct ctctctcttc   720
              tgtcaatctt aattttaccc ctatttgtct cgtcctctgc ctgatg                  766
              <210>     394
              <211>     547
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 394
              agaaatgacg agggaaaaaa ctgctatagc agatgaacat atagtttcat ctaaagtatt    60
              catacatatc attgggggcc cctttaaaca aaagttcatt aaatattctg aaagcaaaac   120
              acacaaacaa cttcataaat tccatctggt ttgaaggaag aatggaatgg gcagatattc   180
              actcccatga gaaggagagt gtatggtgag caccagttgc agaggaacca aaatgttcat   240
              tttggaacat ttcatgccct tggaggtggc tgttgttacc tccaccatcg gcgtccaaaa   300
              tggaggtccc gattggctca cctcccattc ctcctacatc attaaattgc aagtttggga   360
              tgacgaagga agcagaggca ggttgcacca tggggctcaa acctatctcc cgagtctcag   420
              ccggttgcga tgacagaaga gagagagcac gatcagagtc aatagcttga ttcaactcat   480
              cggagaacat tttccggctg ttgtcaccac tgcttgacgc ctcgagaaac ggttgacaaa   540
              gggaacc                                                             547
              <210>     395
              <211>     1063
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 395
              atgatatctt gcagaacaat agctatgaga tgcctgatgt catatttgac agtttaaagg    60
              ccaatcaaaa tgtgcttcct tatgttcctg agcttcctgt tttatccgct agcagcatgc   120
                                                    408

<removed-date>
              tgatgaaagg tctaggttct tctcaatatt gtaggtttta taccaccagc aattcatcgc    180
              cagaagcgtc ttcgagaatc agctgccttt tcccctggtt acactgctgc tgttaaaaat    240
              gactgcccct tgttccggca gtttcaagat gatatgtcag acaaggctgc tcaatccttt    300
              gggttgtctt ttccaattga accagatcct gcaaccaaga actccttgca atttggtgta    360
              ttcccaggta gccataacct ttcaaatggc aatttctctg cttcagagcc tcctttggag    420
<removed-apn>
              gctgtgaagt tggagctccc ttcactccaa tatccagaaa ctgaattagg taactggggc    480
              acattttctt gcccaccacc tttacttgag tctgttgatg cttttatcca gtcaccacca    540
              ccaaccagca tagcagagtc ggatagcctt tcaccccgta atagtggcct gctggatgct    600
              ttacttcatg aggcaaaaac tctaagcagt gcaaagaacc atgcatctga gaagagttca    660
              aattcagcta ctcccggtga tatagctgaa agttccacct tcaacatctg tgagacagaa    720
              tgggaaaact gtggtgagcc tctttctcca atgggtcatt cagcaacttc tcttttaagt    780
              gagtgtatca gtgcaagtgg cagtacgttg gatgaacagc cacctgctga aacctttact    840
              gagtctcatg tgaaatcaga gccagctgac tatgttttca ccccagagat acaaaatgag    900
              gctcctattc ggttggacag ttgtcaccct gatacattac ttgcttctaa ttggcttgag    960
              caagattctg gttacgataa ggaccaaacc atcatgaccg attccatagc tgcccctctt   1020
              ggtgatgatt gagtagtgaa tacaagatat ggcagctgga aca                     1063
              <210>   396
              <211>   1865
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1757)..(1757)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1783)..(1783)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1788)..(1788)
                                                    409

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <400> 396
              attcttcgtt tcaaattaca acaactcaac caaaaaataa aaaaataaaa atctgatctt     60
              tgtttcagct gaattttcat taaaagtatt gcatttttaa ttgttttctt tgtgtatatg    120
              tgtgtgtata tatattggga tttaagaact gaagatcctt tcaattcaaa agagaatttg    180
              agtctggaat attttcttct tgttgaggga ttgaattacc ttagcatgcg tgtgatatgg    240
<removed-apn>
              tgtttaagaa gaggttagat tatggattca atgccttcaa tgtccacgat gtaccccgag    300
              cccctcgatc catgcggagg aggagtcaaa gtaagtgtac agttgaggaa agtcagtttt    360
              gcgcattcga aatgttagct tctctagctg ggaagctact gcaggagagt gaaagttctg    420
              cttcgagcaa tgcttcagaa ggacatgaat gtgattctat aggtaaaaat tgttttaaac    480
              aggaaatcca gtacgaagat aagcctttga aacccaaatg ttttgagcaa ggaaggtgtg    540
              aagcaagcgt tgctgcctca gagttgacta ctgaaaatgg tgatgattcg aaggacttca    600
              gatgtgctaa aaataatgcc atcttggaat gcactttgac aaagacggat cctgcttgct    660
              cagaggaaat caatggcgat ttaaagtatg ggagttttcc gggtaatgta gatggtcact    720
              ccccttattt tggggagtcg tataatggta aaactgagaa tgcatttaaa caagagcgag    780
              atcctacggg tttggagact caggctctaa atattgctaa taaaggccct ccaaaggatc    840
              ccgttaactt tgatagagtt gtcaaattgc tatcacgtcg ggaccctgtt cctagtgttc    900
              catttacaag acgtaggaat gatattaagt taggcaatag agatgatgaa gaaaactttt    960
              ctaggttaaa gagacttagc aagaggttta aggcttctag acctccaaca catatcggag   1020
              accgaagaat aaggaagttg ctgacatcca aatactggaa agttgctgca aagttgaagg   1080
              attttgaaca ttctagattt ggaggaaaaa ggcctctgta ttgcaagcgg aagacatact   1140
              acaactacca cagatgtcag tatgacatgc tttataaaca gaggaagatc tttgaccgta   1200
              aaagcgttac tagttatcct gagaaggata tgattggtga taagtgtagc acagctgcaa   1260
              tgtcagatag agtgaaattt agcatcaagt cctttaggat tccagaactt tacatcgagg   1320
              tgcctgaaac tgcaactgtt ggttcactga agaggaccgt aatggaggca gtgacagcct   1380
              taattggagg tggaatacgt gttgggctac tccttaaggg aaaaaggtga gagatgacag   1440
              cagagctcta tcacagctgg tatttcctgt gatgataatc tggatgctct cggtttcact   1500
                                                    410

              ttggagcctg gtcctgcaaa agctccttca ccatgtgctc tgaagaacca cctcttttat   1560
<removed-date>
              tatcatatga cgccaccctg caaaatttaa cgagctctct ggccgctcag ctgtaaatac   1620
              tggcattccg aatgcacacc caacctacct tttctgacca attcagaaaa tcctgcgact   1680
              gaccatgaac ctgtttcctt caaactgaca tgccaccgat caaagctgtt gagtcagggc   1740
              tctggtccgg ttcagtncag caacaatgtg agcactaact ctntcagnaa acagaattca   1800
              aaatttgact gacaggtcat attgagcgtt cttatagagt caacatgttc agcgttagga   1860
<removed-apn>
              atgtc                                                               1865
              <210>   397
              <211>   1201
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 397
              agccttccgc caacgcttcc gcaagtcttc aaccggatgg aatgctactg ctggaaattg     60
              tatgatcccg ggtggggggt tttcagcatt tctgagggaa gaggagggta agctgatgag    120
              aaatggaagc ggtaatgggg ttagctcaaa tggtaatttg atggggaaga ggaaggttag    180
              gcctgaacaa gttattgaag ctgcaacact tgcttccaat ggccaacaat tcgaggtcgt    240
              ttactaccca agggcgagta ctcctgagtt ctgcgtgaag gcctctttag tgaaggctgc    300
              attgcagatc cggtggtgct caggaatgag gttcaaaatg gcattcgaaa cagaggattc    360
              ttctcggatt agttggttta tgggcactat atcttcagtt caagtcgcag atcccctcca    420
              ctggcctgac tcaccttgga ggcttcttca ggttacatgg gacgagccag atttgcttca    480
              gaatgtcaaa cgagttagtc cttggctggt ggaattggtt tcgaacatgc ccgcgattca    540
              tctatctccc ttttcaccac caaggaaaaa gttgagactg ccgcagcact cgtgattttc    600
              acctagatgg tcaacttcca atgccgacat tttcaggcaa cctccttggg gccagcaacc    660
              cctttgggtg tttacccaac actgctcctg ctggcatgca gggagccagg catgctcatt    720
              acggtctatc tttatcagat ctccacctca ataaactgca gtcaggtctc tttccggcta    780
              gtttcccacc acttgattac gctcctgtac ctaataggac ctccaatggt ggcccaaaca    840
              ttccaaagcc tagcatgagt gagaacgttt cttgtgtgct aaccatgtcc catccctcac    900
              agaattccaa gaaagctgat ggtgcaaaga cacctcagct tgtacttttc ggtcggccta    960
                                                    411

              ttcttactga gcagcagatc tctctcagct gctctggtga tacaagctca ccagttctta   1020
<removed-date>
              ctggaaatag ttcttcagaa tatctggata aggcagcaaa cttttccgat ggttctggat   1080
              ctgctcttca tcaacaatgc cttcctgagc gagcatcctg cgaaggtctc ccgtggtaca   1140
              aaaacaatcg ccaagaagct gaacccaatt ttaagactgg cccctgaaac gtttcatgca   1200
              c                                                                   1201
<removed-apn>
              <210>   398
              <211>   1255
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 398
              gcggcaccca cactccagct ctctctctct ctaactttcc ccgccttcca agcaacatct     60
              tcatatgctt tccatagcta aatgtacgta tatataacca acacaccctc actctcttca    120
              atgaccaaaa atcaatttta aaaatcaaag aaaaaaatct cttttttttg ttgtaatttc    180
              ttggattttc cgatatgggt tttgaagatt cagatagggt atcgaaacca gtaatgataa    240
              gggaagtttg gtcagataat ttggaatccg agttcgagtt gatcagccaa gtgatcgacg    300
              aatacccatt tatttcaatg gatactgagt tcccgggtat aattttccgg ccaaaagtgg    360
              accccgcaag gcagtacaac ggtcagttcc gaccggccga tcattacaag gtactcaaat    420
              ctaacgtcga tgctttgaat ttgatccaag tgggtctaac ccttaccgat tcttcgggta    480
              atctgcccgg atccgaaaac ggaacccggt tcatctggga attcaatctc cgtgattttg    540
              acgtggagcg agatcctcac gcgccggatt ccatcgagct tttgaggagg caagggattg    600
              attttgacaa gaataaggaa aaggggatcg actcggttcg gttcgctgag ttgatgatgt    660
              cgtctggact cgtgtgtaat gactcagtga gttgggtgac gtttcatagc gcctatgatt    720
              ttgggtattt ggttaagatc ctgacccgac gagatttgcc cgagaaatta gacgagtttt    780
              tgacgattct taaagtgttc ttcggtgacc gagtttatga tttgaaacac atgatgaagt    840
              tttgtaacag cttgtatggt gggttggacc gagttgctcg gactttagat gtgaaccggg    900
              cggttgggaa atgtcatcaa gccgggtccg attctttgct gacgtggcac gcgtttcaga    960
              aaatgagaga cttgtatttt gttaacgatg gaccggaaaa gcatgccgga gtattatttg   1020
              gattagaggt ttattaatta ttttttttgt taattacaat gtaaaattat tcgaagtata   1080
                                                    412

              attaattcta ttcaatttat tggattaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ggggcggccc   1140
<removed-date>
              gtctttaggg gaccaaagtt ttcttccccg ttgtttgcag aggaataagt tttttatttt   1200
              ggcccctaaa aaaaaaatac cgcgccgcgt tttaacaacc tgtaagggga caagc        1255
              <210>   399
              <211>   625
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 399
              tgggtcatgc aagaattcag ggttcaacca acctccaacg tctccacttt gaaggaagat     60
              tgggttttat gtcgaatgtt tcacaaaacc aaggaaatta gtaaaaaccc tagtatcatg   120
              ggaagcagtt atgatgacat agcttcttca cctcttccac cattgatgga ttctttcatc   180
              agttttcatc aaccaaattt agattataag tatgagcagc aagtgccctg attctccaat    240
              ttgttcccaa accaaaggaa cactattttc accaatatgg acccaaatat gccgaaaaaa    300
              aacacaaaca gctgttggac aaataaccat caatgtggca tgcttagact ctttcccttg    360
              tgacaaaaaa aagtgatcaa agctatgctg aatcatctta gcaaaatgga tacctatctt    420
              aatgtgaagg aaccattgag ctttggagaa ggaagttcag attagagcta tttatctgaa    480
              gtttggaatt aatgcctaaa ctacatagtc atggttgtat aaagttaaaa ttacaaactt   540
              agggcatatt tttttcccat taaagcatca tacacttgtt tcataatact ttaatattga   600
              tcaaattcta aatgatttca tgtgg                                         625
              <210>   400
              <211>   1480
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 400
              acttcctttt tttcttaaca ccatcgccac caccttttca cttcatatct tccatctctt     60
              ttcctcttcc tttatccacc ttctccctca ctttttgtcc tttgagtttg gcttttcatt    120
              gttttatcca tcttataaaa actggggtta tcctttctta atttgattcg tataattgtt    180
              gaagtcgtct aagctgagga gtaagcgaag ggttttgaaa tggaaaacgt ttctagcttt    240
              aggaacgaag atgaacaaat ggaactgcct ccaggatttc gattccaccc cacagatgaa   300
              gagctgataa cacactttct ctccaagaaa gttgttgaca gcttcttctc tgctatcgcc   360
                                                    413

<removed-date>
              attggtgagg ttgatttgaa caagtgtgaa ccttgggatt tgccttggag agccaaaatg    420
              ggtgaaaagg aatggtactt cttctgtgtt agggaccgga aatacccgac tggtttgaga    480
              acaaacaggg caacggatgc cggttattgg aaagccacgg gaaaagataa agagatattc    540
              aaggggaaat cacttgttgg gatgaagaaa actttggttt tctacaaagg gagagcaccc    600
              aaaggtcaaa aaaccaattg ggtcatgcat gaatttcgtt tagaaggcca gtattccgtt    660
<removed-apn>
              tacaatcttc ccaaaacagc caagaacgag tgggttattt gtagagtatt ccaaaagagt    720
              cccaatggca aaaaggtaca tatttcaggt ttgcctccac taatggaccc ctcaccgcac    780
              accagcgaag caagaacggt ggtgggcgcc ggcgagacgt caaacgtgac ctgcttctcc    840
              gatccgatag aagaccgtaa agcagtggaa gaaatgatgg acagttttcg acacttccct    900
              tgtaccttgt tcatcatcct ctgtgaattc tcttcaaaag gcttcctaca ccaccaacca    960
              aatcaagtcg aacatgggaa acttgcagta cccggattgt ttttggattc aagaaccgtc   1020
              cttattaaag acattaatcc aaagccaagg agggcggtcg aagcagaatc tgaaaccaga   1080
              gttttcccag gattcaaccg tgtccaaccc tgaaatgatt caacttcctt catgttctgc   1140
              aggagcaata aacctgggtt acttctgggg ttactaaaat tgaatattca aaactgaaaa   1200
              aaggaaaaat caagggatgt aaatggattg aaagagttgg aagaatatta ttgtcatgtg   1260
              tgcatagata acattagtag gggaagtcaa gaaaatgatt gtgttgtaaa agtagttaaa   1320
              actctgttaa ggttttcatt gccatattag gatttcactc gattatctca tcccatgcct   1380
              ttgtttgata cacaactatt gtaattccta ccatatttta attcccattt aattctccaa   1440
              tatgttcgaa aatgtgaagc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                         1480
              <210>   401
              <211>   972
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 401
              ttcacacaca agggaaaggc aatttgagag atttcagaac acttctgagc ctctgataaa     60
              aacaaacaca catctcatca ccttcagatc atgccctttc ttactatata attgtttgcc    120
              cttttggccc caatataaca ccctctcttc attcctttcc tcttcagttt caaacccttg    180
              ttttcttcac ttcttgctga tcaactttgt cctttgaagt ccagggtttt cggctatgga    240
                                                    414

<removed-date>
              tagttaccat cattttgaca atggtgaaac gcatttacct ccaggttttc gtttccatcc   300
              aactgatgaa gagctcatta catactatct ggtgaagaaa gttcttgata ggagctttac   360
              tggtagagcc atagctgaag ttgacctcaa caagtgtgag ccttgggaac ttcctgacag   420
              ggcaaagatg ggagagaaag agtggtactt ttttagccta agagatagga agtacccaac   480
              tgggttgaga actaaccgag ctactgaagc tggttactgg aaagctactg ggaaagatag   540
<removed-apn>
              ggagatttat agttcaaaga cttgtgcact tgttggaatg aagaaaactc tggttttcta   600
              tagaggaaga gctcctaaag gagagaaaag caactgggtc atgcatgaat atcgccttga   660
              aggcaaattt gcttaccatt atctctctag aagctccaag gatgagtggg taatatccag   720
              ggtctttcag aagagcagcg gaggagccaa gaaggccccc atgagcgccg cttccatggt   780
              gctctaccaa gaaccaagct caccttcctc ggtctgtctt ccaccgctcc tggataccac   840
              caatgctact gggcagtggt accgctaccg gtgcttccct cactgaccgt gacagctgct   900
              cttacgacag ccataaccaa tccgagcacg tgtcctgttt ctccaccatt gctgccacct   960
              cgtcagccac cc                                                       972
              <210>   402
              <211>   1539
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 402
              tcaccctaaa atcatattct caaaacaccc ccatctcacc cctccgttgc tattttcaat    60
              caagaaactc tccggcagca gtcttgattt ggtttccagt tagactctga gatagaagag   120
              atggcagtga actagacgac ggcgttgaag atgtagagaa aaacaacgaa aagaagcatc   180
              acgcctccaa gctgtgaata ggaagttgac agctatgaat aaactgttga tggaggagaa   240
              tgataggtta caaaagcaag tttcacagct tgtttatgaa aacaactatt tccgccaaca   300
              gactcaaaat acgactttag ctaccacgga tacaagttgt gaatcagtag tgacgagcgg   360
              taaacaccat ttgactcctc aacatccgcc aagggatgcc agccctacag gacttttgta   420
              cattgcagag gaaactttaa cagagtttct ttcaaaggcc actggaactg ctgtcgagtg   480
              ggtccaaatg cctgggatga agcctggttc ggattctatt ggaatcgttg ctatttctca   540
              tggttgcagt ggtgtggcag cacgtgcatg cagacttgtg ggactggatc ctacaagagt   600
                                                    415

<removed-date>
              cactgaaatc cttaaagatc ggccttcatg gtatcgtgat tgccgagctg tggatgttac    660
              aaacgtgttg tccactggaa atggtggaac cattgaactg ctttatatgc agtttcttct    720
              agtcaagttt gcaaaaatga ttagtgtaac tgtatccaag ttttggaggc cggatgtcac    780
              tcatgtgact gcctctacag atgagaatgg tgcatgcact aggacactta aagttctcat    840
              ggcaatttta aacgggaagt gggttcttaa attaaattac gtcaggagat tttcaaggaa    900
<removed-apn>
              acaacagacc acatgtataa taatgcagcg actcaggagc gggaaactac tttgaatcag    960
              ctactaatag agcttgatgg gtttgatact ggcaaaggtg ttatattttc ggctgctaca   1020
              aatcgtagag atttgttaga tcctgcactt ctcaggcaag gtcgttttga tagcgagact   1080
              cagccctcga tctcgatgaa cagatcttgc agctgatgca atgtaagcca ctttcggagc   1140
              agcaggcaaa atggttgaac aagcaattga gcaaattatg gccttttgtt gcagaggtgt   1200
              atactttggc tttctatttc ggtgttttgg attttctggc ggttgaattg aaagcatcaa   1260
              aggacttctc taagttatat gcaggcatgg caatactttg gcttcacata agcttgaacc   1320
              agccttctgt tgtatattgt ttcttttttt ttttgatttt tttcctttga ttaatgagag   1380
              gtgatgatga attggcattc ttttctcatg aggatgattt ttgttttaga aattgttata   1440
              ctttgtgttt gtgtgtgtta ttttttatgt attaaattac atattgaatc aatgtttatg   1500
              tattaaattt aaattcatta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa                          1539
              <210>   403
              <211>   786
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 403
              cccactcgtc cgccatgaat aaactgttaa tggaggagaa cgataggtta caaaaacaag     60
              tttcccaact tgtttgtgaa aaaagctact ttcgccaaca gtctcaacag caggcggggt    120
              tagccaccac agatacaagc tgtgactcag tggtgacaag tggtcatcaa caccatttga    180
              ctcctcagca tcctccaagg gatgccagtc ctgcaggact tttgtctatt gcagatgaaa    240
              ctttaacaga gtttttatca aaggccactg gaaccgctgt ggagtgggtc caaatgcctg    300
              ggatgaagcc tggtccggat tctattggaa tcgttgctat ttctcatggt tgcactggag    360
              tggcagcacg tgcatgcggg cttgtgggac ttgatcctac cagggtcgct gaaatcctta    420
                                                    416

<removed-date>
              aagatcggcc gtcatggttc cgtgattgcc gagctgtgga tgttataaac gtgttgtcca   480
              ctggaaacgg tgggaccatt gaactgcttt acatgcagct ctatgcgcca acaactttgg   540
              caccagctcg tgacttctgg ttgctgcgct acacatctgt tttagaagat ggtagtcttg   600
              tggtatgtga aagatcactt aacaatactc agaacggtcc gaatgtgccg ccagcagcga   660
              atttcgttag agcagaaatg ctgcctagtg gttacctaat taggccttgt gaaggcggtg   720
<removed-apn>
              gatccatcat tcacgttgtt gatcacatgg atttggagcc ctggttgtct cgtcctctgc   780
              ctgatg                                                              786
              <210>    404
              <211>    845
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 404
              aattttcacc ctaaaatcat attctcaaaa cacccccatc tcacccctcc gttgctattt    60
              tcaatcaaga aactctccgg cagcagtctt gatttggttt ccagttagac tctgagatag   120
              aagagatggc agtgaactag gcgacggcgt tgaagatgta gagaaaaaca acgaaaagaa   180
              gcatcacgcc tccaagctgt gaataggaag ttgacagcta tgaataaact gttgatggag   240
              gagaatgata ggttacaaaa gcaagtttca cagcttgttt atgaaaacaa ctatttccgc   300
              caacagactc aaaatacggc tttagctacc acggatacaa gttgtgaatc agtagtgacg   360
              agcggtaaac accatttgac tcctcaacat ccgccaaggg atgccagccc tacaggactt   420
              ttgtacattg cagaggaaac tttaacagag tttctttcaa aggccactgg aactgctgtc   480
              gagtgggtcc aaatgcctgg gatgaagcct ggttcggatt ctattggaat cgttgctatt   540
              tctcatggtt gcagtggtgt ggcagcacgt gcatgcagac ttgtgggact ggatcctaca   600
              agagtcactg aaatccttaa agatcggcct tcatggtatc gtgattgccg agctgtggat   660
              gttacaaacg tgttgtccac tggaaatggt ggaaccattg aactgcttta tatgcaggta   720
              agttaattaa tatcaaattt atcctacttt tccaactaag tctatgtgaa tatttggaca   780
              aaaccagaga tcttagtatg tgtatttaaa ttgttcacca taccacttgt ctcgtcctct   840
              gcctg                                                               845
                                                    417

              <210>   405
<removed-date>
              <211>   1263
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 405
              cccacgcgtc cgcccacgcg tccgcttaaa agatggcaat gtcctgcaag gatggtaaac     60
              ctgggagcct ggatggtggg aaatatgtaa ggtacacgcc tgagcaggtt gaggcccttg    120
              aaaggcttta tcatgaatgc cccaagccta gttctattcg tcgtcagcaa ctgattaggg    180
<removed-apn>
              agtgccctat tctctccaac attgaaccta aacagatcaa agtttggttc caaaatagaa    240
              gatgtagaga gaaacagaga aaagaggcat cacgccttca agctgtaaat aggaagctga    300
              cagcaatgaa caagcttttg atggaggaga atgataggtt gcaaaagcag gtgtcacagc    360
              tggtttatga aaacggatgc tttcgccaac atactcagaa tgctacactt gcaaccaaag    420
              atcctagctg tgaatcggca gtgatgagtg gtcaacaacg tgaaacacat cagcatcctc    480
              caagagatgc tagtcctgca gggcttttgt ccattgcaga agagacttta gcagagtttc    540
              tttcgaaggc cactggaact gctgtagagt gggtccaaat gcctggaatg aaacctggtc    600
              cggattccat aggaatcatt gctatttctc atggttgccc tggagtggca gcacgtgcct    660
              gcggccttgt gggtcttgaa cctacaagag ttgcggaact cctcaaggat aggccttcgt    720
              ggttccacga ttgccgagct gtggatgttc taaatgtgct gcctactgcc aatggtggaa    780
              ccattgagct gctgtacatg cagctctatg cgccgacgac gttggcgcct gctcgtgact    840
              tctggttatt gcgttatact tctgttctag aagatggaag cctcgttgtc tgtgagagat    900
              ctctgaagaa tactcaaaat ggccctagca tgcctccagt gcagcatttt gtgagagcag    960
              aaatgttgcc aagtggatac cttattcgac cttgtgaagg gggtggttca atcatccata   1020
              ttgttgatca tatggatttg gagccatgga gtgtgcctga agtgttgcgc ccactttatg   1080
              aatcatcaac agtgcttgct cagaagacaa cgatggcagc tttacgacaa ctgaggcaga   1140
              tagctcagga ggcttctcag tctaatgtga ctggttgggg acgacggcca gcagcttgac   1200
              gggctcttag ccagaggttg agcaggggtt tcaatgatgc attgtctcgt cctctgcctg   1260
              atg                                                                 1263
              <210>   406
              <211>   969
                                                    418

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 406
              gcacgaggat gtactctcta acttattacc tccatttcca ggaagagagt attctgctta    60
              ccagagttca actgatccac aaaacaattt tctgtttggg gttagcattg attcatcatc   120
              tcttatgctg cagcaaggga tgaccaacct gaaaaatatt ggaaatgaaa atgattcatt   180
              gtctatgcca tatgccgctt caaatttcac cagtgcttct ggcacagatt tccctcttaa   240
<removed-apn>
              ttcagatatg actacctcaa gttgtgtgga tgaatcaggt tacttgcagt cttctgaata   300
              tgtggaccaa gtaaaccctc cgaccggaac ctttgttaag gttcacaagt tggggtcctt   360
              tgggcgctca ttggatattt ccaagtttag cagctataat gagctgcgtt gtgagcttgc   420
              tcgaatgttt ggtctggaag gccaactaga ggaccctcag agatcaggct ggcagcttgt   480
              atttgttgac agggagaatg atattcttct ccttggtgat gacccttggc aggaattcgt   540
              gaacaacgtg tggtatatca agatactatc tccacttgaa gtgcaacaaa tggggaaaga   600
              aggcctgaat cctgccgcct ccgacccaag ccaaacgcac caccaatagt ggtgcaggag   660
              gagttgagct gagaagttct ggtaatggaa tttgcatcaa tgggtgtctt aaatgctgaa   720
              ggaaaatgct cctcaaggct gaatttgggg aaatgataga ggaagttgta gctttttttc   780
              ttttaaatgt taaagcttgt gtgttcagaa tctagtactg ttactgtaaa ttataatagg   840
              aaatttctgt agctttacat tattatagta cttaaaagag aacaaggttg aattcgggat   900
              aattgcatca tgttatcagc aatattgttt gccattagta attttatagc atctacagat   960
              gtttaactc                                                           969
              <210>   407
              <211>   1202
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 407
              ggccaactct gtacttcccc aggttgaaca gttgggaact gcacaatcaa atgggtgtga    60
              acctaacaac ttattacctc catttcctgg aagggagtat tctgcttacc acaatgcaac   120
              tgatccacag aacaatcttc tctttggggt tagcattgat tcctcgtctc ttatgctgca   180
              tcatgggatg acaaacccga aaagcatcag aaatgagaat gattcgatgt cccttccgta   240
                                                    419

              cgctgcttca aatttcacaa gtgcttctgg cacagatttt cctcttaatt cagacatgac    300
<removed-date>
              tacctcaagt tgtgtcgatg aatcaggtta cttgcagtcc tctgaaaatg tggaccaagt    360
              aaaccctcca actggaacct ttgtcaaggt tcacaagtcg gggtcctttg ggcgctcatt    420
              ggatatttcc aagtttggca gctatgatga gctgcgctgt gagcttgctc gactatttgg    480
              ccttgaaggc caattagagg accctcagag atcaggctgg cagcttgtat ttgttgacag    540
              ggagaacgat attcttctcc ttggtgatga cccatggcag gaattcgtga acaatgtgtg    600
<removed-apn>
              gtatatcaag atactatccc cacttgaagt acaacaaatg gggaaaggtc agaatcctgc    660
              tacttctatt ccgaaccaaa ggcttaacac caccaccacc gctaccacca gcagcagcaa    720
              tggcaaccac tgcgatgact acatgagcag acaggacttg agaagttctg ttgcatcaat    780
              ggggtctctt gaatactaaa tgaaaatcct caggactgaa taaagttttt gatgaattga    840
              aaatggaaag ttgaaggaga taaatcatta acgttgtagg tgttatatgg tactgttagt    900
              aatatgtaag catatgtatt gatacaacat caattgaaga tttacccttg ctgcctggga    960
              cctaggttga tattgaagct tttatgtcaa gactactact gtactgctgg gaaaattata   1020
              agtggaaata tgattctccg actcaaaata aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaattaa tattatttac   1080
              tattttaata tttatatttt atatatatat ttttttaaag ttaacttatt ctaattttat   1140
              taagtttatt tttaataatt atattttaat agggggcgtt ttttttagag attaaaattt   1200
              tt                                                                  1202
              <210>   408
              <211>   972
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 408
              attataacat atttgcttta agttggactg ataataattt gcctttgata taacaatatt     60
              taatctttcc ttgtaatcta cgctgtaaac ttaagaaaca acttggtcaa ggcaaggacg    120
              gtgataaata agtctttgga gattgtggaa ataagtttga ttctgataat acttactatt    180
              actctcaagt tgagtgccat ggcagaggcc gttgggagtt tagtattcaa gggaaccaac    240
              agatgagagt ctaccagtgc cggtgtcagt gccggtgcta ttcattcttt gacctggggt    300
              tgtggggcta aaaggctctg cccgttgctc gcccatcttc tgcacatcct ctggtgaaag    360
                                                    420

              tatctttatg taccaaacat tattcacaaa tgcctcccat gggtcgtctc caaggagaag   420
<removed-date>
              aatatcattc tccctgtcga caaatacaag ctgccagcct gatcttaaag ggtcttccaa   480
              cttcccctca attccaaaca tctgagccag ctcctctcgc agttcatggt aactgctgaa   540
              cctggagatg tctaacgagc gtcccactga ccctgattta taaaccttga caaatgttgg   600
              agttggggtt ggtgggtcaa cttgccctct gctctgcagc tctgaagagt cttgcatgca   660
              accatacaga ggattctgga atgaggagtc ccctaatgga attgagggca catcagcttc   720
<removed-apn>
              acatgaagat gttgcaatag caggcatcat tgtaggaagc agaaggccaa atgaatcgtc   780
              gttaacacca aaaaaagtag aattctgggc atcagaggta ccaatatctg gctctattac   840
              agcatctttt ccaggaaaca cttgtggaag tgatgtagag ctaccaaagg catttacctc   900
              tgaatgggta tacttcggag cccaggaccg cggtgttaac tgcccagcta gcatgaactg   960
              accggattct gg                                                       972
              <210>   409
              <211>   921
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 409
              cccacgcgtc cgccttaggg gagttggcac tgatagtgat tccacttcta tacccttctt    60
              ttctaattat atgagtactg cagggaatga tttttcggtt aatccagcaa tgacaccttc   120
              cagttgcatt gatgaattgg gattcttgca gtctccagag aatgcgggcc aagaaaaccc   180
              acaaactaga acctttgtta aggtttataa atcagggtcc ttcgggagat cattggatat   240
              ttctgcattc agcaactaca atgaacttcg cagtgaactg gcacatatgt ttggccttga   300
              aggccagttg gaggaccctc tgagatcagg ctggcagctt gtatttgttg accgggagaa   360
              tgatgttctt ctccttggcg atgacccctg gccggagttc gtgaacagtg tctggtgtat   420
              caagatactt tccccacagg aagtgcagca aatgggcaaa cgaggcctgg agcttctaaa   480
              ctctgtgcca gttcagaggc tctcgaatgg cagttgtgat gactatgtga gccagcagga   540
              ctcgagaaat cttagctctg gtattgcgtc tgtggggtca ttggactact gaataatctt   600
              acctgttaag atgctatttt tctccctgta atgttagtgt gcctcttgca acccttttta   660
              tagtaggtgg aaaagagctg cctaactcta gctggaactt tataatatag cgcatatata   720
                                                    421

              tacataagtt aaatactgta actatatgag atcttcgtct cctttggtat ggaaatatgt    780
<removed-date>
              acaattcata tttattagga tatatcaata tttatgaagc aaacttagct ttttccgaac    840
              aataaaatat gcataagcca gaaataaatt ttggtttttg ctaaaattta tgttttctac    900
              gatataatta atattttatt a                                              921
              <210>   410
              <211>   3368
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 410
              aactgatgtt ccttctgctg gaggtgagag ctcccactcc cacgacacgg gtgttggcag     60
              tggtcgtgct acccaacgcc cttctcagca aggaggagct ggagggggag gatactcaac    120
              tggaagaggt ctggttccac agtcccagca aactggtcgg ggaggttaca gtgctggtgg    180
              tcggggtcgg ggtacgtcac aacagcagtt tgctgaaaga ccccctgaat accaaggtag    240
              aggaaggggt gggcctcccc agcaaggagg tcgtgggagc tatggcagtg gtcgaggcag    300
              tggtggcagt ggaggagggc ctttccatgg tggaccatcc cgaccacctt atcccgagct    360
              gcaccaagca acccaacctt ttcatgggcc tgcatcattt gaggcaggtt cttcatccag    420
              accccctgag catgcaccat cggcacagtc gcttcacatc ccggaagaag ctggccaagc    480
              aattcagcca gtcccttcat caagcaagtc tgtgaggttt cctcttcggc ctggaaaggg    540
              ttgcactggc acaaagtgta tagtcaaggc taaccatttc tttgctgaac tgccagataa    600
              agatttgcac cagtatgatg ttactataac accggaggtt gcatcacgtg gagtgaaccg    660
              agctgtaatg gagcagctgg taaaattata cagagaatca tatcttggaa agcaccttcc    720
              tgcttatgat ggtcgaaaga gcctttacac cgctgggcct ctcccttttg tgtcaaagga    780
              gtttaggatc acccttattg atgatgatga tgggtcggga atgcaaagaa gagagtgcga    840
              atttagagtt gtgatcaaac tggctgcacg tgctgatctg catcatcttg gactctttct    900
              gcaagggaag caagctgatg cacctcagga agctctccag gttcttgaca ttgttcttcg    960
              tgaattacct acttccaggt actgtcctgt tggccgttca ttctactcac ctgacctagg   1020
              gagaaggcaa ccgttgggtg agggattaga aagctggcgt ggcttttatc aaagcattcg   1080
              tcctacacag atggggctat cgcttaatat tgatatgtct tctactgctt tcattgagcc   1140
                                                    422

              tttgcctgtt attgattttg taacacaatt gctaaaccgg gatgtttcta gaccactatc   1200
<removed-date>
              tgatgctgat cgtgtgaaga ttaaaaaggc tcttagagga gtcaaagtag aagttacaca   1260
              ccgtggcaac atgcgaagaa aatatcgaat atctggttta acatcacaag caactagaga   1320
              gttgactttt cctgtagatg atagaggtac aatgaaatct gttgtggagt attttcatga   1380
              aacttatggt ttcatcattc aacataccca atggccttgt ctacaagtcg gaaaccagca   1440
              gagagcaaat tatttgccaa tggaggtatg caagattgtt gagggtcaga ggtactccaa   1500
<removed-apn>
              gaggttgaat gagaaacaga ttactgcttt actgaaggtc acctgccagc gtcctcagga   1560
              aagagagtat gatattatga agacggtgca acataatgct tatcatgaag acccttatgc   1620
              taaggaattt ggaattaaaa ttagtgagaa gcttgcttca gttgaagcgc gtattctgcc   1680
              tccaccgtgg cttaaatatc atgatactgg tagagagaag gattgcctgc ctcaggttgg   1740
              gcaatggaat atgatgaaca agaaaatggt taatggtggg actgtaaaca actggatctg   1800
              cataaacttt tctcggcaag tccaagatag tgtggcacgg aggttttgtt atgagcttgc   1860
              acaaatgtgt tacatctctg gcatggcctt tactcctgaa ccagtgcttc ctccaattag   1920
              tgctcgtcct gagtatgttg agagggtttt gaaaacacgg tatcatgatg ccatgattaa   1980
              actgcagccg cagaacaaag aacttgacct gcttattgtt attcttccag ataataatgg   2040
              ctctctttat ggtgatttga aaaggatttg tgagactgat cttggtattg tttcccagtg   2100
              ctgcttgact aaacatgtat ttagaatgag caaacaatat ttggccaatg tggcattgaa   2160
              aattaatgtc aaggttgggg gaagaaatac tgttcttgtt gatgcaatat cacgaaggat   2220
              acctcttgtc agtgaccgtc cgactataat ttttggtgct gatgttaccc atcctcaccc   2280
              tggggaggat tcaagccctt ctattgcagc tgttgttgcc tctcaagatt ggccagaggt   2340
              tacaaagtat gctggcctgg tttgtgctca agctcatcgt caggagctca tccaagattt   2400
              attcaagaca tggcaggatc ctgcaagggg gactgtttct ggtggcatga ttaaggagct   2460
              cttaatatct ttccgacgag ccactggaca gaagccacag cgcattatat tctacagaga   2520
              tggtgtcagc gaaggccagt tctatcaagt tctattatat gaacttgatg ctattcgtaa   2580
              ggcatgtgcc tcattggagc caaattatca gcctcctgtt acatttgttg tggtgcaaaa   2640
              aaggcatcat acaaggttgt ttgctaacaa tcataatgat cgccgttctg tagacaggag   2700
              tgggaatatt ttgcctggca ctgtggtgga ctccaaaatt tgtcacccaa cggagtttga   2760
                                                    423

<removed-date>
              cttctactta tgcagccatg ctgggattca gggtacaagc cgtccagctc attaccatgt   2820
              gctatgggat gagaacaagt ttacagctga tgcattacag tcccttacaa ataacctttg   2880
              ctatacatat gcaaggtgca cacgatcagt gtctattgtt ccccctgcgt actacgcaca   2940
              tcttgctgca ttccgagctc gcttttatat ggaaccagaa acatcagaca gtggatcaat   3000
              gacaagtggc acagctgcag ggcgtggagg tggagctgca gctgctggtg ggcgtagcac   3060
<removed-apn>
              aagaggacct ggtgctagtg ctgccgtcag acctctgcct gccctcaagg aaaatgtcaa   3120
              gcgtgttatg ttctactgtt aagggagtgc ttgtattttg agcatctgtt ttgttgggct   3180
              ttgcttcttg gaatttcgaa caatatctag tatgtttggg gttgcatgga ttattaaact   3240
              aaacctgttg aaccttggtg ttaaaactat gttaatttta tgattattcg cttggaacat   3300
              taaataaaga aatgtattgt acttgctgtt cctttgctac taaagtaact ttaaaaccca   3360
              agttgttt                                                            3368
              <210>   411
              <211>   915
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 411
              gagtggtatt tgttatcttc atgggtagga agaagagaag tgataatcct tctgggggcg     60
              agagctccca gtctcatgat actggtgctg gcagtggtca gggtccccaa cgtcctcctc    120
              aacaacaagg gggaagtgga ggttactcgg gtggacgagg ttgggctcca caatcccagc    180
              aaggaggtcg gggtggttat ggctctggtg gtcggggtcg tggaatgcca caacagcagt    240
              atggtggagg acctcctgaa taccaaggta gaggaagggg aggttcttct cagcaaggag    300
              gtcgtggggg atatggtggc ggtcgaggcc gtggtggccg tggtggagga ccttttgctg    360
              gtggaccatc ccgaccacct gttcccgagc tgcaccaagc aacccaacct atgcaagttg    420
              aggtgacccg ccagcctgct ccgtctgagg caggctcatc atccaggcca ccacctgagc    480
              ctgtaccatt ggccgagcat tttcaacagc tttccatcca gcaagaagct ggccaagcaa    540
              ttcagccagt ccctccatca agcaagtcag tgaggtttcc tcttcgacct ggaaagggta    600
              gcactggcac aaggtgcatt gtcaaagcta atcatttctt tgctgaattg ccagataaag    660
              atttgcacca gtatgatgtt actattacac cggaggtagc atctcgagga gtgaaccggg    720
                                                    424

<removed-date>
              ctgtcatgga gcagctagtg aaattatata gagaatcaca tctaggaaag cgccttcctg    780
              cttatgatgg ccggaagagt ctttacactg ctgggcctct cccttttgtg tccaagagtt    840
              taagatcacc cttaccgacg aggatgatgg ttcacgacag ccaagaagag accgggactt    900
              taaagttgta atcaa                                                     915
              <210>   412
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1459
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 412
              taaaaacctc ttattaaaat tttaaacata taaataaaga taatttatta agcttgatag     60
              atttgtcttt ctctatgtct ctgttatggt tgcagagaga gccaaactga atcaatctct    120
              aggcatttgc ttctccaatt ccaatcttct ttttcttttc ttttttacta ataagtcgtg    180
              agaaatgcca gcaaaaccag ggaatgatga tcagcagata gaccgtgggg ctcaaagtgt    240
              gttgcagtca actgcctact ctgaaccctg gtggaaagga gttgggacta acccctttgg    300
              tgaagctgcc tcgaagtcgc cttctgtaga acaactaaat ggttcagtgg caaatggaga    360
              tgtgcattca caggctcatg gggacttggg caatgaagat gggagaaacg gacaagatcg    420
              ccaacatctc aaacacgttc cttccacaac accccttact ttgggtgaac accatgaacc    480
              aaattcccaa atggaactag ttggtcactc gattgtcttg acatcatatc cttattcaga    540
              tcctcagtat tgtggaattc tgacttcata tgggccacaa atgatggtgt caccacatct    600
              atatggaatg catcatgcta gaatgccttt gcctcttaaa atggaagagg agcctgttta    660
              tgtaaatgca aagcaatatc atggcatttt gaggcgaaga cagatacgtg ctaaggctga    720
              gcttgaaaag aaagccatta aagttagaaa gccatacctt catgagtccc ggcatctaca    780
              tgctatgaga agggctaggg gttgtggagg tcgttttctt aatacaaaga agcagggtga    840
              tgatgttacc agccccactt cacaaaaggg catgaattca gatgaaaaca tttcaaccaa    900
              atcatctatc ttgtctgggt ctgagtgtgt atccgcaact ggtgctggaa acatgaactc    960
              cttctatggt cagcaagacc cacgcgtccg cccacgcgtc cggcaaggga acggggcgca   1020
              acatggggcc ccttcaatta aatgaaattt atccttgagg cagtgctgga ggtatttgcc   1080
              ctggatcttg ggtgtctgaa tccctcctgg agtggtgttc ctcaggcaat tcattcttgg   1140
                                                    425

<removed-date>
              ctttggttac tcatggttaa aggggttatt atatgagaag ataagtgctc tttggttttt   1200
              tatctccact ctggtaatag ctttgacatg cctccctttg acccttctgt aaaaaaagaa   1260
              gataaaaaca ggtgttgtat ctaggcagta gcaaacagtt gtgaatgtgc aaaaatttca   1320
              aacaaattta cattaatttg agtgtcaaag ggcttggaga cttgtgtatg agtgaaagag   1380
              cttcgaactt ttccataagt gtggccttaa taatgtaaat gccgtctgtt gtttgtttct   1440
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa                                                1459
              <210>   413
              <211>   1945
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 413
              tttgtttagt ctgtgatgat ctctttgtgt ctgctttatt gatctcttta aagatttttg     60
              ggtttatttt tcttttaact tgattcatct ttgttgttta gatatggggt ttttgagttt    120
              cttttttctt tttttgtatt ttcaatgatt tgaggatcgg caaagatctt gtatttattt    180
              ttgctaatgt taaaattcga gtttcagatt cgtttacgaa gatataaacc aactgaatta    240
              aattctagat tttttttact tttagatttt atttgtcttc gttagatttt gccttttgaa    300
              gttaaaattc gagctttaaa tttgctaaat gctaatgatt tttaactgtg attttatgaa    360
              tcaactgaaa atagattctg ggtttatttt aaaatttaat aaataactta gtttctagat    420
              tttttttata tggttttttt agtaaaattc tgtgataatt gtttgatttg ttgtttaatt    480
              ttgtaggaaa aagagtttga ataattgaaa cataatgcaa actctgcatc ttaaagaata    540
              tggtgggatt gggaatcatc caatgggaca actggcctca gttccaccat catcattgcc    600
              aacactgcca tggtgtagtg ttttaggatc tcatcaatct ctacatggag gggaggcttt    660
              tggtgctcaa ttgaagccct ttttaatgga acatccctct aatggtgacc aagttctttc    720
              atccaaacaa ctgaataaag ggaatactgc tcaattcact attttcccag gtgattgcaa    780
              aaattcaggg gatgagcata ataaacctca ggcagtcacc tctctgcaat cagatccttc    840
              agaaaatggt gctcgctttg aactgggatt tggtcagcac atgttgcagg catctgcaaa    900
              atatccttac atggatcaat tatatggagt tttctcaact tatggagctc aaatttcggg    960
              tcgtgtaatg ctgccattga acatggcatc cgaagaggga ccaatatatg taaatgctaa   1020
                                                    426

<removed-date>
              gcaatacaag ggaatcatga ggcgtcggca atctcgtgca aaggctgtgc ttcagaataa   1080
              attgtctaaa gctcgaaagc catatatgca ctactctcgc cacctacacg caatgcgccg   1140
              accaaggggt tgtggtggcc ggttcctgaa tacccgaggc tcaggctccg acaaagacga   1200
              cactgcaaca aagaaagcca ctcaaggact gatgtcgaac cgttcctgtt catccgatag   1260
              tggaaccttg aactcatcca agggaccaac acattcaggg tcctcagagg tcactagtat   1320
<removed-apn>
              ttactcaagg agagaccttg atcaccactt cctaatcgat catcttggat tatcagtcca   1380
              ctctatctca tcgatgatca ataatcaacg tggaggcacg attacagttg caacggcaga   1440
              caactgttgc aacctaaaag tttgatatca atggagggga aaattgtggg atttggtgct   1500
              acctttttgc accaaaaaaa caccgctttt cccctttagc aatcaatgga agtaacttgg   1560
              ttttgcaatt aactgttaca gggtcttttg caatacaggt tttggttgct aggcaaatca   1620
              ttcttggctc aacttaagta agctcttctt taccaatggt tgaagatgct gaaacttcaa   1680
              aatatatata tggatcagac tataaaatgg ggtgtttcca tttgatccaa tgataagctt   1740
              tgaaagtttg gttatggtgt ttgtaatctt aaatttgcag aatttgtggt ggatgattat   1800
              ggtgtggtgc tgttgtgaaa ataatgtact gtaaacttta atataatgtg tgtttcatgt   1860
              ttggattatt attttctttt atgaattatt attttctata taaactatta atttttttta   1920
              atttcaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                                         1945
              <210>   414
              <211>   989
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 414
              gctaatgaaa tccaggtgtc acacatctat atggaatgca tcatgctaga atgcctttgc     60
              ctcttaaaat ggaagaggag cctgtttatg taaatgcaaa gcaatatcat ggcattttga    120
              ggcgaagaca gatacgtgct aagtgctgag cttgaaaaga aagccattaa agttagaaag    180
              gtaaaaatgg tattctttta gggggctttc ccccccattt cttgtttagt ggtgcctgtt    240
              agaaatgata ggaaggttca ggactcaact ctgttgccat tgactacagc cataccttca    300
              tgagtcccgg catctacatg ctatgagaag ggctaggggt tgtggaggtc gttttcttaa    360
              tacaaagaag cagggtgatg atgttaccag ccccacttca caaaagggca tgaattcaga    420
                                                    427

<removed-date>
              tgaaaacatt tcaaccaaat catctatctt gtctgggtct gagtgtgtat ccgcaactgg   480
              tgctggaaac atgaactcct tctatggtca gcaagaagga aattgtgcaa gggatatcat   540
              gcaagggaac ggggcgcaac atggggcccc ttcaattaaa tgacatttat ccttgaggtg   600
              ggtggcactc tccagcattg ctgtgcaggc agtgctggag gtatttgccc tggatcttgg   660
              gtgtctgaat ccctcctgga gtggtgtccc tcaggcaatt cattcttggc tttggttact   720
<removed-apn>
              catggttaaa ggggttatta tatgagaaga tatgtggttt ttggtttttt atcttcactc   780
              tggtaatagc tttgacatgc ctccctttga cccttttgta aaaaaagaag ataaaaacag   840
              gtgttgtatc taggcagtag caaacagttg tgaatgtgca aaaatttcaa acaaatttac   900
              attaatttga gtgtcaaagg gcttggagac ttgtgtatga ctgaaagagc tttgaacttt   960
              tccatcagtg tggccttaat aatgtaaat                                     989
              <210>   415
              <211>   1452
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 415
              aaggttgcat agatagagcg caaaatcgac caatctctgt gatctttgct tctcaaaatc    60
              aaatcctttc agcccctctt ccttccatgc ttttcctaca gggctgggct tctgattccc   120
              agagtaaagt agtgaataat gccagcaaaa ccgcggaatg aagatcaacg gatgcaccat   180
              ggtgctcaaa gtgtgttgaa ctcaactgcc tccttggagc cctggtggaa agcagtaggg   240
              attgacctct taggtgaagc tgcttcaaag tcaacctctg cagagaaaaa aaatggtcca   300
              acagcagatg gagatgggcg aaatggacat gatgaacaat atctcaagca tgtcccttct   360
              gcagccctca agcatgtccc ttctgcagcc ccccttacat tggttgaaca ccttgaacca   420
              aattcccaaa tggaactagc tggccactca attgtcttga aatcttaccc ctgttcagat   480
              tcgcagtaca gtggaatact ggcttcatat gggccacaaa taatggtgtc accactatat   540
              ggaatgcatc atgctagaat gcctttgcct cttcaaatgg aagaggagcc tgtttatgta   600
              aatgcaaagc aatatcatgg aattttaagg cgaagacaaa tacgtgccaa ggctgagctt   660
              gaaaagaaag tcattaaagt tagaaagcca taccttcatg aatcacggca tctgcatgct   720
              atgagaaggg ctaggggtag tggaggtcgt tttctgaata aaagaagctg gatgatcaca   780
                                                    428

<removed-date>
              tcaccagtcc taactcagaa aagggtatga attcagatga aaacatttca gctaaatcag    840
              cttacttatc tgggtttgag tgcttatctt ccagtggtac tggaaatttg agttccttct    900
              acggacagca agagggaaat gtgtcactag ttaaggattt gcatgaagca cagcctttaa    960
              gtaacggtac accccactta tcatctaatg atgctgagac gggtaactac ttccaccagc   1020
              agagggatat ggtgcaaggg aatggggcac aacatgggtc cccttcaatt aaatgagatt   1080
<removed-apn>
              ccttcttgag gcagcgctgg aggtatttgt cccttagatg ttgggtggcg gaatccttcc   1140
              cagagtggcg tctctcaggc aaatcattct tggctttggt ttggttaagg ggttatcata   1200
              tggggaagta tgtggtcttt ggttttatcc acacactgct gttcctccta ttgatccctt   1260
              tgtagaaaga taatgtgtgg tatcgtgcta cctacaaaag tgtataattt gaaacaactt   1320
              atattagaac ttgtgaactg aagcagaact tacgtatgac taaagagttt tagcatttac   1380
              atgagtgtgg ccttaataat gtataaatgc ttcctgctgt tgcttctcaa ataaaaaaaa   1440
              aaaaaaaaaa aa                                                       1452
              <210>   416
              <211>   1410
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 416
              ggcacgaggc ttatttattt tctctctcaa aaaatcccca aaatctaggg ttgttgtttt     60
              tgttcttctt tgttaaaccg agaataagaa attgactatc atttgagtgt attgggagga    120
              atgcagtcga attctgaaga aggaagtcga ttagaacctg cagtgcatgg tgttcatcca    180
              actgcagttt attctgaacc caagtggcgt aatactggtt atggtgccat ctccccggga    240
              gtgagaggag tgaactcatt aaattcatct tcgatggaat gcactaatgc atcagagtcg    300
              aatgatgggc agtcactgtc caatggtgca ctaaatgaag aggatgatgt taataaagaa    360
              acacaaacta ctgcatcctc tcgggcagtt ggaactggag gacaagaaca tcacaatttg    420
              cagcatgttg gatctagcat gcctgctgtg cgtgatgaag gcctcaccca acctcccctg    480
              cttgagcttg ttggtcattc aatcgcatgt gcatcaaatc cttatataga tccactttat    540
              ggaggaatga tggcagctta tggacatcag cctatgggtt atcctccgtt tgttggaatg    600
              cctcatgcaa gaatgacttt gccgattgaa atggcacaag agcctgttta tgtaaatgcc    660
                                                    429

<removed-date>
              aaacagtacc aaggaattct caggcgaagg caggcccgtg ccaaagcaga acttgagaag    720
              aaggttgtta aatcccgaaa gccttatctt cacgaatcaa ggcaccagca tgctttacgt    780
              agggcgagag gtagtgggag gacgttttgc aaagacaaca gataccaatc caggagaaga    840
              aaaaggatca ggttcaggtc ccacgttatc atcccaatct ccaagttcct ccggttctga    900
              accattacaa actgattcca acgaaacctg gacctcctcc ctcacccagc atggcatcca    960
<removed-apn>
              ccatgtcaac ggcggcagcc attatcagaa gctaggtggt aacatctcca atcaggccgc   1020
              tttctatccg gtgaatggag gacaatcctt tcaaaagctg aagggttgaa ctccagagac   1080
              ggttacagtc atggcaatgc attagcgagg cggcaaatca ttcttggctt cggttatatg   1140
              gaaggggaga agagattgta cgagacccgg acatcgtttt cgtcttgtcc atgcttcact   1200
              ataatttttc ccaaagctgc atttttgtaa atataccgtt gaatagaact gaaaaagtaa   1260
              gtagttaaat tagtagagct tgtgagaaat atttgataag tagtagattg cacccagggc   1320
              tttcattgtc gttttaagtt aaaaaacaaa acatgttttt gtagtttgga ttagcagttt   1380
              tttttataat ggggcacctt tttaaacgtt                                    1410
              <210>   417
              <211>   1495
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 417
              gtgcttttga ggaacaaaga gaaacagagt ttttcctttc cctttttctt tggtaaatat     60
              tttgtttgaa agggaaggaa gagacatgca caaatccaag cttagaagaa aattcttcat    120
              gagtgttatt tctctttcag tttaacaaat cccaaaggtc actgatgtgc aagcacgtta    180
              acatatagca gcaaagattt cttcttagca ctttcaaaat ctctcccggc tccttttata    240
              agtcaggatg cattgaagtt tgaatggtag gttgccgtaa tgcaaacctt gcataaaaag    300
              gattgtgtgt taagttctca tttgacatgc acgaacgtag ttggctgctc atcttgggtc    360
              aactcaatgg aatctcatgt ccagcaatca tccatgtctg aaagtttaaa cttgaagatg    420
              ggaattgtac ctcaacactt ccataactcc aagcagctaa gttttcaatt tcaagaccag    480
              gactcatcat caactcaatc aactggccaa tcttaccctg aagcggctag tgttggagat    540
              agcaatcttt ataggcaaag ttcaatttca gcatcatcag gaggtaatga aactcccggg    600
                                                    430

<removed-date>
              aagcttgttg aacatcatgc taaattagcc tcctcaatgg gaacccagga atatgtcttc    660
              tctccttcac aagttgacta tagcattccc gcgcccgctc atattcccct ccattgcgct    720
              gaaccgtatt ttggtggtgc tgtgactgct gtttgcccac ctccagctat gagtcatcat    780
              ccttgtatgc tagcaatgct tcctgctcga gttccacttc ctttggagct tacagaagac    840
              gaaactattt acgttaatgc aaagcagtat ggggctattc tcaggcgaag acagtatcga    900
<removed-apn>
              gcgaagcttg aggctcagaa taaactgatc aaagttcgaa agccctatct gcatgagtct    960
              cgacatcttc acgctttaaa aagggctaga ggaaatggcg ggcgattcct gaacacaaag   1020
              aagctccaag aatccaagcc gattccaaca agccatggac ttgatgcatc aaggtctcct   1080
              cagctacatt tgtgtgcaaa catgtcgaat cagctggaaa attacaaaga cgctgcttca   1140
              actaccactt gctctgatgt cactagtgcc tccaacggtg atgaaatgct acagcagcga   1200
              gatttcaggt tctctggcta ttcttctctc attgctggag ccatgcgggg gagtggtggg   1260
              aacctccatc atctttctgg ttgcggctga tagattatgg tgggagcact gcagtccggt   1320
              gcttcaatga aagatacggc tgctttgttc cggtgggaag tcatccttgg ctcagtttgt   1380
              ttatttttaa taatagactt gactgttaca aaagcatgaa catgaagtta tttcttggca   1440
              gaacttgatt gctatttggt gtttatgtta gacaataatg catgccttgg ttgct        1495
              <210>   418
              <211>   1008
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 418
              gtccactcac gcgtccgaac ggaactcatg ggaagcttgt aggaaatcat gctaaattag     60
              cctatgtaac gggaactcag gaccatgtct ttcctccttc acaaggttat agaaaaccaa    120
              tcgttcacat tccacaccat tatgccaacc catactttgg cagtgtagcg gctactgctt    180
              atggatcaca agctatgatt catcatgctc atatgatggc tatgcttcct gctcgagttc    240
              cgctgccact ggatcttaaa gaaggtgaac cgatttatgt taatgcaaag cagtatcatg    300
              ctattctccg gcgaagacaa tatcgtgcaa agctcgaggc acagaacaaa ctcataaaag    360
              ttcgaaagcc gtatatgcat gagtctcgac atcttcatgc gataaaacga gctagaggaa    420
              gtggtgggca atttctcaac acaaagaaac tccaatccaa aagcactccg acaagccacg    480
                                                    431

<removed-date>
              gaccggacat gtccaggtct cctcagctgc atttgtctgc aaacatctct gtaacagatg    540
              ttcatcagcc agaaaatttc aaagattctg gttcagctaa ctcttgctct gatgtcacaa    600
              gtgcctccaa cagtgatgaa atatttcagc agccagattt caggttctat agctatcctt   660
              ccggtcatac tggtgaagcc atgccgggtc atgctggtca tatcctgctc tcttccgata   720
              gtcgagcgaa ctgattcttg tccacgcagt ctgtattcga tgatgctgca atgaaaatac   780
<removed-apn>
              ggctgctctg ttcctctggg gagtcatcct tggctcggtt taattatatt tggactgtca   840
              tcacagattg ttacaaaacc accaacaata ttggtcaaaa tctttaaagg catcccttcc   900
              cgtacatttg agcttgaatc caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa catgtcggcc    960
              gcctcgtccc agtcgactct agactcgagc aagcttatga atgcagtt                1008
              <210>   419
              <211>   978
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (25)..(25)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (28)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (33)..(33)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 419
              cccacgcgtc cgcccacgcg tccgnggnaa ttngggttat tttcctcaaa atccaatctt     60
              tacttgggca cctgaaagta ttggccttta tcaacaactt gaaaaccagg aaatgaaacc    120
              ccagattcta aatcccccaa atcccaactt tttcttacca tttccacaag aacaacaacc    180
              attaccaaag agactcaatc atggtcagat cccaaagcta ccattctcag accatgagtt   240
              atttatcaaa aaacaacagc ttgttgggtt tcaagaacag aagccattaa tggtgtctca   300
              acaacaacaa gcagccacat tgttggacca gctttgtaaa gtagcagaga tggtagagac   360
                                                    432

<removed-date>
              tgggaatttc tcacacgcgc aagggatatt ggcgcggctc aatcacttgt ctccagtagg   420
              caaaacattt caacggattg gtttttactt caaggaggca ttacaattac tactcctcat   480
              gtataacaat accccagtct cgaaaaatcc gacacctttt gatgttatct tcaaaatggg   540
              agcttacaag gtcttttccg aggtttcgcc gttcgttcaa tttgttaact ttacgagtaa   600
              ccaagctttc cttgaagcac tcgagaattc cgaccgaatc cacattgtgg atttcgatat   660
<removed-apn>
              tggttttggt gctcaatggg cttcttttat gcaggaactt cctatgagga gtaaaggagt   720
              tgttccttca ttgagaatta cagcttttgt ttccctttcg acgtaccatc ctatcgaact   780
              cggtcttata agggaaaatc ttgaacaatt cgctaatgga atcggtgtaa attttgagct   840
              tgaggtactt aactttgatt gtttagatca aaacccttat tcattgccta tgtttcgaat   900
              gaatgaaaac gaggcgcttg ctgtgaactt tcccgtttgg tctgcttcgt atcgaacctc   960
              tattttggcc tattcggt                                                 978
              <210>   420
              <211>   978
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 420
              gacacagcaa tgccatatat gtggcgaagg tcggaattaa cccccaccaa aagcgaccca    60
              aactctggag ctccgccgcg ggtggggccg cgtgaaagac agaggggagc ccccggcgcc   120
              cgaggattgg ggccctaggt gaagttccca accttaactc aggttggggg aatcgaaacc   180
              cgaaacccaa ccgacaacac agaagagggg ctaaacctaa tgctgatagg caaagtggta   240
              cgagttatca gcagcatagt ctcccacttg aagcaactga ttggcaatgt cggggattta   300
              ggtctatgca ggaatctcgt agaattgatg aagctggcca tggatatagt gaggaagaaa   360
              caatgcagtt gttgagccaa actcacattc actctccagc tgtctcagtt aagtgtaatg   420
              aaatgcaaag atatggacag atgaggagac ctggaggcaa cagtaacatg tttcacattg   480
              ttcctcaaca cattaatcca tcaccttatc agattcatat tccaagaagc agcaatggag   540
              ggcgaattgg gagtgatctt tcattatcaa ctagtgatca acagtggcaa tcaggtcctc   600
              accaccagtt gtttggaaat tctgcagcat catcaggatt cccatcgcag atcagacctt   660
              cccaaacatg gcttcaccaa aatggcttcc attcactcat ctaattcttc actaattaaa   720
                                                    433

<removed-date>
              attctttaca tgcctttctc atatatcatc cttttttatt attattaata atatctagat   780
              gtatagaaaa acaattccaa ccttgttgaa tatatattta tatatatgat gttcttctga   840
              ctttttttct tttttttttt ttctcgtctt taatgcattg ctttgccgcc ctacacagtt   900
              ggtattatta ttgatttaat aaaacccccc attgtatgta tatgtaactt tatcaactat   960
              catcattaaa tgtttctt                                                 978
<removed-apn>
              <210>   421
              <211>   1039
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (223)..(223)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 421
              gcgcccacgc gtccgaccac gcgtccgccc acgcgtacgc acaaatgcgg caggtgggaa    60
              gcacggatgg ggcagttcct aggcaaaagg gcttatgaca aggcagctat caaaagtaat   120
              ggacgggagg cagtcaccaa ctttgagctg agtacatatg aaggggagat ggtctttgat   180
              accaggaaca aaggcaatgg tcacaacctt gatctgaacc tgnggatatc tccacctgtt   240
              agcgatggtc ccaaggaaaa ggaaaatgcg gggcatctcc aaatgaataa cggaaagagt   300
              ttaagggcag agaaccctgc agctgcaaca tttagtgttc catctttcca agggttagcg   360
              gggacttcag atcagcctat tttctggaat agtgcatatc cgagattctt ccctagtgag   420
              gctccacttc caatattctt tcctaggaaa gaacaatggt gaaaccggtt gaattcaatc   480
              ctccacaacg tgtccctgat tggcggaggc aaatgcacgg tcatgtcagt actacactaa   540
              tgccactgtt ctctcatgca gcatcatcaa gattctcatt ctcagctacc cctccttcaa   600
              ccgccactgc cattcttcca tccaaacctc aaaacacaac agcagtccac agtctatgtt   660
              ttgctgcctc aaccagtaac accatcaaca cccctcaaca tagtcgatcg taagttcaat   720
              tgtaccacaa cgacggcgat tacaataata atttaaatat tgattcaata tacattaaga   780
              catggtagtt tctgacttgg tccgtgaact aaaaagagta tctactctct gtctagcatt   840
              aaggcatgta ggaccacaac tttcatatat gatcttatgt ggtgcataaa ggcatatcat   900
                                                    434

<removed-date>
              caggaacttg ttcagtgcgt ttaaactttt tttttttttc atttcatgta gattagaaag    960
              cagattccat taaggtaaaa tttgattctt ttggtacaaa aacctgaaac aggaaaagtc   1020
              cttttttttt tttctataa                                                1039
              <210>   422
              <211>   979
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 422
              cgtccgtttt tttgtgaata cagatatgtc tttttaggct tgtttgatac cgagattgaa     60
              gctgcaaggg cttatgacaa agctgcaatt aagtgcaatg ggaaagatgc tgtaactaat   120
              tttgatccta gtatatatga taatgagctt cacaacggtg aaacatcatc atgtaatggt   180
              agggatcaca accttgattt gagcttaggg aattcaactt caaagcaaaa taatttagaa   240
              tttggtggtg ttgataagca aaatgcaatg gtggatcaac atagttgggg ctataggtct    300
              aagcaaaatc tgcagcaggg acctggggga aatgaggata caatgcagct tttgaaccaa    360
              acacagattc aatattctca agcttcaatt aagtccattg gacaacggaa cagacctact    420
              gataaccata cgttcaacat tcatcctccc cattttaatc cgtatcggat tcattatcca    480
              agcaacaaca acaatggagt tcaaataggg ggggatcttt cattgtcaac taatgatcat   540
              catcatcaac aatggcaatc aacgggatct ccccaactgt gtttacaaat ggggcagcat   600
              catcaggatt cccatggcag actagacctt ccaaagctaa gaaaaatggg ttccactccc   660
              tcatgagaaa agcactatac acaccatatt ttatcatccc ccattgttgg ttaatctcta    720
              tgtatagatc aatgcattga gttgcactcc attttttttt actcaatttt tttagttaac    780
              ccatagggaa aattacaaaa attattcccc ccaaaaaaga ggagagaaaa aagaagcatt    840
              attggtcaaa atcactaaca aagcaactaa aacaaatgat cttttccatt gtcttcaata    900
              aatttgcttt gccttcttat gtattgcatt agtgtaattt tcatttatat aaaatatcga    960
              tcatggaaat ctttatgtt                                                979
              <210>   423
              <211>   1521
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
                                                    435

<removed-date>
              <400> 423
              gcacgagggt tcagggttcc cacaagctca ctgggtgggc gtcagattct gtcaatcgga     60
              gcctcacgca ccggaaaaat cctttgaagt agcacagccg atgaaaaaaa gcaggagagg    120
              gccaaggtcg agaagctctc agtatagagg agttactttt tatagaagaa ccggcagatg    180
              ggagtcgcct cgctgggatt gtggaaagca agtttactta gtgtggattc gacacggcac    240
              atgcggctgc tcgtgcatac gatagggcag caatcaagtt ccggggagtt gaagccgaca    300
<removed-apn>
              taaattttag tatccaagat tacgaggatg acttgaagca gatgtgtaac ctaaccaagg    360
              aagaatttgt gcacgttctt cgccgacaaa gcaccggatt tcctcgagga agctccaaat    420
              atagaggagt caccttacac aaatgtggcc gatgggaagc tagaatgggc caattattag    480
              gcaaaaagta cgtttattta ggcttgtttg acacagagat tgaagctgcg agggcttatg    540
              acagagcagc aattaagtgc aatggtaaag atgctgtcac taactttgat cccaggatat    600
              acgacaatga gcttaactgt ggagaaactt cgggtaatgc tggagatcac aaccttgatt    660
              tgagcttagg gaattcaacc tcgaagcaaa cgaatctgga gttaggtggt gataggcaaa    720
              ttgctatgag cgatcagcac agtctgccac ctgaagctga ttggcaatat aggggattta    780
              ggtctaaggt aaatctgcag caggagcctt gtagaagcga tggtgctact catggaagat    840
              cggatggata tagtgaggca gaaacaatgc agctgttgag ccaaactctt atccaatctc    900
              cagcatcgat taagtctaat gaaatgcaaa gatatggaca gttcaggaga cctggaaata    960
              acaatgtgtt tcacattcct ccatcatctt atcagattca ttttccaagc agcagcaatg   1020
              gaggccgaat aggaagcgat cttttactat ccattagtga acaacaatgg caatcaggtc   1080
              ctcaccaaat gtttggaaat tctgcagcat catcaggatt cccatcgcag attagacctt   1140
              cttctcaaac ttggctgcag aaaaatgggt tccactcact catgagaccc tcctaactca   1200
              aaaagtagcc ataaaaatgt ctccgctaat taaaatatat atttctgttt tctccttgtt   1260
              ggctttgtaa gtatgtcatt tttaaaatcc ccccttcttt tccctctaca actttctcgg   1320
              aaaatcacaa ggaaaatcat tggaagaaga gggaaacttc tgactctctt ggagttgttg   1380
              ggcatcggtc aaactaacaa accgacgaaa aacgttgaac tatataaatt ccgggttctg   1440
              acagaacaga aactgctaat ctttttctat cgtctttaat gcaagttata tgccgcccga   1500
              tacggttggc ttcattgttg g                                             1521
                                                    436

<removed-date>
              <210>   424
              <211>   1989
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 424
              gtattctgta atgttctctg ctctcatacg cccgtctcct ctctctctct ctctctctct     60
              ctctctccct cctttgttca tggaatcagc tagccggcga ttatcttttt ccgtttattc    120
<removed-apn>
              gaattgatcg ccgagtaatt catcaatggt agcatcattt ttcaaattcc tttgctttat    180
              aacgacgctg ttttcattct cctcggtctc ccggaaagag agaatctcca aagttttttt    240
              ttttgtaatt cttagctttg tttcagtgtt ctgacagtat ccatctcttc ccgttggatt    300
              tgataacttt ataggaaaga aaatatgatt ttgttttttg agctgaaaag ttggtgattt    360
              tttacttcaa ttttaaaggg ggtcaaagct aagttcggca acaaacttaa gacgaaatgc    420
              tagatcttaa cctcaatgtc gggtcgactg agtcggctca ggactcaaac tcggcggctc    480
              cttttagcac cgagcgtaat ggagattgtg gaaaccaaat ggacgaatct ggaacctcga    540
              attcgtcgat cgtcaacgac gaggatgagt cgtgctccac gcgcgccaac ggagatgcgt    600
              tcactctaag cttcgacata ctcaaagtcg gaagtggtgg aaatgagttc caaaacgacg    660
              acgcagacgt ggtggttact agggagttgt ttccggcgac gagagtcgga atttctgaag    720
              ggcagagctc gggaaataac aacaaatgga tcgatcatcc gttcgagaga aaagaagctg    780
              atgagtcgcg ggtaatacgt caacaaccgt cacagacggc gaagaaaagc cgtagaggac    840
              ctcgttctag aagttcccag tatcgaggag ttactttcta tagaagaact ggaagatggg    900
              aatcccatat atgggactgc gggaaacaag tatatttggg tggatttgat actgctcatg    960
              ccgctgctag ggcctatgat cgagcagcta ttaaatttcg aggggttgat gctgatatca   1020
              atttcagtgt cagtgattat gaggaagata tgaaacagat gaagaatctg tgtaaagaag   1080
              aatttgtaca catacttcgt cgacaaagta ctggtttttc gaggggaagc tcgaaatacc   1140
              gaggagtcac gctgcacaaa tgtggccgat gggaagcacg gatggggcaa ttccttggca   1200
              aaaagtacat atatctcggg ctatttgaca acgaagtaga agctgcaagg gcttatgaca   1260
              aggcagctat caaatgtaac ggacgggagg cagttaccaa cttcgagccg agtacatacg   1320
              aaggggagat catctttgat accagtacta atgaaggcaa tagtcacaat cttgatctaa   1380
                                                    437

<removed-date>
              acttggggat atctccacct gttggcaatg atccaaagga aaatgagctg cagcatcacc   1440
              acttccattc tggtccccac gacttgcacg aggggaagag ttcgagggcg gagaaccctg   1500
              ctggtgcaat agtcagtccg gctttcgaaa ggctaaccgg gaattcagat caacctattt   1560
              tttggagaaa tgtatatcct aggttctttc ctagtgagga aagagattgg gcatggcaaa   1620
              tgcatggtgc taggccaacg ccaccactgt tgcccgctgc agcatcatca ggattctcgt   1680
<removed-apn>
              tcttggctac ccctccctct gctgccattc ttccctccaa tctaacgact cccagtttcc   1740
              actttgccac ccccactgcc accagtgcca ctcctcaaat ctatattcac atggaggagc   1800
              caccaccata gcctcatttt gcaaccttca ccacgaaatg ttgttaaggt attcaataca   1860
              tgatttgttt acaactaata aggtttgcac tggtttttat tgattattgt gtgggtgatt   1920
              tgctttaaac tgtgatttta tatatataca aagtttagta gtatattgga aaaaaaaaaa   1980
              aaaaaaaaa                                                           1989
              <210>   425
              <211>   839
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 425
              gccggctttt ggccaaaaca gccaattgtt ttctcagagg ggaccccttc agtccagtaa     60
              cacgcccttg gttcgtgctt ggatagacct gccaatttcc acaaccgacc aacaccaaca    120
              ccatcatcat caacaacatc accaccatca aatcccagaa aacatccatc atcacactgc    180
              tttatctggc gttggattca ccacacctgg tgtattctct gggtttcgcg ttccagcacg    240
              aattcagggc gaagaagatg agcacgacag cattgccaat aagctgtcct ctgcttcatc    300
              tgattctcac cattgatcga gtaaatcgga gaaaaggcca aaatctttcc cctctatcag    360
              cactagttga ttgttgactg tgaactggat gagaagataa ctatactatg atggatccaa    420
              gaatcaaaga ctagttcgag ggaagatttt ggtcaacttt gaatcaatgg cctataccgt    480
              gggaagaaga aatctgggtg gatttcaggt ttttcaatcc ccggtttgtt tagtttctat    540
              cagttgattg tgttgtagct taaatttata tttgagtgag ctcttagagc ttaacaatgg    600
              tttctttttc ttgttggact tgtcatgttt ttcatgttac caatcaatgt ttgctactgt    660
              ttcctagagt tactattgag atgggaacat agtttgttct aatgctaatt tgtttttccc    720
                                                    438

<removed-date>
              tccattttct ttagatatat tatttttttt aatttgtgga ttttttcttt ttttagcttt    780
              cttatttttc attttgtctg tgtttttttt atttgttttc tctttttttc taacttttt     839
              <210>   426
              <211>   1928
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 426
              aagaggccca attgggaaaa gcttttagat agattgagag agaaaggaag gagaaagtaa     60
              agagatgatg ggttagggtg gggatttgaa gctgtggaag gggccttatg gtggaggggt    120
              cctttgtgat aatggaaatg gcagggccga cagtttcagg tttcaaggaa cagtgagtac    180
              agaggctata accagtgtcc gccattaaag ctgcaatacg aaaaccttct ggatcctcaa    240
              accaatcatc ttcaccttca tttttcattt ctaaattcaa ccaattgaat ctcaactact    300
              tcaacagcac ctacaaacat ccaagcttaa cccaacatgc aagaagaatg ggagaaagca    360
              atcaccaagc tgcaacatcg tcaagattgg ggttaaagca tagtggaggc gagatcgttg    420
              aggttcaagg aggtcacatt gttcggtcaa ttggaagaaa agaccgtcac agcaaagttt    480
              gcaccgctaa aggtcctcga gaccgtcgtg ttcgtctctc cgctcacacc gccatccagt    540
              tctacgacgt tcaggaccgc cttggttacg accgtcctag caaagctgtg gattggctta    600
              tcaaaaaagc caaatccgcc attgacgagc tcgctgaact acctccttgg aacccacaaa    660
              ccttgaaaac aacgacttca accacgaaac aaaataatca acaagatcaa aacataatca    720
              cagcagtaga caatgaaaag cccagaagaa cggctacatt aatgggaaac caagttcaaa    780
              ttcttcagca acaaggaacg ggagataacc cgaatagtaa ttcgggtttt cttccatctt    840
              ctttagtttc tgatgagatt gcagatacta tgaagtcttc ttttccattg ggagcttcca    900
              gtgaggcacc gtcttcttct attcagtttc agaattatcc accagatttt ttgtccaaaa    960
              ccagcagcca cagtcaagat ctgcggcttt cgcttcagtc atttccggag ccggttcttc   1020
              tccaccacca tcaccaagct gctgcagctc aggcacatca aactgaatct gttttattct   1080
              ctgcaggaac cagcccttta gctggctttg atggatcttc agctggatgg gaaaatcacc   1140
              accaccatcc ggctgaggta ggaaggcttc agagattggt tgcctggaat aatggtgctg   1200
              ctgctgctga tactggtagt ggcggtggcg gtggaatggg aggatttctc tttggcaatc   1260
                                                    439

<removed-date>
              tatcagcacc gccactatca ccggcttttg gccaaagcgg ccagtttttc tttcagaggg   1320
              gaccccttca gtccagtaac acgcccttgg ttcgtgcttg gatagaccag ccaattccaa   1380
              caaccgacga ataccatcat catcatcatc aaatcccaca aaatatccat caccaacctg   1440
              ctttatctgg cattgaattc accacatcag gtgtattctc tggatttcgc gttccagcac   1500
              ggttccaggg cgcacaagag gatcaagaca gcatcgcaaa taagctgtcc tctgcttcct   1560
<removed-apn>
              ctgactctca ccattgatcc aataaaatgg agaaaagcca aagtctttcc cctctaacag   1620
              tgaagtaaat gaggagatgc tgctcgattc aacaccagtt tgagggaaga ttttggtcac   1680
              ttcaaatcaa tggcctatgc cgtgggaaga agaaatctgg gttgatttca ggttattcaa   1740
              tccccggttc cattagtttc tatcagttca ttgtgttgta ctttgactat ttttttgact   1800
              gagctcttaa aactcagcta tggcttctct tcttgcagaa cttgtcatgt gttttttatg   1860
              ttactggaca tttgtttgca atgtttatgt tgattgctac tgttccctaa aaaaaaaaaa   1920
              aaaaaaaa                                                            1928
              <210>   427
              <211>   1775
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 427
              ccccgcgtcc gggtatgatg gaattagaat cattgaatgg cagtggcttt tgagagaggt     60
              cacagtatca ggtttcagtg tggtggcagt agcttataca gggagaggat attagcaagc    120
              aaagaacaac tacaacccat aacataaaaa agtatcctcc attaaaagct ggaacagcaa    180
              aagcaccaga gcctgactct ggatcctcaa aggcatcatc atcatcagca gcagcagcag    240
              caacatcaga atccatctca tatagaagga ggagaagaag aagaaattcc gaggaaccaa    300
              cagcaaatct tgtttctcca tcatcaacaa cagcaagagc aacagttgta tgcaagactg    360
              gaaactcaag tactacgaga gcagcaaggg caacaacaac agcaagagta cccacaacca    420
              cccaagaaac gctcttatct gccgtcggct tctacttcaa cttttggttc caaatcaacc    480
              caacatgcaa gaaaaatggg agatagccac caccaagctg caacatcgtc aagattgggg    540
              ataaggcact ctggagggga gatcgttgag gtccaaggag gtcacattgt tcggtcaact    600
              ggaaggaaag accgtcacag caaagtttgt actgccaaag gtcctcgaga ccgacgtgtt    660
                                                    440

<removed-date>
              cgtctctcag ctcacaccgc catccagttc tacgacgtcc aggaccgact tggctacgat    720
              cgtcctagca aagccgtgga ttggcttatc aaaaaagcca aacctgccat tgacgagcta    780
              gctgaactac ctccttggaa ccctgaaact ttgaatacaa ccacttcgat cgctaaaact    840
              agtaaccaag aagaccaaaa cgcgacaacc gcaaccgaca atgataagcc gtatcagttc    900
              cacaccaacc atagtggaaa cctggtggaa aaccttgctg ctgggtcgcg tcctcggcct    960
<removed-apn>
              ggtgcggcta cattaatggg aaatcaagtt caaattcttc agcaacaaga aatgggagat   1020
              aacccgaata gtaattcggg ttttcttcca tcttctttag tttctgatga gatagcggat   1080
              actatgaagt cttttttccc attgggagct tccagtgagg caccgtcttc ttctattcag   1140
              tttcagaatt atccaccgga ttttttgtcc aaaaccagca gccacagtca agatctgcgg   1200
              ctttcgcttc agtcatttcc ggagccggtt cttctccacc accatcacca agctgctgca   1260
              gctcaggcac atcaaactga atctgtttta ttctctgcag gaaccagccc tttagctggt   1320
              tttgatggat cttcagctgg atgggaaaat caccaccacc atccggctga ggtaggaagt   1380
              gcttcagaga tttggttgcc tggaataatg gtgctgctgc tgctgatact tggtagtggc   1440
              ggtggcggtg gactgggagg atttctcttt ggcaatccat cagcaccgcc actatcaccg   1500
              gcttttggcc aaaacggcca gtttttcttt cagaggggac cccttcagtc cagtaacacg   1560
              cccttggttc gtgcttggat agaccagcca attccaacaa ccgacgaata ccatcatcat   1620
              catcatcaaa tcccacaaaa tatccatcac caacctgctt tatcttggca ttgaattcac   1680
              cacatcaggt gtattctctg gatttcgcgt tccagcacgg ttccagtgcg cacaagagtg   1740
              atcaagacag catcgcaaat aagcttgcct ctgca                              1775
              <210>   428
              <211>   588
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 428
              ttacatagga atgtatgccg agcagctcga gatgctgtcc atcgcttttg ctgcagacag     60
              tgacaaagga atgctctacg tgttgaatgg ttgcaagaaa cttcgcaagc tagagatcag    120
              ggactgcccc tttggtgacg cagcacttct agaggacgtg ggaaagtatg aaacaatgcg    180
              atccctttgg atgtcctcct gtgaagttac cctcggaggc tgtaagtcag ttgctgagaa    240
                                                       441

<removed-date>
              gatgccgagc ctaaatgtgg agatcataga tgagagtgaa caaatggaat ttaaccttga    300
              cgacaagcag aaggtagaca agatgtatct gtatcgaaca ttagtcgggc ataggaaaga    360
              tgcaccagaa tatgtgtgga ttttgtaggt gcattggttt ggctcagcca ttatttatct   420
              ttgcttattt aagtagttgt acgttgttag gagaaccccg attttaatgt attattagct   480
              tgtggtgatc tagcctttat gctattgttg tttgttattt ataaatagat ttgttttaag   540
<removed-apn>
              taatccttgt tatttataaa tggatctgtt ttaagtattt ttcagaat                588
              <210>   429
              <211>   1494
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 429
              gcacgagggg agctggattt acaagaaaat gaagttgagg atcatagagg ccattggctt     60
              agttgctttc ctgaaagctg cacatctctt gtctccctca atttcgcatg cctcaaagga    120
              gaaataaact tagcatctct cgaaagactt gtggcaaggt cgcctaacct caagagtttg    180
              aggttaaacc gcatggtgcc gcttgatacg ctccaaaaac tgttgatgcg agcaccccaa   240
              ctggtggact tgggtattgg gtcttatgtg gatgatccat cttctgaggt cttcagcaaa   300
              ctgaaaactg tcattcaatt gtgcaattca atcaggagtt tatctgggtt tttggaggtt   360
              gctccttgtt gcatgtcagc tatttatcct atttgcgaaa acctgacatt cttgaacttg   420
              agctatgctc cgggtcttca aggtaatgat ctcacgaagc tggttcagca ctgcaggaaa   480
              cttcagcgtc tctggatact ggattgtatt ggagacaaag gactcggagt tgtagcttca    540
              acttgtaaag aattgcagga attgagggtt ttcccatcgg atccatttga tgccggaaat    600
              gctgcagtga cagaggaagg tttggtcctt atatcatcag gatgtcctaa gctcaactca   660
              ttgctgtatt tctgtcatca gatgacgaat gctgccctca tcactgtagc caagaattgc   720
              acaaatttta tccgtttcag gttgtgcatc cttgaccccg taaaagctga ccctgtaacc   780
              aatcagccat tggatgaagg ttttggggca attgtccggt ctaacaagag tctgaagcgg   840
              ttatcactct ctggccttct gactgatcag gtttttcttt acataggaat gtatgctaag   900
              aagctcgaaa tgctgtccat tgcttttgcc ggcgacagta acaaaggaat gctctacgtg   960
              ttgaacggtt gcaaaaaact ccgcaagcta gagattaggg actgcccctt tggtgacgta   1020
                                                    442

<removed-date>
              gcacttttac aggacatggg aaagtatgaa acaatgcgat ccctttggat gtcctcctgc   1080
              gaagttaccc tcggagcctg caagaccctc gcaaagaaga tgccaagcct gaatgtggag   1140
              atcataaacg aaagtgaaaa gttggaaagt gaacagttgg aatttagctt cgatgatagg   1200
              cttctggtag acaagatgta tttgtatcgg acattggtgg gggataggaa agatgcgccg   1260
              gagtatgtgt ggcttttgta ggtgcattat tttggctcag ccgttttcat ttctgttttg   1320
<removed-apn>
              ttaaaactag agtactactt tgttagggac aattttattt tcatggatct agctggtcgg   1380
              tgatctagag atgtatgcta cctttgttta atttacaaga gatttggtat ttgtagtccg   1440
              cgttcctccc cgctggcttc ctttccagca atgcaatgaa gtttgtggat taag         1494
              <210>   430
              <211>   2430
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 430
              aacttatagt tgttaaagat tcttcagatc tatgtaaatt ttatggattt ttttgggtat     60
              ttgccttttt tttcttctcc tttttaaact gtaatgtaat tatagttctt tgatttttga    120
              agatgatcgt gggaaagaat ctattttccc ttcattttca ctacagaaaa aaaatctctt    180
              ttattttttc tcgagagaat tcgagttcct tttcactctc tttcacttcg gttcttgaaa    240
              gagatgtgag tttttaaaga aaaagcttat tttattttat tttaaatttc cactatgagt    300
              cttaggtaaa atcttcagat ctggtgaatt cttgtggatt tcatcaagat ctctgccttt    360
              tcatgtaggg aattcttcat tttttttccc ttttttttcc ttcttttccc tggttttctc    420
              gggagaaagg aaaacaaaaa aagaaagtaa aactgtgtat gttctggtgg gggaaagtag    480
              taaaacaata aaagatgaat tatttcccag atgaagtttt agagcacgtg tttgatttca    540
              tcacatctca caaagaccgt aactcagtgt ctttagtttg caaatcgtgg tacaaaatcg    600
              aaagatacag caggcaaagg gttttcattg ggaactgtta ttccatcagc ccagagaggt    660
              tgatcgccag attccctggc ttgaagtcgc tgactttgaa agggaagccg catttcgccg    720
              acttcaattt ggtgccacat gattggggag gtttcgttta tccttggatc gaagccttgg    780
              ctaagagccg aatcggattg gaagaactta ggcttaagag gatggtggtg tctgatgaga    840
              gcctcgagct gctttccaaa tcatttgtga attttaagtc tttggtcctt gttagttgtg    900
                                                    443

<removed-date>
              aaggcttcac tactgatggt cttgccgcta ttgctgctaa ttgtaggttt cttagggagc    960
              tggatttaca agaaaatgaa gttgatgatc atagaggtca ttggcttagt tgctttcctg   1020
              aaagctgtac ctctctgatt tccctgaatt ttgcctgcct tagaggagaa gtgaacttag   1080
              gagctcttga aagacttgtg tcaagatctc ccaacctcaa gagtttacga ctaaaccgtg   1140
              cggtcccgct tgataccctc caaaaactat tgatgcgagc tcctcaactg gtggacttgg   1200
<removed-apn>
              gaatcgggtc ttatgtacat gatccattct ctgaggccta taacaaattg aaaattgcca   1260
              ttcaaaggtg caaatcaatc aggagtttat cggggttttt ggaggttgct cctcattgca   1320
              tgtcggctat ttatccgatt tgtggaaacc tgaccttctt gaacttgagt tatgctccag   1380
              gccttcatgg taataagctg atgaagctga ttcagcattg caggaaactt cagcgtctat   1440
              ggatactgga ttgtattgga gataagggac taggagtagt ggctttgaca tgtaaagaat   1500
              tgcaggaatt gagggttttc ccatctgatc cctttgaagc tggaaatgct gccgtgactg   1560
              aggaaggttt ggtcctagta tctgcaggct gtccaaagct caattcgctg ctgtacttct   1620
              gtcagcagat gacgaatgct gccctcataa ctgtagctaa gaactgcccg aattttatcc   1680
              gcttcagatt gtgcatcctt gaccccataa aacctgaccc tgtaaccaat cagccattgg   1740
              atgaaggttt tggggcgatt gtccagtctt gcaagggtct caagagacta tcactctctg   1800
              gccttctgac tgatcaggtt tttctttaca taggaatgta tgccgagcag ctcgagatgc   1860
              tgtccatcgc ttttgctgcg gacagtgaca aaggaatgct ctacgtgttg aacggttgca   1920
              agaaacttcg caagctagag atcagggact gcccctttgg tgacgcagca cttctagagg   1980
              acgtgggaaa gtatgaaaca atgcgatccc tttggatgtc ctcctgtgaa gttaccctcg   2040
              gaggctgcaa gtcagttgct gagaagatgc cgagcctaaa tgtggagatc atagatgaga   2100
              gtgaacaaat ggaatttaac cttgacgaca agcagaaggt agacaagatg tatctgtatc   2160
              gaacattagt cgggcatagg aaagatgcac cagaatatgt gtggattttg taggtgcatt   2220
              ggtttggctc agccattatt tatctttgct tatttaagta gttgtacgtt gttaggagaa   2280
              ccgattttaa tgtattatta gcttgtggtg atctagcctt tatgctattg ttgtttaatg   2340
              tacaagagat ttgctatttt gtaatccttg ttatttataa atggatctgt tttaagtatt   2400
              tttcagaatc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                    2430
                                                    444

<removed-date>
              <210>   431
              <211>   1429
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 431
              gcggcccctt cggcggccgg cctccctcaa cttttattac tccactaagt ctaacaatga     60
              caacattaag tccactagat gattactacc cccaaaataa aaggcgacag aaatccataa    120
<removed-apn>
              acatccaaaa ttctataaat tgtattagat ggtaacaatg gggaaacaaa taaaaccttt    180
              gattgattac acaacaaccg gagtttccat ctttttatta attttttacg tggtgtaccc    240
              gatagctcag gcaagggcga cacgtatggc aatctagctc tcaaagcctt gaacagcctc    300
              catattatgt tcccactcca atcatgtctg cgccattata ttaggctgca taaaactgaa    360
              ccgggaacaa tgagtaacgc aatgaacatg tacctgagac attcattctt gagatcaatc    420
              gagctgaatc caaggaaatt tctcatgaaa gcctcaatcc agaatcttca tccattgtcc    480
              aaacaaaagg aggcatgtcg aaccttggcc ctgcaatgga cctatatatg tagagcttat    540
              caactgggca gttctctggt cttgaatcag gaggtcccct ctcatctata acttcaacat    600
              tcaaccttgg catcttctga cctagcagct tacatgctgc gaagctcaca gcgcaagaag    660
              acatccaaag ggatcgcatt gtctccagct ttgcagcatt ggccaaaaga gccttgtcac    720
              caaaggggca atctctgatc tccagtttcc gaaggctttc acacccggaa agcacatgat    780
              gtagtcccaa atcactatct cctgcaaaag ccacagacag catctcaagc ttcttcgcgt    840
              atgtcccaat atattcgaat acacgatctg taagaagacc agagagggaa agacgcctga    900
              gatccttgca gtactgaaca atggctccaa aaccaacatc aagtggctcg agagtcaggt    960
              aatcagctgt tttaggctca attatacaaa ggcgaaacct tgtgaagttt ggacggctac   1020
              gagcaatggt aactaatgcc tcattagaca ttcggcggca gaagtacaat actgattgta   1080
              gcttgggaca acccaaagat acggcaacaa ggccctgttc tgtcaaggac acatttggct   1140
              ctgcaccaaa tggatcagat ggaaacacgc gtaattcttg caagtccttg caactagatg   1200
              caagcacctc aagcccacta tcttcaatgt aatcaagtac cgaacggaat aggcgctgca   1260
              aattcggaca gtggcttaca agcttgataa gatcaggact ttgtatagta gcatagctca   1320
              ggttcagtga tgttaattta gagcagacag ggtaaatggc aggaaggtaa tccgggatca   1380
                                                    445

              catcccaaaa tccagacaag ctctttagtt ccttgcaact agaaagcac               1429
<removed-date>
              <210>   432
              <211>   1089
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 432
              gtcaaatgtc taatgcagct ttagtcacca ttgctcagaa ctgtccaaac ttcactcgtt     60
<removed-apn>
              ttcgtctttg tcttcttgat ccaaaaatag ccgactaccg gacccttcag ccacttgatg    120
              taggttttgg agccattgtt gagcactgca aggatctgag acgcctttcc ctctctggtc    180
              tcctcacaga tcgtgtattt gaatatatcg ggatgcatgc gaaaaagcta gagatgctgt    240
              ctgtggcttt tgcaggagaa agcgatttgg cacttcatca tgtgctttct gggtgtgaaa    300
              gtctccggaa actggagatt atgaactgcc ccttcgggga caaggctcta ttagcgaacg    360
              ctgcaaagct ggagacaatg cgatcccttt ggatgtcttc ttgctctgtg agtctcggag    420
              catgtaagat gctaggtcaa aagatgccca ggttgaatat cgaagttatg gacgagaagg    480
              gacctccaga ttcaagagca gaaagtgacc cggtcgataa gctctacata tatagatctg    540
              ttgccgggcc gaggttcgat atgcctccat ttgtttggac gatggacgaa gattttgcat    600
              cagagctctc ttgagaatta ggcaacatgt tagtaaaaac tcttttaatc tcaagaatca    660
              atgcatcagg tacatgctcc tttatgttac tcattattcc cttagcttaa tctaattgca   720
              gaccttattg aagggtgtaa aatggttttg agctccatcg cctttcgttt tagtagtggc   780
              tggcggagcc atcggaaaca caatgatcaa taaagagatg gaaactccag ttgtggatta    840
              atcaagagtt tttattttat tttatttgtt tcttccccat agttgccatg cgtaatgttg    900
              gatgtttatg ccatttgtat tatctttttg ggggtagtaa atcttaatta ttatctgttc    960
              tctcaatgct caaattatgt tttggtccct tgactaacct cattgactct gtatcaaagc   1020
              tttaggttct taagtatttt cgacccttaa aaatgatgta ttcattagcc cttcatattt   1080
              ttgttagaa                                                           1089
              <210>   433
              <211>   1081
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
                                                    446

              <400> 433
<removed-date>
              gtttttgttg actacattag agcagcaatg gcctccaccg catgcttctt gcaccaccat     60
              gcactcacct ccgcacccag atcatcatca actccaccct ccacatccca gcgccaagtt    120
              gcaatcgtca agtcaaatca actgctggct tgcatttcac agaaacaggc agtccaagaa    180
              aatgataatt cccgaagcag cgccgtgatc tcccgtcggt tggctctcac tctgctcatc    240
              ggtcctgcag cggttggctc taaggtttct cctgctgatg ctgcctatgg tgaagctgca   300
<removed-apn>
              aatgtatttg gaaagccaaa aacaaacaca gagttcatcc catacaatgg ggaagggttc   360
              aagctgtcaa taccatcaaa atggaaccca agcaaagagg ttgagtaccc aggtcaagtc   420
              ctgagatacg aggacaactt cgactccacc accaatgttg ctgtcatggt cactcctact    480
              gataagaagt ccattactga cttcggttcc cctgaaaatt tcctctctaa ggtggactat    540
              ctgcttggaa aacaagcata ctctggctta actgatgctg agggtgggtt tgactcaaat    600
              gcagtggcaa ctgcaaacat attggagact tcaactcctg tgatcggagg gaaacagtac    660
              tacttcttgt cggtgttgac gagaactgct gatggagatg aaggtggcaa gcaccaacta    720
              attacagcca ccgtaaacaa tggtaaactt tacatttgca aagcacaagc tggggataag   780
              cggtggttta aaggagctag aaagtttgtg gagagtgctg caaattcctt cagtgttgct   840
              tagttaaaag tcttacttgt taactagaga ataatttcat gtaaatcttg ttagaaatta   900
              tctgatgttg gacctaagtt tgtatattat cctactcccc cttcctccaa agcttctggt    960
              ttctgttttc tgtttctgtt tctgtctagt cgtcaggaaa cttttggata tctgtatata   1020
              tgtttcttaa ttggcacatt atcaaggcgg aaccctaatg aatattcctc tttctaaaaa   1080
              a                                                                   1081
              <210>   434
              <211>   1793
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 434
              gaaccaccac caagaagaag aagaagaaga agaagaagaa gaagcagaac caaaccgggt     60
              tttgttttgg ttctctcttc caatggcttc caccattttc atccaacctt cgtttacgtc   120
              aaagtctttg aataaatccc tgaataccca tttcgtccct tccttcaaac tccccggttt   180
              ggtctctttc aagccccgaa cggtttccca gttgtcggtt cgagccgggt tgatcgagcc    240
                                                    447

<removed-date>
              ggacggtggg aagctcgtgg acctccacgt ggcggagccg gagcgggggt tgaagaagcg    300
              agaagcggct ctgttgccca gggtgaagct gaccaggatc gacttgcaat gggtccatgt    360
              tttgagtgag ggctgggcaa gccccctcac cgggttcatg agagaatccg agttcctcca    420
              aactcttcat tttaattcgc tccgactcgg cgatggttct ttcgtcaaca tgtcggtgcc    480
              gattgtgttg gcgattgatg attctcaaaa ggagaggatc gctgagtcca aaagagtcac    540
<removed-apn>
              gctcgttgac tcggatgata accccgtcgc gatcctcaac aacattgaga tttataagca    600
              cccgaaggaa gaaaggatag cgaggacatg gggaactact gcccctggat tgccatatgt    660
              tgaggaaact ataacaaaag ctggaaattg gctcattgga ggtgatttgg aggttataga    720
              gccgatcaag taccatgatg gtctcaatcg ttttcggctt tcacctgttg agttacgtca    780
              agagtttgaa aaacgcaatg ctgatgctgt gtttgcattc cagctcagaa atcctgttca    840
              caatggtcat gctttgctaa tgaccgatac tcgtcgtagg cttcttgaga tggggtacaa    900
              gaaccccata cttttgcttc atccattggg aggctacacg aaggcagatg atgttccact    960
              tagttggcga atgaaacaac acgagaaggt gctcgaggac ggtgttctcg atcctgaaac   1020
              aacagtggtc tctatattcc catctcctat gcactatgct ggcccaactg aagtgcagtg   1080
              gcatgctaaa gctcggatca atgcaggggc taatttttat atcgttggta gagacccagc   1140
              tggcatgggc catcccattg agaagagaga cctgtatgat gccgatcacg ggaaaaaggt   1200
              cttgagcatg gcgcctggac tcgagcggct gaacatcctt ccgttcaggg ttgccgcgta   1260
              cgataagacc caaagcaaaa tggctttctt cgatccctcg agagctcaag acttcctctt   1320
              catatcaggc accaagatgc gagctcttgc gaagaacaaa gagaaccctc cagacggatt   1380
              catgtgccct ggcggttgga aagtgttggt caaatactac gacagcttga caccatccga   1440
              caacggaagg atccatgaag ccgttccggc ttagaccaat gtacgataaa gatactccat   1500
              atgattggga ggagcatatt taacactgtt tgatttccaa tgtgtgtgtg atgcagaatc   1560
              tctttaataa aaccatgaga ggcactggta cagagacaat gaaaaaagct tgcctctccc   1620
              tgtaattagg ttgcccccat tatggtgtct gccattggtg ctcgctttgc ttgtgggcaa   1680
              cattgtacta tttatgtctg tgtggtttgt tttgttctta tgaaaagcaa tggctatggg   1740
              acatgcttta atgttttctc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa acc          1793
                                                    448

<removed-date>
              <210>   435
              <211>   1916
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1782)..(1782)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 435
              aatattcata gagaacacaa cgcctttgtc tcgtctctct cacggttcct cgaccaaatc     60
              aagctaccaa aggccaggct ataaacagta caccccaacg ttgagtgttt tattttttga    120
              ttcaccgatc aaagctctta acaatggctt ccaccatctt cattcaaact ccgtttcaat    180
              ccaaatcttt gaacaaatcc ttgaataccc attttgttcc ttcctttaaa ctccctgttt    240
              ccctctcttt caaaccccgg accgctgcct tctccaaacg cgtccatatc cgagctggtt    300
              tgatcgaacc ggacggtggg aaacttgtcg acctccacgt gtcgaaaccg gagcgggagt    360
              tgaagaagcg ggaagcggct tcgttgccca aggtgaagct tactccgatc gacgtgcaat    420
              gggttcacgt tttgagtgaa ggctgggcta gcccgttaac cgggtttatg agggaatctg    480
              agttcctcca aactcttcat tttaactcgc tccggctcga cgatggttcc ttcgtcaata    540
              tgtcggtccc gattgtattg gctatcgacg atttgcaaaa agcgagtatc ggtgagtcca    600
              acagagtcgc tctccttgac tcggatgata aactcatcgc catcctcacc gacattgaga    660
              tttacaagca ccctaaggaa gaaaggatag caaggacttg ggggactaca gcccctggtt    720
              taccatacgt tgaagaaaca ataacaaatg ctggaaattg gttgattgga ggcgacttgg    780
              aggttatagc tccgatcaag tacaacgacg gtctcgatcg gtttcggttg tctccggtgg    840
              aactccgtaa agagtttgag aggcgcaatg ccgatgccgt gtttgctttc cagcttcgga    900
              atcctgttca taatggtcac gctttgttga tgaccgatac tcggcggctt ctcgagatgg    960
              gttataagaa tcccattctt ttgcttcatc cattgggagg ttacactaag gcagatgatg   1020
              ttcctcttag ttggcgaatg aaacagcacg agaaggtgct tgaggatggt gttcttgatc   1080
              ctgaaacaac tgtagtatct atattcccat ctccaatgca ctatgctggt ccaactgaag   1140
              tgcagtggca tgctaaggct cggattaatg ccggagccaa tttttacatt gtcggtagag   1200
                                                    449

              atccggctgg aatgggtcat ccggttgaga agagagattt atatgatgct gatcatggga   1260
<removed-date>
              agaaggtctt gagcatggct cctggacttg agcggctgaa catccttcct ttcagggttg   1320
              ctgcatatga taatacccaa ggtaaaatgg cgttcttcga tccctcgagg gctcaagact   1380
              tcctcttcat atcaggcacc aagatgcgga cattagcaaa gaacaaagag aaccctcctg   1440
              caggatttat gtgccctggc ggctgggaag tgttggtcga gtattatgcc agcttaacac   1500
              catcggacaa tgacagaata ccgcaacccg ttgctgctta gatgaattga atttggaagc   1560
<removed-apn>
              aaacctcgaa acactattta tctccatcgc gtaatctgga ccttgtgaag tctcttgtgt   1620
              ccagattttt gttcaataaa aaccatgtgg agaccctgtt tcatagtcat gaaacttgcc   1680
              tccttgttac taggatgccc attaaggcat ccaccattga ttccattaag ccatttaagc   1740
              gtaagggcaa attgtactat atatataaat atattacgtt anctttttta gggggcccca   1800
              aatttttttt cggggggaat tttgggaaaa taaaaaggtt ttaaaggggc ccatttcccc   1860
              caaagggggg ccaaaaaaaa tttccggggg ccccttttta aaaccccggg ggggga       1916
              <210>   436
              <211>   1503
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 436
              ataggcgggt cattatcgca tgtcaccatt atttattgac tgaactagac ttgttttcag     60
              aagattacaa tcatagagtg agttaaccca aacgcttcaa acaatcatgg gttccttgcc    120
              tcacactgct gcggaggctc agcagctaga cctcgaggat tccagtcgaa ccgagagagt    180
              gcagtggctg attaattcac ctgagcctcc tagtttatgg caggaactag ttggtacagt    240
              caaaggaagt ttgttaactc ctggaaaaaa gaattcctca tccaacgcca aggggaaaca    300
              tgccatgtcc ttcctccgag gtctgtttcc gatcctcagc tggggaagga attacaaggc    360
              ttcatttttt aaacatgatt taatggcggg tttaacactc gcaagtctta gcattcctca    420
              gagtattgga tatgctaatt tagcgaaact tgatcctcaa tacggtctat acacaagcgt    480
              cgtcccacct cttatatatg cggtaatggg gagttcaaga gagatagcta tcggaccggt    540
              agccgtggtt tcaatgctgc tatcttccat gattccaggc ctggtggatc ctgcaattga    600
              ccccattggg tacacaagtc tagtgttcac cgtgacattc tttgctggaa ctttccaagc    660
                                                    450

              catatttgga ttgtttagac tggggttcct ggtggatttt ctttcacatg ctgcagtggt    720
<removed-date>
              tggattcatg gcgggtgcag ccattgtgat agggcttcag caactgaagg gactatttgg    780
              actgagtcac ttcaccacta aaaccgatgt agtgtcagtt ttgacctcgg tttccaaatc    840
              agttaaacat gaatggtatc ctctaaattt cgtcctcggt ttatccttcc tggtattcct    900
              ccttgtcgcc aggtttatcg gaaaaagaaa caaaaagctc ttctggttcc cagcaatagc    960
              tcctctattg tcagtcatat tatccaccct gattgtatat ttaaccaggg ctgacaatca   1020
<removed-apn>
              tggggtgaag atagtaaaac acttaaaagg aggcctcaat ccaagctcag tccatcgttt   1080
              acaatttaat ggcacacatg ttgcagaagc agccaaaatc gggttgattt ctgccattgt   1140
              tgctctcact gaagccatcg cagttggccg atcatttgct tcaattaatg gataccattt   1200
              agacggtaac aaggaaatgt tggcaatggg gttcatgaac cttgcaggat ctctaacttc   1260
              ttgctacgta gccactggtt cattttccag gactgcagtg aattttagcg caggctgcaa   1320
              gactgtcgtg tcaaatatag tgatggcgat tacagtgata ttggcattgg agttgtttac   1380
              caggctactg tattacaccc ctgtcgccat ccttgcttcc atcatcatgt ctgcacttcc   1440
              tggacttatt gacatcaatg aagcttaccg tatctggaag gttgacaaac tagatttcct   1500
              agc                                                                 1503
              <210>   437
              <211>   1372
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 437
              tcggatctct tttgaatgat gagtggaaga aacaggtttc cttttactgc atctcagtat     60
              caagagcttg aacatcaagc tctaatcttc aagtacatgg tctcaggcat ccctatacca    120
              cctgatctac tcttcaccat caagagaagc tgcttggata cctcactttc ttcaaggctt    180
              ttctcttacc agcctcaaca tattggatgg aactgtttcc agatgggatt ggggagaaaa    240
              gtggacccag aacctggaag gtgtagaaga actgatggaa agaaatggaa atgctctaaa    300
              gaagcctacc cagattcaaa gtactgtgaa agacacatgc atagaggcaa aaaccgttca    360
              agaaagcctg tggaagttag taatgcaaca atggcaaatc cttcaacagc aactcaaaac    420
              atctcatcaa tcaccaagac acaccacccc ccttcttttt cttctctttc ttccatgtcc    480
                                                    451

              ttgtcttctg aatcccaaca gcagcaccaa cttcgctacc atggttatca ttcccaggcg    540
<removed-date>
              aatcacccct ttatgtatcc ccatgcatcg agacctccag gggttggcct gtcacctcaa    600
              gaaaacacca cacattctct cctcggctct ggctcttact cccagactaa cacggattac    660
              aggagaaaca gttatgttta tgggttgaaa gaagaagtag atgaacatgc ttttttctct    720
              gaaccttccg gtacaatgag gagtttctca ggttcatctg tggatgattc atggcaactt    780
              gcaccactaa caatgagctc ctcttcctca aagcagagga actgttctgg attacagagt    840
<removed-apn>
              gaatactctt acttgcagct tcaaagcctc actgatcaca acccgaaaca aaacaaacag    900
              gatgctgatg aacattccta tatcaaatat gaaatgactg atgaattgga gaaaggagaa    960
              ccccaaaaga cagtccatcg tttctttgat gaatggccac caaaacatag agattcatgg   1020
              cttgatttgg atgataaatc atcaaacagc tcatcagttt caacaaccag actctctata   1080
              tccatccctt ccacttcaca tgacttcccc attttcaatt caagagctca taatgatggt   1140
              tgaatgtcca gtggtaggtt tctgcattag aggccaaaga tgtacgtagt ggggatcact   1200
              tctttctgtg aattctgact gtttagtctt tcatttattt cttccttctc ctttggcttt   1260
              ttgttttatt gttttttgtt ttctgttctc tttttgctaa atatggttaa attgggttgt   1320
              gtttcttttt tccccttatt aatgaatgat ccaatgactt cttactggtt tt           1372
              <210>   438
              <211>   1116
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 438
              gaaaaaaaat ctattcttac tgctgcaact ttcatagtgt gtgtaaatct tttaggcctt     60
              ttactactgc taatccagct gtatgttgcc agtccatact gcatcttctt ctctgctttt    120
              gaccctcata ctgattatca agaaatggaa cctcaataca cacctctcaa gattgcccgt    180
              tttgcagact tcgggatggg gcttacaaac atggagagta atatgttgag tggtggagaa    240
              gggtcgcctc caattgggct aggtcttgag cttggacgtg gatctgatca tagaccaact    300
              gggttcacaa aatcgtgtgg cttcactgtt tttcaactgc aagaactgca gcttcaatct    360
              cttatctaca agtacatgga agctggtctc cctgtcccta atcatctcct tctccctcta    420
              tggaaaagtg ttgctggttc tcttggtggt ctccatgcca atccttatca actctactct    480
                                                    452

              aactatttgg gttctggacc attgcacttg gagtataaga atggggttga tccagagcca    540
<removed-date>
              ggaagatgta gacgtacgga tgggaagaaa tggaggtgca gcaaagaagc agtcccagac    600
              cataaatact gtgagagaca catgcataga ggccgacagc gttcaggaaa gcttgtggaa    660
              gcttctcaag ctaccagtag tggtagtcgt attatcaggc atggaaatgc tgacaccaac    720
              ctctccattt ctctgcaact tgataacagt aatactagca gtagtggcag cagcagcaat   780
              ctttcttccg gctttattgg tttctcccca aagagtgttc ttcgtggaag taacccaaaa   840
<removed-apn>
              tctgaatctt caatacaatt tcaagaaatt tagaagaaaa gaaaaaaaga aaggtttaac   900
              aatgacagat ctctatcgtt cgtttgtagg ttaagcgggt tgcctggtgg tgagtagtga    960
              tgatgatggg ctccatttgt aatggaattt gtaagcttgg aaacgtgacg atagttatgt   1020
              ttccacgggc cccttttttt tttttggtca tcggttgctc tttttcacac tgctgtggtt   1080
              aaatgacaat gaaatgctaa acttttatat ggttcc                             1116
              <210>   439
              <211>   1400
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 439
              agcagaaaaa tgatgctctt tcattcattc cattaaaact gcaatgtctg attttttttt     60
              ccagttactt gctagggttt gttttatttt ataccaaaac cctaaacctt acagtgtact   120
              gacactacac acattcatgc tgaagcaaaa tcatcaaaga gtacaatact agtcagtagc   180
              tagaacactt ccaggccttt tctccgatcg gggttccagg aaatcccaaa tatctgttca    240
              ttcaaccatc tgcagcgtaa ttcaaatgtg ggtttcggag gatcaactat ggagtttgaa    300
              actcaccgtg tggagaatga gaaccagttg tggagaagtc agatgatgcc atcggaatgg    360
              atatcgatag ctgtgttgta gaaaatgagg tctggttgga tctgtcatct tcaagagctg    420
              accaggtgtc cctggtttta ggccactcgt caaagaacgg ccgaagagat tgaccctcgg   480
              gcttcacagt ttctcccgag ttgaaatcgc tgaaaaacga atgctgaggg taatcattca   540
              gtaagaccgg gttgccatcg gattttgact gaggaaatga agagactcta gattgcatta   600
              gaggccatgt gtcccggttg cttcccaaag cctcagagat gaaactatgc ccacccgcgt   660
              cgggttttat tccttgagac ctataatctt tcctcgggat tccatagggg attgactcca    720
                                                    453

              catgataatt agactgaccg gttgccaaag cagtgacttg cgtaccacca aaggcatgta    780
<removed-date>
              atggaaggct ctggaagctt gccgtcccag tcccaccacc actggtagta ctaccagaaa    840
              cagtcaatga tgtcacagta gataatgact gtgccatagt ttgtgattcc acaggctttc    900
              ttgaacggtt acggccacgg tgcatatggc gctcgcaata ctttgagtcc ggatacgcat    960
              ctttggaaca ccgccatttc ttgccatcgg tcctcctaca tcgtcctggc tccggatcca   1020
              ccttcttccc ataaaaggaa caatacccca tggtagggtg gtgaaagaac ctatgagata   1080
<removed-apn>
              tggactcaaa gctcttctga atagggagca caagatcagg tggcactggc aaacctgcca   1140
              tcatatactt aaagatcaaa gcttgatgtt ccagctcctg ccactgtgac actgtaaatg   1200
              gtgatgatga acgacctcat tgctaccatc cccacaccgg cactctcagc ccccccacca   1260
              cctccaccac cgccactatt catccttcaa tcaccaccca agaaacttgt acttaataaa   1320
              ttatacaaca acactggtac aaaagggcaa aagaaaacaa taaaaaaaga aaagaaaagc   1380
              tcgatttgcc cactattttt                                               1400
              <210>   440
              <211>   1055
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 440
              attttcttga gtgtagagtt ttggtagttt gatttttctt tgttggccat atggattttg     60
              gggtagtggg ttttgagggg tttataggtt cagagactgc aactggtttt tcctctcttg    120
              gttcagatca tcaagagaca agccaaaagt ggtacggatc tgggggtttg ttcaagcaag    180
              agagatcttg caacaatgaa gatgagttga ggagttcaaa actggccaaa attcatgatg    240
              atttttcagg ctcttctaag ccattgatgt tccaccacag aaatacttca ttgagatcca    300
              atgcctctat cttctttgat gaacaagaag agcaacaaat gctgagcttc tcagccccaa    360
              aaccagatgc tctttcagtg gatagaagct ccaaaaatgt cacatttcct cacatttacc    420
              tcacagggta caacaacgga ggatttaatg gtgcaaacat gcatggagtg tgtaaaggtc    480
              cattcactcc atgtcaatgg atggagcttg aacaccaggc tttgatctta aagtacatac    540
              ttgcaaatgt gcctgtacct tctaatcttc tcctccctat aagaaaatcc cttgattcta    600
              ccgatttctc gagcttttct ggtggacact tcagatccaa tacatcgatg ggatgggaag    660
                                                    454

              cttttcaatt tgggttctca aacaacactg atccagagcc aggaaggtgt cgcagaactg    720
<removed-date>
              atggaaagaa atggcggtgc tcgagagatg ctgttgctgg ccagaagtac tgcgagcggc    780
              acatgaacag aggtcgccat cgttcaagaa agcctgtgga aggccaacct ggccattccg    840
              tcacagccac tgccgccact acttccaagc tgatgcctaa tgtctcatcc tcttcagcat    900
              cagcggtagg gccagttggt ggtagtggtg agcccaacag cctcaccagt gctcggcaga    960
              agtacgagaa tttgcagctt ggtggcacat ctaatctttc tgctgcagct tcactgaaca   1020
<removed-apn>
              ggtcgattct gaataaagac actgtaggtg aaaaa                              1055
              <210>   441
              <211>   2034
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 441
              aactccacca cactcaacta tacatatcac ctagtcattt aaagagaaga gatttgcttg     60
              gtggtctcct ttgaagtgtg tggctacaag tttttttctt tttctgcttt gggttccact    120
              cactgtctgc atattcaaaa gggatggaaa aaggggtttt cctaaatggg gaaagtggtt    180
              tcaatatggg tattggctgg agtttagcgt ttcagacaag gtagctaaag aaagtagtag    240
              cattgaagct tttgattttg ggtttgtgaa gcttttcaaa gtagtggtgt tattgttatt    300
              tagtacctaa gaagatgatg atggccaact gtgataatca tcatcatcac cgttcatttc    360
              catcatatgt ggttggttat ggtgatgttg atgctgatga tggtcccacg ggtaataaca    420
              acaacaggcc taagaccagt aatatatacg atgttttggc tagcagtgat tctagttctg    480
              gttttgctgc tactgttgct agtggcggtg cagttggtgt aaggatatta cagcagcctt    540
              ttgacatttc ccccacttca acctccactg ctattgtctc gtcctctgcc tgatgggaga    600
              tgttttgatt ttgtataaca acaggaggga tggcggcttc tttggagttt cctttcacgt    660
              tttcacagta taaggagctt cagagacaag ttatgatatt caagtacatg aaagcttcca    720
              ttgctgtgcc tcttgatctt ctcataccta ctatcgggag cccctctgtt tcagttgctt    780
              cccattctgc catggcaagg ttttctggta gagcggatgt tgagccaggg aggtgtagga    840
              gaacagatgg gaaaaaatgg aggtgctcta gagatgcgga gcctgaccaa aagtattgtg    900
              agcggcactt gcatagaggt cgtccccgtt caagaaagcc tgtggaactt cctaataaga    960
                                                       455

              agacccgcca tacccttagt caagcacatc cttcatcttc ctccaccact cgcccacagt   1020
<removed-date>
              ttgttgctca gcccttaaac cagaaccaga ccacctgttt tcttggtcag ccaagtgaaa   1080
              aagctgcacc attttggcct ttcacctctg tttcttccta caaggaaacc aggacttcgg   1140
              actgggatat gaacgaactt attccactag ctgatcagca gtggcatcat ctcatgccaa   1200
              tagggactgc tactgaaggt tctttgttca atgctggcca tccaagttat gacaaggagc   1260
              ctctgaactt gatttcatgt ccaaatatcg ggtcttgcag aaaaccaaca acgcaatact   1320
<removed-apn>
              agcccttggc ttcttaaccc tgagatagtt ccggtagaaa agtcgccacc tagaggtttc   1380
              attgatgcgt ggtctactgc tgtatcagat gaccaccttg ccaacacagg aactgaaacc   1440
              tctgttaatg ggaaactcac tctttcatcc ctttctttat caatgggaat caatagcttc   1500
              agggataatg agacaggacc tatccgtatg gggttggggg tgtgcgagta tgatcaggag   1560
              aaccatgaat acgcttccaa atgccacctt tctagctggt tagcccctgc ctctacacca   1620
              ggaggcccat tggccgaggt tctaaggccg agtgccactg cctcgtctcc cgtcgcggga   1680
              aatggaaatt cttgtagttc agcgatgacc ggagtgtctt caccgtctgg tgttttgcaa   1740
              aaagctcttg cttcatggtc tgatagcagc ggtagtagca gcccgacgat tgtttgttcc   1800
              agagccaaac ctgagatagg tttgatgttg gcttaaacga aattacaatt ccctcttttg   1860
              ttggaagtta actcaagatt ttactacaga cggatataat atgttctttt ttgtttctgt   1920
              atggttttaa gcacttagtt gcaggttatt atatacatat gtatcctgcc ttgttattac   1980
              aaacttgttg attttgttga ctaaaagaag agaatttgtc gtcgacgcgg ccgt         2034
              <210>   442
              <211>   1269
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 442
              gtggtggtgg ggggatgatg gcaataagga catcaccatt tacagtgtca caatggcaag     60
              aactggaaca tcaagctttg atctttaagt atatgatggc aggtttgcct gtgccacctg    120
              atcttgtgct ccctattcag aagagctttg agtccatttc tcataggttc tttcaccacc    180
              caaccatggg gtattcttcc ttctatggga agaaggtgga tccggagcca ggaagatgcc    240
              ggaggaccga cggcaagaaa tggcgttgct ccaaagatgc ataccctgac tccaagtact    300
                                                    456

              gtgagcggca tatgcatcgc ggccgtaacc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa tcgcaaacta    360
<removed-date>
              tggcacagtc atcatctact gtgacatcat tgactgtttc tggaaacagt ggtgggactg    420
              gaagcttcca gagccttccg ttacatgcct tcagtggttc tcaacaagtt actgcttctg    480
              gaactaatca gtcccattat catatggagt caatccccta tggaatccca agcaaagatt    540
              ataggtatct tcaaggagtt aagcctgagg tcggtgagca tagtttcgtt tcagaagctt    600
              cagggagcaa ccggggtttc cagatcgata ctcaaccgga aaatgcatgg cctgttatgc    660
<removed-apn>
              aatctagact ctcctcgttt cctcagtcaa aacccagtgg caacccctcc atgttgcaga    720
              atgattaccc ccagcatttg tttttgagcg aattcaactc tggggaacct gtgaaacacg    780
              agggtcaatc tcttcgacct ttctttgacg agtggcctaa aaccagagac tcttggtcag    840
              ctctggaaga cgagagatct aaccagaccc ctttctctac tacccagcta tcgatatcca    900
              ttccgatggc ttcaccagac ttctccacaa ccagttctcg ttctcccccc gctagttgag    960
              tgacaaaaaa tggggaaact ctgaagatca gagggccgag ccaagttgta gcttggtgct   1020
              taaacatgtg ctgcttgaag attcttcttt acctggccat tgtgttatat aactgtgggt   1080
              tttcagcgtc atttgtttgt actagagtat tagaccattg caaggttgag gttttaggtt   1140
              ataaaataaa acaaaattca agcaggtaaa ctgaaaaatc cagaatattg cagccttaat   1200
              ccaattgaaa gggcaagttt tctttatggg ttaattttac tattatttcc atcttaagaa   1260
              actttcaat                                                           1269
              <210>   443
              <211>   921
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 443
              gcaaaggcga tcatgtttaa gttcaagcta cttcttctga aatatcattc acacttaagt     60
              tctcgcagat ctctgtacca cctttcttta atctgtgttt cttttttttc ttcaatggat    120
              gcccaaccgg ttcaaactcg aattcttcca gattctgggg gtggtgggag tggggcccaa    180
              gagaggttgg aggggaaggg aaggacggtg aagatggaag aggaggagac ggagagggga    240
              ggatcaccgt cgatcaagtt gggactgggg attgatggga cgacgtcgga gaaacccgtg    300
              aagaaacacg ggaagtgtgt gtttacgaca gctcagttgc atgacctgca attacaaacg    360
                                                    457

              ctcatcttca aatacatagc gggtggaatc caagttcctg ttaaccttgt tatacccatt   420
<removed-date>
              tggaaaagcg tcgcttcctc ctttggctct gctcatggcg gtatctatga acggtatccc   480
              agttttgtag gagtcagtcc tcaaggattg gattatagga acatggcgga tcctgagccg   540
              ggaaggtgtc gaagaactga tgggaaaaaa tggcggtgca gtaagaatgt gattccttat   600
              cagaaatatt gtgaacagca catgcataga ggttgtcggc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa   660
              acttctcaat ccgctttgcc tgactcaaca tcatcaaaat tttcaatcag attgtcagaa   720
<removed-apn>
              aactcaaaaa accttccaac acctgtaagt tttcagtaca cgaacccatt ttcctgtaat   780
              accagcacca gccatggaac cactgctata gaaagcagct atgtatgcag caaccgaaac   840
              tccatttcta tcaatgctgc aactagtggc accatcattg ccacaatgaa gaacgacaac   900
              aaaaatgatc cgaaaaggaa c                                             921
              <210>   444
              <211>   1209
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 444
              atatccatac aagcaccgaa aagttttaaa agcttttagc tcagctagaa tggctatcaa    60
              tggtgatttc gtttccaaaa cgaccctttt tctggtcggt ttaattgcat tcatttcttt   120
              tccagcagaa gctgctgtaa ggaagtacca gtttgatatt caagtgaaga atgttagcag   180
              actgtgccat gcaaagccaa tcgtaacggt aaacgggagg tttccagggc ctacaatcta   240
              tgctagagag ggagacagag ttattgtcaa tgttacaaac catgcaaaat ataacatgtc   300
              cattcactgg catggattga agcaatatcg aaatggttgg gcggatggac cggcttacat   360
              aacacaatgt ccgattaaga cagggaatag ctacggttac gacttcaatg taacagggca   420
              aagaggaact ttatggtggc atgcacacat tctttggcta agggctacgg tgtatggagc   480
              cattgtcatc atgccgaaac aaggaatgcc atatccgttc ccgaagccga acatggaaca   540
              gcttgttgta ttaggggaat ggtggcacaa agatgttgaa gagattgtca agcaaggaaa   600
              taacatgggg attgccacca aacatgtcgg atgcacacac tatcaatggg aaacctggac   660
              ctctttttcc atgttctgag aaacatacat ttgcaatgga agtcgaatcc gggaaaacat   720
              acttgctaag aatcatcaat gctgccctca acgatgagct tttctttgcg attgccagtc   780
                                                    458

              ataacatgac agtagtagag gtggacgcag tttatacaaa accgttcgtc actcaagcga    840
<removed-date>
              tactgattgc accagggcaa accacgaacg ttctaataca agccaaccaa tcccctggga    900
              gatatttcat ggctgctagg cctttcatgg atgctccaat acctgtagac aacaaaaccg    960
              cgacagggat attccaatac aacggaatcc ccaacactgt tcttcctaca cttcctcagt   1020
              taccagcttc caatgacaca gatttcgctt tgagttacaa caaaaagctc aagagcttaa   1080
              actctgcaaa ttttcctgca aatgttcccc ttaaggttga tcgaaaactg ttctacacgg   1140
<removed-apn>
              ttggtttcgg caaagattct tgcccgacat gcgttaatgg gacaagaatc ttagcctcgt   1200
              tgaacaata                                                           1209
              <210>   445
              <211>   843
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 445
              caggcagagg acgagacaag gggtggtttg caacacggaa aaagagctcg tcgttgagtg     60
              cagcattgac taaacgaaga agataggctt taccaggctt cactttaagc ttgaacgttt    120
              ctttagctga gcaattgtaa gaagggcctg ggaggccatt aatggtgaat gcatccgaga    180
              tattcggtgc ccctccggtt gccatggcct ggtttataat cgtttcagtg tcggctttcc    240
              accattcccc gaatacgatc ggaaattctt tgaaaggttg aggaaacgga taagatgcat    300
              gtcgtttagg gaggataaca ataggtccat acaaagtagc tctcagccaa gagatatgtg    360
              catgccaaaa caaggtccct ctttggcctg taatggtgaa gttgtataca taggattgcc    420
              ctgtctgaat cggacactgt gtgacataag caggtccatc ggcccatccg ctccgtaatt    480
              gccggattcc atgccaatga atagtgacat tgtattgaac atggttgacc actttgatga    540
              gaagccggtc gcctgccctc gcgattattc gaggacccgg gaactgacca ttgaccgtca    600
              caatgctctt tgtttgacac aaccttgtca cgttttgcat tttaatattg aacttgtaat    660
              gcctggtaat gcccgcatgt tttgcaagtg ctaaatcagg taataaccag acagaacata    720
              aagataggaa caataaagtc ttggaaaggg ctgatgatgt aagaacagaa accatatcta    780
              cgttttttta atctttttca gctgatagtc aaaagtggga tcaaaatact gatttggatt    840
              ttt                                                                  843
                                                    459

<removed-date>
              <210>   446
              <211>   1258
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (119)..(119)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 446
              atattaccct ccttgttctt agcttttttc ttattctaag tttacgattg aaacaaatta     60
              gaaaaatggc agcttcacat atgctgtttt gtttttgggt tttattgctg tttatgaanc    120
              aatgcagctg gtgaaacaag acactacaag ttcaatgttg agtacccaca atgttacgat    180
              actatgccac acgaggacgg ttctgaccgt gaaccggaag tttccggggc ctcgattagt    240
              ggccagggaa ggtgatagag tgattgttaa ggtggttaat catattgcaa ataatgtcac    300
              cattcactgg cacggtgttc gacagttaac gacaggatgg tcggacggac cgtcttacat    360
              aacacaatgt cctatacaga caaaccagtc gtacatttat aacttcacaa ttacaggaca    420
              aagaggaact ctgtggtggc atgctcatat atcttggttg agagtatcga tttgtgggcc    480
              gataattata ctcccgaagc gtaatgaatc gtatccgttt gcgaaacccg acaaggaagt    540
              caccattatg tttggagagt ggttcaattc ggaccctgaa gctataatcg gccaagcact    600
              acagacaggt gctggaccaa atgtttcgga tgcatttact atcaatggct acccaggtcc    660
              actctacaat tgttcttcca aagacactta taagttgaag gtgaaaccgg gaaagacgta    720
              tcttctccga ttaatcaatg ctgcacttaa tgatgagctt ttcttcagca ttgccaatca    780
              cacggtaacg gtggtcggag gtgatgcggt atataccaaa cctttcgtga ccgacaagtt    840
              agtcatcaca cctggccaaa ccacaaatgt tctgctcaaa accaaacctg aattccctaa    900
              tgccaacttc ttaatggctg ctaggcctta ctttaccgga caaggcacct tcgataactc    960
              gactactgtc gggattctcg aatatgaaca tccatcccct ttgtctcgtc ctctgcctga   1020
              tgatctcacc ataattcaac cagtactccc tcccattaat gctacgggat ttgtagcaaa   1080
              ctttacaggg aaatttcgta gcttaggcaa tgctaaatac cctgctaacg taccgaaaac   1140
              cgtcgacaag aaatttttct ttacggtcgg actcgggacg aacccttgtc cgaaaaacac   1200
                                                    460

              aacctgtcaa ggacctatca attcaagcaa attcgctgct tcggtaaaca atgtttca     1258
<removed-date>
              <210>   447
              <211>   707
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 447
              ggaagtggga tgtaataaag aaaaactttg agaacatgaa atgtagagga cgtcaagaag     60
<removed-apn>
              ttggggctat ttatgcaatg ttggttgata tttatggaca atatggaaga ttccaggatg   120
              cggaggactt catatctgct ctgaagtcag aaggcttcct accatcagct agcatgttct   180
              gtgttctagc aaatgcttat gctcagcagg gattttgtga acagactgtt aaggttcttc   240
              aactcatgga agcagaaggc attgaactca atatcataat gctgaatgtg ttgataaatg   300
              cctttggtat agcagggagg cctcaggagt ccttatctat ttaccaacat ataaaagaaa    360
              gtggtattag tcctgatgtg gttacttata gtacactcat gaaagctttt attcgagcca    420
              agaagtttga taaggttcct gaaatataca aggaaatgga atcttatgga tgcactcctg    480
              atagaaaagc taggcaaatg ctgcaaactg ccttgatggt acttgaacgg agacattgag   540
              tcttagactg atgttgctaa tacctggtga cctgatatta tcttcacttt gctgtggctt   600
              ttgctaagct gactaaattt gtaaagtgca tagatttgct tttaagaatt gaagaccttg   660
              ttaatatttc ttctactggc attattgcat ggattggatt tgcaaaa                 707
              <210>   448
              <211>   1282
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1039)..(1039)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1041)..(1041)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1073)..(1073)
                                                    461

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1086)..(1086)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 448
              caatggggac ggagcgggct ttcgagcggc cgcccgggca ggtacttaga agaagttctt     60
              ttccaccggc tttttaagga aggcggctcg gaaactagcg tgcggcagca gcttaatcac    120
<removed-apn>
              ttcatcaaga gctccaagcg tgtctacaaa tgggaagtag acgagactct caagaagctt    180
              cgccaccgta agctctattt ccctgctctc aagctgtctg aaatgatggc gactaagagg    240
              ggcatgaata agactgttag tgatcaggct atccatcttg atttggttgc caaagctcaa    300
              gggattcctg ctgctgaaaa ttacttcgtt gatcttcctg aagcactgaa aaaccatcta    360
              acttatggtg cccttctcaa ctgttactct aaggaattga tgactgaaaa agctgaagct    420
              ctgatggaaa agatgaagga acttagcctt cctttaagct ctatgtctta taatagtctc    480
              atgactcttt acacaaagat tggccagcct gaaagggtac aagaaattat acaggaaatg    540
              aaatcatgtg gtgtcatacc agattcatat acgtacaacg tttggatgag ggctctggct    600
              gctatgaatg atatttctgg ggttgaaaga gttatcgagg aaatgaagag agatgctgag    660
              gatgctgatg attggacaac atatagcaat atagcatcaa tttatgttga tgctggcttg    720
              tttgagaagg cagagaaggc acttaaggaa ttggaaaaga gaaatgccca cagaaatctt    780
              tctgctttcc agtttctaat tacattgtat ggccgaattg gaaatttgca tgaagtttat    840
              cgaatatggc gttcattgag gctctctttt cacaaaacag ccaatataag ctatctgaat    900
              atgattcagg tgttagtaaa cttgaaagat ttacccggag ctgagaaatg ctttagagaa    960
              tgggaatcgg gttgctctac ttatgatatc cggattgcaa atgtcttaat tggagcttat   1020
              gccaaggaag gcttgctana naaagctcta aaaactgaag agaaggcccg tanaaaaagg   1080
              ggcaanccta atggccaaac ttgggaaatt cttttgggat tattatttga aaattggaga   1140
              caccagcctg gctgttgatt gtgttggcca ttgccatttc ccctgggcag aagaagattg   1200
              gcgaaaatgt gggtccctcc cccctgaagc ctttggggaa ggggtgaacc tctcctttta   1260
              aagccatttg aaagaaatgt gg                                            1282
                                                    462

              <210>   449
<removed-date>
              <211>   1333
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 449
              gaaccgcaaa aggcaatttc catggcttta accaaggcaa ggcaacgctt tccatcctct     60
              ttctctcttc cattcttcaa attttactct tcttcagtgt caaccccact acaagaagtt    120
              gaagccgccg atgttgaaac gactgtaaaa ccccaacccg ccgcactttc ccccgaagaa    180
<removed-apn>
              acccaagtcg ccgaacaatt ccgttcctta atcaaagaga accaccgcaa aaaccccaac    240
              ccagacccga actcgacccc tccatcccct aacttcacca tcccttctct ctccctcgac    300
              ttctccaata tctccaccgt ccatcccgtc tccccttccc tcgtgcgcta cgtcattgac    360
              aagtgcagtg gggttcgcca tggcatacct ttcctccaaa ccctgtcctt cttcaattgg    420
              gccgccgcac gtcccgactt tgctcactct cccgaccctt acaacgaaat gatcgaccat    480
              gctggaaagt tgaggcattt tggcttggct tggcatttga tcgatcagat gaaagccaaa    540
              agcgtcgaca tctcactcga aacattcgcc atactaatac ggcgttatgt gaaggccgga    600
              ttggctgcag aggccgtgca cgcgtttaat cgcatggagg attacgggtg cgttcccgat    660
              aaggttgcgt tttcagtttt gattagtatt ttatgcagaa aaagaagggc tgatgaagcc    720
              caaacttttt tcgataaatt gaaggacaaa tttgaacctg atgtgattct ctacaccagc    780
              ttgctttacg gctggtgtcg agcccgtaat atctcagagg ccgaaagggt attcagagaa    840
              atgaaaatgg cagggattaa gcctaatgtg tatagttata cgattgtgat tgatgcattg    900
              tgtagatgtg gccaaattac gcgtgcttat gatgtttttg cggagatggg tgatgtaggt    960
              tgtgagccaa attccattac ttttaataac ttgatgaggg ttcatgtcaa ggctggtcgc   1020
              acagagaagg tcttgcaggt ttataatcag atgaaaagac tcggttgcgc tgcagatacg   1080
              gtaacttata attttctcat agagagtcat tgtagggatg ataatcttga tgaggctgtt   1140
              aaagtgctta attcgatgct taagaaaggg tgtatcccga attcgtctac tttcaatact   1200
              atatttaagt gtattgagaa gttaagggat ttgaatgccg ctcaccgaat gtacgctaag   1260
              atgaagagta taaatgcatg cctaatactg ttacttataa tgttttgatg cgaatgtttg   1320
              ccagcgccaa gtc                                                      1333
                                                    463

              <210>   450
<removed-date>
              <211>   1278
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 450
              atcacacgtt ttttccccgc caaacgagcc tcgttttttt cccttgctaa cacagtatcc     60
              cactcagctc aattctcttc ctctggtgtc tgagctaagc cctctgctgc cttcaagttt    120
              ctggcaaatc aggaaattaa acaagggatt ttgtgaacag actgttaagg ttcttcaact    180
<removed-apn>
              catggaagca gaaggcattg aactcaatat cataatgctg aatgtgttga taaatgcctt    240
              tggtatagca gggaggcatg aggaggcatt atctatttac caacatataa aagaaagtgt    300
              gagtctttat gtttcacatg atgttgagtg gatttctaaa ttcattgtag acgctattaa    360
              ccaattgtgc aggacccttt gtttcttcct tcaattcatc tttccagata ctttttttcc    420
              acctctccta agtttgtctt ccttttgaag ggtattagtc ctgatgtggt tacttatagt    480
              acactcatga aagcttttat tcgagccaag aagtttgata aggtgctaag tgcagttgaa    540
              atctcttaag ctttttgatt agctacacat ttgttaccaa tgatagttgc taatgcttgc    600
              ttgtcttttg ctggctaggt tcctgaaata tacaaggaaa tggaatctta tggatgcact    660
              cctgatagaa aagctaggca aatgctgcaa actgccttga tggtacttga acggagacat    720
              tgtaagtatt agaccagtgt ttggtatata attggtttta aaatttggca ataactaata    780
              acccagattt gtatcggatt tgtctcttta cattttgatt gtttcaggag tcttagactg    840
              atgttgctaa tacctggtga cctgatatta tcttcacttt gctgtggctt ttgctaagct    900
              gactaaattt gtaaagtgca tagatttgct tctcagaatt gaagaccttg ttaatatttc    960
              ttctactggc attattgcat ggattggatt tgcaaaatca caaatgccat cctccctgct   1020
              gccaccgccc tgagataagc aacccacatc aacatcccct tgaggtcaaa cagccttcaa   1080
              acttatgagt tgagacattg ggaggaaatt tgataatcgt ttgttagtgc ttccttatca   1140
              atggtaaagt ttctgtataa aacattgatt ttctttcctt cgaagttaag aaatttgcct   1200
              gtctttgact acagattcaa aactagccat ttaaacacaa ttggttttat tcacttagaa   1260
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                                                 1278
              <210>   451
              <211>   1016
                                                    464

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 451
              gctttcgagc ggccgcccgg gcaggtacgc ggggatcctt ccgagcgccc ccccgggctg     60
              gtacatcccc tgttaatttt actctcaaaa atggctagct caagtgtggg aatggtctgt    120
              cttttgctag tctcgtgcat ggttgtgccg agcttggcca aagattacac tgttggtgac    180
              acctctggtt ggacaactgg tgtagattat agcacatgga ctaaagataa gaccttcaaa   240
<removed-apn>
              gttggcgata gccttgtttt caattaccca acaagccaca cagtggatga agtaagttca   300
              agtgactaca gtacatgcac ggtgggaaac gcaatcacaa cagataacag tggagcgacc   360
              accgttgctc tcaagaccgc cgggacacat tacttcattt gtggtgtggt gggtcactgt    420
              gcgaatggaa tgaaactttc agtcaaagtg gagtcaggtt catcggcagc accatctaag    480
              tcgccgtcta agtcaccatc gtcttcttcg tcatcctcgc cggcttccac cgataaacca    540
              tcgaccggca caccatctac tacaactaca acaactaaag ccccagactc ctcatcctcg    600
              tggagtctct ccccatttat ggctgttgtc acaacttgtc ttgcgttgtt ggttttggtc   660
              atttcgtaat aagctttcgg caaagagtgt tggccagcca tggtcaggat agaggcagtg   720
              ctgctgatct tatctttttc ccttttctta ttccttttta ttatattgtt tgtgctgagg   780
              atcattgtat gttcatgaat gagatggttg ggcttccatg gcgttaggca cgtacatcat   840
              atatgtaagt tatattgttc attgttgtat catgttctat gtgaacattg attgggattt    900
              tcaataatcc atcgcctttt ggctacaccg gaaattagag ctaaagtata tatgactaac    960
              aaggtctata aatattcaat tataatatat aatttatgtc atttcttgtc atactc       1016
              <210>   452
              <211>   619
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 452
              acctcgctca ctccaacagc cttttccact tctaaaacct ttagcttttc tcagagatgg     60
              cgcagggaag gggcagtgca agtcaagcga ccatgtccgc aattgcattg ctattgtgct   120
              taatggtttg cctggaaacc attgatgcag ctacttacac tgtcggtggc tctaatggtt   180
              ggacttttaa cacggctact tggccaaaag ggaagcggtt cagggccggc gacgtgctag   240
                                                    465

              gtaactccaa ataactaaac aaaatgatga aaatatttcc tagtctgtgt ctgaagtaaa   300
<removed-date>
              aattctgtga tgttgcagtg ttcaactacg atgcgactat ccacaatgta gtagcagtga   360
              acagacgagg gtacactaat tgtaccacac ctgcaggtgc aaaagtgtac aactcaggaa   420
              aagataagat aaaactggcc aagggactca acttctttat gtgcagcact gctggtcact   480
              gtgagtctgg aatgaagatt gcaataaatg cagtgtgaca cagattattg ccttctcttc   540
              taaataatag gttgaatgtg ctactacatt gtcgtctttg gttttaagtt ttaactaagg   600
<removed-apn>
              agaatgttat tccaacttt                                                619
              <210>   453
              <211>   609
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 453
              acctcgctca ctccaacagc cttttccact tctaaaacct ttagcttttc tcagagatgg    60
              cgcagggaag gggcagtgca agtcaagcga ccatgtccgc aattgcattg ctattgtgct   120
              taatggtttg cctggaaacc attgatgcag ctacttacac tgtcggtggc tctaatggtt   180
              ggacttttaa cacggctact tggccaaaag ggaagcggtt cagggccggc gacgtgctag   240
              tgttcaacta cgatgcgact atccacaatg tagtagcagt gaacagacga gggtacacta   300
              attgtaccac acctgcaggt gcaaaagtgt acaactcagg gaaagataag ataaaactgg   360
              ccaagggact caacttcttt atgtgcagca ctgctggtca ctgtgagtct ggaatgaaga   420
              ttgcaataaa tgcagtgtga cacagattat tgccttctct tctaaataat aggttgaatg   480
              tgctactaca ttgtcgtctt tggttttaag ttttaactaa ggagaatgtt attccaactt   540
              ttttattttt attttaaata tttatgttta acatccgtgt tctacttata ttggaataaa   600
              agtaaatag                                                           609
              <210>   454
              <211>   1061
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (216)..(216)
                                                    466

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <400> 454
              caacgggatt aaaatgggta acccccgggt ttttcccgtt cccccttatt aaatccaggg     60
              cccgaaaaag aatttatgtg tgcccaaaaa aaaattttaa gctttgaaaa ggggggaaaa    120
              aaaattttgt tcttttaaag gggccccccc cttttttttt tttttttttt ttttttttta    180
              tttaatattt ttttttgttt tttttttaag gaaagnccat cattttatat ctttgttttt    240
<removed-apn>
              tttttttttt tttttttttt ttttttttcg cggcctgatt ataacgctat ataggcaatt   300
              ggctttcgac cggccccccg ggcaggtact ttttaccata gaaaacagaa caagtaaggt   360
              tctcattcat aaaataaaag caataatcct caatacaaac aaagcactgc ctctatcctg    420
              gccaagccaa ccaccatttt agccaccaaa agcttatgaa acaaccatca tcacgcacaa    480
              tgcgacccaa gttgtagcaa aagccagaac cggtgaaaga ctccatgaag aagatgaatc    540
              cgggatctta gtcgtcgtag tagtagatgg tgaagtggtt gatggtttat cagtggaaga    600
              tgaagaagaa gaagactcca ctttgaccgc aagcttcatg ccgctctcac aatgaccagc    660
              cacaccacaa atgaagtagt gagtaccggc ggtcttcaga ttgatggtgg tggctccggt   720
              gctatccgtc gagattgctt tccccaccgt acatgtactg taatcgctag aacttacctc   780
              ctccactgta tggcttgttg ggtaattgaa aacgagggaa tccccaactt tgaaggtctt   840
              gtcgttagcc caaccactat aatcgacacc ggttgcccag ccagaggtgt caccaacagt    900
              gtaaaccgtg gccaagcttg gcccaaccac catgcataaa actagcccaa gacaggccat    960
              tcccacactt gagcttgcca ttttcttgtg gaagaggcta ggtggagaaa cactttgaaa   1020
              acagagatag gagaattttg tcgcgtgggc ggacgcgtgg g                       1061
              <210>   455
              <211>   1011
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 455
              ccctcgcttc cgctttttct ttctcaataa tatcacacta ccatttcatt aaaggttctt     60
              ttttttccct tgaagttttt attttttttt gctaaattga aaccgatttt tatggcactg   120
              actcgatcga aacaattggt cctactcaag tcaccctaaa ccaacaaccc cattatatgg    180
              ggccaactcc ctagtctagc tactcctcac aagctcaccc agtgcacccc actcttattt    240
                                                    467

<removed-date>
              tctccaagtt gtagagaaat aggaatggtt cagggaagat gcagtgcagt ggcagccaca    300
              gtgctgctct gctgcttgtt gctccacttt gaggtggctc aatcagcaag tttcactgtt    360
              ggaggaagag gtgggtggac ctttaacgcc gctgcttggc caaaaggcaa gccctttaag    420
              gcgggtgaca ctctcgtgtt caattacaac ccttcaatcc acaatgtggt agctgtgaac    480
              agagcaggat acaaatcatg caaagcacca aaaggtgcta aagttttcaa gtcaggcaag    540
<removed-apn>
              gatcagatca agcttaaaaa gggccaaaac tttttcatct gcaattacat tggccattgc    600
              caagcaggaa tgaaaatagc agtcactgct gcctaatccg agattaggca ttgccatatg   660
              atatcttcag tttgctttaa agtattaatg taagatttgg tgtcacaaag tctactctag    720
              tgttggattt gcttgctttg agtgggtagg tggtgctcca aacactaaat ctatactata    780
              ataatgatgg ttttaagtgg aaatcttttg tgtaatgctt tgtggctaag gttttacttg    840
              tactcccttt tgcaataaaa tatataaaga tgcttctacc agttttatta aaagggcccc    900
              caaaattcaa ttcaggggca aattctgcaa atttccttca catggggggc cgctcaaaaa    960
              tgcatctaaa gggcccaatt ccccctatag ggagccgaat tacaattccc g            1011
              <210>   456
              <211>   563
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (522)..(522)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 456
              cccacgcgtc cgcccacgcg tccgggaggt agcaagcttg aggcaacaac taaatgactt     60
              gcaagaatac cacaggcagc tgatggggga agaactatct ggtttaagca tcaaagatct    120
              acggaatcta gaaaaccaac ttgaaatgag cttgaaaagt gttcgcatga gaaagggaca    180
              ccacattcat aaagagaatc tagaactaca gaagaagcta gaccttattt gccaagaaaa    240
              tactgaactt caaaggaagg ttgatggaaa tggaacagta gaagcaaatg aaggcagcaa    300
              aagctcatcc cacagttatg gtttcaacaa tggatatgat gagttgcagg cacctgttgt    360
              cgatctccgg ttaagcctgc ctcaacaact tcccgacgct gatacatcgt atagaaacct   420
                                                    468

<removed-date>
              aagactgttt tgaaaaccag tccctctaca atttggaaag cgtattttca atcttgaggt    480
              caaatctttt gtgaactccg tcagataatt taaatatgct tntaaaatat atatatatat    540
              atgtgataga tgtaacatat aca                                            563
              <210>   457
              <211>   1757
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 457
              gcgttcgccc agcgtccgcg gccgcgtggg ggggggcttg cctctttcaa cttggtcttt     60
              cctccagctt tccttcttcc taaaattatt aatcattttc atgggtgttt tgcgtttttg    120
              ttccttcact ggcaaacaca agtatcaggt atccagatat catttcaaga aacaagccta    180
              tgtggggtgt gtgctatcca aaatcagtgt ctcatttcct tgagatgggt tcagcaataa    240
              aacatttcgt ggagttagtt gaacaagcag gaactgtttt tgaagttgca aacactatac    300
              ggggtttagt tgaaaaccat tgggaattcc ctaaaggcat tgatcagaat gtaaataatc    360
              tgaagagaaa aagagatgaa ctaaatggtc agaaagaaga cgttgaatca agaataaaat    420
              cagagctgcg tccgagaaag aaggtcaaga aagaagttga tctgtggatt gaaaatgtaa    480
              aaaggataaa tggggaaatt cctaatctcg aatccaaagt tagaggtagc agctttttcc    540
              ctcgtggatt tcttgttaag aatgttcgta agaaggaaga agaagttgaa gaattgcttg    600
              aaaagggtag attttctgat gatttggttg tcaacgatct ttcgtggatt ggtcaggtgt    660
              tgccaacacc gagcttagtc gttgaaacag taaaacgtaa aaagaatgag attatgcaac    720
              acttcaggaa tgatgaggtt caaaagattg gagtttatgg aatgccagga gttgggaaaa    780
              caagtgccgt cacgcttgtc aacaatgaac tcttaaaagg tgaaatcgag ttcaagatca    840
              tagtatgggt cactgtaggg aggaaatgta gtgttattga actgcagaat aagattgcaa    900
              aggcaatgaa tgtcagtatt tccgaagatg aagacgagac tttaagagca gggatgttgt    960
              ctgaaatttt gagtgaaaag ggtagatttg ttttaatatt ggatgatgta tgggagagat   1020
              tttccttcga aaaagttgga attcctgagt cttctaaggg taaattagtg ttgacatctc   1080
              gttcattgga tgtatgtcga cgaatggatt gtcaagtcgt aaaaatggag ccactttcga   1140
              atgaagatgc atggacattg ttctcggaca aggttggtca aaacctaatg agttctatag   1200
                                                    469

<removed-date>
              atttacaacc gattgcaaaa tctatcgttg agcgttgtgc cggtttaccg ttggtgatag   1260
              ttatagttgc cagtagcatg agaagtgaag atagttttcc aatatggagg aatgcgcttg   1320
              cagaattgaa ccgaaacata tcgagtatca tcgaaattaa agacaaggtg tatcaacaac   1380
              tgtgattcag ctacgatcga ttgaaagatc aaagaatcca aaattgtttc cttacttgtg   1440
              catcgtatcg tgaagactcg ggaattctaa aggaacaatt gataagggat tgggttggaa   1500
<removed-apn>
              agggattaat agaggaaatg ggtagcttgg aagcaaacat ggacaaggga caagcaatac   1560
              taagaacatt agtagagaat tgctagttag aaaatgtagg aaatgaaaga gtaagaatgc   1620
              atgatcttgt aatagatatg gttaaactta tcactcaaga tttgtatgaa tcataaatta   1680
              acattgcaca tgtatggttg ggtctcttac actttttatt ttagatgaat taaaatggta   1740
              cactaaattc actattc                                                  1757
              <210>   458
              <211>   736
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 458
              atcaggcaga ggacgagaca acaaattcct tagagaccaa gacccatatt accacatcaa     60
              aattgtgatc gctggaaaga aatgcattat tgatggtctt tagaagggta gttttcccaa    120
              ctccacccac tccatataat gcaataattc ccactttttc ctcctcaaga aactcccaca    180
              ccttgtctaa catcacacca atgccaattg caggcttaca cggtttctct tctacaggag    240
              caggacgtgg ctcagtcacc agtctctcaa agtttccttt tcccttcagt tcacttatat    300
              cctgcagctt ctctatcatt tccgtgctca tattgtattt cgaacaacaa cttggattga    360
              agcaccccaa cccttgccta ctctgtcgga aattctccat aatggaggca gcttcagctt    420
              cgataacttc tactcttgcc agccacctct gcacttcatt tgttcgtctt gatccatcca    480
              gctcagctcg ctcgagacga gtcgtcaagt catctctctt gtccatcagt tcatttagtt    540
              ctgcagtcaa gtagtgcatg cttctgtcca aattgataac acggcatgcc cgagaggccg    600
              ttgctgtgca taatctgtca attatactga tcagaggggt aatgaaatcc atagataaaa    660
              agctaaacgt gcttggtata gaagagcaga gacttaaggt ttatcataaa atggttaata    720
              gattctttct gtactt                                                    736
                                                    470

<removed-date>
              <210>   459
              <211>   455
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 459
              gcacgagtga cgacctacaa cagtttgatg tatatgtata gccgctctga aaagttcgag    60
              gaatcagaac aaattttaag ggaagttcag gcaaaaggaa taaaaccaga tataatctcg   120
<removed-apn>
              tataacactg ttatttatgc ctattgtaga aacggtcgaa tgaaagaggc ttctcggata   180
              ttttcagaaa tgggtgattc tggccttgtt ccagatgtta tcacttacaa tacctttgtt   240
              gcaagctatg cagctgattc cttgtttgag gaagccgtag atgttgtcca attcatgatc   300
              aagcacggct gtaaaccaaa ccagaataca tacaattcca tagttgatgg atattgtaaa   360
              ctcaatcagc gtgatgaggc aaagacattt attgacaacc ttcagaagct agatccacat   420
              atttccaagg atgaggaaat tagattatca gagcg                              455
              <210>   460
              <211>   390
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 460
              agacctgata cgctttttta caactgcttg atccatgcgc tggggcgagc aggccaagtt    60
              gaagatgcta ttaaggtttt tgaggtagag atgccgaaga caggtgtttc ccccaataca   120
              tcgacgtata attgcatgat tgccatgctt tgtcatcatg ctcaacaaca gaaggcccta   180
              tctcttcttc aggacatggg gaatttgaaa atttgcaagc ctgaagttca gacatattac   240
              cccttgctga agtcatgctt taaaactggg aagatagata acctgttgag caaactattg   300
              aatgatatgg ttaataagca tcatctaagt cttgatagtt ctgcctactc actattgatt   360
              catggacttt gtagagcaag tagaagtgag                                    390
              <210>   461
              <211>   600
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
                                                       471

              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-date>
              <222>   (539)..(539)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (588)..(588)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 461
              ctcccaagtc ccaacccttt ccctgaacac cacgtcgcaa cccaaaattt acacttcttc    60
<removed-apn>
              tgctactgcc gctgccattt ctgctttcaa gatatgctta ggtgttgagc ctgatgttgt   120
              cacgtataat acgtttgttg atgcgcattg caaggaaggg atggtctctg aagctgagga   180
              tattgttgac gcaatgataa agcgaggcat tgagcctgat gttgttacct atagtgcatt   240
              aatcaacggc cattgcttgc agaatgaaat ggataaagct agaagagttt tcaacttgat   300
              gattgagaag ggttgtgcac ctgatatagt tacttacagc accatgatca atggatattg   360
              caaaggggaa aggttagaca aagcaatgga actctttcat gaaatatctc gaaagggacc   420
              attcccggat actgtctcat acaacattct tatgcagagt atgtgtcagt taggggaagt   480
              ttcaactgca tgtaaacttt ttaaaaagag gcttgcctct ggacaaattc caaatatanc   540
              gacctgtttg attttgctgg atggtttatg caaaacaggt catatcanaa aagcattgat   600
              <210>   462
              <211>   717
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 462
              ggaaaatgtc ttcccgaatt ggaagccgta agatattttc ccttctcttc ttccttcctc    60
              tctgtccatc gtcccttctc tttgttggcc tcactgtcat cagcagccac agtcgagaaa   120
              agaagaccca gaaggttccc ttctattcgt tgaagattct tgaagtgctt gtactgaaat   180
              tgttcgtatt gaactgcgat tgtaagtgtt agctaagtgg cctaataaat caagggggaa   240
              aatgaaaaag aaggttctaa atctttgatt caaatctggg ttcttcatgt tgtttggtgg   300
              ttttctagaa ctgggttctc ttcactgggg gcttgctgcg gacgcgtggg tgataactgt   360
              aaaccagata ggtttacata caatattctc attcatggtg tttgtaaagc cggtgtcatc   420
              gatgaggcag ttcggttagt taagcagatg gaaattttcg gatactcacc gaatatgtgt   480
                                                    472

              acttatacca tcttaattga tgggtactgt aatgccagga gggtcgatga tgcgtttaaa   540
<removed-date>
              cttattgaga cgatgaagaa aaggaatgtg tttcctaatg aagctaccgt gagatcgttg   600
              attcatgggg ttttccgttg tgtggctcca cgaaaggcat tcgagttgtt gataatgttc   660
              ttggagaagg agcctatgat gcagagattg gcttgtgata ctctactgct ttgtctt      717
              <210>   463
              <211>   713
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (634)..(634)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 463
              attgtgtaag agcgccaagg ttgtagaagc tgaaatattt ttgcataaaa tggtgaatga    60
              aggtttggag ccagatggtt ttacctacaa tgctgtcatt gatggatatt gcaaattggg   120
              cataatacaa gacgcagata agattctcaa cgatgcagtt ttcaagggtt ttattcccga   180
              tgaattcacc tattgttcct taattaacgg tttatgccag catggtgaga cagaccgtgc   240
              tgtggctgta tttaatgagg ctttggggaa aggattaaaa cctaatatta ttatgtataa   300
              cactcttatc aaagggttgt ctttgcaggg gctgattttg caagccttgc agctgatgaa   360
              tgagatgtcg gaaaatggct gcagtcccaa catatggact tacaatatag ttataaatgg   420
              attatgcaag atggggtgtg tctctgatgc taacaattta ctgaatgatg ctattgcgaa   480
              aggttacctt ccggatatct ttacatttaa tactttgatc gatggatact gtaagcagtt   540
              gaaagtggaa aatgcagttg agattttaat caaatgtgga actatgatgt tttcctgatg   600
              tgatcacata taatttgtgc tgaatggctt tgtnaaattt tacgtcgaaa tgtcttgaac   660
              ttttaacctg tgggaagggt cttccatgta tcttcatttc tttgaacctg tga          713
              <210>   464
              <211>   940
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 464
              cccacgcgtc cgcggacgcg tgggttatag atgggtattg cagaaatcgt gcgatgtcgg    60
                                                    473

<removed-date>
              aagctttgaa gatcagggat gaaatgctag aaaagggatg taatatggat gttgttactt   120
              acaataccat tttgaatggg ttgtgcaagg agaagatgct cactgaagca gacaatctat   180
              tgcatgagat gacagaaagg ggtgtttttc ctgattttta tactttcaca acactcatcc   240
              atggacattg tagggatgga aatatgaata aagctctaaa cttgtttgat gcaatgactc   300
              aaaggaatat taagccggac attgtgacat acaacacctt aattgacggg ttttgcaagg   360
<removed-apn>
              taggtgaaat tgagaaggcc aagcagctct gggctggtat gatttctaga aagattattc   420
              ctaatcacat ttcttatgga actttgataa acggggtttg cagcattggt catgttccgg   480
              aggcattcag gttgtgggat gaaatggtag ggaagggtat taagcccact cttgtgattt   540
              gtaatagcat cataaagggc tattgtcgat caggtgatac gtcaagagct gataagtttc   600
              tatccaagat gactgcagaa ggaattgttc cagatagcat tacatataac acttttatca   660
              atggatttgt caaagaagag aatatggaca aagcttttct ctggattaac aagatggaga   720
              atcaagggct ttctcctgat gctattacat acaatgtaat tctaagtggg ttttgtagag   780
              agggtagaat gcaagaagct gaaatggtat taaggaagat gattgagaaa ggcatagatc   840
              ctgataggtc tacatacaca tcactcataa atggacatgt tacccaggac aacttaaagg   900
              aggcatttcg gctacatgat gacatggtac gaatgggatc                         940
              <210>   465
              <211>   742
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 465
              attggataaa taataattgc tggctgagaa tttccaattt ttcgttccac ctttcgtcaa    60
              ttatctcaaa ggaaaagtaa atcactgaaa aacccatttt tttcttttaa aaagcatatc   120
              tttctctaca aatctatttt ccttcaatta cccaaactca gattccaatt caaagagttc   180
              cataaataaa aaaagttcct tttttttgta cttctcttgc ttttcattgg ttcttcttct   240
              tcttcttctt cttcttcttc gtattttatt taataatttt tgttcgttga tggtcatcta   300
              aattcatttc gaactatata agacgagagt aacttgtact tgtttcatca gttaaaagat   360
              ggttgccttt gggaagaagt tgaaggaaag acaaattcaa gaatggcaag gattttacct   420
              aaactacaaa ttaatgaaga agcgagtcaa acagtatgct caacaaatgg aagttgggac   480
                                                    474

<removed-date>
              acaagatcgc cgacatgttc tcaaggattt ctcgagaatg ttggataatc agattgagaa    540
              gactgtcctt tttatattgg agcaacaagg ccaacttgca agcaggttaa caaatcttag    600
              agaacaacat gatgcactcg aggagatgcc ggaaatatcc caaataacag aacttagaga    660
              ggcttataga gcagtcggac aagatctgtt gaagcttctc tgttttgttg aaatgaacgc    720
              tattggtttg cgaaagatat tg                                             742
<removed-apn>
              <210>   466
              <211>   1343
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 466
              aactttggag tcgaatattg ttctgaataa tgcaagacat ccacttgatc ggaggtggcc     60
              gagtattcag cggcggcggt ggaggtggcg gaggagatag aaggttagga ctgcaacacc    120
              aacaacaaaa caaccaggca ctcaagtgcc cacgttgcga ctcacttaac acgaagttct    180
              gttactacaa caactacgat ctctctcagc cacgtcattt ctgcaagagc tgccgtcgtt    240
              actggaccaa aggtggtgtc cttcgtaacg tccccgttgg tggtggttgc cgcaaagcca    300
              agcgttcgaa aaccaagcct tcatccgaat ccacgacagt cgccgccgcg gcccttgcac    360
              agccacaatc acagcaacac cttgatcaac gtaaagcgaa ttctcattct agcagcgaca    420
              gttcgagtct tattgcagct aattctaagg ttgcagtgac aaataaaaac aacaacaacg    480
              atagttctac aggcggcatg gcggaggcgg tgtcggcagt aacgtctcat tcaaacaata    540
              taaatgtaag cgagtcgaag ttgtatggaa accccaacaa tttagtcttc gaggcaggat    600
              tactggaaca aagatcagaa tcggggattt ttccggagat tgggagtttt acgagcttgg    660
              ttacttcgtc aaacaatgaa acgtcgtcgt ttggcttcgg tacggtatta aatgggcaag    720
              gacagtggcg gcagcaaaag atgatgagtg ttggagggga ggaaatcacc ggggaattgc    780
              tcgatcagac gatgcaggtt gagctttcaa atttgcatgg tagatcggag agtggatttg    840
              gaccgttgga ttggcaaggg tgtggagatc aaccgttctt tgatcttcct aatgatgttg    900
              accaatcgta ttggagtcaa agtcaatggt ctgatcaaga tcatacggcc ctctatctac    960
              cgtaaattgt ctcactctca ccccccctcc ttaaattatt tattaactat ggttcaaagc   1020
              ttgaagtaaa gaaactgaaa gagagttaaa ttgatatata aatccgactg tttcttgtgt   1080
                                                    475

<removed-date>
              aaaacgttta aaatttttct taattttttt acttaatatt taagttctat tttggtgatt   1140
              tttgaagatg tttccagttt tttttaatgc aactatattt tggggagcag gattttgttg   1200
              atggtgtatc tgaattcaat taatgtagag aaaaatatag atttcaggtt ttaatttatg   1260
              attgatattt gtagttttga gtgtggcaca tgtagtggtt ttacttaaat attcatctat   1320
              atttaattat gatgttagga gat                                           1343
<removed-apn>
              <210>   467
              <211>   812
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 467
              aaactaatcc atatactgca aaatccttgt gcatcttctt caaagcaaac agcaacaact     60
              ccaacaaatg tccatgaaaa aagaaggtga aattctatac aaaaagggat tatgggcaat    120
              ggaggaagac aagttactca ttgattatgt caatgtccat ggaaaaggac aatggaacaa    180
              aatagccaac agaacaggtt tgaagagaag tgggaaaagt tgtcggctaa ggtggatgaa    240
              ttacctgagt cctaacgtta aaaagggtga tttttctgaa gaagaagaag acctcgtcat    300
              tagacttcat aagcttcttg gaaacaggtg gtctttgatt gcgaaacgag ttccaggtcg    360
              aactgacaat caagtcaaga attactggaa tagtcatttg aggaagaaac tagggatcat    420
              tgatcaaaac aagacaagga tcgatttttg tcaaagttca aagcaagtca aagtgtgtca    480
              tgttgatgag gcagccacgg atccaagtcc tggacatgga acaaccactg aaaccacggg   540
              tataacagtg gatcagagta accagcagga agtcattgat catcgggtct taaacaatac    600
              tactcaagaa tcaatgacca gtgagagtta tatcaacact ttctggattc ctgaccatga    660
              ttatgagcta agtacacttg ccatgattga ccacttccat gaatgggtct tcttttcatc    720
              ttagctagag actatgttat taaaattacg ggtttaattt ttaaatataa agtatgcctt    780
              ctaacatggc atagttgaaa tttttaaaag at                                  812
              <210>   468
              <211>   913
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   468
                                                    476

              cccttccgcg cgtccgccca cgcgtccgct ggtaggttga gatggaagaa aagagtgaat    60
<removed-date>
              ataaaaaagg gctgtggagt gcagaggagg acagcatcct gatggagtac gtaaggaagc   120
              atgggaaagg gaaatggaat cggataccca aagtaacagg cctcaagagg tgtgggaaaa   180
              gctgcagatt gaggtggatc aattacctta gtcccggtgt taagcgtggt cgtttctccg   240
              accaggagaa tgatcttatc atccgccttc ataacctact cggcaacagg tggtcactca   300
              tagctggtcg ggttccagga agaacagaca atcaagtgaa gaatcattgg aacactcatt   360
<removed-apn>
              tgagcaaaaa gcttgggatc atcaaaaatc ctactgctca ttcttcacaa tcccaaactc   420
              actccaagtc tagtagagat gatgataata gccatagcca agcgcaagac caggtgatga   480
              tgaccaccac agatgccttg ccctcgcctc gtgactacgg aaacggaagc tcttcttggt   540
              tttggtagtg tcataacaat gatcatttca atttgtatac acctacccct gtcaatgtct   600
              tggacttact agaccacgac gaccacgtct ctcttgattt tgtttggcat ggctttgcct   660
              aaccttgtaa tctctgcact cctttttgtc acctcaatta ttgttttcta ctttggattg   720
              tattgcaaca tttattattt ttttactact ttccctgttt tccttctttc ttttgtgtta   780
              tattacatgg attgggattg cattgttata attaataatt gattatccct tattcctccc   840
              gtttccctct attctagtct aatttattca taaaagtaaa taaaagttta gtccaaatta   900
              agattatgct ttt                                                      913
              <210>   469
              <211>   888
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 469
              ctccttcgct acatctactc tggtctgtgg cttttgcatg cctcaattca ttgcctttgg    60
              gtttgcaaat gaggaagcct tgttgtgaaa agaaagacac aaacaaagga gcttggtcta   120
              aattagaaga ccagaagctc acggattaca ttctaaaaca tggtgaaggt tgctggcgct   180
              ctcttcctca ggctgccggg ctgcttcgtt gtggaaaaag ttgtcgactg agatgggtaa   240
              actacctgcg gcctgacctt aaacgaggca attttggtga agatgaagag gaccttatta   300
              tcaaactcca tgctctcctt ggaaataggt ggtcactaat agcaggaaga ttgccaggta   360
              ggaccgacaa cgaagtgaag aatcactgga atattcactt aagaaagaaa cttttgatga   420
                                                    477

              tgggaattga cccaaacaat cgtcgttcgc ttctatctcc tacattaacc aaatccaatg   480
<removed-date>
              catccaacga ctccagttct gcatgccaac cctttaatcc agcaactgct tcggagacta   540
              tcagcagtac ttgtttaccc gacctcaatc tggatcttac catcgcccct cccctttccc   600
              atcaaaactt ggcacttaat taattttaag tctataatgt gatatttcca tcactatttt   660
              actgtttaat taatttcatt tttttatcac aataacacct actatgctta taagccggtt   720
              aaaatatgtt tgcgagttag agctcaaaaa tcctggctgg agtctactta agtgggatac   780
<removed-apn>
              actgcatgtc tagccacgaa tttagactat atctctaaaa tcgtgtccta tcaagaatat   840
              acttttcatt tcttttcctg ctgaaactac cacttgcagt tgattatg                888
              <210>   470
              <211>   380
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 470
              taaagttgga acactattgc aagcaaagca ggtaactaat ccaagtaatt gaatagattt    60
              ctttttcctt tgttttaacc ttgtttttgc aggtttgaag aggtgtggta aaagttgcag   120
              gctgagatgg atgaattatc tgaggcctaa tattaagaga ggaaatatat cagagcaaga   180
              agaggacttg atccttaggc ttcacaagct ccttggaaac aggtggtctt tgattgcggg   240
              aagattacca ggaagaacag ataacgagat caagaactac tggaattctc atttgagcaa   300
              aaaaataaag cagaaagaga aacaaggctg caaagatgaa aagagatcag tggagaatgg   360
              caaagaggaa ttgagacaag                                               380
              <210>   471
              <211>   882
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 471
              tgaaaaaatc tgggccacta aagaatggag caaaatttgt cccttaagag attcgacgtc    60
              aacaagggag catggacagc tgaagaagat agaaaattgg ctgaggttat tacagttcat   120
              ggtgctaaaa ggtggaagac aattccatcc atagcaggtt taaataggtg tggtaaaagt   180
              tgcaggctga gatggatgaa ttatcttagg cctaacatca agagaggaaa tatatcagac   240
              caagaagagg acttgatact taggcttcat aaactccttg ggaacaggtg gtctttgatt   300
                                                    478

<removed-date>
              gcaggaaggt taccaggaag aacagataat gagatcaaga actactggaa ttctcatttg   360
              agcaagaaag tgaaccagaa ggagaaacac agaggagcat cagctaggca aggctgcaaa   420
              tttgctcaac agagattggt ggagaatgcc aaagaacaag tgagagaaga gaatacatct   480
              actggatttg gggagtccaa tataagcttc gatgtggatg acttctttga tttctccaat   540
              gtggataccc ggaactttga gtgggtgaac aggtttcttg aagttgacga cggttttaag   600
<removed-apn>
              ttttaactga agctttatgg atggaacccc aagagctttc tgttgtttgt ttatcttcta   660
              tcatcatgat tcatgaattt gatgcaatcc atgttaatat gtaaaacctt gttatcttcc   720
              ctgaatttgg ctacatacgt tttttgtgtc ggctatatgc cctagttgcc gacatagtga   780
              aacggtagca cagactcttg ttattggtgt caatcaatta gaccaacaag ttgaacccca   840
              aaaaaaaaat ggctaatata ggaaagagac ttctggaaaa at                      882
              <210>   472
              <211>   1392
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 472
              ctctttcagc acgttttatc tttcctcatt tcggttccta tcctataaaa acctaaactt    60
              ttgatacctt ccatttccca gcaaaataac caatccaaaa agaatccccc aaagcaaaaa   120
              ctcaggaaaa aggatcatat atagttgaag aaatcatgaa gaacccaagt ttagtcggta   180
              attcaacaag cagcaagggt actccttgtt gcagcaaagt tgggataaag agaggaccat   240
              ggacgcccga agaagatgaa gtgttagcca actacatcaa aagggaaggc gaaggacgat   300
              ggcggacttt gcctaaacga gctggtttgc ttcgatgcgg taagagttgt cgtctccggt   360
              ggatgaatta tctccgaccc tctgttaaac gaggtcgtat tgctcccgat gaagaagatc   420
              tcattcttcg ccttcatcgc ctgctcggta acaggtggtc actgatagct ggtaggattc   480
              cagggcgtac agataatgaa ataaagaact actggaatac ccatctaagc aagaagctga   540
              tcagccaagg aatagatcca agaacccata aaccattgaa ccttattacc cataaatcgc   600
              cacagattaa tcatgatcat gttccaaaat caaaccctag cccccctatc cctaatcctt   660
              ctgtattagc atcaaaaacc attacaatta aaactacaaa cactaccaaa gatggtacac   720
              cgactaacct ggaacatggg tatcagcagc aatctcaaaa ccaacaggtt gataagagca   780
                                                    479

<removed-date>
              tggagaaatg gaagaatact gaaagtgcaa ctcttatcat ggcggaacca agcagccatg    840
              gaaacgaagg ggatcatatg gaaaattgca atgaagatat gttctcctcg tttctagatt    900
              cattgattaa tgaaaacttg cttgttaatc aacacccaga agagcagcaa cctaataatt    960
              tggtggcacc ggcggcagca gccgcagaat cttctcagaa cttgtgtcat ggcgacatgt   1020
              gggaaaccga actcatatct gcaatggttg gttttgggaa tgagccaaac tctttcaaca   1080
<removed-apn>
              atcattatca ttatctgcat caactttagc agatcaaact gcaaatttat atgcatattg   1140
              aaattagatg ttttttgatt ttctacgttt gtttctattt attttccctt tttctttctt   1200
              tcattgctcg gttgtgttat tgttttgtac tcattttatt tgtatgcttg cccctacaat   1260
              gaaagtttgt agttttattc gtagtgtcta ttaaaatgta tcaatcccta aatctgtaat   1320
              ttcctacaga aattaatgaa attattgaag cagaaggttg agtattactt ccaaaaaaaa   1380
              aaaaaaaaaa aa                                                       1392
              <210>   473
              <211>   916
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 473
              atattcataa tcatgaaact tattttcgag gtttttcttt tgattccctt ttagggtttc     60
              ttgcaagtta attccaatga ttcatctttg gctttttttg aaggtactag caatatcaca    120
              cacacacata tatatatgca tatgaatata tgaactgtaa gatcaagggt tcttacactc    180
              tgaatatttt caggtgggca ttgatagctg ggaggattcc gggacgaaca gataatgaaa    240
              taaagaacta ctggaatacc catctaagca agaatttaat cagccaagga atagatccaa    300
              gaacccataa accattgaac cctgttagcc atagttcatc acaagctaac caggatgatg    360
              atgatgatgt cccagaatca aaccctaatc ccccaagctc ctccaaatct tctgaattaa    420
              tgggagaaaa aactaattcc atggaaacta ctaacctgga atctcatcag atatatcaac    480
              accaacaaga ggttggtgac gattgcatgg ggcagccaag cagcagcggg aacgggggag    540
              acttggttga aaatggtaac gaagaccata tgttctgttt gtttctggat tctttgatta    600
              ccgacaatca gcagcagcag cagcaatcta ataatggcga cctttgggaa gctgaaatca    660
              tgtctccaat ggtggagttt gggaaccccc aaaactactt caatcatcac cagcagcatc    720
                                                    480

<removed-date>
              cttagcaaag ctgccaaagt agtagatgca ttttggtttt acatttcata ttataaattg   780
              aaaatggatt agaaagtatc ggtttcattt gtatgcttgg gtggttgttg ttgtatgtag   840
              ttttcgtctc tttggttgtg ttaattgttc agcgaagaac tgatttgttt aagaaaaaaa   900
              aaaaaaaaaa gggcgg                                                   916
              <210>   474
<removed-apn>
              <211>   975
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 474
              tctcactctt tgcctcttct gactgttggc taataatggc tccaaagaag gctggagtga    60
              gcaaaagggt ttttaacaaa ggttcatgga cagctgagga agatagaaga ttggctaaat   120
              atattgagat tcatggtgca aagagatgga aaacaatcgc cattaaatca ggtttgaatc   180
              gatgcggcaa gagttgcagg ttgagatggt tgaactactt gagacctaac attaagagag   240
              gcaacatatc agatgaagaa gaggacttaa ttattaggct tcataaactg ctgggaaaca   300
              ggtggtcttt gattgctggg agacttccag ggcgaacaga caatgaaatt aagaactact   360
              ggaattccca tttgagcaag aaaatgataa accatgatgt cagaacagaa caaacttcct   420
              cctcggaaca aattgtgcct cacaaagcat gggaaactgt ccagatggaa gaagaagagg   480
              tagtaaaagg aagtgatgaa attgaaaact ctgaattcag cattgatgtg gacgaattct   540
              ttgacttctc aacggaaggt tgctttggtt tggattgggt gaataagttc cttgaacttg   600
              atgaccaaca ggatccatta gcaatggtat aataagtttg taattaacat gtttccttga   660
              ataaataaat aaataaagag atgttctcag gcattatctc gtcttattat tattattttt   720
              caatcattct cctttccccc tcatttttca tctgagacag tcggattgtt cggattgttg   780
              ttatgccttt atttgcattt tgtgatgatc attaatttag ttgggaactt atggctaaat   840
              tgtaactaaa aaactggctg gttggatata taattccttt ggattaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   900
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagcaaac   960
              ggggggacgg cccaa                                                    975
              <210>   475
              <211>   991
                                                    481

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 475
              caattataat aataagaaca aacccggtac tcgacccacg cgtccgctgt gtgtctgtgt    60
              aaaaatatgg ggaggaggcc ttgctgtgcc aaagaagggc ttaacaaagg agcatggact   120
              gcaaatgaag accaaatcct caaaaactac atcaccatcc atggtgaagg caaatggaga   180
              gaccttcctc aaaaagctgg gttgaagaga tgtgggaaga gttgccggct ccggtggctg   240
<removed-apn>
              aattatttga ggccggacat taagagaggg aacatctcta ttgaagaaga agagctcatt   300
              attagactac acaagctcct tggtaacagg tggtctctga ttgctggaag attaccgggg   360
              cgaacagaca atgaaataaa gaactattgg aacacaaatt tgagcaaaag gatggaaggc   420
              cagaaaagga atatttctcc aaataccccc caagtttctt ctcacaatgt gatttggacc   480
              aaagcagtga agtgcaccaa ggccgtcaat gttgatactt tagaccccaa atccgaaact   540
              ctagtcaaca gtcctagtga gaccccttct tcttcagcca tcaatgagga taatactaac   600
              aacaattcca tggatttctt agtcgatttc gatatcgatg aacttctcgc attcgaatac   660
              aacccgatcc cggagttgta tcgaactcaa aaccgcggtg acaaaatggg caataatgtg   720
              gcggacaacg gggagtacag tcatggtacc gagttttgtc aggcatgtga acacttggat   780
              cttcgaggtc tagaatctta tttgaatctt gaagatgaat ggatcaacta attaataatc   840
              caaagttcgc actttgttgt attaagattt gactgttagg tttgttagtg tttgaatcat   900
              attgtatcct ataaatatcc atgagaaata gcaataaaat atgggtccat ttttgtaatt   960
              tcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a                                  991
              <210>   476
              <211>   1133
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 476
              gaagtctttt taagttgatg catggggtca tcctccattt ttatgggttt ataaatagag    60
              ggagagagag agagagagag agagagagag agagagagag agtttaggag aaaatatggg   120
              aagaagtcca tgttgctcca aggaaggact caacaaagga gcttggactg ctttagaaga   180
              taaaatactt gcatcatata ttcatgttca tggtgaaggc aaatggagaa acctccccaa   240
                                                    482

              gagagctggt ttgaagagat gtggcaaaag ttgcagactt agatggctga attatcttag    300
<removed-date>
              accagatatt aaaagaggca acatctctca tgatgaagaa gaactcatta taagactcca    360
              taatcttctt ggcaacagat ggtctttaat agctggaagg ctacccgggc gaacagacaa    420
              tgaaatcaag aactactgga acactacttt aggtaagaga gctaaagctc aagcatccat    480
              tgatgctaaa acgataccaa ccgagtctag gctcaatgaa ccctcgaaaa gttcaactaa    540
              aatcgaagtg attcgaacta aagctattag gtgtagcagc aaggtgatgg tcccattaca    600
<removed-apn>
              accacctgca actcatcaac atggtcaaca tcactgtaca aataataatg aagaaatggg    660
              tggtggtatt gcaacaattg aagctcacaa tggaattcaa atgctcgagt cattgtacag    720
              tgatggcggc tcaaatttgt tgagcttcga gatcaatgaa ctgttgaaat cacacgatgg    780
              tggagaattt gaggagaatc ctatgcagca gcactttccg ttgggtgagg caatgcttaa    840
              ggattggtct acatgtcatt gtcttgatga caatggtgcc actgatttgg aatcattggc    900
              ctttttgctt gacactgatg aatggccatg atacgaatat cagtactgct acagtgaaat    960
              ataaaggcaa tcatttcacc gtatatcttt tttccttaag attagaaaaa aaatgcttct   1020
              ttttgcttgt tggaaggatg catgttatga caaaattact gtaattttgg gtgttgaaaa   1080
              ataaataact catccacgtg tctggttaat gctaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaa          1133
              <210>   477
              <211>   1070
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 477
              gaaacaatac attcatatgt ttctttcaaa cacaacaaac ataaaaagaa ccatcaggtt     60
              tgatgaatta agtttggcaa caacatgatt taaacataca atcaacacac tttgaaaaaa    120
              aactatataa ataacattca tcatcaaacc ctctattggg tcattttggt tgatcgaagg    180
              gagtagattc ccatccttgt gagagtccca aattcgaaac caatgcatca tcatcttcat    240
              ttatcaatga attcagaaaa gaagagaaca catcatcatg atcttgttgt tgctgataat    300
              ggtcattgtt catgatcatc ccttgatggt cttcattgct cccatcgtca taataatttt    360
              gcttgttagc gttgacgaca tgaacaggaa gaggggaagg aggattgttt ggtttcgcca    420
              tggatgatga tgaagaaggt gaaggtttga gtgatggtgg tgatggtgag agttgttgag    480
                                                    483

              ggtttaaagg cttgtgcgtt cgaggatcga tcccttgact tatcaatttc ttactcaggt    540
<removed-date>
              gagtattcca gtagttcttt atttcgttat ctgtacgccc tggtattctt ccagctatta    600
              gtgaccaccg attccctaaa aggcggtgaa ggcggaggat gagatcttct tcatcgggag    660
              caatctggcc acgtttaaca gaaggtcgga gataattcat ccatcggaga cgacagcttt   720
              ttccgcatcg gagaagacca gcccgtttag gtaaagtccg ccaccgtcct tcgccttctt   780
              tgttgatgta attagataat aactcgtctt cttccggcgt ccatggccct cttttcaacc   840
<removed-apn>
              ctactttgct gcaacacggc gtcgtcttgg ttccaacgtt gtcttttttc gtagggtttc   900
              tcatggtttt tttttttagc ttagagagat aactattttg atgatcggcg atttgatatt    960
              agcgatagct tctatttctt ttgtcattta atttttctta cactgttttg gaagtactgt   1020
              cgtggctgtt tggattttga atcttcactt gcttaccatt tattgtgaat              1070
              <210>   478
              <211>   1168
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 478
              cccacgcgtc cgaaaaaaga aagaaagaaa gaagtgtgaa aaaaaaaaat gggaaggagt     60
              ccttgttgtt ctaaggaagg ccttaacaga ggagcttgga ctgctcttga agacaaaatt   120
              cttaaagatt atatcaaagt acacggtgaa ggtcgttgga gaaatctccc caaaagagct   180
              ggtcttaaga gatgtgggaa aagttgtagg cttcggtggt tgaattattt gagacctgat   240
              attaaaagag gtaacatatc acctgacgag gaagagctta tcatcaaact ccacaaactc    300
              ttgggaaaca gatggtcttt gatagctggg aggcttccag gacgaacaga caatgaaata    360
              aagaattact ggaacaccaa cttaagtaaa agagtttccg atcgtcaaaa gtcacccgcc    420
              gctccttcga aaaaacccga ggcggctcga cgaggaactg ctggtaatgg caataccaat    480
              ggtaatggta gtggtagttc ctcgacacac gtggtgcgga caagggcgac aaggtgctcc   540
              aaggttttca taaaccctca tcaccacaca caaaacagac acccaaagcc ttcctcaact   600
              tgttcaaatc atggggatca ccgggaacct aaaacaatga atgagttgtt attaccgata   660
              atgtcagaat ccgagaatga agggacgacc gatcatatat catcggattt tacatttgac   720
              ttcaacatgg gagagttttg tttatcggat cttttgaatt ccgatttctg cgatgtaaac    780
                                                    484

              gagcttaatt acagcaatgg ttttgattcg tcaccctcac cggatcagcc tcctatggat    840
<removed-date>
              ttctccgacg aaatgctaaa agagtggacg gccgccgcct ccactcactg ctgtcaccaa    900
              agtgcggctt ccaatctcca gtccttgcct ccatttattg aaaatggaat tgaatgacct    960
              tgaaaaaata aaagacgaaa aatattttct catgtaaact aaataaacac atcttccatc   1020
              aataattctg ctcttcttct tcttcttctt ctttgtgtgt gtggggttta agtctctcaa   1080
              aggactgttt tgtcgacgaa ttttccataa gatttccacg tgggaatgtt ggcttgttaa   1140
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                                      1168
              <210>   479
              <211>   1606
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 479
              tttttattcg gtacacactt gcttacgaaa atcaagtttt aatgctatcg tcccttttgt     60
              tgctactatc cgcaagtcaa actgctaaat ttgtttgttt ccttctatta ttttagccaa    120
              ggatagacca agttatccgc attttggccc tgatttccca tcttgactag ctggtggtgg    180
              cagttacaca tagggagatg gggagggcgc cttgttgcga aaaagtgggg ttgaagaagg    240
              ggagatggac ggcggaagag gatgtgttat tgaccaagta tattcaagct aacggtgaag    300
              gctcctggag atcattaccc aagaatgcag gattactgag gtgtgggaag agttgcagac    360
              taaggtggat taattacttg agagctgact tgaaaagggg aaactttact tcccaagagg    420
              aagaagtcat cattaacttg catgctactt tgggaaatag gtggtcttta attgccagtt    480
              acttaccagg aagaacagac aacgagatta agaactattg gaactctcat ttgagtagaa    540
              aaatccatag ctttagaagg ccattaactc aaagcatgcc agtcatcatg gacctcacca    600
              agacggccgt gattgctaag cggaaaggag gtagaactag cgaagggtcg atgaaggaaa    660
              acaaaagctg cagtacccag aaagatactg gaagttgttc aaataaacct actgaaaacg    720
              tttgtgttaa tgaagttgag ccattcccat ccactccatt gttagaaaaa gaaaccttgt    780
              ccactacagc cattgaagat cgcatggtac tggatcaaca tggagaagat aaggagagaa    840
              caacccatgt tgtacccagt ccttgtcacg acaccgttgt tgaaggaatg ttgggttcaa    900
              gcgaggagag agagagcctg gtgactgagg aaggaaccat agagaattca atgcagtgcc    960
                                                    485

              ctagtggcaa cgctgagaaa gggactggta ttttagcacc acatgagagt attgatagca   1020
<removed-date>
              gtgagataga gtggtttaat gatatcctgg atagtgaatt gctacagcca agtgggcatt   1080
              tgacgtttac tgaactagga gaggacaggt ggaatgtgaa aacacacaca actgcagcta   1140
              ataacgagga aatagtgagt aggaactgta gtgcagatag tggtggggtc ttgagctcat   1200
              gtacttcaac aacattttac tttgttgatg attgggaaaa tgttgttcca agaagtgagc   1260
              tttgggatga gaaggaatac atgtgttctt ggctgtggga gccaagcgac tatcatggga   1320
<removed-apn>
              aaggagagag acataaagtg gatgataatg gctttgaggg gcacaatccc atgattgctg   1380
              ctaacgtcgc ttttctccta atgctcctcc ttgttcctcc tgctttagtg tctagctaca   1440
              cttccatgtc aatattttat ctaggtagac agtgtgaaca tgtcctgccg ttttttcttt   1500
              ttgttttact tttagatttt gcttctcttt tcaattctga tgctttgttt tctttgtaaa   1560
              ctgatttgtg atggaaaaaa gattgaagaa aacattttca ccgaat                  1606
              <210>   480
              <211>   743
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 480
              gtttatagtt cggcaggttg ctatacaatc tgatgcggat tccttataca tcatatcctg     60
              aatacatcct ggccaatttg gttcatgctc ttgctcatca ttcatgtccg aacacagatg    120
              aatgcaaaga tgtcaaagca tttgaattaa tattccggca attgtacttg actatttcta    180
              tgttggtgaa aaaagagagg aaatattaga ttatagattt gaggctcgtt acccccgccc    240
              cccaaaataa aaaaccttga cccctgttac caagggaatg tccactctta ttgaagagga    300
              gattgaggtg agaaaagtgg ccatggacca cggaagagga tacgctccta acccattaca    360
              ttggtcgtca tggggtaggt ccttggaata tgttggcaaa atgtgcaggt accaacacat    420
              tgatcaacaa actctttacc cttttcttta tgttctgggt tgatctacct ttaacttcct    480
              caggtcttaa gagaagtggt aaaagttgca gattaaggtg gcttaactat ttgaaccctg    540
              acattaagcg cggaaacctc actctccaag aacaacaatt gattcttcaa cttcattccc    600
              tgtggggaaa tcgatggtca aaaattgcag agcatcttcc gggaagaaca gacaacgaga    660
              tcaagaacta ttggagaaca agggtgcaaa acaagcagcc atcctcttct tctttgaaag    720
                                                    486

              aaatgagctc ccaattttca gtc                                           743
<removed-date>
              <210>   481
              <211>   416
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 481
              aaaaaaagag aggaaatatt agattataga tgtgagggtc gttacccccg ccccccaaaa    60
<removed-apn>
              taaaaaacct tgacccctgt taccaaggga atgtccactc ttattgaaga ggagattgag   120
              gtgagaaaag ggccatggac cacggaagag gatacgctcc taacccatta cattggtcgt   180
              catggggtag gtccttggaa tatgttggca aaatgtgcag gtcttaagag aagtggtaaa   240
              agttgcagat taaggtggct taactatttg aaccctgaca ttaagcgcgg aaacctcact   300
              ctccaagaac aacaattgat tcttcaactt cattccctgt ggggaaatcg atggtcaaaa   360
              attgcagagc atcttccggg aagaacagac aacgagatca agaactattg gagaac       416
              <210>   482
              <211>   1389
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 482
              atgcagcttt caacaagcaa agtagcagta ttttctctaa gaatagatac aaccaatatt    60
              gattaatttc caccctatgt ttggaaattg atattcctac aaaagctaaa ttcatccgtc   120
              tcgagcaaaa gggccaaaga atcaaaatcc atggcgtcat tgccattaag acaaggattt   180
              acggtccaat tcttaaacat tgcctcatca aaggctaagg gttgcatagg gttctcctca   240
              aattcaacat ccctttcctt tagctgctca tttaacaaat ctgtgccgcc accatcactg   300
              tacaacgaat caagcacttg ggttccattt atgttgagct gcaggtagct gtgttgggat   360
              cctgaccttg ctgctggacc tagtggcttt agttagaatc actttgattt ttgctttcgt   420
              agcccggagc gaacgcaagg gttcacagtc tccagactcg gttgatagca ttttatgtgt   480
              agatttgctt ggaggagttc caatggatgc ttgacctttg gctctctttc tcaaaacagt   540
              gttccagtag ttcttgattt cgttatctgt tcgccccggt aaccttccag ctattaacga   600
              ccacctgcac agcatcacac aatgagcagt aaggaactca gtacctctta atttcgattc   660
              ccattgtaaa aaagaagggg agagagagat taacaacctg tttccaagaa gattatggag   720
                                                    487

<removed-date>
              tctgataatg agttcttctt catcacggga gatgttgcct cttttgatat ctggtctaag    780
              ataattcagc catctaagtc tgcaactttt gccacatctt ttcaaacctt cattttgggg    840
              gataataaac catcaaaagg catcaattga aaagcttaat tacaataatt tcactttggg    900
              gttttatata tatataccag ctctcctgga gaggtcgctc catttgcctt ccccatgagc    960
              tttaatatat gatgcaagta atttatcctc caatgcagtc caagctcctt tgttgagtcc   1020
<removed-apn>
              ttccttgggg caagatggac tcctccccat atcgctcttt tgtctctctc tccctctacc   1080
              ttaaaaccat tttaatggaa gaggaccttt ccccttttat agcccatagt ctttctgtgt   1140
              gcatgtatat atgtatacac acatatatat acatacacgg tggtgaattg cactaagtta   1200
              tcgcgtctaa taagattttt aaaattttaa taagtttttt tttgagaaaa gaatatctaa   1260
              atattcttta gagaggttgt atattaattg ttgacttcat ctgttaatct tatgattaaa   1320
              gatttaatct ctacttatga aaataaaata cattgtatga ttaatcatca aaaaaaaaaa   1380
              aaaaaaaaa                                                           1389
              <210>   483
              <211>   797
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 483
              ctcgtaacat gcagcttgca acaagcaaag tagcagtatt ttctctaaga atagatacaa     60
              ccaaagatta atttccaccc tatgtttgga aattgatatt cctataaaag ccatattcat    120
              ccatctcgag caaaaaggcc aaagaatcaa aatccatggc gtctttgcca ttaagacaag    180
              gatttacggt ccaattctta aacattgcct catcaaaggc taagggctgc ataaggttct    240
              cctcaaattc aacatcgctt tcctttagct gctcatttaa caaatctgag ccgccaccat    300
              cactgtacaa cgaatcaatc atttgggttc cattgtagct gtgttgggat cctgaccttg    360
              ctgctggacc tagtggcttt agttagaatc actttgattt tggctttcgt agcccggggt    420
              gaacgcaacg gttcgcagac tccagactcg gttgatagca ttttttgtgt agatttgctt    480
              ggaggagttc caatggatgc ttgagctttg gctctctttc tcaaaacagt gttccagtag    540
              ttcttgattt cattatctgt acgacccggt aaccttccag ctattaacga ccacctgcac    600
              agcatcacac aatgagaagg aactctgtac ctcttaattt cgattcccat tgtaaaaaag    660
                                                    488

<removed-date>
              aaggggagag agagattaaa aacctgtttc caagaagatt atggagtctg ataatgagtt   720
              cttcttcatc atgggagatg ttgcctcttt tgatatctgg tctaagataa ttcagccaaa   780
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa                                                  797
              <210>   484
              <211>   916
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 484
              atcatatatt aaaactcatg gggaaggcaa atggagcgac ctctccaaga gagctggtat    60
              atatatacat ataaccccaa agtgaaatta ttgtaattaa gcttttcaat tgatgccttt   120
              ggatggttta ttatccccca aaatgcaggc ttgaaaagat gtggcaaaag ttgcagactt   180
              agatggctga attatcttag accagatatc aaaagaggca acatctccca tgatgaagaa   240
              gaactcatta tcagactcca taatcttctt ggaaacaggt ggtcgttaat agctggaagg   300
              ttaccgggtc gtacagataa tgaaatcaag aactactgga acactgtttt gagaaagaga   360
              gccaaagctc aagcatccat tggaactcct ccaagcaaat ctacacagct acctgcagct   420
              caacaaattg ataagcttcg agatggtcag cttaagtcaa caaataataa tcaagaaatg   480
              agtggtgata ttgcaacagt ggaagctcac aatggaaccc aaatgattga ttcgttgtac   540
              agtgatggtg gcggctcaga tttgttaaat gagcagctaa aggaaagcga tgttgaattt   600
              gaggagaacc ttatgcagcc cttagccttc gatgaggcaa tgtttaagaa ttggaccgta   660
              aatccttgtc ttaatggcaa agacgccatg gattttgatt ctttggcctt tttgctcgag   720
              acggatgaat atggctttta taggaatatc aatttccaaa catagggtgg aaattaatct   780
              ttggttgtac ctattcttag agaaaatact gctactttgc ttgttgcaag ctgcatgtta   840
              cgagttattg ctgtaaatct ggagtaaaat tgaaagctga atataataaa ctcataaacg   900
              agtatggtta atcctg                                                   916
              <210>   485
              <211>   1188
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   485
                                                    489

              gcatctcctt gctgctgcat catttttctc ttcttctctg tcactaagca ataaacatgg     60
<removed-date>
              gaagagcact ttgtggtgat aaaaatgggc tcaaaaaagg gccatggact cctgaagaag    120
              ataaaaaatt gattgattat attcaaaaac atggttatgg aaattggagg acacttccaa    180
              agaatgctgg gttgcaaaga tgtggaaaga gttgtcgtct tcgatggact aactacttga    240
              ggcctgatat caagagagga aggttttctt ttgaagaaga agagactata attcagctac    300
              atagtatatt gggcaacaag tggtctgcca ttgctgctcg gttgcccgga cgaacagata   360
<removed-apn>
              acgaaataaa aaactattgg aacacacaca ttagaaaaat tcttcttcga atggggatcg   420
              atccggtgac ccatactcct cgactggatc ttctcggtct ctcttccctt cacaatcaat    480
              atcttatcca gtcttttgtt aaccctgagc ttcttcataa tgttgaccaa tatcaaccat    540
              tgacgcaatc taaccattgc cacgcacaag tcgaagaaac ccaaacttgt agtgttccat    600
              tttataacga agaactacaa ctcgtgatgg aacccaatgt aaaccaattc ccatcaaatt    660
              tcaatgacta tgttatgcct tcaattttga ctgaagatta cgtgccgcta ccgccgcagt    720
              acaactatta cggctcggat tatcaaaccg taatggaccc ttcaatcgaa acctcgaatt    780
              tccatcccat caacagcaac cagagcttgg ggttggggtc agttgtgtcg acgccttcgt   840
              caagccccgc cccattgaat tcaaactccg catacctcaa cagtagcagc accactgaag   900
              acgaaacgga aagctattgc accaacattt tgaagtttga aatccctgat attttggatg    960
              ttaatgattt catgtaattc caaatgcata actcccaaaa agagtttttc ttttttcttt   1020
              tttttttgat tagtgagaca tgttgatacg tgtgaaaatt tctactaatt aatagttgat   1080
              ttctctcaag atcactgtgt tagaagcaag atcatacatc cgttctgtcc tttttctttt   1140
              caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaacaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                1188
              <210>   486
              <211>   1118
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 486
              gctataaaag gggaaaggtc ctcttccatt aaaatggttt taaggtagag ggagagagag     60
              acaaaagagc gatatgggga ggagtccatc ttgccccaag gaaggactca acaaaggagc   120
              ttggactgca ttggaggata aattacttgc atcatatatt aaagctcatg gggaaggcaa    180
                                                    490

              atggagcgac ctctccagga gagctggttt gaaaagatgt ggcaaaagtt gcagacttag    240
<removed-date>
              atggctgaat tatcttagac cagatatcaa aagaggcaac atctcccgtg atgaagaaga    300
              actcattatc agactccata atcttcttgg aaacaggtgg tcgttaatag ctggaaggtt    360
              accggggcga acagataacg aaatcaagaa ctactggaac actgttttga gaaagagagc    420
              caaaggtcaa gcatccattg gaactcctcc aagcaaatct acacataaaa tgctatcaac    480
              cgagtctgga gactgtgaac ccttgcgttc gccccgggct acgaaagcaa aaatcaaagt    540
<removed-apn>
              gattctaact aaagccacta ggtccagcag caaggtcagg atcccaacac agctacctgc    600
              agctcaacat actgataagc ttcgagatgg tcagcttaac tcaacaaata ataatcaaga    660
              aatgagtgga aatattgcaa cagtggaagc tcacaatgga acccaagtgc ttgattcgtt    720
              gtacagtgat ggtggcggca cagatttgtt aaatgagcag ctaaaggaaa gggatgttga    780
              atttgaggag aaccctatgc aacccttagc ctttgatgag gcaatgttta agaattggac    840
              cgtaaatcct tgtcttaatg gcaatgacgc catggatttt gattctttgg cccttttgct    900
              cgagacggat gaatttagct tttgtaggaa tatcaatttc caaacatagg gtggaaatta    960
              atcaatattg gttgtatcta ttcttagaga aaatactgct actttgcttg ttgaaagctg   1020
              catataataa actcatcaac gagtatggtt aatcctgacc ttgatgtttt tagaattctt   1080
              catccaaaaa aaaaaaacaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                           1118
              <210>   487
              <211>   997
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 487
              ccgcccacgc gtccgctcct tctccttcca ctcatcagct agctccacag ttccacttct     60
              gcgacagctc cccgagaaga gccctagcta gcttcgtctt catcgcgcct caccggaagg    120
              catggaccgc aaggacaagt ctcgcaagtc cccctcagca gcgtccatgg cagcgctcgc    180
              cgcggcagct gcggccggcg acgtggccca agccaacggg atgtccggtg aggaggacca    240
              gaagctgaag cttgtgaacg ttcccgtggt ttccgtcggt ggctcgagct cctctgctgc    300
              ggcggtggcg gtgaggaggg gcagtggtgc tgctggcgcc gtggcaacgg gcgcggctgg    360
              ggcaggcggg ccgagctgcc aggccgagag gtgcggcgcc gacctcaccg aggcgaagcg    420
                                                    491

              gtaccaccgc aggcacaagg tgtgcgaggc gcactcaaag gctgctgtcg tggtcgtcgc   480
<removed-date>
              cggtctgcgc cagcgctttt gtcagcaatg cagccggttc cacgagcttc tggagttcga   540
              cgaccaaaag cgcagctgcc gccggcgcct ggccgggcac aacgagcggt cggatgaaga   600
              actcggctga ggcgaacggc ggggaacggt gcccccaccc cccaaccaga cggcccggat   660
              cccaccctgg gaaccccgcc cgttgaccca tttccagatc agaataaccc tacctaaacc   720
              tgcctccctg tcttctgtca tgcagccatg ctactagcta caaatatcta catatgtatc   780
<removed-apn>
              cacccaccta cgtaggtacg tacctaccta cctatgtctc cactatccag tcccagtgta   840
              ctaagtggca gtatatactg tctcctgtac tgctatatgc ttgcgtctgt ccgccaaaaa   900
              cctaagctaa gctaattgtg acccgggaac tagtccaggt gttagagtga ttgtctgtgt   960
              gatgtgtaat tgtatggcct gtgcagccaa gacttct                            997
              <210>   488
              <211>   872
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (615)..(615)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (632)..(632)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (678)..(678)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (683)..(683)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (713)..(713)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
                                                    492

              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-date>
              <222>   (815)..(815)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (832)..(832)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (838)..(838)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 488
              cggcacgagg ctccaagacc cccgtcgtca ccgtcgccgg ccgcgagatg cgcttctgcc    60
              aacagtgcag caggtttcac ctgcttacgg agtttgatga ggccaaacgc agctgtagaa   120
              agcgtcttga tgggcacaac cgtcgccgca ggaaaccgca gccggatccg atgaattctg   180
              caagttttat gacgagtcaa caaggaacaa ggtttccatc atttccaact ccaagaccgg   240
              agcaaaactg gccagggatc attaaaactg aggagaaccc ctattacaca catcagctcc   300
              ctctaggcat cagtaacagg catcattttg gtggctctac atctactttc gcgaaagaag   360
              gacggagatt tcctttccta caggagggcg aaataaactt tgccaccggt gtggcacttg   420
              agcctgcagt gtgccagccg ctgctcaaga cggtagctcc tcccgagagc agcagcagca   480
              gcagcaagat gttctccgat ggtctgactc cggtgctcga ctcggactgt gctctctctc   540
              ttctgtcagc tccggcaaat tcctccggta tcgatgttgg ccagatggtc caacagactg   600
              aacacatccc cattngccca acctctgttc tncaacctgc agcaattcag cagctcgtcc   660
              tgggtctcgc gcacccangc ttncaccggc accgtctcag cgacccgatt ttncttgccc   720
              gtggtggaaa atgagcagct gaacaattgt ctacctcgga caacaatgac ttgaactatc   780
              atgggatttt tcatgttcga agcgaaagct tctanaacgg cgcttcgcat tntttgcnct   840
              tcccggggaa gagttttcag tggctggtca tg                                 872
              <210>   489
              <211>   647
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 489
              cgggctgagg gctcctgcac tcaaggcgcc gctcgtcgtc gtcgccggca tcgagcagcg    60
                                                    493

<removed-date>
              cttctgccag cagtgcagca ggttccacca gctacctgaa tttgaccaag gaaaacgaag   120
              ctgccgccga cgcctcgcgg gtacaatgag cgccggagga agccgccgcc cggacctatg   180
              tcgacacgct atggccggct tgctgcgtcc ttcaacgaag atccaggcag gttcagaagc   240
              tttctgctgg atttctcgta cccgagggcc ccggccggcg tgagggaccc gtggccggcc   300
              gttcagcccg gcgaccaccg catgcctggc accacccact ggcagggcca gggcagccat   360
<removed-apn>
              catgaacaac accacgctca tcgcagtgca gttgcgggat acggcgacca ccacgcgtac   420
              aacggccagg gcagcagctc ggggggaggc ggggcgccga tgatcccggc gggcttcgag   480
              ctcccctgga caagatggcg ggcgtcgccg ccgactccag ctgtgctctc tctcttctgt   540
              caactcagcc atgggatagt agtgcccaca gctccagcca catccggtcc ccggcaatgt   600
              cgacggccag cgccttccag ggcagccccg gtggcgccct ccgtcat                 647
              <210>   490
              <211>   532
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 490
              cggcacgagg aaagcgcctt gatgggcaca atcgacgccg caggaagcca caggtagata    60
              gcatgaattc tgggagcttc atgacaaccc aacaaggttt gtattcaaat gcagggccgc   120
              gcgtcgcgtc cttctcggct ccaaggccgg agccaagctg gtccgggatc atcaaatccg   180
              aggacagcaa tccattctac agcacgcacc aggttaactt cggcggcgcc acgtcgtcat   240
              actccaaaga aggccggcgc ttccccttcc tccacgaagg agaccagatg agcttcagca   300
              ccggcgcgcc ggcactcgag atccccgtgt gccagcctct cctcaaggcc gtcgccccgc   360
              tgccgccgcc gcccgagagc agcagcagca acaagatgtt ctccgatgga cagttgacgc   420
              acgtgctcga ctccgactgt gctctctctc ttctgtcatc cccggccaac tcctccagcg   480
              tcgacgtcag ccggatggtc cgtccaagcg agcacgtccc ctctgtcccc ag           532
              <210>   491
              <211>   774
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400>   491
                                                    494

              gcagaagcaa ttcagaaaca tagcaagttc agaattattc agacaagtgg ctaaatgatg    60
<removed-date>
              gatcaagatc ttcttccatg gcaacacaac cgggtcaatt tgatcctaag tctgttcgtg   120
              tgcgccttta ttctaggcat tgccaaacca taagcctcta ggcaggcaac ggcaccaagc   180
              aaagaaaatg caggatcccg ggtttcagac cgaacaaacg gcgtcgatcg cgtgataaaa   240
              tcacgcaccg agcggggtga ccggatcgga gcgccgtcgt catcagtgca tccggtcgaa   300
              gtgcgaggcg tggtcgtagg aaggctttgg gagctggagc tcgctgtcgt ggtcccccaa   360
<removed-apn>
              gcgctcgaag acctggaacc gcgggtgatc atctaggggt ggcccgccgt ctagccagag   420
              ccctgccgat gatcccagca cgtgcatcgc ggggttgggg gtgccggcaa tggcagccac   480
              cccagagtgc atctgggaag ttggctggag gttggcagca cccactgggt tgcttgacag   540
              aagagagaga gcatgctgaa gatccggggc gccactagag ttgggggcga cagcggaagc   600
              ttggacacct tgattaggga actttgtaga agttcccttg aatgccatga acccatcgaa   660
              accatgatgt gcaccatgcg gcataacatt gtccgacatc tgctgactag ataaatgcat   720
              cccatcaaca cctgcagcag ttgttggctt taaccaagga gcttttgtgt gtgc         774
              <210>   492
              <211>   2107
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2082)..(2082)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 492
              gagtaatcga ttagttctga ttaaccaaat gagaaaagcg gacagacaga ctccatttca    60
              gataaactcc atgatagtac agagaatgca tcggttccga tcactgaaca ctgatctctc   120
              atcatcatcc ttctatacaa caaggtaaat gactaaccaa aatggatcga agaaagctac   180
              ccggcgcatg atcagcgttc ttgctggctg gctactggtt tcctccacgg ggcgggccgg   240
              aaactcttcc ctgttagcaa tccctccgat gcagcgaaga tggcgcacgc agatgtagag   300
              agagagagag aaaaagaacg atcaaatcat ctcatcagga gcctaaatct gtggcaagtc   360
              tagcgcgccg tcatggttgt tgttgtcgtc gctgccgctg ccgctgccgc cgccgccctc   420
                                                    495

              catgaacagt ctgagccagt agtccatgtc gccgtcgggc ttgccgaacg cgtcgtgggg    480
<removed-date>
              ctccatgcag acgtcgttga ggtcgtccag cggcatggac agcgtctccg accagaagct    540
              ctcgtcgatc tggaactcct ccgactcctc ggacgaggtg aagcactcct ccttgacgga    600
              cgcggacgcg gacgcggagc tgctccccga gttgccgtgc tgctccgccg ccgccgaggc    660
              ggtcgacgtc gactcggtga ccgtggatga gacggagcgc tcgggcgagg acacgggcgc    720
              cgccgccgcc gccctggcgg tcagcgcgtt gaggttcctc atcttgacct tgccgtcgcg    780
<removed-apn>
              cttcctcggc gccgccgccg ccgccggcgg cttcttgcgc ttcttggcgg cgccggcctc    840
              ctcttgctgc tcctgcgcgc tggggtcgag ccgcttcttg aggtgggtgt gccacacgtt    900
              cttgatctcg ttgtccgtcc tccccggcag cctggcggca atcgcggacc atctgttgcc    960
              gagcagctgg tgcagctgga tgattgactg ctcctcctcg tcggagaagt tgccgcgctt   1020
              gatgtccggc cgcaggtagt tgatccaccg gagccggcag ctcttgccgc accgcagaag   1080
              cccggcttgc ttgggcagcg cgcgccagtt gccgtggccg tggctgtgga tgtgtgcgac   1140
              caggatcttg cactccgcgg catccacagg caccccggcc aggctagccg tgcccgtgct   1200
              cccttcttct cttctccccc caaagagtca aagacaggca cagaggggac tcgcgcatcc   1260
              agcacgcacg cgcgcacgca tccggatcga gaagatgggg agggcgccgt gctgcgagaa   1320
              gatgggcctg aagagggggc cctggacgcc ggaggaggac aagatcctgg tcgcacacat   1380
              ccacagccac ggccacggca actggcgcgc gctgcccaag caagccgggc ttctgcggtg   1440
              cggcaagagc tgccggctcc ggtggatcaa ctacctgcgg ccggacatca agcgcggcaa   1500
              cttctccgac gaggaggagc agtcaatcat ccagctgcac cagctgctcg gcaacagatg   1560
              gtccgcgatt gccgccaggc tgtccgggga ggacggacaa cgagatcaag aacgtgtggc   1620
              acacccacct caagaagcgg ctcgacccca gcgcgcagga gcagcacgag gaggccggcg   1680
              ccgccaagaa gcgcaagaag ccgccggcgg cggcggcggc gccgaggaag cgcgacggca   1740
              aggtcaagat gaggaacctc aacgcgctga cccgccaggg cggcggcggc ggcgcccgtg   1800
              tcctcgcccg agcgctccgt ctcatccacg gtcaccgagt cgacgccgcc ccccgccgcc   1860
              ggggagcaac acggaactgg ggagcactcc cgtccgggtc cgttctaagg agagggttac   1920
              tttcccagag cgggggatca aacgaaagag tctgtggaga gctgcttccc tgaacctaaa   1980
              cgttgtggag ccagacttgg gagccgggag ggatatttta ttgttggggg gggggtggtg   2040
                                                    496

<removed-date>
              ggaggaaaac ccgagggcaa aaacaatagc gagaagagag gntttttctt aaggagcaca   2100
              gagggag                                                             2107
              <210>     493
              <211>     1177
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Hordeum vulgare
<removed-apn>
              <400> 493
              caggctagcc gtgcccgtgc tcccttcttc tcttctcccc caaagagtca aagacaggca     60
              cagaggggac tcgcgcatcc agcacgcacg cgcgcacgca tccggatcga gaagatgggg    120
              agggcgccgt gctgcgagaa gatgggcctg aagagggggc cctggacgcc ggaggaggac    180
              aagatcctgg tcgcacacat ccacagccac ggccacggca actggcgcgc gctgcccaag    240
              caagccgggc ttctgcggtg cggcaagagc tgccggctcc ggtggatcaa ctacctgcgg    300
              ccggacatca agcgcggcaa cttctccgac gaggaggagc agtcaatcat ccagctgcac    360
              cagctgctcg gcaacagatg gtccgcgatt gccgccaggc tgccggggag gacggacaac    420
              gagatcaaga acgtgtggca cacccacctc aagaagcggc tcgaccccag cgcgcaggag    480
              cagcacgagg aggccggcgt cgccaagaag cgcaagaagc cggcggcggc ggcggcgccg    540
              agggggcgcg gcggcgaggg caagatgagg aacctcaacg cgctgaccgc cagggcggcg    600
              gcggcggcgc cgcgtgtcct cgcccgagcg ctccgtctca tccacgggca ccgagtcgac    660
              gtcgaccgcc tcggcggcgc cggcgaacag cacggcaact cggggggcgg gcccccgtcc    720
              gcgtccgcgt ccggcaagga ggagtgcttc acctcggccg aggagtcgga ggagttccag    780
              atcgacgaga gcttctggtc ggagacgctg tccatgccgc tggacgacct caacgacgtc    840
              tgcatggagc cccacagatt taggctcctg atgagatgat ttgatcgttc tttttctctc    900
              tctctctaca tctgcgtgcg ccatcttcgc tgcatcggag ggattgctaa caggaaagag    960
              tttccggccc gccccgtgga ggaaaccagt agccagccag caaaaacgct gatcatgcgc   1020
              cggggagctt tcttcgatcc attttggtta gtcatttacc ttgttgtata gaaggaggat   1080
              gatgagagat cagtgttcag ggatcggaac cgaggcattc tctggactat catggagttt   1140
              atctgaaatg ggagtctggc tggccgcttt gctcatt                            1177
                                                    497

              <210>   494
<removed-date>
              <211>   875
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 494
              tacggccttt tgattcaccc gaatctgaat aacaaaggaa tagggaatat gcacaaatag    60
              gatggtatgt cctataatac tctctccagc acataacacc ttgctccatt ctcacctcct   120
              aaaaaaaaaa ctctaagttc cgttctaccc ggaccttccg gtcgactgcc agtttccctc   180
<removed-apn>
              tccgatgttc cacggaaacc cactcagacg caccggcggc ggcggtccga tgtgctattt   240
              cccggacagc actcctgcat gcatacaggg agccaggcat gctcaattca gtatatcttt   300
              atcacatctc caccttaaca aactgcagtc gagtctgtca ccgcacggac ttcaccaggt   360
              cgatcacggc gggcaaccga agatcgccgc ggggcttatc attgatcacc agtctgctcc   420
              agacgacatc tcgggcatgc tgaccattgt caatcaccag aaccacaaca attcagatgt   480
              caagagtgct tcaccccaac ttatgctctt tggaaaaccc tactccctta tcatctcatc   540
              actttaggta actcacaagg cttctctcca tctgctgcta agaacagcac ctctggtatt   600
              atccccccaa aagtcggcaa ataactttga ttttcaaggc cccaaaggcc cccaaatggc   660
              ctctttaaaa aacctcgccc ttggaaaaat tccattgtcc ccgcacccca atggacctca   720
              gctcccgact tgaaattttg ccctttccct aacttcttgc ccccaaaaaa acctcaatcc   780
              cccacttaac cttacaaagt ttgccctcgt ttggagaatt atatctgcgg catttccccc   840
              ctcttttgga cgctgcaaaa aggctttcct ttttc                              875
              <210>   495
              <211>   592
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 495
              gtggaacttg tatcaagcat tccaccaatc catttgggac cattttcccc accacgaaag    60
              aagttacggg ttccccagca tcctgatttt ccattggatg gccatctgtt caatccaatt   120
              ttccatggga acccacttgg tcctacaaca gccccctatg ctgttactcg gacaacaact   180
              ctcctgcagg catacaggga gccaggcatg ctcaatttgg tttaccatta acagaccatc   240
              agcttaataa gctgcacctt ggtctgttcc acggcggcgg ttttaacggg cttgacgcac   300
                                                       498

              taaccccgtc ttcccggata cctaagggct tggtgctcag cagcgcaccc gcccatgaca    360
<removed-date>
              gtgtctcttg tttgttgaca atcggtacac cacagagcac agaaaaatct gttgacagaa    420
              agacaccaca tataatgttg tttggaaagg ctattcttac ggagcagcag atgacttcaa    480
              gtggatcaag agagacgctc tcctcggggg ctactggaaa cagttcacct atcagtgctg    540
              cactgaaggc aggaaatacg tctgatggtt cgggttcatc gatttgcatt gg            592
<removed-apn>
              <210>   496
              <211>   1319
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 496
              ggcatggcat ggcatggcat ggcatggcga cctggatgga agtacgtagg tacgttacat     60
              tcgatgatgc tgatgatgat catgaaaggt actgctgcta ggagtggtat ccagagtggt    120
              actgctgctg ctgctgctgc tgctacattg atttgtttgc agctcctgcc tacggtacgg    180
              ctacgacgac gagaaaaatg caaagggaaa tgagctaact ctcgacaagg aagaaaccac    240
              agcttgtact tgggctgtag gcgtggggtg gtacttgctc cggcttattg ctcgctaatg    300
              gaggtccagg ggtcgccggc gacctaggtt attcggctca agatcgatgg atgttgctgc    360
              ttgcctccct tcctagcccc caatgttgtc gctccccgcg tccgccagga tcatcagcct    420
              ccgggccgac ttcacgaacg cgctgaaagg ttcatcgccg atgtgcttca cctcgccggc    480
              ggcgctgcgg tagagcacgt ggttcctcac ttcagcgcgg tccatgccga acatgtcgga    540
              catgcggccg tacagctcct cgaacgagcc cagcgccgag aggtccaggt tgcgccccac    600
              ggcgtccgac tccacgaaca ccttgcactg cccgggctcc agccccagct ccggcgccgc    660
              ctggctgccg ctgtccccga accactgcag cctccatgag gacgtgttgt tgttgttgtt    720
              gttgcttggg ctgccctgga tcacgccgga gccggacccg gagccttccg agaggttggg    780
              cgccttctcc gcgtcccagt tgggcgagcc gcacccgccg gccaccggcg aggacttcat    840
              ctgctcctcg gtcagtatcg cctgcccgaa gagcagcaga gtcttgacgt ccccggcctt    900
              ctttggcggg gtgcacgccc tgacgtcgtc ttcgcgggcg ggcgaggtgc cgatggtgag    960
              gtcggtgctg atccttggtg cgcggggagc aacgtggtcg gtcgccgcgg gcgggcggcg   1020
              ggcgccgccg gagtagagca ggctcgactg caggttgctg gggtggagat ccgaaaagga   1080
                                                    499

              cggaccgaat tgcgcatgcc tggctccctg tatccctgcg agaggagcac cattgctgtc   1140
<removed-date>
              cgggaagggg aagaagggga agctgtggtg catgagttga tcgtgcgcca gcgggtggtt   1200
              gggcgggaac ggcggcggcg gcgggtggaa gagctgcccg tcgaagggga agtcggcgta   1260
              ggacgggatc cgcggcttct tgcgcggcgg cgagaaggac ggcaggtgga ggttgggca    1319
              <210>   497
              <211>   1516
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 497
              ttcggcacga ggtcgagacg gaggactcgt cgaggatcag ctggttcatg gggactgtgt     60
              cggtcgtgca ggtggccgac cccattagat ggcccaattc accttggaga cttcttcagg    120
              tgacttggga tgaaccggac ctgctgcaga atgtgaagag ggtgagccca tggctggttg    180
              agctggtctc aaacatgccg gccattcacc ttgctccgtt ctcgcctcct cggaagaagc    240
              tctgtgttcc gttctacccg gaccttccgg tcgacggcca gtttccgtcc ccgatgttcc    300
              acggaaaccc actcggacgc ggcggcggcg gcggtccgat gtgctatttc cctgacggca    360
              ctcctgcagg catacaggga gccaggcatg ctcaatttgg tatatcttta tcagatctcc    420
              accttaacaa actgcagtcg agtctgtcac cgcacgggct tcaccaggtc gatcacggcg    480
              ggcaacagag gatcgccgct gggcttatca ttggtcacca gtctgcgcaa gacgacatct    540
              cgtgcatgct gaccattggc aatcaccaga acaacaacaa gtcagatgtc aagaaggctt    600
              caccccagct gatgctcttt ggaaaaccca tactcactga gcagcagatc actttaggta    660
              actctcgggg tttctctcca tctgctgcta ggaagagcac ctctgatatg agcgccgaaa    720
              agtcggcgaa taactctgat attccaagcc cacaaagcaa ccagaatggc tctatgaaaa    780
              acttgtcctg tggaggagtt ccattgtgcc aggacaacaa ggtactcgat ctcgggctgg    840
              atatcgggca ctgcaagata ttcatgcaat cagaagacgt cgggcgcaca cttgatctta    900
              cagctgttgg ctcgtatgaa gagttatatc ggcggctttc cgacatgttc ggtatggaaa    960
              aagctgagct gatgagccat gttttctacc gtgatgcagc cggggcgctc aaacacactg   1020
              gagatgaacc tttcagcgac ttcacgaaga cggcgcgtag gctgacgata ctaacggaca   1080
              cgagcggcga cagcagcgta gcgagctagg gggtgaggaa ggaagcaagc tctttcgcca   1140
                                                    500

              cttgtacgtg ctacagctgg gaggggcgca gcgccgcacg gtggcggttc tcagagagcg   1200
<removed-date>
              tagatagagt ggcggcaaac cccgaatggc gagccaccgc ggcctggatg caagtcaaga   1260
              agcaccaccg gtgcaggcag cttcagtttt tctccgatta ttagagaggt cccagaatgg   1320
              gacggatgat tgtttgtgtg atccttggac acttttcttt ctttcgttgt gttggctggt   1380
              acccattatg atgatgtagt agtagtaacg caggcttgga atccatggcg gttctccttg   1440
              ctggaattcc tgggaggaat gaatgaatgt ctgaaccttt ttcttcttct gtgatgaaaa   1500
<removed-apn>
              catgcgtgtg tggtcc                                                   1516
              <210>   498
              <211>   2279
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 498
              aaaactaact ctctccctca aaaaagaaaa agaaaaaaaa aactctctct ctctctcccc     60
              tccctatctc tctcacgcac agaggatcgg tagcagtgca gcgatcgcga agatgagctc    120
              tattggcatg atggaggcga agatgccgcc ggggttccgg ttccacccac gggacgagga    180
              gctggtcctc gactacctcc tccacaagct caccggccgg cgcgcatacg gtggcgtcga    240
              catcgtggac gtcgacctca acaagtgcga gccatgggac cttccagagg cggcgtgcgt    300
              aggcggcagg gagtggtact tcttcagcct gcgcgaccgc aagtacgcca ccgggcagcg    360
              caccaaccgc gccacgcgct ccggttactg gaaggccacc ggcaaggacc gcgccatcct    420
              cgcccacggc gccggcgagg cgttggtggg gatgcgcaag acgctcgtct tctaccaggg    480
              gagggccccc aaggggacga ggacggagtg ggtcatgcac gagttccgcc tggaggagga    540
              acgacgccac caccagccgc agcagcagca caagggccgc gccgccgccc ccgaggcgag    600
              gtgccagctc aaggaagact gggtgctatg cagggtgttc tacaagagca gaacaaccag    660
              cccaaggcca ccatctgaag aagcctgcac attcttcacc gagctggacc ttccgactat    720
              gccgcccctc gcgcccctca tcggcgccta catcgccttc gacagcggca ccacgatgaa    780
              caccaccgag caagtgtcct gcttctccgg cctgccggca ctaccgctca ggggatcggt    840
              gagcttcggg gacctgctgg gctgggacaa ccctgagaag aaggccatca ggacagcact    900
              gagcaacatg tcaagtaaca acaattccaa gttggagttg cctccaaact ggagccagga    960
                                                    501

              gaacggcttg ccacagatgt ggacacccct ctgaatcttt gatatgagat tactgtgctg   1020
<removed-date>
              ctagttgaag tgtggtggtg actagtaagt aattagatga catattcttt ctaatgatat   1080
              tggagagtag tattggacta ttggttgatg cagtgtctgt tcctagggat ttgatggaag   1140
              gtgtgtggtg atttacaaac cagtagatta gtgaaatggc ttgatatagc atctgtacat   1200
              aggaatgcta taagaaatgt cctattttag ttctactctt tctatccact ctccaaatgt   1260
              aatgtaactt cccattgaaa gtaaatatgt gtataacccc tgtttgtcat tataagaatc   1320
<removed-apn>
              ttcgatatat gttcctttat ttgtacactc attcatacaa atttgacaac acaggtactg   1380
              caataatttc ttcctttgtg atgtcccagt acaacaactt ccgttgcact tctgctatac   1440
              tatctctttg tgaatcgata taatggtagg agacatgcat catactgtca aaatcaggcg   1500
              tacaagctac caatcgagca acaaagtaac cgagtacgag tgcatggacc ctttcgtaac   1560
              tctgactgaa gtctcagcta tctttttgtg tactgatgga tcccgaggct ttctccaggt   1620
              ccctcctgtt catgtaaaac aaggattgtt tctccgagaa cgctgatttt atgctgattg   1680
              gtgaaaatcc tgcgtattcc ttgtcgacct tagccaggcc gacctcgaga atatacttca   1740
              cgagttcatg tttttggacg aatggttgtg ccgcaaattc ctccaccggc atccactgag   1800
              catcctcact ttccgactct tgcttagtaa tgtcaacaga aagtggcctt aggatgcaca   1860
              caaaaaatag atccgatttt tcaaaataag ctttgtggct ctgcctgaag gcaactacct   1920
              cgacgaattc tgcatcaacc cctgtctctt ctcttacaac tccacttttt atatcttccc   1980
              ctggttcaac aactccggtt gggaatttcc atataccaag ccccttaagt acaccgtttt   2040
              tttcctggac aaccaatacc tctcttttgt cattcattac aaaagctcca aggcccacac   2100
              ggtgagtagt tgatgcatat ccagtccttg actcttccac cattgaccaa atacagcacc   2160
              tgactgcacc atcaggatct gcttgtttac caaggatctg cttgtttacc aagcctgaaa   2220
              attacaccag caccaaacca agcctgacat tcatgttttt ggcgaatggt tgtgccgca    2279
              <210>   499
              <211>   1131
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 499
              cggcacgagg gatccaaggc gcgcgtggtg gcggcagcga tgagttcgct cagcatggtg     60
                                                    502

              gaggcgaggc tgccgccggg gttcaggttc cacccgcggg acgacgagct cgtgctcgac    120
<removed-date>
              tacctgtcca ggaagctcgg cggcggcgcc ggaccggcgg cggccgcggt ggcgagcatc    180
              tacggctgcc ccgccatggt cgacgtcgac ctcaacaaga ccgagccctg ggacctcccc    240
              gaaattgcgt gcattggcgg caaggagtgg tacttctaca gcttaaggga caagaaatac   300
              gctacagggc agagaacaaa tagagcaact gaatcaggct actggaaggc caccgggaaa   360
              gaccgcctga taagccggaa agggttgcta gttggcatga gaaaaaccct ggtgttctac   420
<removed-apn>
              gaaggcagag cccctaaagg gaagaagact gagtgggtca tgcacgaatt ccgcaaggaa   480
              gggcaaggcg atcatatgaa gttgccattg aaggaggact gggtcttgtg tagggttttc    540
              tataagacca ggacaaccat tgctaagcca cccacaggga gcagctacaa gatttgacag    600
              tgcagtcgca acctcactgc ctcctctcat tgacaactac attgcctttg accatcctgg    660
              aatgttgcaa aacctagagg gttatgagca agtgccctgc ttctccaata atccctcctc    720
              acacccgtca tcgtcgacct cgatgagtat cccggggatg gcgcccatgg ctgctgatca   780
              ggagcagcag cacatgggga aggcgatcaa ggacgtgctg agccagctca gcaggtctga   840
              gcaaggcaac gtgaagaggg aggcgcctac ccagggtggt gtgtttgctc aagatgggtt   900
              cgagtactta gctgagagtg gcttctcaca gatgtggaac acgctcagtt gattttctag   960
              ctatggatat tattgctacc atttacaact ctagatttcc ccgcaagcag tctcctgcat   1020
              gtctgggcaa tcagccaaac gcaacaaaat attatctatc agaactgatg gcgctcggca   1080
              tctggtcatg aaaatgagga ggcggcgatt cctgccgctg cttgcacctg c            1131
              <210>   500
              <211>   1348
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 500
              cggcacgagg gatggagcac ggcgagcagg agcagcacgc catggagctg ccgccgggct     60
              tccgcttcca cccgaccgac gaggagctca tcacgcacta cctggccaag aaggtggccg   120
              acgcccgctt cgccgccctc gccgtctccg tcgccgacct caacaagtgc gagccctggg   180
              acctgccagg taagctagca acacttctgc agttcatgca ccaacctgtg tgaccgatcg   240
              ctgcgataga acccacgacc acgagctgcc gaattgatca aacaacgcca acgcgtgcat    300
                                                    503

              gcagaattcg gcacgagggg ggagaaggag tggtacttct tctgcctcaa ggaccgcaag    360
<removed-date>
              tacccgacgg ggttgaggac gaacagggcg acggagtccg gctactggaa ggccaccggc    420
              aaggacaagg acatcttgag gggcaaggcc ctcgtcggca tgaagaagac gctcgtcttc    480
              tacaccggga gggcgcccaa gggcgagaag tccggctggg tcatgcacga gtaccgcctc    540
              aacgccaagc tccacgccgc cagcaccagc cgcggctccc tccccggcag cagggccgcg    600
              tcgtcctcgt cgtccaagaa cgagtgggtg ctgtgcaggg tgttcaagaa gagcctcgta    660
<removed-apn>
              ggcgtagtgt cgccggcgcc ggcgtcgtca gcagcaagga aaagcggcgt ggggatgatc    720
              gaggagatag gttccaccgt ggccgccgtc accccgctcc ctccgctcct ggacatgtcc    780
              ggctccggcg cctccttcga ccaggcggcg cacgtgacct gcttctccaa caacgcgctg    840
              gaggcgggcc agttcttcaa cccgacggcg acggaccagg accagcacgg cctagccaca    900
              tactccccgc tagcaagctt cgcgcagtac ggcgggcagc tgcaccacgg cgtgagcctt    960
              gggcctgggg gcaagcttcc ttcgggagca agcgggtacc accgtgggag aggtaacaac   1020
              atgaggcact gacaataacg agtaaggacg ggcggtggca ggatagaaca gatataggtg   1080
              ggctagtgag aagaaccacg acaagcaaag aagggaaaga gtaggatatg ggactgtgga   1140
              caggaatggt gagtggaagg gctatagcgt ggtggggcaa ggccgatgga gaagtaggag   1200
              gaacgccgga gtggaggtga ggtgtggaag tgggagggta tatacaggtt gtgtgtaggt   1260
              cgtctgggac gaggcggtcg gggggtggcg gtggaggcga atagagagtg ggggtgagaa   1320
              ggggagagag gtgtggggga ggagtgag                                      1348
              <210>   501
              <211>   1225
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 501
              gaaatctaag gatgtagcag cagcaaataa agaacgactg gagttcatca aaacgactcg     60
              aaataatcct cctgcattca aattattgca gttcttcaag gaaagcgtac gtgcctggga    120
              gtctcgaata catagataga atacgaccga catagtacca actaagcaag agtcttggaa    180
              gaattgacgc gacgcacgaa cagacggact gccgcgccgc acgaggtaca aaccatccag    240
              gataaaagtt acaccgatac agattcccga gaggaaccta cagaaatatc agttcatggc    300
                                                    504

              gtcggtggcc tgcaccagac ggagataggt aacggacggg gagctctcga gacgtgtccg    360
<removed-date>
              gagcgcacgc aagagatagg tacgaagatg agatgatcgg aggttccggg gatgttgtgc    420
              cgccgtgagc aagggtgcta ccatgcgccg ttgaatcctc gctggaccca gaaacagcac    480
              aatgatgttg cacttaggaa aggtaacgtg gatcatttcc ttgcttgccc aacttgtgca    540
              catcctctgg tgaaagtatc ttgatgtacc atacactatt cacaaatgac tcccaagggt    600
              cgtctccaag gagaagcaca tcattctccc tgtcgacgaa tacaagctgc cagcctgatc    660
<removed-apn>
              tatcggggtc gtccaactga cccctaatgc caaacatctg acccagttct tctcgaagtt    720
              cagcataatt agagaaccgg gtgatgtcca aggacctccc cactgatccc gcctgccgaa    780
              ccttcacgaa tgttctgctt gttgggtcat tctctcctgt attctgaaat ataccagaag    840
              agtcgtccaa acaaccatac atgggacttt gcagatatgt tgatccagaa ggaattgtcg    900
              acatgctatt atccgcaaca tttgaagcca tgttaggcac catgttgtac agcagggagg    960
              aagaatcaac ttgaggacta aaaagggact gattttgcac atcagaacca attttgctct   1020
              caagagaacc gtctttactt gtgggcgagc taagcaaacc tgagccacca aaagatagtg   1080
              attgtgaacc cataaacttt tgcttccaag cctgctgctg ctgctgctgc tgctgttgct   1140
              gctgctgatc gctagctaca ggctgattga atctagacaa gtccacagct ttcgaattcc   1200
              cctgaaggaa gttcgcctcg tgccg                                         1225
              <210>   502
              <211>   1010
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 502
              ttttaaaaac ccttataatt tatgtgacta agaggttcca tggcgaggag aggactagct     60
              agggttggtg gaccggacac atcgcgatac cccgtgatgc tgctgtcctg gagtgctggt    120
              ttagttccgg gctccggtct ccgtttcagt agtccagtga tggtacgaag gccatgctgc    180
              cggtgagatt ctgcaagtca tggcccccag aataaccgtc gcagacatcg ccctgcgcca    240
              tcctcgctcc aggtgcagaa gacagaaggc cttcgccgcc gcggaccatc cgctgcacct    300
              cctgcggcga gagtatcttg atgcacccta cgctattcac aaactcctgc catgggtcgt    360
              cgccgacgag aagaatatca ttttctcggt cgacgaatac aagctgccag cctgatctta    420
                                                    505

              cggggtcctc cagttggcct tccaggccaa atagatgctc cagctcacta cgtaactcgt    480
<removed-date>
              agtagctgct gaatttggtg atgtcaagcg atcttccagg ggaccctgat ttgcaaacct    540
              tcacaaagat tccatcttgt gatgggtcta caccacacat attatcaaga gagttgaagg    600
              ttcccgattc gcctaaacaa ctcgaagttg ctaaggtgtc tgcgggtggc aaatcttcgc   660
              cactatacct caacaaaggt atggccatag aaaccctccc gccgctgctg ccaccccttg   720
              cacctgccat tccgtcctgg aatgcaaatg atgatgaaag aaagtggttg tcaacatttg   780
<removed-apn>
              caacataagc ctggacactg gatgagtctc ttgctgactg tggcgccaag gtgccagcaa   840
              agtgggatat attactctgg tgatttacat tctcatgttt gggttgcaca gaccgagatt    900
              caatatgacc aaggggttcc acagccaacc tctttgaagg ccatccctcc ggcgccatta    960
              attggtcagt tcgaggcaaa ctgacaaggt ttgaagcatc tggctagagc              1010
              <210>   503
              <211>   1542
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 503
              tttttttttt tttttccgcg tcttgtgtgc tgcataactt aaggagccta cattcacagg     60
              attagtaagg attccatgga gcatggtttt ggcaagttca ccaaaaccgg tgggggttta   120
              cggatctcgg tacaggttcc tacttcttct taacatgata tcgcatggca tgaattatta   180
              gacggcagta cataacttaa agagctagta ggaatggtct atgtgcttgc tctccggtac   240
              cttccgggtc tcgaaaccta gggggagaaa gggaaaaggg ctgcagaaac atacgcggcg    300
              aagctatagc ataaagagcg agggcttttg ctctcttcag aactcgactt cgaccgagcc    360
              aaccgacgcg atcccggtgc tcaggctcct cgactcctgc ctgctcgcat agtcgtcgca    420
              gctgctgctg ccgccgccgc ctagcctctt cccaggggcc gagctcagga gctccaggcc    480
              ctgcttgccc atctgctgca cctcctgcgg ggacaggatc tttatgcagg aaacgctgtt   540
              cacgaattcc tgccaagggt cgtcgccgac caggaggacg tcctcctccc ggtcgacgaa   600
              tacaagctgc cagcctgatc tcatagggtc ttccaactgg ccctcaaggc caaatagacg   660
              ccccagttct ctacgtagtt catgatagtt gctaaacttg gtgatatcaa gcgaccttcc   720
              gtaggttcca gatttgtaaa ccttcacaaa ggttgcaggc ggttgattca cttgatcagg    780
                                                    506

              agtgtgcgaa cacggcacat atcccgattc atctaagcat cctgaactat ttagagtctg    840
<removed-date>
              atccaaggag aaatcatgtt gagaagggct cagaaagttg gaagtggaat agggaatcgc    900
              cgtcgaatca ttctcgtcgt gaagacctcc ttgcatcaga agtgagtgtg agtctatatt    960
              gacgccgaac agaagatgat tttgaggatc agagttccca tcttgatcca ccaagcaccc   1020
              tcttccagga agtggcgcca atgcagagct ttgaggtata ctaggtggcg ttgtggaaag   1080
              ttgttccatg tgtggtgtag cctgaggccg agaaggaagc agagactcca ctgcaactcg   1140
<removed-apn>
              ctttgacgac cacgagccag cgacaggtac cgcagtaggc cttgacatac ttaggtgtga   1200
              agctgtttct gatgagaatg gtcccaatgt attatgcatg gtgggggcac cggatgggga   1260
              caatgaactc attttcgtgt ccgaaaagct ctgaggctgc gaaaacggta agaccgtttg   1320
              cagtgctgta ggtgaagact gaggacctgg ggagagttga gaatatgctg actggtagtt   1380
              tgccatattc ttctgttgtt gcatatgttg atgttgaggg acttgcatac cctgtgattg   1440
              ctgctgattc gattcttgct gttggagaag ctgtggcttc tgctcattga aggactgcca   1500
              gcgctggagc tgctgttgaa ggaactcgga ctgagcctgg cc                      1542
              <210>   504
              <211>   920
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 504
              gccttgagga ggacaatgat tgcattgcaa gccttcagga tgacaatggt tcgagcacga     60
              ttccatattc cacctgcaat ttcctgagtc cttctcagag tgatttcccc ttgaatgaag    120
              cactgactag ttcaggctgc ttagatgaat caggatacat accattttcg gaaaattctg    180
              atcaagtaaa tcaaccgcct gcagcattcg tgaagattta cagatctgga acctttggaa    240
              ggttgctgga catcactaag tttagcagct accatgaact tcgtaacgaa gtagggcgcc    300
              tatttggcct cgagggccag ttggaagaaa gatcaggctg gcagcttgta tttgttgatc    360
              gagaggatga tgtccttcta gttggagatg atccgtggca ggaatttgtg aacagtgtat    420
              cttgcataaa gatactttcg ccgcaggagg ttcagcagat gggcaagcag ggcatcgacc    480
              tcctgagctc ggctcctgca aggaggctcg gcaacagttg tgataactac gttggcaggc    540
              aggaatcgag aagcctgagc accgtaatcg cgtcggtggg ttctgccgag ttctgaagat    600
                                                    507

              atggcgcctg tggccctcgg cttcaagtat gtttctgcag ctcgtcctag tcttgtgaac   660
<removed-date>
              tggaaccaaa gcacatataa gatcaagtgc agcgcaaagt cgtgtcatga atgtgatata   720
              gaccatttta gtagtaagta caacatattt ggtatgcacg ccgacgcttt gttccgcgga   780
              ataccagtgc tgttaatgta gggcctctaa tgttagactc tttacccgtt ttgcctaatg   840
              tttgttttgg tcatattctg tgtactactg gttccacaat gtaactattg acgatgttag   900
              ccgaggataa gcctttatgc                                               920
<removed-apn>
              <210>   505
              <211>   2184
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (7)..(7)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2081)..(2082)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2100)..(2100)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2168)..(2169)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2177)..(2177)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2184)..(2184)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 505
              gcaaccncgc gaccctcagg gtcgtggtgg tccacctgaa taccaacagc atgactatca    60
              gggacgtggt ggcccacgcc ctagaggggg tggaatgccg cagccatcct atggcgggca   120
                                                    508

<removed-date>
              taggggagga cgtggaggac acaatgttcc tccaggtcag tcaagaacag ttcccgagct    180
              gcaccaagca ccagatgtcc aatatcaagc cccggtggtt tcaccatccg catcgggagc    240
              tggctcatcc tctcagcccg tggcagaggt gagcagtgga caagtccggc accaggttca    300
              gaaacttgac atcagtgatc aaagttcgac gagccaagcc attcaaccgg cacctgcatc    360
              aagcaaatca gttcgattcc cattgcgccc tggaatgggt aaatgtgggg atcggtgtgt    420
<removed-apn>
              ggtgaaagcc aatcatttct tcgcggagct ccctgataaa gaccttcacc aatacgacgt    480
              gaccataacg ccagaggtta catcgcgcgg tgttaatcgt gctgtgattg cagaacttgt    540
              aaagctgtat agacaatctc atatgaatgg acgtctgcct gcctatgatg gaaggaagag    600
              cctttataca gctgggccat taccatttac tacgaggaca tttgaaatcg ctctgcaaga    660
              tgaagatgaa ggcctcgttg gtgggcaagc cacaccaagg cgtgagagac aattcagagt    720
              ggtcatcaag tatgctgccc gtgctgatct ccatcatttg gctatgtttc tagccgggag    780
              gcaaccagat gcacctcaag aagctcttca ggtgcttgac attgtgctac gggaattgcc    840
              tactgccagg tattccccag ttagtagatc attttattct cccaacctag ggagacgtca    900
              gagacttggg gacggattgg aaagttggcg tggattttac caaagtataa gacctactca    960
              gatggggctt tcgctgaata ttgatatgtc ttctacagca tttatcgagc ctctccctgt   1020
              gattgagttt tgttgctcag cttctgtgca gaagacatct cagttagacc gctcacttga   1080
              ttcagatcgg gtgaagatta agaaagccct accaggtgta aaggtttgag gttacacata   1140
              gaggaaacat gcgtagggaa agaccgtata tctggcctca catcacaagc aacgcgagag   1200
              agctatcatt ccctgttgat gatcgcggta ctgtgaagac tgtggtgcaa tacttcctgg   1260
              agacgtatgg tttcaatatt cagcacacca ctttaccatg cttgcaagtc ggtaatcagc   1320
              aaaggccaaa ttatctcccc atggaggttt gtaaaattgt tgaaggacaa cgctactcaa   1380
              aacgactgaa tgaaaaacaa ataactgctc tactgaaagt gacttgccag cgccctcaag   1440
              agcgtgagaa ggacatcttg cagactgtgc atcacaatgc gtactacgaa gatccatatg   1500
              cacaggaatt tggcataaaa attgatgagc aacttgcatc ggttgaagct cgtgttctgc   1560
              ctccgccaag gcttaagtac catgatagtg gcagagagaa ggatgtctta cccagggtcg   1620
              gccagtggaa catgatgaac aagaaaatgg tcaatggtgg tagagtcagc cactgggcat   1680
                                                    509

              gtattaactt ctctcggaat gtgcaagata atgctgccaa ggttttctgt catgagttgg   1740
<removed-date>
              ctataatgtg ccaaatatct ggaatgaact ttgcacctga acctgtgctg cccgtactta   1800
              gtgcgaggcc tgaacacgtg gaaagagctc tgaaggcacg ttatcatgat gccatgaacg   1860
              caagcaatcc cccatgcaaa gaacttgacc tgctaattgt tatactgccg gatgattatg   1920
              gttctcttta tggggatctt aaaaggattt gtgagactga agctaggatt cgtatcccag   1980
              tgttgtctta cagcgcatgc gtttgagatg agcacgccgc atcttgcaaa tgtaactctt   2040
<removed-apn>
              aacatcgatg ttaaagacac ggagaagtat actcgacctg nngaatattt cagcaaatan   2100
              gatgcgcctc taatctgacc gaggcgacga tatatttggc gatagtggat ggaatggcta   2160
              gtcgcggnna gaacggnacc cggn                                          2184
              <210>   506
              <211>   969
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 506
              cggcacgagg gggagcagcg ccagcagcac cagcgatagt gggggggagc tcggacgagg     60
              cctagggttt ccggagcccg cctcctcctg cgccgccgtt cgccgagctt gttcagcagc    120
              ggccatcatg gttaggaaga aaagaactgg tcctggcagc cctggtgaga gttctgggga    180
              agcttcggga gcttctggac agggttcctc gcagcgagct gagagagctc ctcaacagca    240
              tggtggagga cgtggtttgg caccgcaaca cggtagccgt ggtggggggc aacatcaggg    300
              ccgtggtggg cactatcagg ggtatggagg atcagcttca caccatccag gtggtggccc    360
              acctgaatat caacagcgtg actatcaggg gcgtggacat cccggtggcg gtccacctga    420
              atatcaacat cgtgactatc aggggcgtgg acatccgggg ggtggcccac ctgaatatca    480
              accacgtgac tatcagggac gtggtggtgc acgccccaga ggtggtggag tgccgcagcc    540
              atactatggt gggcataggg gaggtagtgc tggacgtaat gttcctccag gtcaatcaag    600
              aacagttccc gagctgcacc aagcccccca tgtccaatat caagccccga tggtttcacc    660
              atctgcatcg ggagctggct catcctctca gtctgtggca gaggtgagca gtggacaagt    720
              tcaccaacag tttcagaatt ctgcgatcgt ccatcaaagt tcaacaagcc aagccagccc    780
              actggcacca gcatcaaagc aaatcagtta gatttccgtt gcccccttga aaaggtacac    840
                                                    510

              atggggaatg gggttgttgg aaaggcaaac catatcttgg ctaagcctcc tgataaagac    900
<removed-date>
              cctcaccaat accaatgtct tcataactcc acaaattaca tcactggggt caatccggtt    960
              ggatggccg                                                            969
              <210>   507
              <211>   1270
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-apn>
              <400> 507
              acattcacat tcactacatc ataccacctc ttcagtttcc taagccctta accacccacc     60
              ttcactttta catattcctt ttcctccttc aatttcgtcc aacttgctta tcctaacgtc    120
              ctctcctcca aatacctgcc tcgccgctcc attcgctgtg tctctcttcc accactcact    180
              ccgtctcccc cttgtgtctc ctccaacacc ttcctagaat ccatattaat tgtagcttaa    240
              atgcttcttt tctctccctc agccctctat tggtatcctt gtccctcctt tcaatttttt    300
              ttcttgttta tattattttt tctatttttc tcttttcttt cttattatca tccttaatgt    360
              tctccaatac taagtcctgc ttcacactta ccagtccgcc agccccgcgt cccacgtcac    420
              taaatttcag accataccta cccatccgta tacatgttct accggaccaa gttcagacca    480
              tatgaagcag tctgtatata tgttctaccg gccaagacgc taagcgggca ccggtgagaa    540
              gccggcatca gatgaagaac atgttgtcct gaagatccac gtgcagcgtc gggaagttgc    600
              tgaagtcaca agcccccgcc gctgtggagg aggccgacga cgacgagctg cgcacctggg    660
              gctgggacgc cagcatgccc tcatagtaga gcctgccgcg gtacgccgcc aggtcggcgt    720
              agtagacggg cgtcgccagc gacacgggct tggtgcagcg cgcgaacacg aagcagaggt    780
              tgtacaccag cctctgcagg tcgtctgacc cgtagccatg ctcgtccatc aggttgtagt    840
              agtgcgtcgg ccggctggtc ccaatcagcc cgttgtggct gcacaggtag aagtcgtacg    900
              tcacggggtc aacaattctg gtgtccacca ccgtgccagg gagcacattg ccgttcttcg    960
              tctgcagcgg ctcattgtgc tccttgggga acagccgcgt gtggtgccgc ttcttggcca   1020
              caataacggt aatcgttgga gagtagccct tcaccttgat cacgttctcc atgtccgcaa   1080
              gctcctcgtt aaggaccatc tcgaactgcc catcactcac gccatcacgg aagtaaatga   1140
              tcctctgagg ctttacgccg gccttcttct caaagacacc aataagctct tggacaatct   1200
                                                    511

              caccgaggtt cttgatcacc tcacagcggt gtggctgggc acggattcta ggcacatact   1260
<removed-date>
              tgcctcgtgc                                                          1270
              <210>   508
              <211>   1120
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 508
<removed-apn>
              tttcctccag ttactactct gatcagcagt acggcctact ttcttcttat gcaatgagat     60
              cagcgtatag cgggcgtatg cttataccac tgaatatgcc tgctgatgca ccggtttatg    120
              tgaacgccaa gcaatatgaa ggcatccttc gtcgccgtcg tgctcgcgct aaggcagaga    180
              aggagaacag gctggtcaag gccagaaagc catatcttca cgagtcacgc catcttcatg    240
              caatgcgccg tgcgagaggc tctggtggac gcttcctcaa cactaagaaa gagaccaatg    300
              gaaaagacac tggtgttggg agcacggcga tgggtggtaa ccagtttatg cgcccaactg    360
              catctctcag ttcagagatc cagcactctg agcagggaaa cccaagcagt gtctccagcc    420
              tgtctggctc agaggtgaca agcttgtatg atcatgaaga tgtggaccac taccacaact    480
              ttgagcacct ccgcacacac ttcttcaccc cgctcccgag catcatggac ggtgagcatg    540
              gggccggcaa ccccttcaag tgggcagcag cctccgatgg ctgctgcaac ctcctcaaag    600
              catgacttga gggggtaccg gacagctgaa atatcaagag atggcgcaaa ccggcagcat    660
              ctgccggcat tgtgtctagc tccaggtcag ggatcgtccc tgccgtcatc tggctgtccg    720
              tgggcaattc attcttggct catggcatcg gtagtgcttt cgctcatcgc ctacttgtcc   780
              tcggaacttg agtgctagtt tccaggatcc tgtggtgagt gaaacacccc ctttgccata    840
              aaaaatatat tatctaggta agtacaactg cctgctacca tcatccggcc ctttcgcggt    900
              agcaggttta aagtttctgt ttgaataaaa tgtctgaaac ttcagactag ttggaatggt    960
              actggaatcg gagttcgtat gaagtattgg tatggcgttt gtttggagaa gtattgaagt   1020
              atgttaagta aacttggtga tgtgttgtaa tagttggctt gaaggttctg tgtgtagact   1080
              tggtttgttt gcactctctg gtgttgacac ctaaattcag                         1120
              <210>   509
              <211>   1392
              <212>   DNA
                                                    512

              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-date>
              <400> 509
              cacgagggga cagcttgaac tgaaagcaag agtagaagcc catgagatga gacgcaagca     60
              aaatatgcat ggtattgttc gattctaatg tggcagttcc actctcctac tcgactgcat    120
              atgtgatgta tatactgatt tcctgctact gttagagtta taccgacatc ttttgtgttc    180
              ctctgacaga aaatggcaca atcatgattc agtttggtca gcaagtgcct aattacgagt    240
<removed-apn>
              catcagctag cgattctcct cgagaagtgt ccggaatgag cgaaggaagc tttaatgagc    300
              agaatgatca atctggttcg cccttgactc accgaactat gccttctctg aattattaca    360
              tagtcctgta ataccatctc tcctgaaaat aaagaattga acattctcca tttgtttcct    420
              cttcgtacta atactaggta atcgtgatgg ttacacgaag agtgatgaag gcaagatgat    480
              gtcggcttta tctctgggca attcagaaac agcgtacaca ccgccaaaac ctgaccgcac    540
              tcatcccttc gccatatcat acccatatgc tgatccttac tatggtggtg cggtggcagc    600
              ttatggcacg catgctatta tgcaccccca gatggtgggt atggtaccat cctctcgagt    660
              gccactacca attgaaccag ctgctgccga agagcccatc tatgtaaatg cgaagcaata    720
              ccatgccatt ctccgaagga gacagctccg cgcaaaatta gaggctgaaa ataagcttgt    780
              caaaagtcgc aagccgtacc tccatgagtc caggcatcag cacgcgatga agcgggctcg    840
              ggggacaggc gggcggttcc tcaacgcgaa ggagaagtcc gaggcggctt ccggcggcgg    900
              caatgcatcg ggcgaggtct gggcatgcca gcgttcctgc ggacggcggc atgttctcga    960
              agcacgacca caccttaccg tccggtgact tccattaccg cgcgagaggg ggcgcctagg   1020
              gcggcgccgt tgccccctgg caaatcatcc ttggcttatg tgtgtggcga ccgtcaactc   1080
              ggtcgaatga taatactgta gtaaactgaa agatttgggg attgaaactg ttacttgggg   1140
              tgtttggtag acagtctgtt ccgtttgggg acgaagcggg ccagtctctc tgttgggggt   1200
              tgattcatgg cacgggatgt gctgctaagc tggagccctg cttagaactg tttttcctgt   1260
              cacttttatg gggtaataag ggacctgatg tttgatactg ggagcactcc tgagtcggcg   1320
              tcaattacca ttcgccggcg ttgatccttt gcgcacgtgg ggggtgtgtt tatttagaac   1380
              tagaaaaaaa aa                                                       1392
              <210>   510
                                                    513

              <211>   899
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (16)..(16)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 510
<removed-apn>
              ctttgatgaa gagaancaac atgctgcatc ccggatgcct gctttggcgt cggactattt    60
              accaccatac tcacagctgg aactaagcca gccaatggct tcggcaccgt acccgtaccc   120
              tgatgcttac tacgcaggca tggttggccc ctatggcgct caagcagtgg ctcacttcca   180
              gctaccgggg ctgacccact cgcgcatgcc gctgcctctg gaagtgtcgg aggagccggt   240
              gtacgtgaac gcgaagcagt accatggcat cttgagacgg aggcagtcgc gcgccaaggc   300
              cgagctcgag aggaaggcga tcaaggccag gaagccttac ctccacgagt cccggcacca   360
              gcacgcgatg cggcgggcga ggggcaccgg cggccgcttc ctcaacacga agaaggacga   420
              gcacggcggc ggcggagccg aggcgggcaa aggcgagcag agcgcctccg actacctccg   480
              ggtggtgccg ccggacctgc atctccgtca ggcgtgaagt ggcagcacct tgatgcaacc   540
              tagaacagcg gctcctcctg gccgccggcc gtcgtgccac gtcgccacgg cgtgggggct   600
              ggtcggggat tcagggcctg ctgctgtgtc caggcaattc attcttggct ttcgcgttct   660
              gttatcaccc ctcttgtgtt ggatgtgtgc gagtggagaa gaactagcag gctgtgcgcg   720
              tgtgagattg attgtcagac tcgggatgga tggcgtgtgt ttgtatactg cggtagagtg   780
              ggatttggct tgattttgat aattgggtac tgcacagaaa aaaaaaaggt gtcagcgttc   840
              gtcagtgtcg cgtgcttctc gtgcagaagc aggaagactg tctcgaaact ttcggattt    899
              <210>   511
              <211>   446
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 511
              cggcacgagg ctccgttcca gatgacctct acctcacccg aaaccaccta ggaccgtcgg    60
              cggcggcaac ctttcccctg ctacacggtg cgcttccgtt ccagctccag ccttcctcgc   120
              caccgcttcg cggggcgatg aagacgacgg ctgccgaggc agcgcatcag cagctgctgg   180
                                                    514

<removed-date>
              acgagctggc tgcggcggca aaggcagccg aggccggtaa ttccactggc gcgcgtgaga    240
              tattggcgcg gctcaatcac cagcttcccc cccttgggaa gcccttcctc cggtcggcct    300
              cctacctcag ggaggccctc ctcctcgcgc tcgctgatgg acaccacggc gccccccgca    360
              tcacctcacc gctcgacgtc gccctcaagc tggcggctta caagtccttc tccgacctgt    420
              cgcccatgct gcagttcgct aacttc                                         446
<removed-apn>
              <210>   512
              <211>   1068
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 512
              tttttttttt ggtatcggta ctgctgaatt tcagtgacaa gtttgtctac aacaatggta     60
              tgaatccatc tcagatggtg agatgagctg aggttagtat ctgacagcga gaattatggg    120
              accattgcgc cgatgcagag agcgcaaaaa agaagggaca tttcacttgg gcagcatggg    180
              aaatacagtc atgaatccaa tccactacat gaaaccgccc cggcgcaaga ccgaaaacgc    240
              tgaaacgccg gaggagcaaa aaagatactg gcttcccaga acatttacag tatggcttct    300
              ttttcagcgg gggtggtggt ggtggtgttg gttgcttgac gacgatgatg gagccatcgg    360
              gtcgaaccgg aatgaggccg atggggcggc gggggcagct gccgcggctg ttttggagaa    420
              tcctgatgat gctgcagcgg acgatgacga cgagaagagt ggcatgggtt gtgttggagg    480
              agggtggctc accctccatg cccaggttgg aacaccccct gtggccacct ctggcctcct    540
              gctatgatct ctggctgcat cctcattatt taagaagagg ggatatgatt ggccatgcca    600
              gattggtgga tgctcggtca gaacggggta ccgatgaggg attgcgacca tctcaggggg    660
              ggcatcgacc tttggtctct ttagttcaga gccttcatat gatccatggt ggagctgcag    720
              gccaagggtg ctcttatccc ttttgggact ttgtgaagtt ggttgagata tgctcaagtt    780
              gaggtcgaca tcagcgcctt cagcagcagc ttcattgagc agctccgcat cataggtgct    840
              cggctcgaag ttcgtcacgg cctctctacc attgcatttg atcgccgcct tgtcgtaagc    900
              cttcttgccg aggaactggc ccatgcgcgc ctcccaccgg ccgcacttgt gcagggtgac    960
              gcctctgtac ttggagctgc cccgcgagaa gccggtgctc tgccgccgca gcacgtgcac   1020
              gaactcctcc ttggacaggc ccttcatctg cttcatgtcg cctcgtgc                1068
                                                    515

<removed-date>
              <210>   513
              <211>   1815
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 513
              ggcgcagggc cctctcctcg tcctcctcca gtcctcatcc ccatggccac caccaccgcc     60
              tccacccccc accactactt ctactcctcc cgcctcgccc tcgcagcccg cggccaccgc    120
<removed-apn>
              gctcccatgc catagacgcc acccagctga tcggtcgacc tcgctcggac gcggcacggc    180
              gagcgaggcg ggcatacctg cgtttcattt gcgagttccc ggcgcgcggg cctcggatcg    240
              gaggacggag atggtgctgg atctcaatgt cgagtctccg gccgactccg gcacgtccag    300
              ctcgtccgtg ctcaactccg cggacgccgc cggcgccttc cggttcggcc tgctcgggag    360
              ccccgatgac gacgactgct ccggcgagct ggcgccggcc gccgcgtccg ggttcgtgac    420
              gaggcagctg ttccccgcgc cgccgcccgc gcccggggtc atgatggggc aggcgccggc    480
              gcctccgccc acggcgccgg tgtggcaacc tcggcgcgcc gaggagctgg tcgtggcgca    540
              gcgggtggcc cccaagaaga agacgcggcg ggggccgagg tcgcgcagct cgcagtaccg    600
              gggcgtcacc ttctaccgca ggaccggccg ctgggagtcg cacatctggg attgcgggaa    660
              gcaggtctac ttgggtggtt tcgacaccgc gcacgcggcc gcaagggcct acgatcgcgc    720
              ggcgatcaag ttccgggggc tggaggccga catcaacttc aatctgagcg actacgagga    780
              ggatttgaag cagatgagga actggaccaa ggaggagttc gtgcatatcc tccgccgcca    840
              gagcaccggg ttcgccaggg ggagctcgaa gtaccgcggc gtcacgctcc acaagtgcgg    900
              ccgctgggag gcaaggatgg gccaactgct cggcaagaag tacatatatc ttgggctgtt    960
              cgacagcgaa gttgaagctg caagagcgta cgacagggcg gcgattcgct tcaatgggag   1020
              agatgctgtg actaactttg atagtagctc ctacaatgga gatgctacac ctgacgtcga   1080
              aaatgaggca attgttgatg ctgatgctct tgacttggat ctaaggatgt cgcaacctac   1140
              cgcgcacgat cccaagaggg acaacatcat cgccggcctt cagttaactt ttgattcccc   1200
              tgagtcgtca accacaatgg tctcctctca gccaatgagc tcatcgtccc agtggcctgt   1260
              gcatcaacat ggcacagcag taccacctca gcagcaccag cgtttgtacc catctgcttg   1320
              tcatggcttc taccccaacg tacaggtgca ggtgcaggag aggcccttgg agccaaggcc   1380
                                                    516

<removed-date>
              ccctgagccg tcctccttcc ccggctgggg gtggcacgcg caggccgtgc cgccgggctc   1440
              ctcccactcg ccgttgcttt atgctgcagc atcatcagga ttctctaccg ccgccggcgc   1500
              gaaccccgcc ccgcccgccg tcgtaccccg accatcacca ccgcttctac tcccccgccc   1560
              gccggacaac tagctctctg cttactccca tggacggtgg tcgacgggtg tgggcgtgtg   1620
              cgcgggcgcg atcgacgtgt tcgcgccttg tcggtaacag ttgttgtgaa ttaatcggag   1680
<removed-apn>
              agagataaca ttgccgagcc atgtgtcact ggctggttcc tctccctcgc catgatcaga   1740
              atcacaggca tcatggtttc ccgttcagac tacgtatcca tgctttcaat catgatcatg   1800
              atcatgcggt tgtcc                                                    1815
              <210>   514
              <211>   545
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (14)..(14)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 514
              ttcggcacga ggcncgggag acgactcggc cacccgcgcc ccctcggcgc aggccgcttc     60
              cttcaccgag ctgctcactg gattggcggc cgctacccca gccgctgctc agcacaagca    120
              ccacaactcg tggcaccaga tgaccgcgtc tgccaccgcg gactacctcg gcttcgccca    180
              gccccggaaa tccgggcacg ggatgctgca caccttcgcc tccccggccc cgcaccttgg    240
              caacattgcg cccgtcgcca tggccccggg gcagcacttc agcttatcag ctggcggcga    300
              gccgcagacg gagatgccgc acttctcctt ctcgcaagac cactacatgc ccgtccatgc    360
              ggcggcaacg tcggctccgt cagtagacta caatctcaac ttctccatgt cctcgggtct    420
              tgtgggtgtc aacaacacca gggggaccct tcagtccaat tcgcagccgc acctctccgg    480
              ccaccaccag cagcagcagc tccagaggct gtctactcca ctggatgctc cgcacatacc    540
              cttct                                                                545
              <210>   515
              <211>   937
                                                    517

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 515
              gaaatatgga aagatgatgc tgtgaccaaa aaggatggaa agataaagaa agatggagtg    60
              atagactcct ctccctatcc atcacccatt tataagtttg acaacaacat ctagtagtaa   120
              catgcataca gcaacaagtg aaagaaagaa cgcaatcgag ctttgaccta cagcaaacta   180
              caacatcaac tacacctaat gcaacgcaac agagaggctg gctggctgac cagatagcta   240
<removed-apn>
              tgtcgctgca cttctcacaa gcctaattct aagaagctcc gagtgatctt gaagcaaaag   300
              ccaatgacac acgcagcaga agagatggaa aaccaaccaa ccaaccaacc agccagacgt   360
              agaaccagtt cctgattttg ctcctcctag ttgcaatcga tcgccagctc ctgtgaagaa   420
              gcggcatcga attagctttt cgcaccagtg atgcaagtgg aggagctgat ggcggatgtc   480
              gttactggta cgctgtggag gttggtggtg aagtcatctg tcgtccactg ctgctgctgt   540
              cagtggcggg aagccgagga aacggacggc ggcttgtcgc cattgccgcc gctgtgctcc   600
              tcgttgccct gcatcctcgc ggggacgcgg aacccggaga agctgacgcc gggcccgaac   660
              ccgatggccg acacggaagg gttcaagccc ccttggtggt gctgctgctg catcgggttg   720
              ttgtcgtcag cttcgacggt ctccggccat cctcggtcgg agggctggtt actggactga   780
              aggggtcccc tctggaagaa gaactggctc tggccactca gcgccgcctg catatgcgcc   840
              gcctgctgcg acacgttgaa caggtagccg ccggtgctcc cgccgcctgg gtcgggcacg   900
              ttccacggca tcatgcgcgg ctcggcgcct gctcggc                            937
              <210>   516
              <211>   657
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 516
              gcacgaggga cagatctcgt gttcaaatca atcggtgcaa acggtaaccg tctagagatg    60
              ctgtcaatcg cctttgctgg gaacagtgat cttggccttc attatatcct ctctggctgc   120
              aagagcttga agaagctgga gataagggac tgcccatttg gaaataagcc gttgctggca   180
              aatgctgcca agctggagac aatgcgatcc ctttggatgt cgtcgtgctc attgaccctg   240
              ggcgcatgcc gacagcttgc agagaagatg cctcgcctta ccgtggagat aatgaacgat   300
                                                    518

              cctggacgaa catgccctgt ggagtcactt ccggatgata gcccggtcga gacattgtat   360
<removed-date>
              gtgtaccgga caattgccgg tccaaggtcc gacacaccag attacgtcca gattgtttaa   420
              aggtacagcg gtgtattcat tttcaacctg gattggattg gtaccttcaa caccttccta   480
              gcataacata gaattttcct gtcaagtaga aaggctggtg gttggataaa gctgtcataa   540
              aatctcgact gggtggatta cagaaactgc tagatagcgt catgagaaaa cgtcggtttg   600
              ttttctttag cgtgtttagt tcttttatgt ataaagatat ggcaccattt taatctt      657
<removed-apn>
              <210>   517
              <211>   501
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 517
              cggcacgagg gctgtccaaa actgagctca ttgctatatt tttgtcacca aatgaccaac    60
              gccgcactgc atactatagc taagaactgc cctaatttca cgcgattcag actctgtatt   120
              cttgagcctg ggaagcctga tgccatgaca aaccaaccat tagatgaagg ttttggtgcc   180
              attgttcgtg aatgcaaagg gctaagacga ttgtcaatat caggtcttct caccgacaag   240
              gttttcatgt atattggtaa atttgcaaaa caacttgaga tgctttcaat tgcatttgct   300
              ggagatagtg atgcgggaat gatgcatgtt atggaaggat gcaataatct gaggaagctg   360
              gagattagag atagcccatt tggtgatgct gcactcttgg agaatgttac caagtatgag   420
              acaatgcgat ccctttggat gtcatcgtgc aacgtcacag aaaaggggtg ccaaattctt   480
              gcatcaaaga tgccaatgct t                                             501
              <210>   518
              <211>   1383
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 518
              aacagaacat atgcggagca tcgataaaac tccagccatt attattaata cagtatgctc    60
              agttctgggg agatgaccca agatgtagta caaatattac atgctgaaca agacagaata   120
              acggaacaaa tagaagtttt aagacccaac agatgtctgc tctttcgacc ttttgatcac   180
              atcaacctta ccggattcag ctcaaccgat cagttgcaat tgcaccgaca caaattcccg   240
              caggtgacag aactgacagt aacaacagaa cggtccgatt gcttcagtaa gtaacgaaaa   300
                                                    519

<removed-date>
              caaccgcttt ggcattgaat ttgtacacaa cagataacct tctcgccaag tcacaacgac    360
              acagaaacgt ataacaaaat gaaatgacaa cgtcaacctt tgctaagaac cggtcagggc    420
              gaggcagagg ggcacggacc gaatgccgcg ccacatgcta tccactgctt tttgcggctg    480
              caagggagca tgcaatcagg taccttctgc cactccttgc tcacaaggtt gtacatcacg    540
              aggcggttca ttcgcttcgc cttcaaggag agcatgagca agccgctgtt gcccaggcag    600
<removed-apn>
              gtcatcctca tgtgcttacc gtagaattct aagcaccaga tatttggcat tctgtccacc    660
              tccttccaga ggagagtcat cttctgcaac tcccagatgc agacgcaggt cgctgcgttc    720
              ttgcacagca ggcccacaag catgatcttc ccctggaact cggcaagtgt gtggtcagtc    780
              agatgcagcg gcagcgggat gatgaaatga atccaagtcc cggtgcttac atcatatgac    840
              aacacaccct cgggttctga gcacatgaag tacagtgtgc tgccaaccgc gactggctgt    900
              gacctgaaat ttagagcaag tgggagcttg atgcttggag gaaactcgcc tggctgaaac    960
              cacatattct gcagagagtc gtagacctca tgatttccat catttcgcaa ccacatcact   1020
              ttgtaaccct cattaggagc tcttccattc agcaccatcc ctactgacac tcttgaccat   1080
              gcctgaactg acctgggagg aatttccttt agtgattgtg taagagggtt gcatatgtag   1140
              aagttcctgt ggctaagatc caataagcaa acaaggccac ctgcagatgc cactggcatt   1200
              actatgtttg caggagcaag gggaacagaa gggtggtgcc atttgtttag cgaagggtca   1260
              tacatcgcta cattgttgtt gccattctca tgtgtgattg tatagaacca tggcattcca   1320
              tgtggaactt cagagtactg ctgagagaaa ttgtctgagc ctaccataga acaccacttc   1380
              cgc                                                                 1383
              <210>   519
              <211>   1186
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 519
              aggccgatcg agccctgcgc agcgagggga aagagacaca cacagcgcca ccaggcaagt     60
              agtagtaaaa ggcaaaagca cggcacatta aaagagaggc cagcccagcc ccggaccgga    120
              ccggagccaa gcagcagccg cagccgcagc cgcagcagag gagagagaga gggagggaga    180
              agcatatatg gcgatgccct ttgcctccct gtcgccggca gccgaccacc accgctcctc    240
                                                    520

<removed-date>
              ccccatcttc cccttctgcc gctcctcccc tctctactcg gtaggggagg aggcggcgca    300
              tcagcatcct catcctcagc agcagcagca gcagcacgcg atgagcggcg cgcggtgggc    360
              ggcgaggccg gcgcccttca cggcggcgca gtacgaggag ctggagcagc aggcgctcat    420
              ctacaagtac ctcgtcgccg gcgtccccgt cccgcaggac ctcctcctcc ccatccgccg    480
              cggcttcgag accctcgcct cgcgcttcta ccaccaccac gcccttgggt acgggtccta    540
<removed-apn>
              cttcgggaag aagctggatc cggagccggg gcggtgccgg cggacggacg gcaagaagtg    600
              gcggtgctcc aaggaggccg ctcaggactc caagtactgc gagcgccaca tgcaccgcgg    660
              ccgcaaccgt tcaagaaagc ctgtggaaac gcagctcgtc gccagctccc actcccagtc    720
              ccagcagcac gccaccgccg ccttccacaa ccactcgccg tatccggcga tcgccactgg    780
              cggtggctcc ttcgccctgg ggtctgctca gctgcacatg gacactgctg cgccttacgc    840
              gacgaccgcc ggtgctgccg gaaacaaaga tttcaggtat tctgcctatg gagtgaggac    900
              gtcggcgatc gaggagcaca accagttcat caccgcggcc atggacaccg ccatggacaa    960
              ctactcgtgg cgcctgatgc cgtcccaggc ctcggcattc tcgctctcca gctaccccat   1020
              gctgggcacg ctgagcgacc tggaccagag cgcgatctgc tcgctggcca agactgagag   1080
              ggagccactg tccttcttcg gcggcggcgg cgacttcgac gacgactcgg ctgcggtgaa   1140
              gcaggagaac cagacgctgc ggcccttctt cgacgagtgg cccaag                  1186
              <210>   520
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 520
              cctgcctcta tctacctcga gcttaaagcc cagcacgatc tgcctcgccg agtcagtgtg     60
              agcgagctct tgccgtagta gtagtaacac tcgcgctgcg ctgtggttgg tgcggccgga    120
              gcccggagag acagagagag atagagatga tgctgggagg gcaaggcggc ggtgggaggt    180
              gcctgttcac ggcgtcgcag tggcgggagc tggagcacca ggcgctcatc tacaagtaca    240
              tggccgccgg ctcgcaggtg ccccacgagc tggtcgtccc gctccgccac cgcgacgccg    300
              ccttcgcctc catcgacacc gccccctccc tcgcctgctt ccctccaccg cagccatccc    360
              tggggtgggg gctctacggg accggggcgc agtacgcgcg gaagccggag gacccggagc    420
                                                    521

<removed-date>
              ctgggcggtg ccggcggacg gacggcaaga agtggcggtg ctccagggag gcgtacgggg    480
              agtccaagta ctgcgacagg cacatgcacc gcggcaagaa ccgttcaaga aagcctgtgg    540
              aaccaatgtc ctcctcctcc tcctccgtct cctccccggc ggcctcctac cgccagacca    600
              ccctctccat gtcgcccccc acgccggccg acgcgcccag                          640
              <210>   521
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1413
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 521
              aactccaact aaaccaacta atacatagat ttttttttca atgctcatat agattctgca     60
              ggtctctacg cgatttgatg taacgggtca acaaaacaga caattgaaat caacaataca    120
              ccacaacaga agctgaagga ctcgaacaca taataaagaa agaaaataca aaaaatatat    180
              accaataaac actagacatg aacatagttt tagttatttg tgattccaca agaccagccg    240
              gaacacttga aaagagagct gggcctccga ggttgtgcgt tctaccggca ccccatgaga    300
              taggaattat tagtgctgtg attctctggt acaggaccca ctttttagtg ttgctgctgg    360
              acacgagact taggattcca gttggaggat ctaacttggg ctctcgatcc attttgtcag    420
              ttaagatgtt ccataagctg actggcaact cttgcttctg aaaacctcac ctagaggtcc    480
              atcgtcaagt gtttccctag ttactggcga ccaagtttcc tgcaacctat aacctttttc    540
              tgatgaactg cccgctccat gtgtaatgta agactggtca agatcatgat gcaacttcag    600
              tggtaaaaat gctactttgt cacaatttga agaagaatgt gatgacgaga aatcaaagga    660
              atgcattgta gtggatacca atgattgctc gactacactc tgcttctcca gtggttccct    720
              attggactgt cttgggaaag gatcagtcac attagcagct aagcttttca cctgctgctg    780
              ccaagccacg gcctggcagt gtgatgaaaa accaccagaa acagccctcg tccgttcggc    840
              aacggtggtt gtctctttcg gccttccaca tgctttcttg aacgttggcg accatggttt    900
              atgtgtcgct cacagtactt ttggtcccca acagaatctg tggagcaccg ccacttcttg    960
              ccgtctgtgc ggcgacatct tcggggttcc ccatcagcac cgctggaacg aaatggtgcc   1020
              catcctgccc atggattgag gctcctcctg atggggagga gccaactgga tggcacaggg   1080
              gcctttgcag ctatgtgctt gtagataagg gcctggtgct caagctccat ccactgagtt   1140
                                                    522

<removed-date>
              ggggtaaatg gccccctaac ccttgccaaa aaaccctgca tgcttgtccc tgagctcaaa   1200
              cccaaccccg ctacatcatt ggagaagctc agcatctgcg ccctcggaaa gccggtggtt   1260
              ccaagaaagg aacaagatga aggtggtgct ggcgaagccc ctgccgtctc caagaaccca   1320
              tctggggcct cttgctcctc gcatctgcca tgcttctgtg gcgagcccgg atggccgccg   1380
              ccgccgccag cgcaggagct cagcatcgtc gtt                                1413
<removed-apn>
              <210>   522
              <211>   899
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 522
              ggtcaaggaa aaattaaaaa ttactccagc ataatcctcg gagatttccc gctacagatc     60
              aacacaacca accaagcaag caaaacatct gcagctaact gaaggaacac gccggcatca    120
              ggtcaggtgg cacgggcggt gccgtgggcc aggtagacgc cggcggggga ggagaagctg    180
              agacgctgcg gcggcgcgtg cgcgtgcgcg ccggtggcgc cctgcccgtc ggcgacgtgc    240
              attgcgcgga tcggggtggc tgaggtggcc gccgcggctt ccacaggctt tcttgaacgg    300
              ccgcggccgc ggtggacgtg gcgctcgcag tacttgtgcc ccggcaccac gccgtgcgag    360
              caccgccact tcttgccgtc cgtgcgccgg cacctgtccg gctccggctc catgctgctc    420
              ctctggtcgt agcacatgct ccccagcccc gccagtgatg ggaacctctg aggagcggag    480
              gaggaggcgg cgaggctctt ccagatgggg aggacgaggt gcacgggcac gggagcgttg   540
              gcggcgaagt agcggtagat gagcacctgg tgctccagct cctgccgctg catgaacgtc    600
              agcgccgacg gccgcgtggc ctccgcgtcg ctgcgcctgc tgtcactgca gcagccgccc    660
              acgccgaggc ccagcccaag agccagcggc aacggcgcgg ccatggtcac cgtgcctacg    720
              ccgtcgttgg cgtcggcgtc gtcatcggcg ccggagaggc gggggagctt ggacggcggc    780
              gagtgttcct cctgccttcg ctcggtcatc tctggagtgt gcccttcacc cgtggctgtc    840
              tgagtgtctg gtgcgtgctg tgcgtgctgt ttttgcgttt gaacgcttgc ctcgtgccg     899
              <210>   523
              <211>   271
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
                                                     523

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (166)..(166)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (172)..(172)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 523
              gcgtgaattg ttcctgcgca agaaggtgga tccaaaaccg gtgcggtgcc ggcgcacgga    60
              cggcaagaag tggcggtgcg acaaggaggc cttctccgac tccaagcatt gcgagaacca   120
              catgcaccgc ggccgcaacc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa acgcanctgg tnccccactc   180
              ccagccgccg ccggccgcct ccgccgtgcc gcccctcgcc accggctgcc agagccactc   240
              tctctacccc gccatcggtg gtggtggagg c                                  271
              <210>   524
              <211>   1618
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1240)..(1240)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1348)..(1348)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1462)..(1462)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1569)..(1569)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 524
              ctgcctgggg gcaagcatct gccttgcaga ccgatcaaag tgttgggaca atgggggcac    60
                                                    524

              acttgctggt gctgctcggc accttgctgt tgctcccaca gctgctgctc gccgggacga    120
<removed-date>
              cgagatacta caccttcaat gtgacaatgc ataacgggac acgggtatgc accacccccg    180
              ccatcccgac ggatgaacgg gccaagttcc cccccccccc gaaatcctca caagggaagg    240
              cgaccgtgtc gtcgtcaagg tggttaacaa tgtgaagcac aacgttacca tccactggta    300
              aatctttggc cccttgctct tacttaattc catgggcgat aatcgtactg ctagctacat    360
              tttcataaac aaagccatgc tcaattgctc atcacaattg aagccagttt tctgaacacc    420
<removed-apn>
              ggtcggttct atctttcggc aaaaaattac tctctctgta ccgtgctgta tttgtatgga    480
              taactggcgg tgatgtgatg tgagcgcacg cacggggtga ggcagctgcc gacggggtgg    540
              tccgacccgc cggcgtacat cacccagtgc ccgatccaga cggggcggag ctccgtgtac    600
              aacttccccg ggaccgggca gaggggcacc ctgttctggc acgcccacgt ctcctggatg    660
              cgcgccacgc tgtacggccc catcgtcatc ctccccaagc tcggcgtgcc gttcccgttc    720
              ccaaaaccct acagagacgt ccccgtcgtc ttcggcgaat ggtttaacgc ggatccagag    780
              gctatcatcg cacaggcgct gcagactggt ggaggcccaa acgtctccga ggcctacacc    840
              atcaacggcc ttccaggccc actctacaac tgctcgagca aagacacgtt caagctgaag    900
              gtgcagccag gcatgtggta cctgctccgg ctgatcaacg ctgcgctcaa cgatgagctt    960
              ttcttctcga tcgccaacca cacgctcacc gtcgtcgacg tcgacgccgc ctacgtgaag   1020
              ccgttcgaca cggacgtggt cctggtcacg ccggggcaga ccaccaacgt gctcctccta   1080
              gccaaaccgg acgacggctc cccggccgcc acgcacctca tgctagcgcg cccctacgcc   1140
              acgggacgtg ttggcaccta cgacaacacc accgtggccg ccatcctcga gtacgcgccg   1200
              gcggggcaca tcaagaaccg tccgctccta tggccgacgn ctaccgtgtt caacgacacg   1260
              gcgttcgccg ccaactacag cgccaggctc cggagcctcg ccaccccgga ctaccctgcc   1320
              agagtgccga tgcgggtaga caggcccntt cttcttcacc gtggggctcg gcaccacccc   1380
              gtgcccgacg taccaaggtg caacggccct accaacgaca ccaagttctc gcggtcatga   1440
              acaacgtgtc cttcaacatg cncacgacgg cgctcctgag gcgcactacg acggcaacac   1500
              agcccgcgtg tacacgtcag actttccccg ccacgccgtc ggagccgttc aacttacacc   1560
              gcacgccgnc aaacaacacg aacgttgtca acgggaccaa ggagctttgc tgccctca     1618
                                                    525

              <210>   525
<removed-date>
              <211>   673
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (551)..(551)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 525
              gcctacacca tcaacggcct tccaggccca ctctacaact gctcgagcaa aggtacgtaa    60
              cccacaacaa gaggcccaat tcctcccatc atcatcatca acactcaaaa aaaaaaaagg   120
              gtttcggttt tcatgtcgat ttatttttag ctgatggaat gaacatttgc agacacgttc   180
              aagctgaagg tgcagccagg catgtggtac ctgctccggc tgatcaacgc tgcgctcaac   240
              gatgagcttt tcttctcgat cgccaaccac acgctcaccg tcgtcgacgt cgacgccgcc   300
              tacgtgaagc cgttcgacac ggacgtggtc ctggtcacgc cggggcagac caccaacgtg   360
              ctccttctta ccaaaccggg agaagggttc ccgggccgca cgcaccttat gctaacgcgc   420
              ccctacgcca ccggacctgt tggcacctac gacaacacca ccgtgggcgc cattctcgag   480
              tcgcgcccgc ggggcacatt aaggacccgt tcgctcctat gggcgacgct acccgtgttt   540
              aacgacacag nggtttgccg gcaactacag aggcaaggct ccggagactc tcccaccccg   600
              gactacccct gccacagtgc cccatgcggg ttaaacaggc ccttcttttt taacgtgggg   660
              ggtctgcacc cac                                                      673
              <210>   526
              <211>   1070
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 526
              ctgccaccgg ctccggtcta tttaagctag ccggccctcg gttcgcgagt cttctgccca    60
              gcatcgtgca tcccctcccc tccccaagtc agtcataaac ccaagtcgga ctcgccttcc   120
              tcctcctccc caaccactcc gctcttccgc cgcgccatcg caccgggggg tcacctgaga   180
              tcacatacac aatggtgaag gctgtagctg tgcttaccgg cagcgagggt gtcaagggca   240
              ccatcttctt cacccaggag ggagatggcc caaccaccgt gacgggaagt gtcaccggac   300
                                                    526

              tcaaggaagg gcttcacggc ttccatgtgc acgctcttgg tgacaccacc aacggctgca    360
<removed-date>
              tgtcaactgg accgcacttc aaccccgctg gtcatgtgca tggggcaccc gaagatgaaa    420
              tccgccatgc tggtgacctc ggaaatgtga cagctggagc ggatggtgtt gctaacatca    480
              atgttactga ctgccatatc ccccttgctg gaccacattc aatcattggc cgtgctgttg    540
              tcgtccatgg tgatgctgat gatcttggca agggtggaca tgagcttagc aagagcactg    600
              gaaacgctgg ggcgccgcgt tgcttgcggg atcatcgggc tccagggcta agatgccgtc    660
<removed-apn>
              ttcgcaggct gatgaacgcc gtacagatct tggcacttga aggacaccga cttgcaattg   720
              ctatctattt taaataagca caccatctat gatcgctttt tagtgtgcat catttgtgtc    780
              gattcctatg tgaaactttc atatcactgt catttggctt tttgagttgc gtgactggaa    840
              cagttcagtt ctgtcaagtg cttgtggatg tgctgttgtt cttaatgccg ttaccagctc    900
              tgggcatatt cagcgaacga gagagatttc aggtttcatt atttatcctt gtgaagctta    960
              tagaaagcca ttaaacttca ctggccggcg tttcaaccgg cggactggag aacctggtgg   1020
              ttcccattaa tcgcctgtgg acaatcccct cttgccaggg ggggagaacg              1070
              <210>   527
              <211>   881
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 527
              ccatccccaa gtcagtcata aacccaagtc ggactcgcct tcctcctcct ccccaaccac     60
              tccgctcttc cgccgcgcat cgcaccgggg ggtcacctga gatcacatac acaatggtga    120
              aggctgtagc tgtgcttacc ggcagcgagg gtgtcaaggg caccatcttc ttcacccagg    180
              agggagatgg cccgaccact gtgacgggaa gtgtcacggg actcaaggaa gggctccacg    240
              gcttccatgt gcacgctctt ggtgacacca ccaacggctg catgtcaact ggaccgcact    300
              tcaaccccgc tggtcatgtg catggggcac ccgaagatga aatccgccat gctggtgacc    360
              tcggaaatgt gacagctgga gcggatggtg ttgctaacat caatgttact gactgccata    420
              tcccccttgc tggaccacat tcaatcattg gccgtgctgt tgtcgtccat ggtgatgctg    480
              atgatcttgg caagggtgga catgagctta gcaagagcac tggaaacgct ggggcgcgtg   540
              ttgcttgcgg gatcatcggg ctccagggct aagatgccgt cttcgcaggc cgttgaacgc    600
                                                    527

              cgtacagatc ttggcacttg aaggacaccg acttgcaatt gctatctatt ttaaataagc   660
<removed-date>
              acaccatcta tgatcgcttt ttagtgtgca tcatttgtgt cgattcctat gtgctgctac   720
              tctgaacttt catatcactg tcatttggct ttttgagttg cgtgactgga acagttctgt   780
              caagtgcttg tggatgtgct gttgttctta atgccgttac cagctctggg catattcagc   840
              gaacgagaga gatttcaggt ttcattaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a                       881
<removed-apn>
              <210>   528
              <211>   818
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 528
              cggcccgcac cgcactctaa catttctcct cgtcctcgta cttgctagct ccggagtgag    60
              tgtttgatcg gtaggagctc ctgaggtaat tactagcaat ggcgacgcag ggaagaggca   120
              gtgcagccgt ggttgtgggc gtgctgctcg tctgcgtgct cctgaacgca gcggtggcgg   180
              atgcggcggt gttcaacgtc ggcgaccgcg gcggctggtc cttcaacacc aactcctggc   240
              ccgccggcaa gcgcttcaag gccggcgacg tcctagtgtt caagtacgac gcgacggcgc   300
              acgacgtggt ggcggtgagc gcggcagggt acaaggcctg cgccaagccg gccaagggcg   360
              ccaaggtcta caagtccggc gccgaccgcg tcaccctcgc ccgcggcaca aactacttca   420
              tatgcagcat ccccggacac tgccagtgcc ggcatgaaga tcggcggggc cagcagctaa   480
              gtggcctggg gcatggggca tggtggacgt ggctggggcg cgcagcgggg tggggcgcag   540
              gagggatgtt ggggatggcc gaagtaaaaa gagaaagttt attagttgcg atggatttac   600
              atagaggtat agaaaaatac ttggtgtgtt ggtgggaggt gctaggagaa agatgggggg   660
              tgctgcgagg gaaggtaggc aggacacggg gagaccgatg gcattcgtgc gtgtagaggc   720
              aagcatctgt tgggagaaat ggacgtagca ggagaggaca ggtggtgtag gtatgtgaat   780
              ataatatgag tggatggacg aggagagggg gggaaaag                           818
              <210>   529
              <211>   3480
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 529
              ccgagtcaag gtctcctcct cagtcctcct cctcgcacca gcgacctcca ttgcgaccgg    60
                                                    528

<removed-date>
              caggcagagt caaccaactg tcagggcgga caggcatccg gccgactctc ttttgattcg    120
              tctctatgtg tcaagttatc atctttggat tggatgatag ctccgtgccc cgtgtttgtt    180
              gatgccaaat cgccactgtc tctgcttgac tgaatagcag tttcgtcgtc gtcggcacaa    240
              atggcggagg cggtgcttgt tgctctcgga aagattggga atgttttagc tgatgaagct    300
              accaaagctt tgctggccaa gctgtcagaa aaagttagta atctgattga tctggatgac    360
<removed-apn>
              aagattgagg gaatagcgaa gcaattaaaa accatgaaca atgtcataca gcagataggc    420
              acgccgtacc ttgccgacaa agtcgtaaag ggttggattg gggaggtgag gaagttggcc    480
              taccatgtcg aggatgtgat ggacaaatac tcgtatcact ctcttcatgt cgaaaaaggg    540
              tttctgaaga agtgcctcaa aggatcacat tatgtccggg ttttcagtca aattgctgac    600
              gaggtagtca agattgagaa ggagatcaag caagttatcg aactcaagga gcagtggctc    660
              caaccatccc agcttgttca tgaccctctc actgagatgg aaagacaacg gtcccaagat    720
              agcttccctg aacttgtgaa agatgaagat cttattggaa ttgaagataa caggcgaatg    780
              atgactgaat ggttgtactc ggatgagatg gagactacag tgataactgt gtcaggtatg    840
              ggtgggttgg gaaagacaac cctcgtcaca aatgtgtatg aacgtgaaaa ggtcaacttc    900
              caaactagtg catggatggt tgtgtctcag acctacactt tggatgctct gttgaggaag    960
              ttactcgaga aggttactga acaaccatca tcacctaaca ttgacaggat ggatgtgcat   1020
              gacttgaagg aagaaataaa gcgaaagctt aaagatagga aatgtttaat tgtattggat   1080
              gatgtctgga acaaggaagt gtactctcaa atgcgagatg cattccacaa ttctcatgca   1140
              agccgcgtca tcatcacgac gcggaacaat catgttgctg ctgttgccca ctcgacacgt   1200
              cgtatcgatc tcaagccttt ggggaatgct cacgcattcg aactcttctg caggagggtc   1260
              ttttatatca agaaggacca tgtgtatgag tgtcccaatc atctcatgaa aactgctagg   1320
              tctatagttg ataggtgtca gggtctgcca ctagcaattt tatctatagg cggtcttttg   1380
              tcttcgaggc cacaaacaca atactcttgg gagcagatat tcaatcaact ctcaactgag   1440
              ctgtcgaaca atgataatct ccgggcagtt ttaaatctga gctaccatga cctatctgga   1500
              gacctcagaa actgcctttt gtattgcagc ctcttcccgg aagactaccc aatgtcacgt   1560
              gagagccttg tgaggctgtg ggttgcagaa ggctttgtgt gtagcaaagg aaatagcacc   1620
                                                    529

              ccggaggagg tggccgaggg aaacctcatg gaactgatat accgcaacat gcttgaagtc   1680
<removed-date>
              aaggagacag atgaactggg aagggtgagc acctgtacga tgcatgatat cgtgcgagac   1740
              ctggctcttt gtgttgcgag cgaggagcag tttgtatgcg caaatgatta tgccacattg   1800
              atacatatga ataaggatgt tcgtcgtctg tcatcatgcg ggtggaaagg caatactgca   1860
              ctgaaaatta agcttccccg tcttcgaact ctagtgtcag taggagcaat ttcatccacg   1920
              cctgccatgc cattctcgct ttcatcagag tccaactacc tgactgtcct cgagctacag   1980
<removed-apn>
              gactctgaaa tcactgaagt gccggcatgg atagggacac tcttcaattt acgttacatt   2040
              ggcttacgcc gcaccaaggt caggtcactc ccggactctg ttgagaaact atcgaacctg   2100
              caaactctgg acatcaagca aactaacata gagaccctac caaaagggat tgttaagatc   2160
              aagaatctac ggcacctctt ggctgataga tatgctgatg agaagcagtc ggagtttcga   2220
              tactttatcg gaattcaagc cccaaaagca ctgcccaaca tgggagaatt gcagaccctt   2280
              gagaccatcc aagccagcaa agacttggcc gagcagctgg agagaatggt gcaactgcga   2340
              actctgtgga ttgacaacat aagttctgct gaatgcgcaa atatttttac cgccctatca   2400
              aacatgccgc ttctttccag cctgcttctt gctggaagag atgagaatga ggcgctttgt   2460
              ttcgagtccc tccagccaat gtccacacat ctccacaagc tgatcatcag agggaaatgg   2520
              gccaagggaa cactgaactg cccgatattt cgcagccacg gagaaaatct caagtatcta   2580
              gctctaagct ggtgtcacct ttgggaagac gaggatccac tagggatgct tgcaccacac   2640
              ttgccgaacc tcacgtatct gcgactcaac aacatgcgta gtgcaaacat tttggttctt   2700
              tctgcagatt cctttcctca cctgaagagt cttacactaa agcacatgca taatgtcaac   2760
              gagctaaaga tcattgatgg cgcccttccg tgcatcgaag gtttgtatgt tgtgtcgttg   2820
              tcgaagctgg ataaggtccc tcaaggcatt gaatccctta gctccctgaa gaagctctgg   2880
              ttggtgggct tgcatggggg cttcaaaact cagtgggaca agaacggaat gcagcagaag   2940
              atggtgcatg ttcaggaggt tcgtgtctga aactctgaat gcagcacagt ggttctttca   3000
              gttgtagcat tctggtatgg tgcatcgacg ccattctagc ttcaatcatt ctggtatgct   3060
              ataactacta agccatcatt tgcgagtctt gtacttccat attgtgagac gatttctgtt   3120
              cagaaagtat tggtgtccat tgccttcagg aggccccgta cctttttgtg ttatttcagt   3180
              ttcatgctgt aatactgatt tcaggaaaca gttgtatcga acatgtgaga aaacaatgtt   3240
                                                    530

<removed-date>
              gttaaatttg tttaaaaaaa atcgaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   3300
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaac accctcgggg gggggccggg gccccatttc cccctatagg   3360
              gggtcttatt acccgcgctc cctggccgtc tttttacacc gtcggggggg gaaaaccccg   3420
              ggggttcccc aatttattcg cttggaagca catccccttt tccccagggg gggtaaaacc   3480
              <210>   530
<removed-apn>
              <211>   616
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 530
              gattatgggc tttgtgaggg ggagaacatg cggcgcgcgg ctgaggttct aaggaccatg     60
              gttaataagg ggcttgaact ggatagcatc acttataaca taatgattca aggttgctgc   120
              aaagacaata aaatagagga agcaattaaa ctccgtgatg acatgatcag aagagggttt    180
              aagcctaata ttttcacgtt taatactata ctacatgcgt attgcatttt gggtaaaatg    240
              gaagaggcca ttcacctgct ggatcagatg aaaattgagg gacttcggcc agatatagtg    300
              tcatatggca ctataataga tggatattgt agaataaagg atattcataa agcaaatgaa    360
              tatttgactg aattgatgac ccgtggatta gaaccaaatg tagtaatcta caatgcactt    420
              attggtggtt atggtagagt tggtaacatt tctggtgcaa tggatgtcct taacactatg    480
              aagtctactg gcataagacc aactaaggta acttactgca gtcttatgca ctggatgtgc   540
              catgcttatc ttgttgacga ggcgaagacc atgtttgagc aaagcagaga aaacagcatt   600
              gaggtgggag taattg                                                    616
              <210>   531
              <211>   975
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 531
              aaaagctttc tcgttctcag tcagagtgtc ggtcactccc cctcctaaac cctaaaccca     60
              gccgccgcca tggccgccgc cggccgcctc ttcctgcgac gccgcctcgc cacggccgcc    120
              gcgacgcctc cgaccccggc ttccatcctc aacccttcct ccccgaccac cccgctaacc    180
              acgcggcaga agacccgcct cgccatctcc ctcctcaagt cctccccgcc gccgcccccc    240
                                                    531

              gaccagatcc tctccatctg ccgcgccgcc gcactctctc cgaagaccca cctcgaccgt   300
<removed-date>
              gttgctctct ccctcgccac ctcgaggctc tccaccgccc cggactccct ccgagacctc   360
              acgtcctccc ttctcatccc cgaccacgcc caccacgcca tcgtgctctt tggtcaggcc   420
              ggcctcctcc ccgacgccat ctccaccttc cagtcatccc cctccacccg ctccctcaac   480
              gccctccttt ttgcctgcat cgtcgccggc aaccatgccg aggccgctcg catcttccag   540
              accttccccg acgcccaccg cgtcaagccc aatgccgaga cattcaactc cattataaaa   600
<removed-apn>
              tccttctctg agtctggcac cacaagatcc ttctactcgg tgttcgatga aatgtgcaag   660
              cagggcgtga agcccaccgc caccacgttt actgccgcca ttgctgggtt ttacaaggag   720
              gagcgctttg atgatgtaga gaaggtgatt aagctcatga agaagcacgg ttgtggcgag   780
              tcactgcaag tgtacaatgc aagggttcag gggctgtgca agcttggccg gaatggtgat   840
              gccaaggcat tactgagtga gatggccaag aaagggacca agccaagctg ggttacttat   900
              aaccatttga tttatggatt ctgtaaggaa ggggatttgg aggaagtgaa gcggctgtac   960
              aaggagatgg gaatg                                                    975
              <210>   532
              <211>   458
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 532
              aaaaaaacaa aagaaccggt aactatccgg taatcacatt ttacacaagt gcgcagcagc    60
              ctgaaccatc aacctgctgc ttctcaagtt ccaaaaaaga aaagaaaaac tgctgcttct   120
              taagacgaat gaactaacgg cagcactagc ttagtacagt aagtatcaca ccatcactct   180
              aacctaaaac tcctcctgga ctggactgga ctggacctga cgtaacgtac gtacgtgtta   240
              gctgcttcac tcgagcggcg tctcggccgc cgctacagat actgcgtgtg tatccggtcc   300
              cggttctgct cccaccacac cttggcccgc tcctcgccga accgctcccg gttgaagcgg   360
              acgcggcgga gctcgcgggt gccgtcgccg agctcgcgga cggtgatgtg cacgccgggc   420
              tcgtcctgct ccacccactc cgtcgcctcc aggtcgct                           458
              <210>   533
              <211>   577
              <212>   DNA
                                                    532

              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (481)..(481)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 533
              cgctaaggtg tgaaggggca ggcagatcgt ctcgtctccc ccatcctgcc ggcattgatc    60
<removed-apn>
              tgtcctattc ttatcatcca tcaatgggga ggccaccttc tagtgatgag aatggcctca   120
              agaagggccc ctggactagt gaggaagacg agaagctcat gagctacatc cagaagcatg   180
              gccatggaag ctggagagcc cttcctcaac ttgcaggcct gaacaggtgt ggtaagagct   240
              gcaggctaag atggaccaac tacctgaagc cggacatcaa gagagggaag ttctcccagg   300
              aggaagagca aaccatcctc cagctgcaca ccgtccttgg caacaagtgg tcggctatcg   360
              caaagcacct ccctggacgg acagacaacg agatcaagaa cttctggaac acccacctca   420
              ggaagaagct catcaagatg ggcatcgatc caatgaccca ccgtccgaga acagacttct   480
              ntgctgctct cccgcagctc atcgcactcg ccaaccttcg ccagttcatc aatcagcagc   540
              cgtgggatga ccacactgcc gggctgcaga gcagaca                            577
              <210>   534
              <211>   1577
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (56)..(56)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 534
              tttttttttt tttttttgaa caactctgag aggttcgttt caccgctggg gcaatncgtg    60
              cgagcttcca cagcaaagta catgcataaa atgcattgca cagcaaacct accgatcccc   120
              actacgctca cacgccatat gcgactctac catcaactct acaatacgaa ataggaaaag   180
              tacacgcaca agaccaacac atatttacaa gaaagctagc aaacgctacc aaaacttgca   240
              cacacacgcg cgacacctgc tttgctattg ttttccataa agaaaaaaga cacctgcttt   300
              gctatgggct gtggctgctc accgtcgccg ttctaggatc ttgtcagcac gcgtcggaga   360
                                                    533

<removed-date>
              ggagccaact gacgaacgac tctagctcgt ccgactcgga gccggtcgcc acctgcggct    420
              cagcgggctg gagcaggcca ttctgcgccg gctggtccca tagattggat gcaaacccct    480
              cccagtccat gtccaagaga tcgtccactt gagacaggcc tccgggatct atgccactct    540
              ctgccgtaac gctgctggac agcagtgcct gcacctcgct ctcgtcctcc aaaatcccaa    600
              tctgatccat gggattgctc acttcccaga gccccatctg gtgctgatct accgtgcagt    660
<removed-apn>
              tggcctccag ggcatccgtc tgatctacca cagggtccat gaccatgggc cacgtcccgt    720
              cctcgctgca gggcccatca gaggtgttgc tgacgctaat gctgttgttg ggctggttct    780
              ggtccgggtc gaccaccgcg cttctagcct cgtcgctctg aggcgggctt gacgctgttg    840
              acgaggtgcc ctttgcgttg gtgacgggct caggcaccgg ctgcttcttc tttgtactgc    900
              tctttggcga ctggcctggg gtccggccgc cgcgccgctt cccgggcggc ggaaagcttg    960
              tggatgtcga cggttatggt ggtgtccctg acggtggtgt atatccgccg gaaggtgtgg   1020
              atctgccggc tgagatggga gttccagtag ttcttgattt cgttgtccgt tcgtcctggt   1080
              aggtggctgg cgatcaggga ccacctgttg ccaagggtgg catgaagttt gacgatgagg   1140
              tcgtcctcct ccttggagat gttgcccctc ctcaccccgt ctctcaggta gttgatccac   1200
              cgcagcctgc agctcttgcc acacctcagt agccccgcgt gcttgggtag agacctccat   1260
              gagccctcgc cgtgctgggc aatgtagttt gcgagtatgt cgtcctcctc cgccgtccac   1320
              cttccccgct tcagccccac cttctcgcag cacggcgccc tccccatccc cttgtatacg   1380
              acgagcctcc ctatatatct cccaacacac gagcaaaccg cccgttgtcg ccggccgagg   1440
              ctagctagct agatactata gcaggtcgag cgcggtgggt gtagacgtgt agtcgatccg   1500
              cgctcgcgtc caaaaggagt tagtgtgaga gatcaagggg atgggcgatg atcttccttt   1560
              ggcggccctg atctata                                                  1577
              <210>   535
              <211>   1277
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (901)..(901)
                                                    534

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1234)..(1234)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 535
              ggctgcaggc tcatccgcgc tcctctctct ctctctacat ctgtcttcca tcctccactg     60
              gccacgtcat ccatggatgt ggtgctgcaa agtcgtagca gcaacaacat ggcggccgag    120
<removed-apn>
              caggaggagg aggcggagct ccggcggggg ccgtggacgg tggacgagga ccttacgctg    180
              atcaactaca tctcggatca cggcgagggc cgctggaacg cgctggcgcg ggccgccggc    240
              ctgaggcgca cggggaagag ctgccggctg cggtggctga actacctccg ccccgacgtg    300
              aagcgcggca acttcaccgc cgacgagcag ctcctcatcc tcgacctcca ctctcgctgg    360
              ggtaaccggt ggtcgaagat cgcgcagcac ctcccgggtc ggacggacaa cgagatcaag    420
              aactactgga ggaccagggt gccgaagcac gcaaagcacc tcaactgcga tgtcggcagc    480
              ccccaccttc aaggatgcca tgaggtacct ctggatgccc cccctcgcct agcgcatcca    540
              cgccgccgcc accaccgcca ctggcggcga gccctcaatc ggcgacacgt cctgcgcgtc    600
              aggagtcacg ttgatggcta ccgccgtcgc caccgccacc gcatgccccc gagaacaact    660
              ctccggccag cgcggtcacc agcagatcgg catcgtcggg ttcgatcacg tcggagctct    720
              gcggcgacga gaagaacctg catgtccatg gcaacgacga taagacaacc agcggcgggg    780
              actggcccga tgcaggacgt tggaccaaga gttctgggcc atgcatatgc agatccagcc    840
              tgacgacggt ggtcttttcc aagaccatga gcttagtgga tgggtgcagg gcttctccga    900
              ngtcggcgtt tcggctgata acctctggag cctcgaggac atatggaaga tgcaatgatt    960
              tttccagtga ttgaggagcg atttttatac ttatatacat gtgtatcata gaactggtac   1020
              agtagatcat atacaccgga gtaaggatgg ccgcaaactt aactacgagc taactaatta   1080
              attttcttta gagctaacgt tagtaattac tattactact aatgtgcatc acagtaagtg   1140
              taaggcacta ggggttcttc gttggatctt gttttacttt ttgtgccttt tccacccatg   1200
              aagggttgtt ttgccttgtg tggctcaatg gccnaaagga gagatgatga cagcattata   1260
              tgtttaaaag agtgtaa                                                  1277
                                                    535

              <210>   536
<removed-date>
              <211>   507
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (398)..(398)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (407)..(407)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (464)..(464)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (470)..(470)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 536
              caccgagaga gaaaggcaga ggacatgggg ttggaagcca tgctgctcca aggagggcct    60
              gaacagagga gcgtggacgg caatggagga cgacatcctg gtctcctaca tcaacgagca   120
              tggcgagggc aagtggggca gcctccctaa acgagctggg ctgaataggt gcgggaagag   180
              ctgccggctg cggtggctca actacctccg gccggggatc aagagaggca acatctccga   240
              cgacgaggag gagctcatcg tcaggctcca caggttgctt ggctacaggt ggtcgctgat   300
              cgcggggcgg ctgccggggc gaacagacaa tgagatcaag aactactgga acaccaccct   360
              gagcaagagg aaccatcagt cagccccacc cccacggngc cggctgntcg agccacccgc   420
              aggccaagcc gccgccgccg tcgccgccgt cgtagggcgc gggncagcan cccgatacgg   480
              aatcaaggcg ctgtggtgca ccaccgc                                       507
              <210>   537
              <211>   740
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 537
              cggccgggga aggttgttgt ggtcttcccc ttgacttcac catagccttc tcctaaatca    60
                                                    536

<removed-date>
              ttaataatct cttatatttc attctttacc ttaacttatg gatggaagtt ggggtgaagg   120
              aaagagaatc tatgagtaca gagaagaaaa tgagtatgaa gtagaagtag aaatagaaga   180
              agaggaagat gtgagttatg gagatgatga gaaaaggaaa agggtggtga ctgatcatct   240
              ttacaacaag aaagggtcaa aagctggagg atcagtgaca ccttcttgcc aagttgataa   300
              ctgtaatgct gatctaagtg ctgctaagca gtaccataag cgccataagg tttgtgaaaa   360
<removed-apn>
              ccattctaag gctcattccg tactcatttc agagcttcaa caaaggtttt gccagcaatg   420
              tagcaggttt catgaggtat cagaatttga tgacttaaaa aggagttgta gaaggcgttt   480
              agctggacat aacgagaggc gtcgcaaaag tgcatccgaa tatcactgag aaggaattca   540
              ttgatgatga tcaaacatat tgagcagcat atatagttga aataaagaca ccatccttga   600
              gttcttcata ttcaaattga tgttattcgt ggaagctctc tctcttctgt catcaaactt   660
              tatctccctc tttatgctaa gtttgctgct ccattagatc gagtataatt ttagctgaaa   720
              actaaaaata acttgcttga                                               740
              <210>   538
              <211>   751
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 538
              cggccggggc tcctcctcat atgaatagtt tgagttttct ccacattaat aaccttgttt    60
              tgtttctaga tctctctggt ctttttcctc gaaactatgg agacaagaag gtcagaggga   120
              aaaagaagtt tgaagtacaa agaggatcat gaggaagaag aagaagagga agaggatacg   180
              gattttgaag aggaagagga tggtagaagg aagagggtag tgacagatct ctatagcaag   240
              agaagttcca aaaaagctgg aagctcaaac attccacctt gttgtcaagt ggagaattgt   300
              gatgctgatc ttagtgaagc taagcaatat caccggagac ataaggtttg tgagtatcat   360
              gccaaagcac ctgccgtaca cattgcaggg ttgcagcaaa ggttttgtca gcaatgtagc   420
              agattccatg gactatctga atttgatgac gcaaaaagaa gttgcagaag gcgtttggcc   480
              gggcataatg agaggcgtcg caaaagtgca attgactatc aaggagaatg atttcatggt   540
              tgaaacaaaa tctcaggttc aagcccttcg tatgttgctg gtctctaagg atagaccaat   600
              gctctctatc ttctgtcaat cttttatcta tgtatgcaat gatttctgtt tgctgctagt   660
                                                    537

<removed-date>
              tacatctatc tatgtcatgt aatatttaat tttctcactt agactactta tcattaaaat   720
              catgcatgaa cacatgacat ttgaattttg c                                  751
              <210>   539
              <211>   704
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 539
              caatttctta tgcaaaccct atgtgtgtct cggggtcata tgatgcctga tccacacctc    60
              acgtgtttga agttggggaa gaggcattat tttgaggatg tgagtggtgg tggtggggtg   120
              atgggggaga agaaagggaa aggagggtat tgtggtggtg ggaagacggc ggcggtggga   180
              ggttatacgg cggtgacaag gtgtcaggtg gatgggtgta acgtggcatt gatgaatgct   240
              aaggagtatc ataggagaca taaggtttgt gagatgcatt caaaggcacc aaaagttgtg   300
              gtgttgggtt tggagcaaag attctgtcaa cagtgtagca ggttccatgt tgtatcagaa   360
              tttgatgatt caaaaagaag ttgtagaagg agactggcag ggcacaatga gagaagaaga   420
              aagagctccc atgattctgt tgggaggaat tcctcacaag gtaaaacttg actcttactt   480
              attgcaaaat ctttggtagt tttttgttac ttgtaatcag gtgggtgtgc tctctctctt   540
              ctgtcatctc ggactgattc atggctttca ccggctgacc tctccgtaag atgcagtgct   600
              gcattaagcg aattgatagc agaaaaccga gcatcgataa tggctaggca atatgtctca   660
              gacagagaac ctaacaaatc atcatcatta acatcgtcac tttc                    704
              <210>   540
              <211>   1254
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 540
              accttacaca ccaatggatt caggaggcaa ctcttcttca gaagagtcct cacttaatgg    60
              cttgaaattt ggccaacgaa tctatttcga agatacagct cttactgctg cttctgctgc   120
              tgctgctagt actaccattg ctgctggttc tccttcttct tctggttcaa agaaaggaag   180
              aggtgggtca gttcaacagt tctcaaccac ctaggtgtca agttgaagga tgtaaactag   240
              atctgactga tgctaaagct tactattcta gacacaaagt ttgtagcatg cactctaaat   300
                                                    538

              cccctactgt tactgtttct ggtcttcaac aaaggttttg tcaacaatgt agcagatttc    360
<removed-date>
              atcagcttgc tgagtttgat caaggaaaaa gaagttgtcg gagacgacta gctggtcata    420
              atgagcgtcg cagaaagacc cccacccagc tctctcttaa cctcacgttt tgccaggctt    480
              tcttcgtctg tttttggtaa cagcgacaga ggtggcagct ttttgatgga atttgcttca    540
              aatccgaaac atagtctgag gaattcaccc ggaaatcaaa ccacagcaat cggttggcct    600
              tggccgggga acacggaagt cgccatctaa caaccttttc ttgcaaggtt cggtgggtgg    660
<removed-apn>
              gacaagcttc cctggtgcca ggcatcctcc cgaggaaact tacactggag tcacagattc    720
              aaactgtgct ctctctcttc tgtcaaatca aacatggggt tctcaaaaca cagaaccaag    780
              tcctggattg aataacatgc tgaatttcaa cgggacaccc atgacacaac ttggtacatc    840
              ttctcatggt gtagccatgc atcaaattcc aaacaattac gaggttgtcc ctgatcttgg    900
              tcggggtcac attttgcatc ctcttggtag ccaacactct ggcgagcttg atctgttgca    960
              gcagggaagg aggcattata tggatgtaga acattccagg gcctatgaat cttctcagtg   1020
              gtcactgtaa tgcacttgtt tgctttcagg tttgtaataa catgtttcac aaatatttga   1080
              actcaggaaa atgagaagtg aactagggca tgcttgatgc tatttcttgt ttttgtttgt   1140
              ttaaactgtt tggcaaggtg ggcctagctt tgcttcattt gtggaacttt cagtaacttt   1200
              tttaatgatt gctaagtgag agggcatcca cttcgtggtt tggtatctct tccc         1254
              <210>   541
              <211>   1344
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 541
              atggagtgga acgtgaaatc tcccgggcaa tgggactggg aaaacttatt cttcttgaat     60
              tcaaaagcag cagaaactca caggttacaa tctactgatt ggagtatgga ggaagatcga    120
              gaaatcaatg ttgggatgtt gattccatct ggtggtagcg gctattcagt gtctaaacta    180
              atgcatgctt catcctcgag gagctcaaaa tctgcttcca ataattcatc atcaaatgag    240
              gacagcaaga catcgatgtt aactcaagaa ggttctccag acaattccac cggtaagaaa    300
              gaatcgtcta aaggagatcc aattgaaact tctccagcag cagaaccatt gctcacacta    360
              aagcttggta aaagattata ctttgaggat gttagcactg gaagtcattc caagaaagcc    420
                                                    539

              tcttcctctg cagttcctct tttgtgcgga aagaaaggta aatcgagcag tcagaacatg    480
<removed-date>
              ctaaatccaa gctgccaggt ggaaggttgt ggcctcgacc tctcttttgc taaagattac    540
              catcggaaac atagaatttg tgacagtcat tccaaatcgc ctgtggtggt agtagctggt    600
              ttggagcgtc gattttgcca gcaatgtagc aggttccatg atctctcaga gtttgatgat    660
              aaaaaaagaa gctgcagacg ccgtctttca gatcacaatg caaggcgtcg caaacctcag    720
              cctgaagcag tgaaattgaa tccatcagct ctctcttcgt ctccctatga tgggaggcaa    780
<removed-apn>
              gcaatgggcc catttgcttt tccaaagaat acttcaaatt tagcatggcc agacatgccc    840
              aacagcaagc tcccccaaac caaagatttt atgctcaaaa ctccaaaaaa cttcaacaag    900
              attgtcacta tgctttctga tgattcaagt ggccacttta tatccaaagg caaaggaacc    960
              aatattgctg tcccagaaac aactgttatt cacattgata gaatacatat tacaggtcta   1020
              gaagatccaa ataccttgtc tgatccaagt gctacacaag atgttaaccg tgctctctct   1080
              cttctgtcaa ccaattcatg gggtgcatat gataccaagc ccccctcctt cgtacactcc   1140
              aatcggacaa ccggcacccc tcagtatgca actgctcagc gctcaccttt ttcgtcaccg   1200
              gaatattggc acactgatca acatcaggcc agctccagtg cctgtatctc gttctcgggt   1260
              tacgacaata gcaatcgcta tcaagacttt cagctgttca gcgaacccta tgagtcaagt   1320
              ttcccttgca accagctgga ttaa                                          1344
              <210>   542
              <211>   1461
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 542
              gagcgattcc cttctctcac catcaccacc tatcgcctct gcctcacttc cacgtgcata     60
              ttgagattca tgagtagcac ttcaagcgaa cactatggtg atcacaaaac tcacatattg    120
              agagtcatga atagcgcttt aagcgaagat gatggcgatc acaaaacagg catattgagt    180
              ggtatgagta gcccttcaag cggcgatgat gatcgcaaaa ggcagtcaat actgtcagct    240
              gatcaagaaa ctgatgaagg agataccact ggaggagaag gaggagaagg tggtctaaag    300
              aaaggtccat ggacagcggc agaggatgaa atcttggtag ctcatgttca aaaatatggt    360
              gagggaaact ggaattcagt ccggaaatgt accggacttg ctcgctgtgg gaaaagctgt    420
                                                    540

              cgtctacgat gggcaaatca tttgagacct gatctcagaa agggtgcaat tactgctgaa    480
<removed-date>
              gaagaacgcc gaatcattga gttgcatcat aagatgggaa ataaatgggc tcaaatggct    540
              gcactgttgc ctggacgtac agataatgag ataaagaact tttggaacac aagatgcaag    600
              aaacggggtc gggcaaactt accaatctac cctgaagatt tatcatctga atgtctgctg    660
              aatcaagaaa atgctgacat gttgacaaat gaagccagcc agcatgatga agcagagaac    720
              aaagtacctg aagtgatatt taaagattac aaactccgcc ctgatatttt accaccatgt    780
<removed-apn>
              tttgataagc ttctagctgg cttgttattg cgtccctcta agcgcccttg gaagtccgat    840
              atgaatttgt acagttatag caataatgct gctgccccag cagcatttga tcagctcaga    900
              aaatatccta tgccatctcc ttcgtctcct ccatgggagg atattaatga accacatagc    960
              tacaatcagt ttaatgaata tgataaccct atggtcggta ttcacatggc accaaaaacc   1020
              tcttcttttg agcccatata tgggttcatg aagactgagc ccccttcact ccaatattca   1080
              cagactcaac atcgtagcta tatgattcca tatcctcaag ttgagcctgt tcagtcagtt   1140
              ccaacttctc tagagaggag tcattttctt ccatccaatg aagcaaatct tagcacacaa   1200
              tgggatgagt cagatgatca gtatgatggt ttatttccgt cctttgacta taataacaat   1260
              aatcatatga acacgtgctc aactgacggg caccactcag ctgaaactac tcagggtcat   1320
              gatattatta accatgctgc atttaatcag atcccagatt acttttcttc tgagagagat   1380
              gatttgagga gaaaaatatt tgcgcatcca gatgctgcgc ctgtggttga tgacttcgct   1440
              tggtattata aaatagaata a                                             1461
              <210>   543
              <211>   1934
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1921)..(1921)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 543
              ttcacatttt ggtcggcaac tgttgcgtaa gaaagagaga gaaagagtct tcatctctac     60
              ttaaaacttt gcaactcttt ctcactcacc actcttcttt tcctttctct tctctctctc    120
                                                    541

              tctctctctc tctctctctc ctttttcctc atccacacct tcactttctc ttcacaacaa    180
<removed-date>
              tctcaccctt cttcattcta aaaacatgtt tgtagttatg gattccatgg aaaaaacctc    240
              tgaaaagtgc ttagattcac aactatggca cgcatgtgct ggcgccatgg ttcaaatgcc    300
              accactcaac acaaaagtct tctactttcc acaaggtcat gcagaacatg ctcataacaa    360
              agttgatttt tccaaaaccc gtgttccacc tctcatccct tgtagaatct ctgctatgaa    420
              atacatggca gaccctgaaa ctgatgaagt ctacgtcaaa atgaaactaa ctcctttaag    480
<removed-apn>
              agaaaacgag ttagattttg aagaagattt gtttctttgg aaacaatggc ttagagagtc    540
              aagaaaagcc agcttctttt gcaaagacat taacacaatc tgatgcaaac aacggtggag    600
              gtttttctgt tcctagatac tgtgctgaga ctatttttcc taggttggat tattcagcag    660
              aaccacctgt tcagacaatt attgctaagg atatgcatgg acagtgttgg aagtttagac    720
              atatatatag aggaacacca aggagacatc ttttgacaac tggttggagt aattttgtga    780
              atcataagaa gcttgttgct ggtgattcaa ttgtgttttt gagagcagaa aatggagatc    840
              tttgtgttgg tataaggaga gcaaagaaag gtggaattgg tggtggaact gatcagtttt    900
              ctaattcttc tagtacttgg aaccgtgtat cacctttgtt tggtggtgtt ggttctggtt    960
              tcttgtgtgg aaatgataac agaaaaaatg gttgtgatga tgttgatggg aaaagtagga   1020
              gctgaatctg ttgttgaagc tgtaaatggt gctgttaatg gaagatcttt tgagggtgtg   1080
              tattatccaa gagctagtac tcctgaattt tgtgttaagg tttcttcagt taaatctgca   1140
              atgcaaattc aatggtgttc tggtatgaga ttcaaaatgc cttttgaaac tgaggattct   1200
              tctaggatta gttggtttat gggaactatt tcttctgttc atgttcaaga tccaattcgt   1260
              tggcctgatt ctccttggcg ccttccgccg cgagggtggg atgaaccaga tttacttcaa   1320
              aatgtgaaat gtgtaaaccc ttggttagtt gaattagtct caaacatgcc aaatttcaat   1380
              ctctcaccat tcacacctcc aagaaagaaa ccaaggttta tccaagatcc atattttcac   1440
              ctcatgaatc aatcatcatc accatcaatc tcccacatta atcttctcaa ttacacaaaa   1500
              tcttctctct gtaacattca agacactacc actaatagtt cttttgcatc aagcatacag   1560
              ggagccaggc atgctcaatt tggaccaaat tataataatc catctgattt aattcccttc   1620
              aacaagctac tacaacaaga catgtttctt ggtaatttgt cattgtcaag gtttaatcaa   1680
              caacaaccta taactaggcc tccttatgga ccctacaaga gtatcaataa caataacaac   1740
                                                    542

<removed-date>
              actaagacca atgttgactt gtcttgtttg ttgagtgtgg gaaattctgg tcaaagtttt   1800
              aaggaatcca atattgaagc aaaagcaccc cataaccata accatatttt gttatttgga   1860
              aaaatcattc acactgaaca aaacagttca aatatttcaa agagtgattc tgtttctgaa   1920
              ngaacttctt tgaa                                                     1934
              <210>   544
<removed-apn>
              <211>   631
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 544
              gtgaagcgag taagtccatg gttggttgaa ttggtatcaa acatgtcgat gattcatctc     60
              gcacctttct caccaccaag gaagaaactc cgttttccac aacatccgga tttccctctc   120
              gatgttgtcc agtttcaaat accaacgttt tcaggcaacc cttttaaccc tttgtgttgt   180
              ttatcttctt cggataatta taacgctcct gccgcaggca ttcagggagc caggcatgct    240
              caaattggaa tatctttatc ggatcttcac cttaacaaca acaaatttca gttaggtgtg    300
              tttccaaata atcgcgagac gatttctaat gttagcaaca taactaccaa ccatgataat    360
              aagagcaaag aaagtatatc atgtctgttg actataggaa attctcacaa gagaagtttg    420
              gagatcaaat ctgataataa tgataataga caccaatttt tgctttttgg tcaaccaatt   480
              ctcactgagc aacaaatctc tagaaaagat tctagtgatg atgtgttgtt gtccaagaaa   540
              aaggacaaag agaagtggtt tttcagtgat actactcaat cttctatttc tgaacagttt   600
              tcaccagcaa aatcttctac tactagtgct a                                  631
              <210>   545
              <211>   1860
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 545
              atgaaagaaa agagaaaagg ttgcagtcca actgagatga atatggagtc aaagaagaaa     60
              ttgaaaaatg tgaacaagag tgtggaccct cagctatggc atgccgttgc aggaggaatg    120
              gttcaaatgc cagaagttaa ctcacaggtc ttctacttcc ctcagggtca cgccgagcat    180
              gcttgtgagc ctgtgaattt cagttcttac tccaaaattc cgtctttcat tccatgtaga    240
                                                    543

              gttgaagcta taagatatat ggctaatcat gagaccgatg aagtgtatgc aaaactcaga    300
<removed-date>
              cttgtcccta tgaatattaa ccaggttagt tttgataatg atggtgttgc tggcatcaac    360
              gtgtccgaaa caaaggataa acatcaatct tttgcgaaaa ccttgacaca atctgatgca    420
              aacaatggtg gtggcttttc ttgtcctaga tattgtgcag aaacgctttt tcctcgtttg    480
              gactattcag ctaaccctcc tcttcaggat atttttccca aggatgttca tggcgaaaag    540
              tggcatttca ggcacgttta taggggcacg ccgaagaggc atttgttgac aactggatgg    600
<removed-apn>
              agtccttttg tcagcgacaa gaaacttgcg tctggggatt cgattgtgtt tttgagatct    660
              gaaaacggcg atcttcatgt tggaattcgg agggctaaaa ggcgaaataa tgttggagtc    720
              gatcctttgt cagggtggaa atctggtagt ggaattggaa tttgtgctgc accaccttac    780
              ggaggatttc catcgttttc gggagaggaa gataataaac ttcgaagaaa cggtaaaggt    840
              aatggattgc taataagtga tggaatgatg ggtaggggga aggtgaaagc tctagaagtt    900
              attgaagcag taagactcgg tactaatatg cagccgtttg atgtggttta ttatcctcgg    960
              tcgggtactc ctgagttttt tgtgaaaact tctttaattg gaatggcact tcagattagg   1020
              tggtgtcctg gaatgaggtt caagatggcc attgaaaccg aggactcatc aaggataagt   1080
              tggtttatcg gaactgttgc ttctgttcag gctgctgatc cgtcatggtc tgattctatg   1140
              tggagacttc tcgaggttac atgggatgaa cctgagttac ttaaaaatgt gaaaagagtg   1200
              aatccgtggc aagttgaaat agtatcgaac atgccttcga tccctctttc gcctttcata   1260
              ccgccaagga agaaattgag attgcctcaa ctcccagatt tcccaattga tggccaattt   1320
              ccaatgccaa cttttccaaa caaccttcta agtcctaata ttccaatttt ttatttaccc   1380
              gaaactagtc ctgccggcat gcagggagcc aggcatggtc atttcggtgt taccttacca   1440
              gattttcata atcttccatt aggtctcttt cagcctagtt tccaacaacc gtttaataat   1500
              attgcgacaa tgccgatgac tgtccctaat aacccggcat tgcaaaagcc gaacaccagt   1560
              gagaacgttt catgctcgca ttcgatatca acttctgcac aatcttcaga gaaaccggat   1620
              catgcaaagc cgcaccaact tgtgcttttt ggccaaacaa tacaagttga cgctggaaat   1680
              gaaaattccg agaagaaaat gtctaatcat ttgtctgatc ttcatctaca aggcctgtcg   1740
              tcaagatcat ctgatgcgag gttcgagtgg aatgctgaga accaacacga agaaacattg   1800
              gcaggagaaa cattagagat gaaacattca gagacttcat cagaaaagct aggaggttga   1860
                                                    544

<removed-date>
              <210>   546
              <211>   1575
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 546
              atgtcttctc agcaacgccg tgttgatcag aaaatctggc agtgctgtgc aggcagttcc     60
              gttaaaattc caaaactata ttctcatgtt tactacttcc cattagggca cttagaacac    120
<removed-apn>
              atatgtccat ccccaaaccc taacacactg tcccatcttg accgttcccg tccattcatt    180
              ctctgcacag tctccgcggt tgatctactc gctgaccttt gtaccgatga agtcttcgtc    240
              aaactactcc tcactcctgt cactaacaaa ggtgttcacg aacctcactc tcttgaggtt    300
              cgtgaagaca aagatgatga caaaaaggtt gtttcctatt ccaagactct caccccatct    360
              gatgctaaca atggcggtgc attctctgtg ccagtggaat gcgcgaaatt aatcttcccg    420
              ccacttgacc tcaatactga aaagccgttt caagaactct ccatcagtga cattcacggc    480
              aaagtttgga agtttcgcca tgtttaccgt gggactccct tgcgacatct gcttaccact    540
              gattggagtg agttcgttga caagaagaga ctagttggcg gtgattcctt aattttcatg    600
              aaagactcag atggaaatat ctcagtcggg gttcgccgac agactaagtt tggtggtgct    660
              gctaagataa cagaaaaatc gtttacggag gcagtggaat tggcggataa gaacttggct    720
              tttgaagttg tgtattatcc aacggctaaa ggttggtgta attttgttgt tgatgccaaa    780
              gttgtggagg atgcaatgaa tattagttgg agtcttggag tgagaattga actttcttcg    840
              aagaattacg attcttcaaa gagatgctca aaatttgagg gaacaatatc tgctctatct    900
              gctcctaatt gtccatggcg gatgcttgag gttaaatggg atgaacctaa agtctcgcag    960
              gttccagagc gagtcagtcc ttgggaggtt gaaactattt ccgacatatt tgcactgcat   1020
              ccacaattcc acccgacaaa aaagcttaaa aaatctgatc cagattctgc tgcattcagt   1080
              gataaaaagg gagactcctt catcccaaat atagaggctt ttttgaagat ggtcccaaat   1140
              atagagttta aacatttcgt gatgacatcc tctaatcaaa cattgttgaa caatgatgct   1200
              tttcttgata gcatgcaggg cgccaggcac ggactttttt ccacatcaac ttcttccaac   1260
              tttgggaatg ataaaagcaa tggtttcctt gggaataatt ctatggcagt gtcgagtaat   1320
              gtgtcaagtg agccaaacac tgcagctcct atatctttgg acttgtcacc tcatagccat   1380
                                                    545

<removed-date>
              gatatttcca actctcgtgg gacaaagttt gccggtactg acagcagcac cgagaaagta   1440
              agtcctggtt catttatgct atttggtaaa atcataaaac ctgttagaag cgattttcaa   1500
              gaattcgata tcaagggaaa tgatgattgt gaaggctcca atgaaattga aggcatcaaa   1560
              cttgcacaaa aatag                                                    1575
              <210>   547
<removed-apn>
              <211>   2181
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 547
              atgtcttacg acgacgtgga gattgaagat atggaatgga acgaggagtt acagtcatac     60
              acgtatccat gtccatgtgg agacctgttc cagatcacga aagaagatct caagcttggc    120
              gaagaaattg ctcgttgccc tagttgctct ctctacatca ccgttatcta taatatggaa    180
              gattttactg ccgattctaa taaggctctt cagccatcca aacaacaacc cgcgcgattg    240
              gagagtagcg ttccacttcc agccaagtac ttcatttcag agggaacttt tcatcattcg    300
              ttcgccatga aattcctcaa aaccttcaac tccaaatcca tttaccgcca ttccaaaaca    360
              ctctcaaatt cctcgcttta cactactact acttccgcac ccccatcacc accaatcacc    420
              gaaaccaaat tccttgaata catccaaact tctcagtggc atttcatcaa acaccttgcc    480
              cccaacctca ccccttccct cctctcttcc actcttccca cccttcacca aaacccaatc    540
              ctcgttgaaa ccctcctctc ccaccttcac cgccaccctc attgtctcga cctcaatact    600
              cgttgcatca ccttatgcat cctctaccgt ctcccatctc caaaaccatc tttccacatc    660
              cttcaaccca tcctccacac caccaccccc accgtcattt tcaacgaatt atcactagct    720
              cgtaaccgtc tcaacgtaaa aaccaccctt gtctttgacc ttctccttag tgcttattgc    780
              caatttcgta aacctgatga agctttagag tgtctcaatt tgatgaaaga aaatgagatt    840
              atccctaaaa ccgagacttg taattcgctt ttgagtttgt tattgaaact gaataaaatc    900
              aagatggctt ggtttgttta tgaagaaatg gttaagatga atatcaaatc cagtattgtt    960
              acttttaaca ttatgatcaa tattttgtgt agagaaggta agtggaagaa agctaaggat   1020
              tttattggcc atatggaggt ttatggtgtg aagccgaatg ttgttactta taatacggtt   1080
              ataaatggat actgtttaag aggtaaattt gaagcggcta gtaagatttt taagacaatg   1140
                                                    546

<removed-date>
              aaagataaaa atcttaaacc ggattgttat acgtataatt cttttatttc taggttgtgt   1200
              aaagaaagaa ggattgaaga ggcatctggt gtactttgta aactgttgga atctggattg   1260
              gttcctaatg ctgtaacata caatgcgttg attgatgggt gttgcaataa aggggattta   1320
              gataaggctt ttgcttaccg ggatgagatg atgaatagag gcattgtggc ttctgttttc   1380
              acttataatt tgttaattca tgcactgttt ttggagaaga ggatagagga agctgaagat   1440
<removed-apn>
              atgataaaag aaatgagaga aaaaggggtg gagcctgatg ttgttacgta taacatacag   1500
              attaatggct attgcagatg tgggaatgca aaaaaagccc tctccctttt tgatgaaatg   1560
              gtggagaaaa atattagacc aacagtggaa acatatacat cgcttattga tgtttttggg   1620
              aaaagaaata ggatgagcga ggcagaagag aagtttaaaa agagtataaa agaaggtatg   1680
              cttccagata tcataatgtt taatgcattg atcgatggtc attgtgtaaa tggtaacatt   1740
              gatcgtgcat ttcaactttt gaaagagatg gataatgcta aggttgttcc cgatgaagtc   1800
              actttcaata ccttgatgca agggtactgc agggagagga aagtggaaga agctaaaaaa   1860
              cttcttgatg agatgaagga aagggggatc aaaccggatc atattagtta caatacactc   1920
              attagtggtt acagtaaaag aggtgacatg aaggatgctt tagaagtttt tgatgaaatg   1980
              ttgtctctag gatttgatcc tacccttctt acttacaatg ctcttattca aggctatagc   2040
              aaaatcggtg aagctgacca tgctgaagag ctcctcagag aaatgcagag caaaggcatt   2100
              actccagatg acagcacgta cctatatgta attgaggcaa tgaagacaaa tgatgatcta   2160
              gtggaaaatg atgataagtg a                                             2181
              <210>   548
              <211>   1653
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 548
              atgttgaaga acaggttcat ttattactct aacaattttc ttattccacc gtttagggct     60
              tctttctgtc actatctaca tcccttcatt cctaaatcaa atgattttga tgttaacaat    120
              gatgtttcct cattccatcg aatgcttcgt atgcgtccca ccccatccat tgtagaattt    180
              aacaagattt taggttccat tgttaaggct aacaataatc attacaccac tgccatttcc    240
              ctttctcatc aattggaact caaaggaatt actccaacta ttgttacttt caacatattg    300
                                                    547

<removed-date>
              gttaattgtt actgccacct aggggaaatg acttttgcct tttctatatt tgctaagatt    360
              ctcaaattag gttatcaccc cacaaccata accttcaata cacttatcaa tggtatttgt    420
              cttaacggta agctcaagga agctttgcac tttcatgacc atgtgattgc acttggattt    480
              cacttggatc aagttagtta caggaccttg atcaatgggt tgtgtaaaat cggtgaaaca    540
              agagccgcct tgcaaatgtt gaaaaagatt gaagggaaat tggttaacac cgatgtggta    600
<removed-apn>
              atgtataata taatcatcaa tagtttgtgt aaagataaag ctgtaagtga tgcctatcag    660
              ttatattctg aaatgattac aaagagaatt tctcccgatg ttgtcacttt caattctcta    720
              atcttgggat tttgcgttgt tggtcaattg aaagaagcat ttggtttgtt ccatgaaatg    780
              gtattgaaaa atatcaaccc agatgtttat actttcagta tattggttga tgctctttgt    840
              aaggatggaa atatcacaag agctaagaat atgttagccg ttatgatgaa acaaggtgtg    900
              attccggatg ttgttaccta cagttcatta atggatggat attgtctagt taatgaagtg    960
              aataaggcca aacatgtgtt tagcactatg tctcgactag gagtggctcc acatgctcat   1020
              agctataata taatgattaa tggattgggt aagattaaaa tggtcgatga agccttaagt   1080
              ctctttaagg aaatgtgttg caaaggaatt gctcctgata cggtaactta caattctctc   1140
              attgatggtt tgtgcaaatt aggaagaata tcctatgctt ggcagcttgt tgatgagatg   1200
              cataataatg gtataccagc cgacatatta acttacaatt ctttgataga tgttttatgc   1260
              aaaaaccatc atattgacaa agctattgca ttagttaaga aaattaaaga ccagggcatt   1320
              caaccaagta tgtacacata caatatactt attgatggac tctgtaaagg aggacgactt   1380
              aagaatgcac aagatgtttt ccaggatctt ttgattaagg gttatagtgt aaatgcttgg   1440
              acgtataata ttatgatcaa tggactttgt aaagaaggct tgtttaatga agcagaggtc   1500
              ttgttgtcca aaatggagaa caatggtatc attcctgatg ctgtaacgta tgaaactatc   1560
              atccgggctc tctttcgtaa agatgagaac gaaaaggcgg agaaacttct tcgtgaaatg   1620
              atcattagag gcctcctatt atgcaaacac tag                                1653
              <210>   549
              <211>   3723
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
                                                     548

              <400> 549
<removed-date>
              atggaggatg atgccgatgc cgctgctgcc gccgctgccg tgaataacaa caatagggtt     60
              tcttcgtcaa atccttactg gctggatgcc tgtgaagata tttctatatc ttgtgatgat    120
              atcattgatt ttgatgtttc taatgattct gaccaacaac ccaacaacaa caaccaagac    180
              ttttttggtg gtattgatcg aatctttgac agcatcaaaa acggcgctgg tctccctgat    240
              catcctcctg cttctgctgc tgatgatggg aatcaactac ctcctactca tcttcaacta    300
<removed-apn>
              gaagaacaac accaacaggt agaagaagaa gaacaagaac aagaaaggtt caacaaaagg    360
              gctcgcctca ccgaaggaga aaggagaatc aatcatcaac ccaacaacaa caacaaggac    420
              aggtatgaga ggtgtttcaa caataatagg aagagaccaa ggaataataa taatcataat    480
              cattccttta aaagagatgt caagggttat tgggagaggg ataagtcttc taatgacttg    540
              gtctttcgct ccggaacttg ggaacccaat cttcatactt cccaacacaa aatggacata    600
              gacaacccca tcaaacagga aaaacccaag gagactgttc ctgttcctga ggaaaaagcc    660
              agacagtatc agttggatgt tcttgagcag gcaaagacca gaaatacaat agcttttcta    720
              gaaactggag ctggcaaaac cctcattgcc gttcttctca tcaagtctat acatgagaca    780
              ttacatctcc aaaataagaa aatgcttgct gtgtttttgg ttccaaaagt tccacttgtt    840
              taccagcaag ctgaggtaat ccgtgagcgc actggatatc aagtggggca ctattgtgga    900
              gaaatggggc aggatttctg ggatgctcga aggtggcagc gtgaatttga caccaagcat    960
              gttttagtca tgaccgctca aatacttttg aacattttga ggcatagcat cataaaaatg   1020
              gaagcaatca atctcctgat tcttgatgag tgccatcatg ctgtgaagaa acacccatat   1080
              tcgctggtga tgtctgagtt ctaccataca acgcccaaag aaaagaggcc atctgtattt   1140
              ggaatgactg cttctcctgt taacttaaag ggtgtttcca gccaagtaga ctgtgcaata   1200
              aaaattcgta atcttgaaag taagctagat tcaatagttt gtaccattaa agatcgtaaa   1260
              gagctagaga aacacgtgcc tatgccctct gagattgtgg tgaagtatga taaagcggcc   1320
              agtctatgtt atttacatga gcaaataaag cagatggaga ctgaagttga ggaagctgca   1380
              aaatctagtt caagaagaag caaatggcag tttatgggag ctagagatgc tggagctaag   1440
              gaagagctgc gccaagtata tggtgtttct gaaagaacag aaagtgatgg agctgcaaac   1500
              ctaattcaga agttgagagc tgttaattat gcacttggtg aattgggaca gtggtgtgca   1560
                                                    549

              tataaggttg cacaatcttt tcttgcagct ctgcaaaatg atgaaagggc aaactatcaa   1620
<removed-date>
              cttgatgtca agtttcagga atcttatctg agtaaagttg tgtctcttct gaaatgtcag   1680
              ctgtcagagg gtgccatttc tgacaaaaat gatggagtag atgactcaca aaatggtgca   1740
              gctcacagtg ggtctgatga acatgaagag attgaagaag gagagcttcc agacagtcac   1800
              gttgtctctg gtggggagca tgttgatgtc ataataggtg ctgctgtggc tgatggcaag   1860
              gtgaccccca aggtgcaggc tttaatcaaa atactcctca agtatcagaa cacagacgac   1920
<removed-apn>
              ttccgtgcaa tcatctttgt tgaacgtgtt gtgtctgcat tagttctacc caaggttttt   1980
              gccgagcttc catctcttag ttttgtcaag tgtgcaagct tgattggcca caacaatagt   2040
              caggaaatgc ggacccacca aatgcatgat acaattgcca agttccgtga tgggcgggtc   2100
              acgttgttag ttgccactag tgttgctgaa gaaggtcttg atatccggca atgtaacgtt   2160
              gttattcgct ttgatcttgc gaagactgtt ctggcataca ttcagtctag gggacgtgct   2220
              agaaagcctg ggtctgatta catcctaatg gttgagaggg gaaatttgtc acatgaagct   2280
              ttcctaaaga atgccaggaa cagtgaggaa actttgcgga gagaagcaat agagagaaca   2340
              gaccttagtc atctgaaaga cagttcaagg ttgatttctg tagataccca tccagaaaca   2400
              atgtaccagg tgaaatctac cggtgcagta gttagcttaa attccgctct tttgtatttt   2460
              gcacttcaaa ttatgatttg ggtgtcttcc gatcgtcatc cagatattca attcttcgtc   2520
              ccgagtttat tatggagaag catgaaaact ccggaggtcc cactgaatat tcttgcaggc   2580
              ttcaactgcc atgctgtttg tctagctgct tgcagaaaat tgcacgaaat gggagcattc   2640
              actgacatgc tattgccgga taaaggaagt ggggaagaaa aagaaaaggc tgagcaaaat   2700
              gatgaagggg atgcacttcc agggactgct agacataggg agttctatcc tgaaggtgtg   2760
              gctgacatac tgaagggaga atggatctta tctggaaaag atgcttgtaa caactccaaa   2820
              ttgcttcatc tttatatgta taccataaag tgcgagaatg taggccattc taaggatccg   2880
              ttcttgactc aggtttcaga ttttgcagta ctttttggca ctgaactgga tgcagaggtc   2940
              ttatcgatgt cgatggatct atttatcgct cgaaccgtga ctacgaaggc gtctcttgtc   3000
              tttagagagt caatagatat cactgagagt cagttgacgt ccctgaaaag ctttcatgta   3060
              aggttaatga gcattgtctt ggatgtggat gttgaaccat ctaccactcc ttgggatcct   3120
              gcaaaagcat atctgtttgt cccaatggtt ggcgataagt cttcagatcc tatgaaccaa   3180
                                                    550

<removed-date>
              attgactggc atctggttga gacaataatt ggagccgatg catggaaaaa tcccctccag   3240
              aaggctcgac cagatgttta ccttggcact aatgagagaa ctttaggtgg tgacagaagg   3300
              gaatacggat ttgggaaatt gcgtcatggc ttggcttttg ggcaaaaatc acatccaacc   3360
              tatggaatca gaggagctgt ggcccagttt gatgtagtga aagcttcagg attggttccc   3420
              aacagagatt ccatggaaac acaaaatcat atcaatatga ctaccaaagg aaaattgatg   3480
<removed-apn>
              atggcagata catgtaccag tccagatgat ctagtaggga gaattgtaac tgctgctcat   3540
              tcagggaaga ggttttatgt tgattctata cgctatgaaa tgacagcaga gaactctttc   3600
              cctaggaaag aaggttatct tggtcctctg gaatacagtt catatgctga ttactacaag   3660
              caaaagaaga cgaggaagct aatcttagtc tgtgaaggag gcatctgttg tcacctgcaa   3720
              tag                                                                 3723
              <210>   550
              <211>   1576
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 550
              gggccgggga taattatttc catctttaaa aaattctcac ttgtgaagtt tgaacctgtt     60
              tcttaatttc tcttctatat cttttgttag aaaagaaaaa atgagcaaca taagcatggt    120
              tgaggcaaag ctaccaccag ggttcagatt tcatcctaga gatgaagaac ttgtgtgtga    180
              ttacttgatg aagaaggtga cacatagtga ttcctttctc atgattgatg ttgaccttaa    240
              caagtgtgag ccatgggata ttcctgaagc agcatgtgtg ggagggaaag agtggtattt    300
              ctacacacaa agagatcgta aatatgcaac aggactacga acaaatcgtg caactgcatc    360
              aggttattgg aaagcaacag gaaaggacag agctatcctt cgtaagggca ctcttgttgg    420
              aatgagaaag actttagtgt tctatcaagg aagggcacct aaagggagaa aaactgaatg    480
              ggttatgcat gagtttcgta ttgagggtcc tcatggccct cctaaaattt catcttctaa    540
              ggaagattgg gttttgtgta gggtgttcta caaaaacaga gaagttgcta caaaacctcc    600
              aagcatgggt agttgctatg atgacacagg ctcttcatca cttccagcat taatggattc    660
              ttacataagt tttgaccaag ctcaattcca tacagatgaa tatgagcaag tgccctgctt    720
              ctccatgttt tctcaaaacc aaaccaaccc aatctacaac aatataacaa ccaatatgga    780
                                                    551

<removed-date>
              accaaaatta cctctagcca acaataacaa tgcaagtaca tttggaggag caccttatag    840
              cttagaccct ttatcatgtg atagaaaagt gttaaaagct gttttgagtc aactatcaaa    900
              gatggaaaga aaccctatta atgatcaaaa cctaaaaggg tcatcaccaa gcttaggtga    960
              aggaagttct gagagttact tatctgaagt gggtatgccc cacatgtgga acaatttcta   1020
              atgtggtata ctccactcct atttaatttt ttttgttgtg gctttcccta agttaaagaa   1080
<removed-apn>
              attggatcat ctccatctac aatgtggtct atgacggtag agaattcagg tccggactga   1140
              aaaggaatct gaatcatcta tcgttgtaat atggtgctga agttgtagag gatctaattt   1200
              cgatgaaaag gcgaacacaa tcaaaaatag gggtacaaag gagaagagaa aatccattgt   1260
              tttaaatcat gttatagtat ctatatattt ttctcatggt gttagttatt gatatatgaa   1320
              tatctatcca catgatatat atgtcccggt atattagaaa gatggggctt tgtaattgga   1380
              acttatgaat ttgtagttca ttttagttgg tggatggaga tttttcttct tttgttaaaa   1440
              tagatcattg tgggctagtt caaaagtgaa acaactagat atttagtttt aaggtaaaaa   1500
              aatataattt ttctactaga acacaaaaaa agaagcagca gacgaggggg ctttataatg   1560
              attgaatagc acacca                                                   1576
              <210>   551
              <211>   1248
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 551
              tcacaaccac caccttcact ttctctcatc ttcatcttct cttttatata tcaattcttc     60
              tctgtttcat cactaaaacc tttgatttga ggttttgaac aaggttttag aggttgaccc    120
              ttttggttac cttgatcaag atggaaaacg tttcagtctt atcaaataag gaagatgaga    180
              agatggattt gcctcctgga tttcgatttc acccaactga tgaagagctt ataagtcatt    240
              acctctacaa aaaggttatt gattcaaatt tctctgcaag agccattggt gatgtagacc    300
              tcaacaagtc tgaaccttgg gatttaccat ttaaagcaaa aatgggagaa aaagaatggt    360
              actttttctg tgtgagagac agaaaatatc caactgggtt gaggacaaac agagcaacag    420
              aagcaggtta ttggaaagca actgggaaag ataaagaaat tttcaaaggg aaatcgttgg    480
              ttggtatgaa gaaaactctt gttttctaca aaggaagagc acctaaagga gaaaaaagta    540
                                                    552

<removed-date>
              attgggtcat gcatgaatat cgacttgagg gtaaattctc tgttcacaat cttccaaaag    600
              ctgcaaagaa tgaatgggtg atttgtaggg tttttcagaa gagttcagct gggaaaaaaa    660
              cacatatttc tggtataatg agggtggatt cacttggtaa tgaatttggt tgttctgttt    720
              taccaccact tactgattcg tcgaattcaa ttgggaaaat caaacaattg aatgattcag    780
              cttacgtgtc ctgcttctcc aactcaattg atgttcaaag aaaccaagga ggggatcttt    840
<removed-apn>
              gattcattca acaactcaat ttatggtatt tcttcacata atcaactaga ttttttccca   900
              agaatctcat cttctaatgg ttcattatac tctaataatc aagctgcggt taatttgcaa   960
              tatccaagtt ctgtttgtgg tatgcaagat caagcaattt taagagcttt gtatgaaaac   1020
              aatggtttca agactgagag acagcaacaa attatgagtg tgtcacagga aactgatcta   1080
              actactgata tgaatgctga aacatgttct gttgtgtcaa atttggatat tggtagaagg   1140
              acttttgaga ataatcagaa tcgtccacca cctgcttctg ttgcagctgt tgattttgat   1200
              ggtaatttgt ggaattacta aattgatcca aattaaggag cttttgag                1248
              <210>   552
              <211>   4688
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 552
              cataaaaaaa aacttcatgt ttcataaaca tgaagatcgt ttaaacggtg tcgtttcagt     60
              tcatgctctg ttttaagaaa atcaaaaccc aaggaaccag atcgttgtta tcacgatgaa   120
              gtttttcaca aagctctgat ctcgaagatt tcaacgtgtt ttcttgtgtt cttcactgtc    180
              tcttctttag gaaacacgtt tatttccgtg cttaaacttc tttttttact tccaatgaat    240
              tttttcatct taaaaaagca cttataattg gaatctggat agatagaaca agaaagttct    300
              gtggttggtg aaagtgattt tgaaaaaagc tattatgtct tgtaaagatg gtaaaggtgt    360
              tatggataat ggaaaatacg ttcgttatac acctgaacaa gttgaagctc ttgagaggct    420
              ttatcatgat tgtcctaagc caagcagtat tcgtcgtcaa cagcttattc gagagtgtcc    480
              tattctctct catattgaac ctaaacagat caaagtttgg ttccaaaata gaagggagaa   540
              gcagagaaaa gaggcttcaa ggttgcaagc tgtgaatagg aagttgagtg ctatgaataa   600
              gctgctgatg gaagagaatg ataggttgca gaaacaaact aatctggcaa ccaaagatac    660
                                                    553

<removed-date>
              aagctgtgat tcggcggtga ctagtggtca acgcagtttg acagcccagc atccgccaag    720
              ggatgcaagt cctgcagggc ttttgtccat tgcagaggaa actttagcag agtttctttc    780
              aaaggctact ggaactgctg ttgagtgggt ccaaatgcct ggaatgaagc ctggtccgga    840
              atctattgga atcattgcga tttctcatgg ttgccatggt gtggcggcaa gagcatgtgg    900
              cctagtgggg ctagaaccta caagggttgc agaaatcctc aaagatcggc cctcgtggta    960
<removed-apn>
              tcgtgattgc cgagctgtgg atattctgaa cgtgcttccc acagccaatg gtggaaccat   1020
              agagctgctt tacatgcagc tatatgcgcc aactacattg gctcctgctc gagacttatg   1080
              gttgttgcgc tacacatctg ttttagaaga tggaagccta gtgatatgtg agaggtctct   1140
              taaaaacaca caaaatggtc caagcatgcc tcctgtgcag cattttgtca gagctgagat   1200
              gctgcccagt gggtacctga taaggccttg tgaaggaggt ggttccatca tccacattgt   1260
              tgatcatatg gatttggagc catggagtgt tcccgaggta ctgcgtccac tctatgaatc   1320
              atcaacaatg ctggctcaga agacaacaat ggtggcccta cgtcacctaa ggcagatttc   1380
              acatgaagtt tctcagtcta acgtcactgg atggggtaga cgaccagcag cacttcgagc   1440
              acttggccaa agactgagcc ggggtttcaa tgaggcactc aatgggttta ctgatgaggg   1500
              atggtcaatg attggcaatg atggtgttga cgatgttact attctagtga attcatcccc   1560
              tgacaaatta atgggtctga atctttcatt tgccaatgga tttccatctg tcagtaatgc   1620
              agtcttatgt gctaaagctt caatgctgtt acaaaatgtg cctccggcca ttctactaag   1680
              gtttttacgg gagcatagat cggagtgggc agacaacaac atggatgctt actcagctgc   1740
              tgccatcaaa gctggtcctt gtagtttctc aggatctcgg gttggaaatt atgggggcca   1800
              agtaattctt cctctagccc acactattga gcacgaggag tttctggaag tcattaaatt   1860
              ggaaggaatt gcccattctc ccgaagacgc gataatgcct agagaagtgt ttcttttgca   1920
              actctgcagt ggaatggatg agaatgctgt tggtacctgt gctgaactta tatttgctcc   1980
              aattgatgca tcctttgctg atgatgcccc ccttctgcct tctggatttc gtataattcc   2040
              tcttgattct ggaaaggaag tggccaacaa cccaaatcgc acccttgacc tgacatctgc   2100
              ccttgatatt ggtcccgctg gaaacaaagc tgctaatgat tgttctggaa attctggctg   2160
              tatgagatca gtgatgacaa tagcatttga atttgctttt gaaagtcata tgcaagacca   2220
                                                    554

              tgtagcatct atggcacggc agtatgttcg cagcattata tcgtctgtcc aaagggtagc   2280
<removed-date>
              attggcactt tcaccttcta atttgaattc acaaggtggg ctcaggacac cactgggtac   2340
              tcctgaagct caaacacttg ctcgttggat cagcaacagt tataggtgct tcttgggtgc   2400
              tgagctactt aaatctaata atgaggggag cgaatcatta ctcaagtcct tgtggcatca   2460
              cactgatgca atactctgct gcactctaaa ggcattgccc gtgttcactt ttgccaacca   2520
              ggcagggctt gacatgctgg agactacctt agttgctctg caggatatag gcattggaga   2580
<removed-apn>
              aaatatttga tgaccatggc cgaaagattc tgtgctcgga atttcctcta attatacaac   2640
              agggttttgc atgccttcaa ggtggtcttt gtctctcaag catggggaga cctatttcat   2700
              atgaaagagt agtggcttgg aaggtcgtcc ttgctgcgtc cattgtcggc aaatctggca   2760
              aagtcttagt ctctagacaa tttgttgata tgtctcggat acgaatcgaa ggacttctag   2820
              cagcatttcc caaattaata ggcactggta aacagcacac atatattgaa accgacaatg   2880
              tccgttatgt ttaccacccg atagaatctc tctatctgct tcttgtaact aacaaacaga   2940
              gcaacatact cgaagattta gatactttgc gacttctctc caaactagtc ccagaatatt   3000
              cttattccct tgacgaagaa ggtatctgca agcacgcttt tgagttgatt tttgcgtttg   3060
              atgaagttat cgctcttggg cacaaggaaa atgtgactgt tgcccaagtt aagcaatatt   3120
              gtgagatgga aagtcacgaa gagaagcttt ataagctggt tcagcagagt aaggttaatg   3180
              aaactaagga tcttatgaag cgcaaagcta gtgagattga taagagcaag attgaaaaga   3240
              atagaggtga aaaaggaggc tttggtcctt tgacgtcaat gggatctgga agaattgaaa   3300
              atagcttcag tgatatgagc atatctagct ctggaactgg tttcggaagt gtctctggtt   3360
              ttggattgac aactactgac attgattcct tttccaccaa gcctaaaggt cgtccaactg   3420
              catctgccaa tgctccgcca aagggtcttg gtatgaagct tggaaaatct caaaagacaa   3480
              atcagttttt ggaatccttg aaagcagaag gtgaggtcat tcttgaagtt gatcagccaa   3540
              aacttggccc gtctcggtca gctgccccac cacttatcga tcccatcact ttaactgtgg   3600
              aggagaaact aaacgtgaca ctgaaaagag atggtggtct tagtaatttt gatgttcaag   3660
              gaacattgtc tctccaaatt cttaacaaag aggatggaca tgttcaagtt caggttcaga   3720
              ctggtgagaa tcaagccgtc tctttcaaga cacatcctaa catgaataaa gaattatttg   3780
              ccaatgaaaa tatattaggt ctgaaggatc caaataggcc tttccccact ggtcaagcca   3840
                                                    555

<removed-date>
              gtgatgccgg aggtgttggt cttttaaagt ggagaatgca aagcactgat gagtcaatgg   3900
              tgccactgac aatcaactgt tggccatctt ttctggaaat gaaacttatg tcaacattga   3960
              atacgaggct tcatcaatgt ttgacctgcg gaatgttgtg atctcagtgc cccttccagc   4020
              tcttcgtgag gctccatctg ttagtcagat tgatggggaa tggaggtatg actctaggaa   4080
              ttccattttg gagtggtccg tcctgctgat tgataattca aatcgcagtg ggtcgttgga   4140
<removed-apn>
              gtttgttgtt ccgcaagtag atgcatcagc attctttccc atctcagttc gttttatggc   4200
              aactgacaca tttagtgacc tgaaggttat gaatatcata ccagttaagg gtggtaatcc   4260
              tcctaaatat gctcagagaa cacagttgtt aacagaaaac taccaagttg tctgattgat   4320
              tatccttccg actttgtgat tctatgacag ttttgctttc acagccgtgt ctcttttgtc   4380
              aataggattt acttttagtt gcaacatttg ctactattca tgaatttata cttttagttc   4440
              tacttgtcaa gacaaggagc aaactatgat acttgtattt actattgtgg caagcatctt   4500
              atgtggaaaa ggatgcattt cccatctccc tgtttttctt gtgatgaata agaagacaag   4560
              caagtcaaat acaaatcgag tacttcatat cccatacatg gtagtaaact aactagttgt   4620
              gcatgtaatg tggtatattt gctaaataat gtttttattt agtttatctt taaaatacat   4680
              ttctcaac                                                            4688
              <210>   553
              <211>   1558
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 553
              atggcctgca aggatggtaa taagcactta atggataatg gaaagtatgt acgttataca     60
              cctgagcagg ttgaagctct tgaaaggctt tatcatgaat gtcctaaacc aagttcaatt    120
              cgaagacaac aacttattag agaatgtcct attctttcta atattgaacc aagacaaatc    180
              aaagtttggt ttcagaatag aaggtgtaga gagaagcaga gaaaagagtc tttcaggttg    240
              caaggtgtga ataggaagtt gacagccatg aataagctgc tgatggagga aaatgatagg    300
              ttgcagaagc aggtgtctca cctggtgtat gagaatggct attttcgtca aaacacccaa    360
              aatgcaacca aagacacgag ttgtgattca gtggtgacta gtggtcagca caatatgact    420
              agtcaacatc ccccaaggga tgcaagtcct gcagggcttt tgtccattgc agaagaaact    480
                                                    556

<removed-date>
              ttagcagaat ttctttcaaa ggctactgga accgctgttg agtgggtcca aatgcctgga    540
              atgaagcctg gtccggattc cattggaatc gtcgctattt ctcatggttg cactggtgtc    600
              gcagacaaga gcttgtggtc tagtgggact agaacccact agggttgcgg aaatcctaaa    660
              agatcgtcct ttgtggtttc gtgattgccg agctgttgat attgtcaatg tgctgcccac    720
              tgctaacggt ggaactattg agctgcttta tatgcagctt tatgcaccaa ccacattggc    780
<removed-apn>
              acctgctcgt gatttctggt tgttacgcta cacttctgtt gtagaagatg gcagcctagt    840
              gatctgtgag aggtctctta aaaatactca aaatggtcca agcatgcctc ctgtgccgca    900
              ttttgttaga gcagacatgc tgcctagtgg gtacctgata agaccttgtg aaggaggtgg    960
              ttccatcatc cacattgttg atcatatgga cttggagcca tggagcgttc cagaagtact   1020
              gcgtccacta tatgaatcac caatggtgct ggctcagaag actactatgg cggctttacg   1080
              tcatctaagg cagatttcgc atgaagtttc tcagcccaat gtcactgggt ggggaagacg   1140
              accagcagct ctgcgggcac ttagccagag attgagccgg ggtttcaatg aggcactcaa   1200
              tggatttact gatgaagggt ggacaatgat gggcaatgac ggtgttgatg atgtcactat   1260
              tctagtaaat tcatcacctg acaagttaat gggtctgaat ctttcctttg gcaatggatt   1320
              tccttctgtc agtaatgctg tgttatgtgc caaggcatca atgctattac agaatgtgcc   1380
              tccagccatt ctcctaaggt tcctgcgtga acatagatca gaatgggcgg accataatat   1440
              ggatgcttac acagctgctg ccattaaagt tggcccttgc agcttaacag gatctcgcgt   1500
              aggaaattac gggggtcaag tgattctccc gctaacacac actattgagc atgaggag     1558
              <210>   554
              <211>   905
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (4)..(5)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (18)..(20)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                    557

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (22)..(22)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (24)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (30)..(34)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (42)..(43)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (69)..(73)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 554
              gctnnacaat agcagtannn cntnnnnngn nnnngcacac anntttacaa atggtccaaa    60
              agttgcccnn nnnttttcgg ccttcttttg cgataatttc aacaatcctg atacaaataa   120
              taatagtaaa catggaatag acaatacata gtatattcag aatatgcaag gttgatatat   180
              agtgctcaaa cataagtaac aaatacgcga tagtagtagt agtagtagta ataatagtac   240
              gtagttgtca atttgaccgt aggatctgaa ggaatacttt gtgatattat ctcagtattc   300
              aagtgagcct aatgatggta gtccagaaac aatgtcgtga gattctgcac cagtgttgtt   360
              catcctttgt ccagaacttg gaccaaggga ttctatcgct tcttctccca ttttctgaat   420
              atcttcagga gaaagtattt tgatatacca aacattattg acaaatgatt cccacggatc   480
              gtctccaagg agaagaacat cgttctccct gtcgacaaat acaagctgcc agcctgatct   540
              aagaggatct tcaaatttcc cctcgattcc aaacatctga gccaactcct cccgcagctc   600
              gtgatagctg ttgaaccgcg agatgtcaag tgagcgccct actgaacctg atttgtatac   660
              cttcacaaat atcggtgtct ggttttgcgc atcaacttgc cctgcacttt gcaacaactc   720
              cgatgaatct tgcatgcaag gatatggaga acccctggaa actagactcc cccctaacgg   780
                                                    558

              cattgtcgcc gcagccgcat gagcagatgc agtagtataa cgagggacag tggtagggag    840
<removed-date>
              cagaaggcag acgaatcgat attgacccca aacagaacag aattttgggc atctgagctg    900
              caatg                                                                905
              <210>   555
              <211>   3352
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 555
              atttttctat aactagtaac ttcacccacc actcttgttc tttttgatct tccatttttc     60
              cttaaacata cttctcttct tcttgtgaga tcctttcact tttcttttct taagatctat    120
              ctatttgctt atcaagtttt catctttctc atttttcacc ttctgggtct tgtttgcttt    180
              ttcttcttca gattattgct aaatttggtt attgtgtgca atgaagcgtg tagttgaaga    240
              atggaacatg gggtgttggg ggttaaggag aagaatcaat gaggaataaa gtgatttttt    300
              tttgttgtga aactggtttt ggttgaggat tcaagagtag ggaatattaa gattttaacg    360
              agttttttgg ttggtgaaag aggggtgtag agtgtaacaa agaatgatat tatgtagtag    420
              aaagaagaaa gagaataata gagttgtttt ttggtgggag ttgtcatttt ctgcttattt    480
              tgttgcttaa tttgtctact tagagagagt gtttttgatt gtgggctcaa tttttgagtt    540
              tacaaatttc ttataacttt ttgttccaat gagactctct tcagctagtt ttagtcctcc    600
              accccaagaa ggggaaaaga gagttctaga ttcagaactt tggcatgcat gtgctggccc    660
              tcttgtctct ttgccagcag ttggaagtag agttgtgtac tttccacaag gccacagtga    720
              acaagtggct gtgtcaacta acaaggaagt cgatgcacat atcccaaact atccaagctt    780
              acctcctcag cttatttgtc aacttcataa tttgactatg catgctgatg tggagaccga    840
              tgaagtgtat gcgcagatga ccttgcaacc tctgaatgct caagagcaaa aagaggctta    900
              ccttccagca gagttgggaa ctccaagtaa acagccgaca aactactttt gcaagacctt    960
              gactgctagt gacacaagca ctcacggggg attctctgtt cctcgccggg cggctgaaaa   1020
              agtgtttcct cctttggatt tctcccaaca gcctcctgct caagagttaa tagcaaggga   1080
              cttgcatggt aacgaatgga aattcagaca tatcttccga ggccagccca aaagacatct   1140
              acttacaact ggatggagtg tttttgtgag tgctaaaaga cttgttgctg gtgattctgt   1200
                                                    559

              gctgtttatc tggcaatgca tcttcttcaa taggaatgaa aagaaccaat tgcttcttgg   1260
<removed-date>
              tattcgccgt gctagccgac cacaaactgt gatgccttcc tcagtattgt caagtgatag   1320
              tatgcacttg ggacttcttg ctgcagcagc tcatgcggct gcaaccaata gccgtttcac   1380
              tattttctat aacccacgtg cgtgtccatc cgaatttgtc atacccttgg cgaagtatgt   1440
              taaagctgtg tatcatactc gagtttcagt tggtatgcgt ttcaggatgc tctttgaaac   1500
              agaggagtct agtgtgcgac gatacatggg tacaataact ggcatttgtg acctagattc   1560
<removed-apn>
              tgtccggtgg cctaactcac attggcgctc ggtaaaggtt ggttgggatg aatccactgc   1620
              cggagaaagg caacctagag tgtctttgtg ggaaatcgag ccattaacaa cgtttcctat   1680
              gtatccgtca ccattccctc ttaggcttaa acgaccatgg cctcctggat tgccttcgtt   1740
              ccatggcatg aaagatgatg attttggcat gagttctcct ttgatgtggc tccgagacac   1800
              ggatagaggg cttcaatctc ttaattatca agggattggg gttaatcctt ggatgcagcc   1860
              aaggtttgat cccgccatgc tgaatatgca aaccgatatg tatcaagctg tggctgctgc   1920
              tgcacttcag gacatgagga ctgtagtaga tccttccaaa cagcttcctg gttccttgct   1980
              tcaatttcag caaccaccga acttcccgaa caggaccgct gctttaatgc aggctcagat   2040
              gttgcaacag tcgcaacctc aacaggcttt tcaaaataat aatcaggaga atcaaaatct   2100
              gtcgcaatct cagccacaag ctcagactaa tcctcaacag catccacagc atcagcattc   2160
              attcaataat caactccatc atcatagcca gcagcaacaa caaactcaac agcaagtggt   2220
              ggataataat cagcagattt ctggttcggt ctctacaatg tctcagtttg tttcagcgac   2280
              tcaacctcaa tcaccaccac ccatgcaagc tctctcttct ctatgccatc agcagagttt   2340
              ttctgattca aatgtgaact cttcaactac tattgtttct cctttgcaca gtatcatggg   2400
              ttcatcgttt ccgcatgatg aatcatccct ccttatgagt cttccaagaa caagctcttg   2460
              ggttcctgtt caaaattcaa ctggttggcc atccaaacgc attgcagtgg atccactcct   2520
              ctcttcggga gcatctcaat gtattctgcc tcaggtggag cagctagggc aggcacggaa   2580
              ttcgatgtct caaaatgcta ttacattgcc accatttcct ggtagggagt gctcaataga   2640
              ccaagaaggg agcaatgatc cgcaaagtaa tcttttattc ggtgtcaata tagatccctc   2700
              atctcttcta ctgcataatg ggatgtcgaa ctttaagggg atcagtggca acaacaatga   2760
              ttcctcaacc atgtcctacc atcaatcttc tagttacatg aacaccgcag gcgctgattc   2820
                                                    560

<removed-date>
              ttcgttgaat catggagtaa cgcctagtat tggtgaatct ggtttcttgc atacccagga   2880
              aaacggggag caaggaaaca acccactgaa caagaccttt gtgaaggttt ataaatcagg   2940
              gtccttcgga agatcgttgg atatcactaa attcagcagc tacaatgagc tgcgtagtga   3000
              gctcgcccga atgttcggac tggaaggcga gttggaggac cctgtgagat caggctggca   3060
              gcttgtattc gttgaccgag agaatgatgt tcttctcctc ggtgatggcc cttggcctgt   3120
<removed-apn>
              atggtgcatc acatgcgatc tctcttatga cagggaattt gtgaatagtg tatggtgcat   3180
              caagatactt tcgcctgagg aagtgcagca aatgggcaac actggcctcg ggcttttgaa   3240
              ctcggttcca attcaaaggc tctcaaatag catttgtgat gactatgtga gccgtcaaga   3300
              ttcaagaaat ctaagcagcg ggataacaac cgtgggatct ctagactact aa           3352
              <210>   556
              <211>   2007
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 556
              atggattgtg atcatgacgg acagccaaaa cgacaccttc ttacaacagg ctggagcata     60
              tttgttagtg ctaagagact tgtagctgga gattccgtgc ttttcatatg gaatgagaag    120
              aatcagcttc ttttgggaat acgtcgagcc aatcgaccgc aaactgtaat gccatcatct    180
              gttctatcca gtgacagtat gcacattgga cttcttgcag ccgctgctca tgcttcagca    240
              actaatagct gttttactgt cttctataat ccaagggcta gtccatctga gtttgtcata    300
              ccactttcaa aatatatcaa agccgtgtac catacacgta tttctgttgg tatgcgcttc    360
              aggatgctct ttgagactga agagtcaagt gtccgcaggt acatgggcac aataacaggc    420
              ataagtgatc tggatgctgt tcggtggcag aattctcatt ggcgctctgt caaggttgga    480
              tgggatgaat caacagcagg agagagacag ccacgggtgt cattatggga aattgagcct    540
              ttaacaacat tcccaatgta tccgtcattg tttcccctca gattgaaacg tccatggcat    600
              cctggcactt catctttgct tgatggtaga gacgaagcaa caaatgctct gatgtggatg    660
              agaggtggac ctgcagacca aggtctcaat tccctaaact ttcaaggtgc tggtatgttg    720
              ccctggatgc agcagagact cgatccaact ttactcggga atgatcagaa tcaacaatac    780
              caagccatgt tggcagcagc tggaatgcag aacatgggtg gtggatatct catgaggcca    840
                                                    561

<removed-date>
              caaatggtga attttcaaca acagcctacc cattaccttc aatcaggaaa caataattca    900
              cctttgcaac ttcaccagcc acagtcaatt caacaatcgg tgtcctctaa tatgatgcag    960
              ccacaacaaa cccaaatact tacagaaaac ctgtctcagc accttcttca gaaaccaaat   1020
              aataatcaag aactccaagc tcaacaacag caacatgcat atcaagatac acttcttgtt   1080
              caaaatgatc agctccatca gagacaacaa caatccaatg tgccgtcacc gtcatattca   1140
<removed-apn>
              aaaccagatt tcctggattc aaacattaag tttcctgctt cagttccctc gggacaaaac   1200
              atgctcggtt cgctttgccc tgaaggaact ggcaatctct tgaatctatc gagtctaaca   1260
              agaagtggtc agtcattgat gaatgaacag ttaccacaac aatcatggac tccaaagtat   1320
              ggaaatatgc aggtcaatgc ctttggcagc gcaatgtcac atgcacaata ttctggaaaa   1380
              gattcggcta tagtgcctcc acattgtgat tcagatgccc aaaatcatac tctctcgggt   1440
              gtcaatatcg attcatctgg tcttctactc cccaccactg tcccgaatta cactgcttca   1500
              acaacggaca ctggtgcatc aacacaatta ggggagtctg gattccaggg ttctctatat   1560
              gcctgcatgc aagattcatc atttttgcaa aatgcagagc aaatcgacac acaaaaccag   1620
              aacccaacat ttgtgaaggt ttacaaatcg ggatcggttg ggcgttcact tgacatctct   1680
              aggttcagct gctatcgtga gctgcgagag gagttgggtc aaatgtttgg aattgagggg   1740
              aagttagaag atcctcttag atcaggctgg cagcttgtgt tcgttgaccg ggagaatgat   1800
              gtgcttctcc ttggcgacga tccgtgggaa tcattcgtga ataacgtttg gtatatcaaa   1860
              atactttcac cggaagatat tcagaagatg ggagatcaag cagtagaaat gcatggacta   1920
              ggctcgggac aaaggcttaa tggcactggt gaatctcacc acattgtttc tggacaacca   1980
              ccatcaattg gctcacttga ttactga                                       2007
              <210>   557
              <211>   1966
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 557
              ctttcgtcgt tgaagaggct ggggatggag tatgtggatc aacgatacaa gagattctga     60
              ggagtttgta atcgacgttt aacggatcaa aaccaaagcc gtgaacacat gagagaaagt    120
              ggacgttgcc agaacgagga ggaggaatag aaatagggag attaggaata ttctgatgtt    180
                                                    562

<removed-date>
              tacggatgtt agggttccag aaagcgattc cgacattggt ggtaatgaag agagagagag    240
              agagagagag agagagagag agagagagag agagagagag agcttcaatc tcttaattat    300
              caagggattg gggttaatcc ttggatgcag ccaaggtttg atcccgccat gctgaatatg    360
              caaaccgata tgtatcaagc tgtggctgct gctgcacttc aggacatgag gactgtagta    420
              gatccttcca aacagcttcc tggttccttg cttcaatttc gcccgccgcc gaacttcccg    480
<removed-apn>
              aacaggaccg ctgctttaat gcaggctcag atgttgcaac agtcgcaacc tcaacaggct    540
              tttcaaaata ataatcagga gaatcaaaat ctgtcgcaat ctcagccaca agctcagact    600
              aatcctcaac agcatccaca gcatcagcat tcattcaata atcaactcca tcatcatagc    660
              cagcagcaac aacaaactca acagcaagtg gtggataata atcagcagat ttctggttcg    720
              gtctctacaa tgtctcagtt tgtttcagcg actcaacctc aatcaccacc acccatgcaa    780
              gctctctctt ctctatgcca tcagcagagt ttttctgatt caaatgtgaa ctcttcaact    840
              actattgttt ctcctttgca cagtatcatg ggttcatcgt ttccgcatga tgaatcatcc    900
              ctccttatga gtcttccaag aacaagctct tgggttcctg ttcaaaattc aactggttgg    960
              ccatccaaac gcattgcagt ggatccactc ctctcttcgg gagcatctca atgtattctg   1020
              cctcaggtgg agcagctagg gcaggcacgg aattcgatgt ctcaaaatgc tattacattg   1080
              ccaccatttc ctggtaggga gtgctcaata gaccaagaag ggagcaatga tccgcaaagt   1140
              aatcttttat tcggtgtcaa tatagatccc tcatctcttc tactgcataa tgggatgtcg   1200
              aactttaagg ggatcagtgg caacaacaat gattcctcaa ccatgtccta ccatcaatct   1260
              tctagttaca tgaacaccgc aggcgctgat tcttcgttga atcatggagt aacgcctagt   1320
              attggtgaat ctggtttctt gcatacccag gaaaacgggg agcaaggaaa caacccactg   1380
              aacaagacct ttgtgaaggt ttataaatca gggtccttcg gaagatcgtt ggatatcact   1440
              aaattcagca gctacaatga gctgcgtagt gagctcgccc gaatgttcgg actggaaggc   1500
              gagttggagg accctgtgag atcaggctgg cagcttgtat tcgttgaccg agagaatgat   1560
              gttcttctcc tcggtgatgg cccttggccg gaatttgtga atagtgtatg gtgcatcaag   1620
              atactttcgc ctgaggaagt gcagcaaatg ggcaacactg gcctcgggct tttgaactcg   1680
              gttccaattc aaaggctctc aaatagcatt tgtgatgact atgtgagccg tcaagattca   1740
                                                    563

              agaaatctaa gcagcgggat aacaaccgtg ggatctctag actactaaaa gatgtgactg   1800
<removed-date>
              ctaatagtct gcattttttt atggaaagtg ttatctaaat gtagtttatc ttatataata   1860
              tagcctttta tttttattta catgtttttc atgctaggac tattcataaa ctaatactgt   1920
              aactatatgg tatcttgtca ttgtgctagc tacaattata tacaat                  1966
              <210>   558
              <211>   929
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 558
              gtctaacctt aagagggtca atagcaacgt gtgactcatc aactgcacct tttcaatctt     60
              ccacctactt gaataccaca ggtgctagat tcttcactga atcctggatt gacacacggc   120
              gttggtgagt cgggcttcat gcaaactcca gaaaatggag gtcaaggaaa cccacaaaac    180
              aaaacctttg tgaaggttta caagtcaggg tccttcggaa gatcgttgga tatcaccaaa    240
              ttctccaact accccgagct acgcagcgag cttgctcgta tgtttgggct tgaaggtgag    300
              ttggaggacc ctgtaagatc aggctggcag cttgtatttg ttgatcaaga gaatgatgtt    360
              cttctcctcg gtgatggtcc atggccggaa tttgtaaata gtgtatggtg catcaagata    420
              ctttcccctc aggaagtgca gcaaatgggg accaatggtc tagagcttct gaactcagct    480
              ccaacccaga ggctctctaa tggtatctgt gatgactaca ctggccgtga ggactcaaga   540
              aatttaagca ccgggctaac aactgtgggg tctttagact actgaatgtt gtgacaacaa   600
              atactgtgaa tttcttctct tgtattatta ttactcttct caaaccctct gtaaagggtg    660
              ggaagcggtt cctagttgta gtttatagct tactcagata taagcctttc tttttccagt    720
              ttttaccgcc taaaacaatt attgagctaa acacttagct atatggcatc ttctcattgt    780
              agtttgtaca ctatattggt aaccttttgg aactctatgt ttgaagttac ctctatttct    840
              acctgtcagt ggctaaatca ttgagggcat gtattacatt acaagactca tgttggaaaa    900
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaac tcgagggcc                                      929
              <210>   559
              <211>   709
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
                                                    564

              <400> 559
<removed-date>
              taccatatag ttacagtatt agtttatgaa tagtcctagc atgaaaaaca tgtaaataaa    60
              aataaaaggc tatattatat aagataaact acatttagat aacactttcc ataaaaaaat   120
              gcagactatt agcagtcaca tcttttagta gtctagagat cccacggttg ttatcccgct   180
              gcttagattt cttgaatctt gacggctcac atagtcatca caaatgctat ttgagagcct   240
              ttgaattgga accgagttca caaattccga ggagaagaac atcattctct cggtcaacga   300
<removed-apn>
              atacaagctg ccagcctgat ctcacagggt cctccaactc gccttccagt ccgaacattc   360
              gggcgagctc actacgcagc tcattgtagc tgctgaattt agtgatatcc aacgatcttc   420
              cgaaggaccc tgatttataa accttcacaa aggtcttgtt cagtgggttg tttccttgct   480
              ccccgttttc ctgggtatgc aagaaaccag attcaccaat actaggcgtt actccatgat   540
              tcaacgaaga atcagcgcct gcggtgttca tgtaactaga agattgatgg taggacatgg   600
              ttgaggaatc attggtgttg ccactgatcc ccttaaagtt cgacatccca ttatgcagta   660
              gaagagatga aggatctata ttgacaccga ataaaagatt actttgcgg               709
              <210>   560
              <211>   1869
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 560
              tgtagatgct caattacatg tagatttgat ggagttgtcc acaatttctc atatatctat    60
              taactaataa ccatctaccg aatataatta accatatatt agaatatcat taacctctaa   120
              aacagttgtc acgaaagttg gttgtacaaa aatcatttct attttttacg ccactagttc   180
              tcttgttatt tctctttgtt ggaaagttgt tgtttttaac tttgagctta gtcttattaa   240
              ttaacttgta atggtaacaa catttttcta cctccgttcg ctggaagtag ttactgtgtc   300
              aactttagta attaatttgg atcattttgg aggcaaaata tggctatgca acctgtttat   360
              cttaaagaac atgaaggaaa tgtccacaat tctgttggac agttttcatc tgtgacttca   420
              gcaccatggt ggagtaatgc ctatggatct caacctgttt atggaggaga ctcttgtggc   480
              caaatgaaac ctttttcact agagctttcc aactacatag accaacttgc tccgagtaag   540
              aacttagttc gaggagttga acaattgttt gataaagggc atacaaacca attcaccatc   600
              tttccagatg attgtaagat gtcagttgat acaccaaatc atcaagcaac cttatccctg   660
                                                    565

<removed-date>
              caatcaccat ttgctgccga gccacttaat cgatttgagc taggttttaa ccagtctatg    720
              atctgtgcaa aatatccgta tatggatcaa ttttacgggc tcttctcgac ttatggacct    780
              caaatctcgg ggcgaattat gcttccgctt agcatgacat ctgacgacgg accaacatac    840
              gtgaatgcta agcaatacca tggaatcatc agacgcaggc attctcgtgc caaagctgtg    900
              cttcagaata aattgataaa gcgtaacaag ccatatatgc acgaatcgcg tcatctacat    960
<removed-apn>
              gcaatgcgta gaccaagagg atgcggtggt cgtttcttga acacaaaagt ttctgctaat   1020
              ggaaacggta aaagcgggag tgaagagaac ggaaacattg gtggcctaca gctgcagtcc   1080
              agtggttctc agagttccga agtcttacaa tctgaggttg gaactttaaa ttcgtcgaag   1140
              gagacaaacg gaggcagtcc aaatgtctcg gggtcagagg tgactagcat gtatacacag   1200
              ggagttcttg atagctttac tgtcaatcat atcggatcta ctgtccactc tttgggagac   1260
              atgatcgata ctggacacgg tatcgtcatg ccaacaaaat ggtttgcagc agctggcaga   1320
              cagctgctgg aaccataagt ttcgattcag aaaggaaaca agtgggtttg gtacaatgtg   1380
              aaatattttg caccaaactc atcctttccg agaccagatg aagaagctat gtttcagttt   1440
              gttgtgttta ctacgacaaa tttagtttcg gaagactact tttccatctg gtgctcaggc   1500
              aactcattct tggcttattc tcaggaaact catccttggc tcgtaatatt tagtagtatt   1560
              gtcattgtct ttccgcgcag gcttgccgtg gcatggtagg catgctaatg actttggtat   1620
              tttcatgcag ttataactat gatgtgtctt tgtttgttgt taaaataaaa aacatgaact   1680
              ctagctaggt gcatgtgtgt gtttttaatc ttgtctacta agtttggtgt tttgtaatgg   1740
              atttctgact ttatggagca atgtattgta actctactaa gaagtgtaac attttatttc   1800
              tccctctcta aggattgtat aagaacctct tattttcaga ctctaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1860
              aaaactcga                                                           1869
              <210>   561
              <211>   1119
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 561
              cacaattttg tggggcaatt atcatctggt actaataatt cagttgctgc accatggtgg     60
              agtggttttg gatctcaatc cttttatgga gagtctggtg gccaaatcaa atccttttca    120
                                                    566

<removed-date>
              ttggagccac ctatgtctgt tgttgaccaa cttgcttcaa gtaagcaatc tgctagagga    180
              actgaacatg tgtttggaaa agggcatacc aatcacttta ccatctttcc agatgatttt    240
              aagatgtcag gtgatgcaca aaagcctcat acagccatat cattgcagtc ggcagtccct    300
              gataccccga atcgctttga gctgggattt ggtcaaccta tgatctgtac aaagtatcct    360
              tatgcagatc aattttatgg actcatctca acctatggac ctcaaattca aggacgtatt    420
<removed-apn>
              atgctgcccc ttaacgtgac atctgatgat ggaccgattt atctgaatgc taagcaatac    480
              aatggaatca ttagacgccg gcagtcccgc gccaaagctg tacttggtca caaattgatt    540
              aaacgtaaca agccctacat gcacgagtca cgccatctcc atgcaatgcg gcgaccgaga    600
              ggatgtggtg gtcgtttctt aaacacaaag aaatctgcca atggagatgg taaaactgga    660
              agtaaagtgc ataaattcgg cggtcaacaa ttgcagttca gtggttctca gagttctgaa    720
              ctccttgaat ctgatgttgg aactttaaac tcttcaaagg aaactaatgg gaagcagtcc    780
              aaatatttct ggatcagagg tgactagttt gtattcgagg ggaaatcatg acagctttac    840
              cgtcgatcac cttggatctt ctgtcctctc tatggcagac atgatcgatg gtgggcgtgg    900
              tgttatcatg ccgaccaaat gggttgcagc tggcaactgc tgtaacctta aagcttgatt    960
              ttgtaaagaa tcaagtgggt ttggtgtgat attgtaccaa accctgtcct tgataagacc   1020
              agatgactat aggctcgtcc tgacgtttgg tcttaggcaa tccatccttg gctcattact   1080
              ttggcaaact catcctggct cattactttg gcaaatcat                          1119
              <210>   562
              <211>   1599
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 562
              cggccggggg cggcccgcgg tgtgtgcgcg tgaaagagag agagagggag agagaagaat     60
              cagattagcc cctttgaatt ttcaatttca atttcaattt caatcagaat cacaatacta    120
              aaaaatctag ggttcttttt tccttcttcc tcagggatct gaggatatgc aacccaagtc    180
              cgaaactgca aatcaaccga ggtcaggtcc tcattccttt cagcccggtg gtgtttactc    240
              cgaaccttgg tggcgtggtg ttggatacaa tcctgtagcg caaacaatgt ctggtgccaa    300
              ttcatcctct cttgattgtc ccaatggtga ttcagaatcc aatgaggaag gccagtcttt    360
                                                    567

<removed-date>
              gtccaatagt gagaggaatg aggaagatga tgatgctgct aaggattcac agcctgctgc    420
              tcccaatcaa tcaggaaatt acggacaaga acaaggaatg cagaatactg catcatctgc    480
              agttattcgc gaagaatgcc tcacacagac tcctcagctg gaacttgttg gtcattcaat    540
              tgcatgtgct acaaatcctt atcaggatcc atattatggt ggcatgatgg cagcttatcc    600
              tcaccagccg ttgggatatc ctccttttat aggagtgcct catgccagaa tgcctttgcc    660
<removed-apn>
              ccttgagatg gctcaagaac ctgtttatgt gaatgccaaa caataccaag gaattctgag    720
              gcgaagacaa gctcgtgcta aagcagagct tgaaaggaag ctcataaaat ctagaaagcc    780
              atatcttcat gaatctagac atcagcatgc tttgagaagg gcaagaggca ccggaggacg    840
              atttgcaaag aaaactgatg gtgaggcctc gggaaaggat aatggctctg gtccagtctt    900
              gtcgtcgcaa tcaattagtt catctggttc agaacttttg ccttcagact ctgcggaaac    960
              ctggaattct cccaacatgc gacaagatgc aagaggatca aatgaaaatg gtggtagctc   1020
              ctaccataat aacaacaatg gtatgcaatc ttcaaggtat cagggtgaaa gagtggaaga   1080
              aggggactgt tcagggcagc tacgtgtaag catctcctcg aacgaggcat cgcagaggcg   1140
              tcttgctatt cagtagaccc cccttcctgc atgggaggga tagatgctga ggttggtttt   1200
              gtatatccta gtgatatatt tggtgaatga gtaccttacc ttggttatct tcttggcaat   1260
              atatatgccg gcaaatcatt cttggctttt gttcttgtgt ttatggtgtg aatgatataa   1320
              tatggggggg agaagaatgg tgattggggt atatgatttc tgttgaagtc tcaagcaatc   1380
              aatcaatcct tcaatcttat ctcatttttg cattttgtac agagttttag tggtagtcaa   1440
              cttcagctga tatggatggt caggtcagaa gactgaagaa aacaaactct tttatgtagt   1500
              accaaaactc tcttgtttca tggggtttgg tctgtaaact tacctgggtg ggttgttaat   1560
              gttaacatga gacatcatta taatagaatc aaacatgca                          1599
              <210>   563
              <211>   1995
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 563
              atggatgtta cttttgttga gaatcaatcc ttttttgata acattcatct tcaagggggg     60
              gacttgaagg aagattcttt tattgaaaat attattactt taagtgatgt agtgttgtca    120
                                                    568

<removed-date>
              caaaattccg agactaacat tggtgcacca aaagaaaatg cccaagaatc gataatggaa    180
              ctcaatccgc ttgtgaatga ggtacctacg aattatgggg caacattttc aaatcaaaac    240
              cataatgaac aaattcttga tatcgatagt aatgaggaag agcctgaaat gccacaacaa    300
              aatgactcaa ataaagaaac acaaaacagg ttcaatagca gtgatcctat ttggaaggga    360
              aatgtctatg aaagaaggga ccataaaagg ggagatgaag gacccattct ccagccctgc    420
<removed-apn>
              caagaatctg aaccaagaaa tgatcctaat catcatctaa atcctgttaa gtcttctatt    480
              cctaagtgtc gtggtaagtc ttcttctatt actacaagtg atgatcctga tttacatata    540
              cctatagcaa ttaggaaacc ggttagatcg tgtaccaaac atctgatggc taaatttgtg    600
              tcatactcaa atttgtcttc ttcatttgct gtgtttacct ctcagttgtc tattgtagaa    660
              attcccaaaa atgtacagga ggctctaaaa attccaaagt ggaaggaagc tgttctagag    720
              gagatgagag ctcttgaaaa gaataaaact tggaaaatca tgactttacc tgcagggaaa    780
              aataccgtcg gttgtaagtg ggtctttacg gtaaagtata actctgacaa cacagttgaa    840
              aggtacaagg cacgcttggt tgctaaagga tttactcagg catatggcat agactactca    900
              gagacttttg ctcctgttgc caaattaaac actgtcagag ttcccttgtc cttggcagtg    960
              aatttagatt ggcctcttaa ccaacttgat gtaaaaaatg cttttctcaa tggtgatttg   1020
              caggaagaag tttacatgga tagtcctccg ggctttgagg acaagtttgg gttaaatgtg   1080
              tgtaaattgc aaaagtcttt atatggtctc aagcaatctc caagggcttg gttcgaaaaa   1140
              ttcacttggt ctgtcaaaaa acaaggatat atgcaggctc aatcagatca taccttattc   1200
              atgcgatttt ccaatgatgg taagattgcc attctaattg tttatgtgga taatatcatt   1260
              ctcacaggag atgacatagt tgagatagat agattgaaga aaaatttggc aaaagaattt   1320
              gagataaagg acttaggtgc acttaaatac tttctcggta tggaggttgc gcattcaaga   1380
              aagggaattg tagtttctca gagaaaatac atcctagacc tcttggagga aattgggatg   1440
              agtgggtgta gaccagcaga tactcctatg gaactaaatg caaaactctg ggagaaaggt   1500
              aatgttcctg ttgacattgg acgataccag agattagttg gtaagcttat ttatttagct   1560
              cacacgagat ctgatattgc tttctccgtg agtgttgtca gtcaattcat gcattctccc   1620
              tatgaagaac atctggaggc agtttaccga atcttaaggt acctgaaatc caaccccaga   1680
                                                    569

              aacttcaaga aaaccaatga cagagatgtc tctatattta cagatgcaga ttgggcagga   1740
<removed-date>
              tcggttattg acaggaaatc tactactgga tattgcgcct atgtctgggg aaatctagtt   1800
              acttggagaa gtaagaaaca aggtgttgtt gctcggagta gtgcggaagc cgaatttaga   1860
              gccatggctc aaggaatctg cgagctattg tggattcaga aactgttgga agaactaaag   1920
              ttgaaagttg acttaccctt aaaattattc tgtgacagca aagcagcaat aagtatagct   1980
              cacaacccgg tgtaa                                                    1995
<removed-apn>
              <210>   564
              <211>   2661
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 564
              cataaattgc cattcagttg ctaattaaga cagtacataa tatgtttaat tccatcataa     60
              gtggaaataa caaaacctaa acatagacaa attagcattg aatcataagt caaggcaaat    120
              tcaagaaaaa aaagatcaat agaaacagta atataagtta tgaagcacct ttgcaagatt    180
              gttcccttca ctctctcagc atctccaagt tgaaaccgag atgagatcct tcctttgcca    240
              acacaagaca agcgaattct gcttcttctc cacatggaat cccctaccag gaatcctctg    300
              caccaaacac tctgcctgcg actctgtgaa gttactaaac gtcaacggcg agaaccctga    360
              ggacaatagt aggtttttcc aaggaagtgt tctatcctgc gaacgcaaac ggcccaaaac    420
              aagcttctca attgccggtt gaagatagta tttctcgatc atctgaagta catctgggtg   480
              gacattgaca ctaacagcat caagtgattc aagcaaacca gaataagact ggagtgcaaa    540
              aaccatatgc tgaggaaacg gtgcatccgt tcgatcacaa ctcctgtcca atgttacgac    600
              aattttaggc atgagctgct tcacaaatcg aagcactaaa ggcaggtacg atgggtaatt    660
              tgagaaagag caaataggca agttaaccac aactgcttca caatcgcgta gtggctgcgg    720
              ccatgaaaca gaattcagag actcaagtgt cagaatctcg agctcaaatg acatgttaat    780
              ttcaccagca tattgcatca gattctcgtt agtgaaactg agctcgattt cgtcgtggtg    840
              tgagggcgaa acaaatgcag tgatcttgag ggcaggtgca ccaccattcc tgagtgctaa    900
              ctcctgcata aatgaagacc attgtccacc aaaaccaata tcaaaatcta ttatatgaat   960
              tcgatcaaaa ccttccacag cttcaagcaa tgcttggttg gaagtgaaat ttgcaaactg   1020
                                                    570

              cagaacaggt gagatttctg agaatgattt ataagcacca atcttgagca agaggctagt   1080
<removed-date>
              tggtgaaaag ctgttgttgt tgctgttgtt aacatttgat tgaagaagca attgcaatgc   1140
              ctccttaaaa taaaaagcag ccctttgaaa aggcttcccc ataggagaaa tttggtgatt   1200
              gagccgcgcc aatatccctt gcgcgtgttc cggattaccg gcgtctataa gttctgcagc   1260
              cttgaaaagc tgatcaatta tagcctgctg aaactgatga gccgacacat cttcgccgcc   1320
              accgcttcca gggttcccca ttttctgctt aggtgccatt ggcctctgct gcagatggtg   1380
<removed-apn>
              aggaagcagt tgaagctgct gctgatgttg ctgctgctga tgctgttgtt gcctcctaag   1440
              aaacatctct tgacccgaat ccaagaaggg tatcttcgga atttcataat ttgttccaca   1500
              attgagtctt ttagctggag gctgaagctg aatctcttgg ttttcttgct gctgtgagta   1560
              tgtgaaagga aaaaccaaac tagggttagg cataaactga gcttggtttt ggttcataac   1620
              aaactgatga ggtagcttct gatcaagaga cccaattgat tgttgttgat gctgatgaaa   1680
              caaacccacc atgagaaatt gaaacttgtg aagaaccggc agccggggtt tgaatttgat   1740
              tcatccctct gctaccaaaa gggaaatcag tagcagtagc agcagcagca gcagaagaag   1800
              cagtgctagt tacaaagtta attgttgtta ccgtttgaag aaataggggt caaggcacag   1860
              aacttttgtt gatccataaa actaaaacca ttgaattcaa catcttgttg agaatgagaa   1920
              ttactagttc caacttgtaa aagcttgctt aatcccatag atgcatcttc aatatcttcc   1980
              ataatcaatt ttaaaattga atgatcttga cttggtgatt cagataacac actctcccaa   2040
              tcctccattc cacatctttt accttcaact tgtggtatgt ttttgttcgc tgcggcaccg   2100
              gtggtgctat cggtagaagc gccgcctccg gcgctaccgt gtgaggaaga cagtgttgag   2160
              gatgaactag gagtggtttg ttgatttggt tttttgaggt caaaaacaac aacagaattg   2220
              ggctcaatgc ccgcatagca acaattttcc ctccaccttt gcaaaaactg ttcttgctga   2280
              tgtgaaaaca aatatgaatc tgaagaagca acaacacttg aagctaaatc taacacacct   2340
              tttcctatgt attcttcaaa aggtaagggc atagccttca tctaaatcaa caacaaccaa   2400
              cacaagtttt tttttcaaac aataaatcaa caacaacaaa aacaaaattg gtttttctgt   2460
              ttttgtataa aaataataaa tttaagaaaa tataagaaaa aacaagatct gaagttaagg   2520
              tttttgttgt tcctagttca gacaaaaaaa cacagttgtt gtcaaatgca tgcagcttta   2580
              ttgaacaaac ccattttcat aacaacaata acaacaacaa aaaagacaat acacacactt   2640
                                                    571

<removed-date>
              caccttcatt cattcttctt c                                             2661
              <210>   565
              <211>   2298
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 565
              atggttcatc acaatccatg gaagacgaca acaaccattc ctgacctgac gctgaaaaca     60
<removed-apn>
              gcttttatga ccaccacaag tagtggcggt ccaactcaag aatcagaaac ggtaaacaat    120
              ggtagcagcc ccatatcgat tgtcaccaac aacaacggca gcaccactac tggcagcggt    180
              ggttctggtg gtggcggccc tggcggtgga gatgcactga tgataattag atttacgggg    240
              aagatgattg gcagtgctaa aaagagtgga ggactctact accttgacaa tggacccgac    300
              ttcaaggatc aacctcaaca aataatgttg tcacaaaatt ccgagactaa cattggtgca    360
              ccaaaagaaa atgcccaaga atcgataatg gaactcaatc cgcttgtgaa tgaggtacct    420
              acgaattatg gggcaacatt ttcaaatcaa aaccataatg aacaaattct tgatatcgat    480
              agtaatgagg aagagcctga aatgccacaa caaaatgact caaataaaga aacacaaaac    540
              aggttcaata gcagtgatcc tatttggaag ggaaatgtct atgaaagaag ggaccataaa    600
              aggggagatg aaggacccat tctccagccc tgccaagaat ctgaaccaag aaatgatcct    660
              aatcatcatc taaatcctgt taagtcttct attcctaagt gtcgtggtaa gtcttcttct    720
              attactacaa gtgatgatcc tgatttacat atacctatag caattaggaa accggttaga    780
              tcgtgtacca aacatctgat ggctaaattt gtgtcatact caaatttgtc ttcttcattt    840
              gctgtgttta cctctcagtt gtctattgta gaaattccca aaaatgtaca ggaggctcta    900
              aaaattccaa agtggaagga agctgttcta gaggagatga gagctcttga aaagaataaa    960
              acttggaaaa tcatgacttt acctgcaggg aaaaataccg tcggttgtaa gtgggtcttt   1020
              acggtaaagt ataactctga caacacagtt gaaaggtaca aggcacgctt ggttgctaaa   1080
              ggatttactc aggcatatgg catagactac tcagagactt ttgctcctgt tgccaaatta   1140
              aacactgtca gagttccctt gtccttggca gtgaatttag attggcctct taaccaactt   1200
              gatgtaaaaa atgcttttct caatggtgat ttgcaggaag aagtttacat ggatagtcct   1260
              ccgggctttg aggacaagtt tgggttaaat gtgtgtaaat tgcaaaagtc tttatatggt   1320
                                                    572

<removed-date>
              ctcaagcaat ctccaagggc ttggttcgaa aaattcactt ggtctgtcaa aaaacaagga   1380
              tatatgcagg ctcaatcaga tcatacctta ttcatgcgat tttccaatga tggtaagatt   1440
              gccattctaa ttgtttatgt ggataatatc attctcacag gagatgacat agttgagata   1500
              gatagattga agaaaaattt ggcaaaagaa tttgagataa aggacttagg tgcacttaaa   1560
              tactttctcg gtatggaggt tgcgcattca agaaagggaa ttgtagtttc tcagagaaaa   1620
<removed-apn>
              tacatcctag acctcttgga ggaaattggg atgagtgggt gtagaccagc agatactcct   1680
              atggaactaa atgcaaaact ctgggagaaa ggtaatgttc ctgttgacat tggacgatac   1740
              cagagattag ttggtaagct tatttattta gctcacacga gatctgatat tgctttctcc   1800
              gtgagtgttg tcagtcaatt catgcattct ccctatgaag aacatctgga ggcagtttac   1860
              cgaatcttaa ggtacctgaa atccaacccc agaaacttca agaaaaccaa tgacagagat   1920
              gtctctatat ttacagatgc agattgggca ggatcggtta ttgacaggaa atctactact   1980
              ggatattgcg cctatgtctg gggaaatcta gttacttgga gaagtaagaa acaaggtgtt   2040
              gttgctcgga gtagtgcgga agccgaattt agagccatgg ctcaaggaat ctgcgagcta   2100
              ttgtggattc agaaactgtt ggaagaacta aagttgaaag ttgacttacc cttaaaatta   2160
              ttctgtgaca gcaaagcagc aataagtata gctcacaacc cgcaaactgc tgatatcttg   2220
              acaaagagct tggcaaggcc taattttgag cgacttatag tcaagttggg catgacaaat   2280
              atttatggac caacttga                                                 2298
              <210>   566
              <211>   3402
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 566
              atggctcatc acaatccatg gaagacgaca acaaccattc ctgacctgat gctgaaaaca     60
              gcttttatga ccaccacaag tagcggcggt agcggcccca taccgattgt caccaacaac    120
              aacggcagca ccactactgg cagcggtggt tctggtggag atagtcctgg tggtggtggc    180
              ggccctggcg gtggaggttc tagtggaggt ggccctggcg gtggcagttt tggcggcggt    240
              ggtccttatg gcaacaatga tggttattct aataccctca agtttgaagt tcagcgcctt    300
              gatggaaaaa attacatgga gtggtcccaa accgtaagac taatactaga cggtaaggga    360
                                                    573

<removed-date>
              aaacttggct tcatcacagg ggaaatccaa atgccttcaa caacagatcc gaattacaga    420
              ttttggaagt ttgagaattc aacaattatt gcttggctgc tgagcactat ggagtcagca    480
              attaagaagc cctatatgtt cttgccaacc gcaaagaatg tttgggatgc tgtcaaagcc    540
              acatattctg atattcagaa ttcttctcga atttttgatc tcaaatcacg attgtggcaa    600
              gccaaacaga gtgacaggga tgtgaccact tattataatg agttaatggc gttatggcag    660
<removed-apn>
              gaattagatt tatgctatga tgataattgg aggtgcactg aagacagtgt tttgtttctc    720
              aagagacaag agaatgatcg agtatttgtg ttattggctg gtcttaataa ttgtcttgat    780
              gaagtccgag gcagaatact tggaagaatc ccattaccaa cacttcagga aactttctca    840
              gaagttagaa gagaagaagc tcgacaaagt gttatgatgg gtaagtcggc ttctattacc    900
              gaaagctcag ctttggttac caagggtaat gaagaaggaa aaagagatgg aaagaaacca    960
              ttctgcaacc attgtaaccg tcaatggcac acctatgata catgctggaa gcttcatggt   1020
              aaacctccaa actggaagaa aaagggagga aaggaaggtc gtgctctcca ggcaactact   1080
              tctgatcagg agcatcaatc ttcttcaagt tcatttcctt tcaccaagga acaattagac   1140
              caactgtaca agatgtttgg gtctcaaact ccttcttgct ctatagctca gagaggtaat   1200
              ttccccaata ctgctcttgt tagtgtcaaa cccagtccca cttggattat tgattcgggt   1260
              gctacggatc atatgactgg ggagtcgagt ttgtttgcgt cttatagtcc atgtgcagtg   1320
              ctgtcacaaa attctgagac taacattggt gcaccaaaag aaaatgccca agaatcgata   1380
              atggaactca atccgcttgt gaatgaggta cctacgaatt ctggggcaac attttcaaat   1440
              caaaaccata atgaacaaat tcttgatatc gatagtaatg aggaagagcc tgaaatgcca   1500
              caacaaaatg actcaaataa agaaacaaaa aacaggttca atagcagtga tcctatttgg   1560
              aagggaaatg tctatgaaag aagggaccat aaaaggggag atgaaggacc cattctccag   1620
              ccctgccaag aatctgaacc aagaaatgat cctaatcatc atccaaatcc tggtaagtct   1680
              tctattccta agtgtcgtgg taagtcttct tctattacta caagtgatga tcctgattta   1740
              catataccta tagcaattag gaaaccggtt agatcctgta ccaaacatcc gatggctaaa   1800
              tttgtgtcat actcaaattt gtcttcttca tttgctgcgt ttacctctca gttgtctact   1860
              gtagaaattc ccaaaaatgt acaggaggct ctaaaaattc caaagtggaa ggaagctgtt   1920
                                                    574

              ctagaggaga tgagagctct tgaaaagaat aaaacttgga aaatcatgac tttacctgca   1980
<removed-date>
              gggaaaaata ccgtcggctg taagtgggtc tttacggtaa agtataactc tgacaacaca   2040
              gttgaaagat acaaggcacg cttggttgct aaaggattta ctcaggcata tggcatagac   2100
              tactcagaga cttttgctcc tgttgccaaa ttaaacactg tcagagttct cctgtccttg   2160
              gcagtgaatt tagattggcc tcttaaccaa cttgatgtaa aaaatgcttt tctcaatggt   2220
              gatttgcagg aagaagttta catggatagt cctccgggct ttgaggacaa gtttgggtta   2280
<removed-apn>
              aatgtgtgta aattgcaaaa gtctttatat ggtctcaagc aatctccaag ggcttggttc   2340
              gaaaaattca cttggtctgt taaaaaacaa ggatatatgc aggctcaatc agatcatacc   2400
              ttattcatgc gattttccaa tgatggtaaa attgccattc taattgttta tgtggatgat   2460
              atcattctca caggagatga catagttgag atggatagat tgaagaaaaa tttggcaaaa   2520
              gagtttgaga taaaggactt aggtgcactt aagtactttc tcggtatgga ggttgcgcgt   2580
              tcaagaaagg gaattgtagt ttctcagaga aaatacatcc tagacctctt ggaggaaact   2640
              gggatgagtg ggtgtagacc agcagatact cctatggaac taaatgcaaa actctgggag   2700
              aaaggtaatg ttcctgttga cattggacga taccagagat tagttggtaa gcttatttat   2760
              ttagctcaca tgagacctga tattgctttc tccgtgagtg ttgtcagtca attcatgcat   2820
              tctccctatg aagaacatct ggaggcagtt taccgaatct taaggtacct gaaatccaac   2880
              cccggaaaag gcttgtactt caagaaaacc aatgacagag atgtctctat atttacagat   2940
              gcagattggg caggatcagt tattgacagg aaatccacta ctggatattg cgcctatgtc   3000
              tggggaaatc tagttacttg gagaagtaag aaacaaggtg ttgttgctcg gagtagtgcg   3060
              gaagccgaat ttagagccat ggctcaagga atctgcgagc tattgtggat tcagaaactg   3120
              ttggaagaac taaagttgaa aattgactta cccttaaaat tattctgtga cagcaaagca   3180
              gcaataagta tagctcacaa cccggtgcaa catgacagaa ccaagcacat tgagattgac   3240
              cgccacttca taaaagagaa aattgtttct gaaactattt gcctaccgta tgtgacttca   3300
              aatgagcaaa ctgctgatat cctgacaaag agcttggcaa ggcctaattt tgagcgactt   3360
              atagtcaagt tgggcatgac aaatatttat gcaccaactt ga                      3402
              <210>   567
              <211>   2346
                                                    575

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 567
              agagaacata gagagagaga gaagaagtac tttaccactt ttatacgcag cacgcatcca     60
              tcttaacaaa aacacaacac aagaagctac aaagtacaaa caaagagtgt tgtgtttgtt    120
              tgttgttcaa ataccagcaa agtgagtttc tttcacattc attcatgttc atgtctttct    180
              tcttcattca cttcttcaac ttcaacatgt tacacaacaa tacactttaa gatgaaggct    240
<removed-apn>
              ttgcacttaa cttttgagga atttcaagtg aagggagtgt tggataattt ctcttcaact    300
              tcaaattcag tttcagattc attttcattg cttttgaatc aacctcagca acaaaattgg    360
              tcattagata aagaagatta ttgctatgtg gagcccactt ctgttcttga ttcaagaaga    420
              agccctagtc ctccattttc atcttcaaca atgtcatctt ctcatggtag tggtagtaat    480
              ggtaatggtt caaacaacaa tacttcaatg gtaatttctg agaaccttgc tcatctttca    540
              aatgatgata atagtgaaga aaaatgtggt ggtggtggta tgagaatgga ggattgggaa    600
              ggtcaagatc agtcactttt gaggttaatt atgggagatg ttgaagaccc ttctgctgga    660
              ttgaacaaaa tcttgcaaaa cagtggttat ggttctcaaa atgttgattt tcatggtggt    720
              tttggtgttt tggatcatca acaacaacaa gggttgacaa tgatggatgc ttcggttcaa    780
              caaggggatt acaatgtttt tccattcatt cctgagaatt acaatgtgtt accgcttttg    840
              gattctggtc aagaagtgtt tgctaggaga catcagcagc aggaaacaca gcttccattg    900
              tttcctcatc attatctgca gcatcaacaa caacaacaac agtcgtcggt tgttccattt    960
              gcgaagcagc aaaaggtgag ttctagtact accggagatg atgcaagcat ccagcttcag   1020
              cagagtatat ttgatcagct atttaaaact gctgagctga tagaagctgg taatccggtt   1080
              caagcgcaag ggatattggc gcggctcaat caccagctct caccaattgg taatcctttt   1140
              caaagggctt ctttctacat gaaggaagcc ttacagttaa tgcttcattc aaacggtaac   1200
              aatctcacgg ctttttcgcc gattagtttc attttcaaaa ttggagctta taagtctttt   1260
              tccgaaatat cacctgttct tcagtttgcc aactttactt gtaatcaatc cctcattgaa   1320
              gccttggaaa ggttcgatcg aattcatgtt attgatttcg atatcgggtt tggagtacaa   1380
              tggtcatctt ttatgcaaga gattgtacta agaagtaacg gtaagccttc acttaagatt   1440
              actgctgttg tatcaccctc gtcatgcaac gagattgagc tcaatttcac ccaagaaaat   1500
                                                    576

<removed-date>
              ttgagtcagt atgcaaaaga cctcaatata ttgtttgagt tcaacgtttt gaacattgaa   1560
              tcgttgaact tgccgtcgtg tcctctaccg ggtcatttct ttgatagtaa tgaagccatt   1620
              ggtgtgaact ttcctgtttc cagtttcata agtaatccat catgcttccc tgtggctctt   1680
              cactttttaa agcagctaag gccgaaaatt gtcgtaactt tggacaaaaa ctgcgaccga   1740
              atggatgtcc cgcttcctac caatgttgtt cacgttcttc aatgttactc agctttgctt   1800
<removed-apn>
              gaatcacttg atgctgtgaa cgtgaacctc gatgtactcc aaaagattga aaggcattac   1860
              atccaaccaa ccatcaacaa aatcgtcctc agtcaccaca accagcgtga caaattacct   1920
              ccatggagga acatgtttct tcagtccggt ttctctccct tctcattcag caacttcacg   1980
              gaagctcaag ccgagtgttt ggttcaaagg gcacctgtga gaggatttca agtggaaaga   2040
              aagccttcct ctcttgtgct atgctggcag aggaaagaac tcatctcagt ttcaacttgg   2100
              agatgttgat aagtggctaa ttattaaatg ttgaaatttc ttaaggtgat tggttggtgg   2160
              taacttttat gttgaagttt atgtaattgt ttgtgtaatt tttttaggct tatttatgag   2220
              attcataccc taatgtttgt gaactaaatg ggttggtatc tatgatttca aaactctatt   2280
              attagtatga tgtctctttg aacattggta gtagtaatta tgtatgcctt tcactgtttc   2340
              tcggat                                                              2346
              <210>    568
              <211>    1563
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Medicago sativa
              <400> 568
              gctgagttca ttcacgagaa caatgaagtg aagcattttc attttggatc cttctctctc     60
              tttcattcta actaactaaa actcgcttta tatatatttt tccctccaaa tcttcataac    120
              tgaatcgtaa caaactcaaa cctcacaatg ttggatctca atctcaacgc tgattcctct    180
              cttccactct cctccgtcgt tcagatggaa gattcatccg gtagctttga ttcctccgtc    240
              gtcaacgctg ccgacactga agattcatgc tcttacggcg atgcatacgg ttacaacttc    300
              gccatactca acaacaacgc ttccgtcgac aacagtacta tctccggtga acttcaacat    360
              tccggcgccg gagaagcagg tgtacggaca attcagcttt ttcctgctaa cgaatcggga    420
              atgatctcgc catctgagag tagtggatgg atgaatttct cgtccgatca tcacggtgga    480
                                                    577

<removed-date>
              gtaccggagc agactgctgt tgttgcttca cgacctcagc aggtgaagaa gagtcgtcgt    540
              ggaccgaggt cacgaagctc gcagtatcgt ggtgttactt tctaccggag aactggacgt    600
              tgggaatctc atatttggga ttgtggaaaa caagtatact taggtggatt tgataccgcg    660
              catgctgcgg caagagcata tgatcgagct gcgataaagt ttcgtggcgt ggatgcggat    720
              attaatttca atgtcagtga ttatgatgaa gatataaagc agatgaataa ctttacaaag    780
<removed-apn>
              gaagagtttg tgcatattct gcgtagacag agtactggtt tctcaagggg aagttctaaa    840
              tacagaggag ttactctgca taaatgtgga cgatgggaag ctcgtatggg acagtttctt    900
              gggaagaagt atatatatct tgggcttttt gatagcgagc tagatgctgc aagagcgtat    960
              gataaggctg ctataaaatg caatggaagg gaagcagtta caaattttga ggctagttct   1020
              tatgaaggag agttaacttc ccaggctgat aacgatgata tcaagcagaa tctggatctg   1080
              aacttgggta tagctcctcc ttctaactct gatgttcaaa tgatgaacat gcaccacaat   1140
              ggaagtggtt tgcaagttca gcgtaactgg gatgatatgc ctgttgataa gagtgtaatg   1200
              tttgaggact ctgggtcaag atcactcaat gttcagtcat cttatggctt tcccatagca   1260
              tctgagcatc aacctccagt ctggagtggt actaattact ttcccgtgtg taaggaaaga   1320
              gcaatagaga ataggatgga atctgctccc gttccaaatt gggcatggca gctccaaagt   1380
              ccatataata atgggtcaac tttgattcta cctaatttct ctgctgcagc atcatcagga   1440
              ttcccttcaa caacagctgc ggatagtcaa attcattttc caaacataac atacctccac   1500
              cctcattttc ctacaccagt gactaactcc agccccatac cctctttcta ctgcaggagc   1560
              tga                                                                 1563
              <210>   569
              <211>   2077
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 569
              ggtttctaga gagagagagc gagagagaga acattgaagg tttgctttct gttttgcttg     60
              ctcaaacttg cctcgtctat gctctattgg gcagtttagg gttctctctt agatttttca    120
              acatttctct ttcttttatt accttctttt attcttcttc ttgctaagtt aatgtttttc    180
              aacctttctt cttcttcttc atattcttgt ttatcttgtt agatacatat ttgagttgag    240
                                                    578

<removed-date>
              atagagaaga atgtgggatc tgaatgactc acctgatcag agaaaaaact atgaatcaga    300
              agggtgttca atggaaggtg atgaagttga tgttgatgaa aaaggaaaag gagttggatc    360
              tgtttcaaat tcaagttcat cagcaatagt tatagaagat ggatcggaag aagaagatgg    420
              taacatgacg aagaaaaaga gtagtaagat atttggattt tcaatggatg atagtagtga    480
              ctgtccacct gtgactagac agttttttcc ggtagaggat tctgagacga taacaacggt    540
<removed-apn>
              ggtagattct tcttccggtg gtggtggtgg aagctcttct tttccaagag ctcattgggt    600
              aggtgtaaaa ttttgtcaat cagaatctgt taacggtggt aaaatagttg aagcttcaca    660
              accgatgaag aagagtcgta gaggaccaag gtccagaagt tctcagtata gaggtgttac    720
              tttttacaga agaacaggtc gatgggagtc tcatatatgg gattgtggaa aacaagtgta    780
              tttgggtgga tttgacacgg cacatgcagc tgctcgtgca tatgatagag ctgcaattaa    840
              gttcagaggg gtagaggcag atataaattt caacattgaa gattatgaag aggatttgaa    900
              gcagatgagc aatttaacaa aggaagaatt tgttcatgta ctacggagac aaagcactgg    960
              atttccaaga ggaagttcta aatatagagg tgtgactttg cataaatgtg gaagatggga   1020
              ggctcgaatg ggtcaattct taggcaaaaa gtatgtttat ctgggtttgt ttgacactga   1080
              gattgaagct gcaagggcat atgataaagc agcaattaaa tgcatggtaa agaggctgtc   1140
              accaattttg atcccagcat ctatgataat gaacttaatt ctgaatcatc aggtaacgct   1200
              gcagatcaca atttggattt gagtttggga aattcaagtt ctaaatgtag caataataat   1260
              caagcatttg ggaatcataa cacaaatgcc accactgatc aatacatggc acctgaatca   1320
              aattggcgga atggtggaat cagacctaag cctgtgaata tactaccaaa acccatgtgg   1380
              tataaataac atggatggct ttgtaaggga tgggtatgga gagaatgaaa ccttgaggat   1440
              gctaagccaa actcatcttc atcaatcttc aattgccact aatgaaatgc atagatttgg   1500
              tccctatagg tcacctatga ttgaacaaca ccctcaaatg cttcacaatt ttccacatct   1560
              tcacccctca aattttcatg tttcgagcag cagcagcaat ggaggccgaa tcggaagtga   1620
              tttaacatta tcaatgtctg atcaacaaaa atggcaaaca gggcctcctc cacatttgtt   1680
              agcaactgct gcagcatcat caggattccc acctcaaata agaccctctt cttctcaagg   1740
              ttggctgcag aaaaatgggt tccacactct catgagaccc tcttgaacaa caacaacatt   1800
                                                    579

              aatatttatt tcttcatttt caaccttgcc attttaatta atttcacatt taaataatct   1860
<removed-date>
              tatttattgt tgagcatgta caaatgaatg cggtttaatt aaattagtac aaaaccataa   1920
              ctttaccatt gaggtgaaag aagtgataaa agtaagccaa attgggaaca ctcattggtc   1980
              ttttttctga gtcagtcaaa ctaacaaacg gacgaaatct ttaactagat actctatgtt   2040
              atgatctact acatagatat tattctggct tctgact                            2077
<removed-apn>
              <210>   570
              <211>   1416
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 570
              atgttagatc ttaatctaaa cgattcaaac tcaactgatt caactcagaa tcagaaccat     60
              aactcgccga tgatttcaaa gaactttccg caaacagtgg atgaatcagg aacatcgaat    120
              tcctcgatcg tcaatgcaga cggtgacgaa gactcgtgtt ccacgcgcga tttcactttg    180
              agtttcgata ttctgaaaac ggaaggttca aattcaaaca acgtcgtaac aaaggagttt    240
              ttccctgtga agttgcaagc tacgtcgtcg tcattttcga tgaagaacgg ttcggttgat    300
              ttttcgatta atcaaaacga agagatgaag attgttcaag cgccacagca agtgaagaag    360
              agtagaagag gacctaggtc tcgtagttcg caatacagag gtgttacgtt ttatcgcagg    420
              actggtagat gggaatcgca tatctgggat tgtgggaaac aagtttattt aggtggattt    480
              gacacagctc atgctgctgc tagagcctat gatcgagctg ctattaagtt taggggaagt    540
              tggtgctgac ataaatttca atttgaatga ttaccgatga tgatcttaaa cagacgaaga    600
              atttatcaaa agaaggagtt cgtgcaaata cttcgtcgac aaagcaatgg tttctcaaga    660
              gggagttcga agtacaaagg agtaacactg cacaaatgtg ggcccgttgg gaagctcgaa    720
              tgggacaatt ccttgggcaa aagtatatat atccttgggt tattcgacag tgaagtagaa    780
              gctgcaaggg cttatgacaa agcagctatc caaaataatg gaagggaagc aatgactaat    840
              tttgaggcca gtacatatga aggagagatg aaatctgcag ccatcaatga gggcggcagt    900
              caaaatcttg atctcaattt gggcatagcc acgccagggc ctagtcccag agaaaattgg    960
              gggcaacttc acttcccctc atctgtccct tacactatgc aagctggaag aagttcaaag   1020
              atggaaacca atgtttcagg aatcggtgat ccatctttga aaaggctatt agcaactgaa   1080
                                                    580

              gagcgtcatt ctttatggaa tggcatgtat cccgctttct tttccaatga ggaaagagca   1140
<removed-date>
              gatagcatca acaaagctcc tccaaaagga ctccccaatt gggcgtggca acctcatggc   1200
              cttgtcactg ctagcccagt gccaccggtc tctgcagcag cagcagcatc atcaggattc   1260
              tccattaatt cagctcccat tccatcgact cgcatgttcc caccaagatc tatgaactca   1320
              attccccaga gtctctattt tacttcgccc aatgcaccta acggcaacag atctccatac   1380
              tattatcagg ttaagccacc gcaagcaccg acctag                             1416
<removed-apn>
              <210>   571
              <211>   811
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 571
              cggccggggc ttcccaacaa caacagttgg agatagacta caacagtagt agcagtggga     60
              aacatggttt tcttcaaggc tcgttagaca ctgacattgc ggatactatt aagtcttttt    120
              tcccagttga aacgcccacc acatcttttc acaattatca acaaccgccg gatttactct    180
              ctcgaacggc ggcaaccacc cagcagcaag atctccgtct ctcattgcaa tcttttcaag    240
              atcctattat gcttcagagc caccatgaca accaccacca ccaccacaat aacaataacc    300
              aagtgctttt cgccggaaac tcctcccttg gttacgacgg tggtggaagt ggaagcacct    360
              tgtggtctga gcagcaacaa cagcagcagc atcaagagga acatgataac ggcagattga    420
              atagaatgat ggcttggaat gctaataata ttaatgctaa tgctgcagat ggtggtaaca    480
              gtggccatgg tgctggattt gtgttcagta caccggcacc ggcgtttggc ggttatggtc    540
              agttttttac tcagagggga ccccttcagt ccagttacaa tccttcagtt cgtgcttgga    600
              tagatccttc aatggcgacg gcgaatatcg ttgatcacca tcatcactat ctttcgccga    660
              tgatccatca ggcttctgtc tctggtggtg gattctcacg ctttcgtata ccagcacgaa    720
              ttcagggtga agaggaacac gacggcgtat ccgataaacc gtcctctgct tcctccgact    780
              ctcgccattg attggaacac tgataaaaat a                                   811
              <210>   572
              <211>   1371
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
                                                    581

              <400> 572
<removed-date>
              atgggaatga agagcacagg aggagaaata gttcaagttc aaggaggcca cattgtaagg     60
              gcgacaggta gaaaagacag acatagtaag gtatacactg cgaaaggtcc tcgtgatcga    120
              cgtgttcgat tatcagcaca cacagcaatt caattctatg atgttcaaga ccgtctcggc    180
              tacgacagac cgagtaaagc tgttgattgg cttatcaaaa aggctaagtc tgccattgac    240
              aaacttgatc agcttccacc atggaatcca attccaaatg caacagaaga gttacaagag    300
<removed-apn>
              gaagagaata ataataataa tgcagtagaa acaaatgaaa tggttattgc agcagaacaa    360
              tcagaatctt ctggttacaa tttgcagcag aacaatcatc ataaccataa ccattcaggt    420
              ttcattcaat caactattga taatgatgct atagcatttt ttccaacaac ttctgttggt    480
              gaatctatga attttcaaag ctactcttct gatataatct caagaacaaa caactcaaca    540
              caggatcttg gtctttctct tcattcattc caagacaatt cagcttcaaa tgatcaaaca    600
              cttttctctg gatcaaatcc tgttggattt gatgctaatt ataacaggat tgtgaattgg    660
              aacacagctg atatgaatag aaccgggttt atggttaatt cgcctgcgtt tcttggccaa    720
              ggttcgactt tttccgccca tagggggacc cttcagtcca gtttttcgcc atcacttcgt    780
              ccttggaatg atattccaat tgcggatgcc tcggtggatc atcataatca caagtctcaa    840
              caacaaattc accaagcttc tatcttcggt agcaggtttc tgtctgatgc tttgacaggt    900
              ttctgtattc ctgctagaat tcaaggtgat gttccgttgt gtaggaggtt taaccgttta    960
              tttggcttag ctttgaataa gctgagtaca gtgtctgata tgttcactct tggttgggag   1020
              gtaggaggag atgcgtggag ttggaggaga ccgttgtggg cgtgggagga ggagatgtta   1080
              agcgagtgtc gccttttact taacaatttt gttgtgcata ctgatgtttt tgacaggtgg   1140
              caatggctcc cggatattgt gggaggctat acagtgcgtg gttcccttga aggtgtctat   1200
              tcttgcttgg agattgcttc aagacaggct gcccacgaaa atcaatcttc taaggcgggg   1260
              cgttcttcct tctcaggcta tcacgtgtgt ggcggggagg gtctacaagg cgccggtcat   1320
              aacatttatg cagatgcttt ggttactgtt tgtgtggata gtttggaatg a            1371
              <210>   573
              <211>   3583
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
                                                    582

              <400> 573
<removed-date>
              gactcactat agggcgaatt gggtaccggg ccccccctcg agtttttttt ttttttttaa     60
              agaagtgaaa tggcgtctaa tatttatgta taataaaaac tagcaaagtg caagaataca    120
              acaaagtaca aaccactaaa tatccggagg ggactaaaat tgctttaatc agtcagccta    180
              aacaaagtac aaacagctta ataaataaga aaaaattaaa taaaactgaa cctaaaatgc    240
              acctacagag tccatacata gtctggtgca tcctcccttt tcccagccac tgtacgatac    300
<removed-apn>
              aaatacatct ttcgtctgaa aactctctgt ccccatcttc cacgtaacaa tctgcctgtt    360
              cactttcact gaaaatctcc acattcaacc tcggcatctt ctttgccagt gtcttgcatg    420
              cttctacagt cacctcgcac gacgacatcc aaagggatcg cattgtttca tacttcccta    480
              tgtctgttag aagcgccgtg tctccgaaag gacagtctct aatctcaagc ttgcgaatct    540
              ttttgcatcc gttcaataca tagagcattc ccttgtcact ctcgccagca aatgcaatag    600
              ataacatttc aagctgctca ggcatacata ccaatgtaaa ggaaaacctg gtcggtcaac    660
              tgacctgaga gtgatagccg cctcagtcgc ttgcatgact gcacaatcgc cccaaaacct    720
              tcatctagtg gctgcattgt gtcagggtca ggttttgttg catccaggat gcataaccta    780
              aatcggataa aatttgggca gtttttggcc actgctatga gagcagcatt ggtcatctgg    840
              tgacagaagt agagtaatga gtgaagctta ggacatccca ttgatatcgc tacaagtcct    900
              ttttcggtaa cagctgcttg gtttccaaat ggagctgatg ggaaaactct taattcttgc    960
              aattctttac atggtgctag ctacaacacc tagtcccaag tctccaatgc gatccattat   1020
              ccataagcgc tggtagtttc ccacagtggg cggataagtt ttatgagctc aatgcccaga   1080
              atgcctgcgg catagctcaa gttcaaggat ggttaagttc tggcaaattg gataaatagc   1140
              tgcaaggcta aaaggagcca cttccaaaaa ccctgacaaa ctggttattg acttgcactt   1200
              gagaatggtg gccttaaaca tagcataggc atctgaattg agatcatgga aaaatgatcc   1260
              aattcctaaa tccattagtt gaggtgctcg cgttagtatc ctttgcagtg catcgacagg   1320
              cacagatcct gtttaacctt agactcttaa ggttaggaga tcttgacaca agtctctcaa   1380
              gtgctcccaa attaatatct cctttaaggc aagcgaaatt aagagagaca agtgaggtgc   1440
              aactctctgg aaagcaactt agccactgtc ctttgtgatc ttcaacttca ttctcttgca   1500
              ggtctagctc cctaagagac ctgcaattag cacgcaacag cagcaaggcc atcagtggtg   1560
                                                    583

              aacccttcac agctaccaag aactaaagac ttaaaattca caaaagaacg agaaagtagc   1620
<removed-date>
              tcaaggctct catttgacac aaccatcctc ttcaacctaa gttcctccaa accacacctt   1680
              attcttagca agtgcttcaa tccatggata aacaaaacca ccccaaccat gaggaaccaa   1740
              actaaaatca gcaaaatgag gttttccctt caaagttaaa gatttcagat caggaaacct   1800
              ctccaccaac ctctcaggac taatagagta acagtttcct atgaacaccc tttgtcttgt   1860
              aaatctctct attctatacc aacttttgca taccaaagac aaagagtttc tgtcactatg   1920
<removed-apn>
              tgaaaccaca tagtcaaaaa catgttctat tacctcgtct ggaaaataat tcatgttttt   1980
              tttctctctc actcggctca agagatccaa atttcacaac ttttgtggaa aattttcatt   2040
              ctctctcaac aataaaaaca aagatagaaa acacgtggaa ttacccaaga tctaaacaaa   2100
              cacagagata cccttatgaa attaaagtgg aaaaaacgga tctttactca aatctagaac   2160
              atgatgaaag atctagaaga acaaaaggtg aaaataattt aaagggtact aataaaaatt   2220
              gtaaaaatta catttttcag cgtggatctg catgttagtt acaaaattaa cgcaaaattt   2280
              ctcgagaaaa tacagttgca gatgaaaaaa aattaaaaat tgtgatgatg aaattggatt   2340
              ctgaaagaag caaatttgaa tttagataga atatagatct aagaaaatct aagcctttgc   2400
              agaaacaata attaacatta ttagaacaca acccagaaga agagatgagt tgagaaagtg   2460
              ctcgtgccga attcggcacc agtattggag ctgcagtggc tgcaatttac caccaataca   2520
              ttctaagagg atcagccatt aaagctcttg gatccttcag gagtaacgct taattaaatt   2580
              aagctagctc aattgcttta tttgccaacc aagctatgat gttaatttct ccaaaagaat   2640
              aatgttgaag agtgcaaatt aagtggtcct atcttggcct tttcgtcttt tccttttcag   2700
              ctgcagctgt attggggttt ggaggaaaaa aaaaaccaat aacatggggc catgcaattg   2760
              tagataacct tgcttgtgtt tcaagggtgt attttgtatc ccttttgtgt ctttttttca   2820
              tttttatttt caatgtatgt attcaattcc tatgtgttcc ctttattttc tgttttgtga   2880
              atcctttgtc ctttttcaaa tttctcttga taattaagtg ccatatttat catccatcct   2940
              tgttgtgaat ttcgtatcaa aatttgtttg tttcttaaag ttttataaat tatcatcata   3000
              ttctttcaaa aaaaaaaaaa cggcaccagc aaggatgaag tgtgtttgtc ttgagtgtta   3060
              ttgcatttta aataaacttt ttgtgatgaa tgtgtttaat acagtattgg tatacttcta   3120
              attttgggat tgagattcct tgctgccaag gggtcccaca ttcatacatt gtgaagatcg   3180
                                                    584

<removed-date>
              atagtttttc gatgaagatc agatagtcca taaaatgcaa gtcttatggt ttattttatg   3240
              attaagacat caaatttgaa tcttgattgt tcgatccaga tcaaacaacc accgatgttc   3300
              caattgtgtg aatacggaga aatattcata tcgtggtaat tggagacaga aaaggagttt   3360
              actcttatgt tgttttatgt tttttcagtc acaaacatgc ttgtttcttt caacaaagtc   3420
              actcattcta gtttgtgatg gaatagagtc ttgctgattt gatatattgt catttgatgt   3480
<removed-apn>
              gtataaatgg ctactgtgtg cttgtaaaat gtttgattta aataaaagat tgctctagct   3540
              cttaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa actcgagggg ggggccggta cgc                     3583
              <210>   574
              <211>   800
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 574
              ggctttctgt ggcttttgct ggagatagtg atctgggact ccatcacgtg ctgtctgggt     60
              gtgacaacct taggaagctg gagatcaggg actgcccctt tggtgacaaa gctcttttag    120
              ccaacgctgc aaagttggag acaatgcgat ccctttggat gtcctcttgc tcagtgagtt    180
              atggagcatg taaactgttg ggtcagaagt tgcctaggct caatgttgaa gtcattgatg    240
              aaagaggacc tccaaattta aggccagata gtaatcctgt ggagaaacta tatatataca    300
              ggactatttc tgggcctaga ttggacatgc cgcggtgggt atggacaatg gaagatgatt    360
              ctgcatatct tgaatgactg tactcctcaa taatgaacat ttgatgtgtg acttggtgat    420
              ggcaggtaca ggctcaacgt accctacaat gaatttaatc tgttgaccgt cctatgctgc    480
              tgttatggtt ggtttctgag ctaggtacag caaggaggtt atacagtgta cttagaaagc    540
              ttgagctcga ttgccattca atttttactt ttggctgagc gactagatac cgattctgat    600
              cacaaataaa accggaaatt tgttgttgta tgtggcataa gattgagttg ttaaaacttg    660
              ttatataatt tattttcgcc tttttatttc aaggacttct gcataatttt tatgcatgat    720
              acttttggtc gagtattaag atattggtgg gctcattgtt attattgacc tttgcaaagg    780
              aataaaatct gtattctagt                                                800
              <210>   575
              <211>   1717
                                                    585

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 575
              ctacagagtc catacatagt ctggtgcatc ctcccttttc ccagccactg tacgatacaa     60
              atacatcttc tcgactctct gcccatcttc cacgtaacaa tctgcctgtt cactttcact    120
              gaaaatctcc acattcaacc tcgggcatct tcttagccag tgtcttgcat gcttctacag    180
              tcacctcgca cgacgacatc caaagggatc gcattgtttc atacttccct atgtctgtta    240
<removed-apn>
              gaagcgccgt gtctccgaaa ggacagtctc taatctcaag cttgcgaatc tttttgcatc    300
              cgttcaatac atagagcatt cccttgtcac tctcgccagc aaatgcaata gataacattt    360
              caagctgctc agcatacata ccaatgtaaa ggaaaacctg gtcggtcaac tgacctgaga    420
              gtgatagccg cctcagtcgc ttgcatgact gcacaatcgc cccaaaacct tcatctagtg    480
              gctgcattgt gtcagggtca ggttttgttg catccaggat gcataaccta aatcggataa    540
              aatttgggca gtttttggcc actgctatga gagcagcatt ggtcatctgg tgacagaagt    600
              agagtaatga gtgaagctta ggacatccca ttgatatcgc tacaagtcct ttttcggtaa    660
              cagctgcttg gtttccaaat ggagctgatg ggaaaactct taattcttgc aattctttac    720
              atgtgctagc tacaacacct agtcccaagt ctccaatgcg atccattatc cataagcgct    780
              gtagtttccc acagtggcgg ataagtttta tgagctcaat gcccagaatg cctgcggcat    840
              agctcaagtt caaggatgtt aagttctggc aaattggata aatagctgca aggctaaaag    900
              gagccacttc caaaaaccct gacaaactgg ttattgactt gcacttgaga atggtggcct    960
              taaacatagc ataggcatct gaattgagat catggaaaaa tgatccaatt cctaaatcca   1020
              ttagttgagg tgctcgcgtt agtatccttt gcagtgcatc gacaggcaca gatctgttta   1080
              accttagact cttaaggtta ggagatcttg acacaagtct ctcaagtgct cccaaattaa   1140
              tatctccttt aaggcaagcg aaattaagag agacaagtga ggtgcaactc tctggaaagc   1200
              aacttagcca ctgtcctttg tgatcttcaa cttcattctc ttgcaggtct agctccctaa   1260
              gagacctgca attagcagca acagcagcaa ggccatcagt ggtgaaccct tcacagctaa   1320
              caagaactaa agacttaaaa ttcacaaaag aacgagaaag tagctcaagg ctctcatctg   1380
              acacaaccat cctcttcaac ctaagttcct ccaaaccaac cttattctta gcaagtgctt   1440
              caatccatgg ataaacaaaa ccaccccaac catgaggaac caaactaaaa tcagcaaaat   1500
                                                    586

<removed-date>
              gaggttttcc cttcaaagtt aaagatttca gatcaggaaa cctctccacc aacctctcag   1560
              gactaataga gtaacagttt cctatgaaca ccctttgtct tgtaaatctc tctattctat   1620
              accaactttt gcataccaaa gacaaagagt ttctgtcact atgtgaaacc acatagtcaa   1680
              aaacatgttc tattacctcg tctggaaaat aattcat                            1717
              <210>   576
<removed-apn>
              <211>   685
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 576
              tcaaagctgg tttatctgtt cctcctgacc tccttttacc tattacggaa aagtcttcaa     60
              ttcatgtctc atccatctct gggttattat gcgaaaaaaa attgacccag aaccaggtag   120
              gtgtagaaga acagatggta aaaaatggag atgtgctagg gatgctcatc ctgattctaa    180
              gtactgtgac cggcatatga ttcgacgtcg ttaccgttca agaaagcctg tggaatcttc    240
              ttcttcttct tcttgttcac aatcttcatc ttcagtttca gctactactt cacaaggtgg    300
              ttctagtgga agtactagta ctgtttctgc ttctgttact gctacttcaa cttttcaaac    360
              acttcctttg catacaaatg gtactcgtga aggtttaagt ttcaatcttg ggaacaccgt    420
              gccccacatg gaccctatgc ttcttcctct tcagggttct aagaaacctt ataggtttgg    480
              actgaactcg gaagcagagg agaacaacct cttacagaaa gatctaggat ctgtgaagta   540
              tcgaggttat gacttcactt cagatggcat gtggtataat aacatgtctc agatttcatc   600
              atacactgtt tcagaatcaa ggaatggttc ttccatggtt gacaactact acttccaaca    660
              gcgaacaaca agagaacctg agctg                                          685
              <210>   577
              <211>   1515
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 577
              cttcaccttc acatcttctc tctctctatc tctactaatt cacttctgaa ccttttcatt     60
              tcaatcctaa ctcctttttc tacatagttc attttacttt ttcattcaaa agtgatcatc    120
              atcatcagta tcaaaaagaa aaagctcatg catatgttga caatggaagc taaacctctt    180
                                                    587

              caacttgttc cctcttcaca caacagcaca actggtggtg gaccccagat gaagattgag    240
<removed-date>
              aatggtgaag ttgatgaaga gaaaagggtt gttgttggag tgaaggaaga tatagaaaac    300
              aagcctttga tcacagaagc tcaaaggcgt gaacttgatc atcaagtttt tatttttaat    360
              cattttgctt ataatcttcc tcttccttat taccttttgc aatttccaag taatatgtca    420
              gagtacagtc gtcgtgggtc tgattatgtg actatggtgg atcaagaacc acataggtgt    480
              agaagaactg acggaaagaa atggaggtgc ggcaaggaca cagtacctaa tcagaagtat    540
<removed-apn>
              tgtgaacgtc acatgcacag aggtcgaaat cgttcaagaa agcttgtgga aacatctcaa    600
              cttaactctc ctttgaaaac aaatcctagt ggtggtggca agtcacatgc aaaactagtc    660
              ccaaacatta aatcttcagt ttcaaatcca aaccctttga ttattcatca caatggcaca    720
              ttctcataca atccgaggac cttctgcgtt gtagatactt cttctgtttg tgatcggtcg    780
              agacatgtca tagattatgg tgccactgca gtgacaactt cgggaagcac gacatccgtt    840
              tctttggata acagagtttg tcctaacgta tgcaagcaag atgagcagat caagaggtgt    900
              atcaccgaca acgtgggtat taaaagtggt cggaaaggaa gcatatcttg tgaaagtatt    960
              ggcatctcta ctggaatagg cttttcccca aagagtgttc ttccagccgt tcataaaaag   1020
              gctagggtag tggggaggca gaggcatcta agtggtcggc ctagcattga ggtttctggt   1080
              tgcaatgatt catacctcaa caacagaaac aatatattag aacctgaacc cggtagatgc   1140
              cgaagaacag atggtaagaa gtggcgatgc aagagtgcgg ttcttccagg tcagaagtat   1200
              tgtgcaacac atatgcatag aggtgctaaa aggcgtttta caaacctcga atctcctcct   1260
              cctgccacca ctgttattcc taaaactact gatattagtt cagctgttac cattgctcag   1320
              ttgcccgacc cttcggctcc aatcgacatc cagaaagcga attgttggtc tccgagcact   1380
              aagctttcaa tgtcggttca agaaagtgcg ccctttgttg attgtaatga gaaaagtgtt   1440
              agcagcggtg acacggatgg tactagtacc accatcactg acaccatgaa tgagtgtagc   1500
              tatctttctt tctaa                                                    1515
              <210>   578
              <211>   710
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400>   578
                                                    588

              tcccggcaca caattaacac caaaccaaaa cggaccaaat ggttccttcc gacaaagctc    60
<removed-date>
              gatctgagtc tggtctctga ctgaacaaca actacaagtg tatgttgtgt tagctagata   120
              gatagataga tacactattg attcactcac tcactgagag ttacagtaca aagcagttag   180
              aaaaagtatg aatagctctg ggggtggcag tagtaacgga ggaggtgtag ggatgatgat   240
              gggttacagt aaatcatcac cattcacagt gtctcagtgg caggaacttg aacatcaagc   300
              tttgatcttt aaatatatgg ttgctggtct tcctgttcca cctgatcttg tccatcctat   360
<removed-apn>
              tcattccagc tttcactctc tttcttctaa taatttcttt caccacccta ttcctacctt   420
              gagttactgt tccttctatg ggaagaaggt ggacccggag ccaggaagat gtaggaggac   480
              tgatggaaaa aagtggaggt gctcgaagga agcataccca gactccaagt actgtgagcg   540
              ccacatgcac cgtggccgca accgttcaag aaagcctgtg gaatcacaaa ctatggcaca   600
              gtcgacatcc actgtgacat cgctgactgt cgctggtggc agcagcagag ctggtaactt   660
              ccagaacatt cccacaacaa atgcatttgg tagtgttcaa aatactacag              710
              <210>   579
              <211>   1972
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 579
              gcacgagaac aaattttgtc acaacaatga agactatctt atgctactta cttggtttac    60
              ttactatcat tgtttcattt gcttcagctg cagagaatca ttaccatcag tttgttattc   120
              aaactgcaac agtgaagagg ctgtgcaaaa ctcgaaggat actcacggta aatggacagt   180
              ttcctggtcc aacgatcgaa gctagagacg gagattctat ggtgatcaaa gtaacaaatg   240
              ctggacctta caacatctcc atccactggc atgggtttag gatgttgaga aatccatggg   300
              cagatggacc tagttatgtg actcaatgtc caatccaacc aggaggaagt tacacatacc   360
              gctttacgat tcaaaaccaa gaaggaacac tatggtggca tgctcacact ggtttcctaa   420
              gagctactgt ctatggagct ttcattattt atccgaaaat gggttctcct tatcctttct   480
              ctatgccaac tagagaattt cctattcttc ttggggaatg gtttgataga gatccaatgg   540
              ctctcttaag acaaacacag ttcacaggag cacctccaaa tgtatctgtt gcatacacca   600
              tgaatggtca accgggagat ctctacagat gttccagtca aggaaccgta cgttttcaag   660
                                                    589

              tgtatgcagg agaaacaatt ctcttaagaa tcatcaacag tgcactcaat caagaactct    720
<removed-date>
              tcttttcaat tgctaaccat agaaatgact gttgttgcta tggatgctgc ttacacaaaa    780
              ccttccaaca ctagagtcct catgatagga ccaggtcaaa caatcaatgt ccttgtcaca    840
              gccgaccaac caccaggccg atactacatg gcagcacgcg cttaccaaac cgccatgaat    900
              gctgcatttg acaacacaac aactactgca attcttgaat acagaaatag accaccttca    960
              agacctattt tgccagtttt accgtttttt aacgacacgg ccacttcaac tgcattcaca   1020
<removed-apn>
              tcacggatta gaggtctttc caaaattaaa gtgtttcaaa atgttgatgt gagtttattg   1080
              ttcactgtag ggttagggtt aataaactgc acaaatccta atagtccaag gtgtcaagga   1140
              ccaaatggaa caagatttgc agctagtata aacaacaact cttttgttct tcctagaaca   1200
              acctccttaa tgcaagctta ctataatggt gttcctggta tttttaccac agattttcct   1260
              cctgttcctc ctatacagtt caattacaca ggaaatgttc ctaggggttt gtggacacct   1320
              agaaaaggaa ccaagttgtt caagttgaaa tatggttcca atgttcagat tgttttgcag   1380
              gatactagta ttgtaacagt tgaggatcac cctatgcatg ttcatgggtt ccatttcttt   1440
              gtagttggtt caggttttgg aaattttaat ccaaggactg atcctgctac gtttaacctt   1500
              gtcgatccac ctgtgaggaa tactattgga acacctcctg gtggatgggt ggccattcgt   1560
              ttcaaggccg ataatccagg aatttggttc ttgcattgtc acatagattc acatctcaat   1620
              tggggtttgg gaacagcact tttggtagaa aatggagttg gcccattaca gtcagtgata   1680
              cctccaccac cagatctacc tcaatgctaa aagcatcatt aatcctaaat tatgtcactg   1740
              aattatttta ctcaattatt gctcttttta aatacttacc ttatagattg tatttctttt   1800
              tgtgattttc aaggtccata attgtaccaa ggtcaattgg gacttgagta gtttatttgt   1860
              tgtttttgtc tttcttgatt gggttgtaac tttttaagat ttttaaaggg aaaaaaaaag   1920
              tgtgatttct cattagtaat attaagagtt tattaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aa           1972
              <210>   580
              <211>   2103
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 580
              acgcggggat tttaagtgta atcataagct atctgctgat ttatcctaca agttggtcac     60
                                                    590

              ttcaagatga atattttgtt gtggcaaaca tgggcttttg ctctaatttt atcttcattt    120
<removed-date>
              atggcttctg ctgctacagt tgaacacact ttcttggttg aaaacaagac tatcaaacga    180
              ttatgcaatg aacaagtgat tgttacagtt aatggacttt acccaggtcc aaagctagag    240
              gtcagagatg gtgactctgt gattgttcat gtaatcaaca attcacccta caatataaca    300
              attcactggc atggagtgtt ccagctatat agtgcatggt cagatggacc tgaatatata    360
              acacaatgtt caattcgtcc tgaaaataaa tttacataca aatttaatgt gacacaacaa    420
<removed-apn>
              gaaggaacat tatggtggca tgctcatgca tcagttgtac gtgcaacagt tcacggtgcc    480
              attatcattc aacctcgttc tggtcgattt ccatttccta aaccttacaa ggaagtacca    540
              ataatactag gtgattggta tgatggaaat gttgaggaga ttatccaaaa agaactcgaa    600
              acaggcgata aaatagcatc tgatgctttc actatcaacg gctttcctgg cgatctcttc    660
              aattgttcaa aaaatcagat gtataagctg aaagtgaagc aaggaaagac ctatttgttc    720
              cgaatggtca acgctgcact cgctaacaat cttttcttca agattgccga tcacaaattc    780
              acagttgtag ccatggatgc cgcatacacc gagccctata ccaccgatat aatcgtcatc    840
              gcggcaggcc aaagcgctga tatacttttc acagcagacc aaccaaaagg ttcatactac    900
              atggctgcat caccttatgt tgttggtgaa ccagtaggac tcttcgacaa ttccacaact    960
              cgtgccgtcg tcttttacga gggttacaaa aaattaaaaa caaaacatat agtaccttta   1020
              atgccagcat taccacttca taacaataca ccaatagctc acaaattttt cagcaacata   1080
              actggtcttg tagggggtcc taattgggtc cctgtcccac ttgaagtgga tgaacacatg   1140
              tatatcacaa ttaacatggg tttagtacct tgtcctgtaa atgctaagtg tacaggtcca   1200
              cttggacaaa aatttgcatc tagcatgaac aatgagtcat ttttgcttcc tgttggaaaa   1260
              ggatattcca taatggaagc atatttttac aatgtgagtg gcatttacac tacagatttt   1320
              ccagataacc ctccaaaatt tttcgacttc gtaaacccga aaatattttt ggatcctaat   1380
              gttacattta caccgaaatc gactaaggtg aagcaattca aatacaattc aacggtggag   1440
              attgtgtttc aaaatacagc gattttgaat gcgcaaagtc atcccatgca tcttcatggt   1500
              atgaattttc atgttttggc gcaagacttc gggattttca atcctactac tgataaactc   1560
              aagtataatt tggtgaatcc ttcaattcgc aacacggttg ctgtgccggt gggaggatgg   1620
              gctgctatta gattccgaac aaacaatcct ggggtatggt ttttgcattg tcatgtggat   1680
                                                    591

<removed-date>
              gatcataatc tttggggatt agtcacagca ttcatagttg aaaatggacc aacgccttca   1740
              acttcacttg gtccaccacc tgctgatttg cctaaatgtt aattggctat atgctagaaa   1800
              atgcagctgt atattttaga agtcaaagtc tcctctttca tatttttctt ttgattattc   1860
              agtcaaacgt tttaatttta aatttcaagc aataagtaca acttttggtc acgtggtagg   1920
              atgaaaattg tacccatatc tacaatatac aacttttggt catgtggtaa tcatatccat   1980
<removed-apn>
              gggtatctag taagtgaaat taccagagtc ttacattgat gctataattg attagtcgcc   2040
              tggggacact gaaagctgtt ttttgatgaa tagtgtgatg tttaattctg caattatgtc   2100
              ccc                                                                 2103
              <210>   581
              <211>   879
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 581
              ggcacgaggt catacttttg gtaagttgaa taaactcgag aaggtttctg agcttcttag     60
              ggaaatggag tcaggtggta gtttgccgga tgttagttct tataatgttc tgttggaggc    120
              ttatgcgaga tatggggttt attaaggagt ctattggggt gtttaggcag atgcaggagg    180
              cggggtgtgt gccaaattcg gctacttata gtattttgtt gaacttgtat gggaaacatg    240
              ggaggtatga tgatgttcgc gatctttttc ttgaaatgaa agtgagcaac acggatccgg    300
              atgctggtac ttataatatt cttatacagg tgtttgggga ggggggatac tttaaggagg    360
              ttgtcacttt gtttcatgat atggtggatg aaaatattga gcctaacatg gagacttatg    420
              aaggtttgat atttgcttgt gggaagggag ggctttttga agatgctaag aaaattttac    480
              ttcatatgaa tgaaaagggt attgttccga gttcaaaggc ttataccggt gtgattgaag    540
              cttatgggca ggcagctttg tatgaagagg ctctggttgc gtttaacact atgaatgaag    600
              ttggaagcac cccaactgtt gagacctaca attcgctcgt ttgttccttt tcaagggggg    660
              gattgtacaa agaggttgaa gcaattttat ttaggatgag tgagtctggt ttaccgcggg    720
              acgtgcattc gttcaatggt gtaattgaag ctttaaggca agcaggtcaa tattgaagag    780
              gctgtaaaag ctcatgttga gatggaaaaa gcaaactgtg atcctaatga gtcgacattt    840
              gaagcagtat taagcatata ctgctccggc aaggtcttg                           879
                                                    592

<removed-date>
              <210>   582
              <211>   3879
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 582
              atgagtggga gatatcaccg caacaaatca caacaacaac atcgtaccaa atcgaaactt     60
              cgctacgtta acaaatccga actaattgtt tcttcaccta actctgtggc ggttgaacaa    120
<removed-apn>
              ccagtttcct ctgaggatgt tattgtcaac aacaacaaca acaccgttga tgacgtggcc    180
              agttcaagca agaccaagac caaggaagaa tatgattatg ataataacga tattgataat    240
              ggtatggata atactaatag gcttgataag ttgcttactg atattcaaca aattgaatta    300
              tccgaggaag agatcacaat caatgatcaa ttgcagcaag atgagggagg aagtgaacgg    360
              gaggcaagcc ttagaagcgg cttgagtaga agcaagacgg agtatatgga atgtaacttc    420
              agcggaagga gaagtagctc taccttggag gtaaaagttg gagatcatat cataccccaa    480
              gttacacggt ttaaatatct tgggtccttc gtacaaaatg acggagaaat agaagcagat    540
              gtaagccatc gtattcaagc tgggtggttg aaatggagaa gagcctcagg tgttttgtgc    600
              aataagaaag taccacttaa gttgaaagga aagttctatc ggacagcagt ccgaccggct    660
              ttgttgtatg gtacggagtg ttgggcggtt aagagtcaac atgagaatca agtaagtgta    720
              gcagagatga ggatgttacg ttggatgagt gagagaagac ccgtagatgc cgtgttaaga    780
              agagtagatc aaatggagga gagtcaagtt aaaagaggta gaggaagacc taggaaaact    840
              attagagaaa ccattagaaa ggatttagag ttacttgtgg tggaatcaat ttatggagaa    900
              aacgttttca gccttgatac atggaaaggc ctgcgttgtt ttcagataca cataaacatt    960
              gatgttttgg gtgaaatagg cattactgcc aaggttaact ctgttaatga acttgagaca   1020
              ttaagcaaca attcagacga tttcttatac tctttcaaag ttcaatatct tccaccgatt   1080
              gttttgacat gtttattacc taagtcatat ccgagtcacc aaccgcctat atttacaatc   1140
              tctgtcaagt ggctggaatc tgcgaagatt ttaagtttat gttccaagtt ggattcaata   1200
              tggacagaac aacaagggca ggaagtgatt tacagttggg tagaatggtt acaaaattct   1260
              tctctttctc atttgggatt tgatgaggag attagattag gtccttatgg ttggaatcgt   1320
              gttgcggatg cacgcgtggt ttcgggaatt ggatgcattg atgctgatat tcctttttta   1380
                                                    593

<removed-date>
              caaagctaca acaatgagag acgccatcaa aacttcctta aagaattgca tgaatgctgt   1440
              gtttgctata gtgaatatcc aggaaacgtt agtaatcttc aatgtcttga tgcaaaatgc   1500
              aaggagatga ttccaccagg ccttttaaaa cactttcttg gtgatgaaga atacgaacgt   1560
              tgggaatcta tgatgttaga gaaaacactt gcatcaatgt ctgatgttgc ttattgcccg   1620
              agatgtgaaa caccctgtat agaggaggaa gaccaacatg ctcagtgccc aaaatgcttt   1680
<removed-apn>
              tttagctttt gtaccctttg cagggaacgc cgccatgttg gcattgcatg catgaccctt   1740
              gaaatgaagc ttcagcttct tcaggatcgt caaaattcat ctcatttaaa ggggaatcaa   1800
              aagcaaattg aacttgcaaa gattaatgaa atgctcagta tcaaagcaat tcaccgtgat   1860
              tccaagttgt gcccctattg tgacatggcg atttctcgaa ctggaggttg taacaaaatg   1920
              aagtgcggta attgtggaaa gtacttctgt tacctctgca acaaagcact cgatccatca   1980
              gatccatatg gacatttcag ggaagggggg tcctgtgaat tgttcccaca agaaatggtt   2040
              gacaattggc aaccacgaat caatcctcgc caggaagtac aacaaataca tgcggaactc   2100
              tttcacctcg gtggctcagc ttgtcctagt tgtcgccaat ttaatgtaaa ggaagagaat   2160
              cgcgacgccg gtgaattggt ttcgcttctg cttgatgtgg aaaagtctaa tgttgtgttt   2220
              gatatgctta tcaaagtgtt tgcgtcgaat tctatgcttg aacatgctaa ttatgttttt   2280
              gttagagcta aggatgatgg gattgagctg aatataatgt cgtgtaattt cttgttgaag   2340
              tgtttggttg aggataatag agtggatggt gttgggtgta gtgttgatat tagacgggca   2400
              tctgagattt tagggaagat ttacatgagt ggggaaaccc cgaatgttgt tacatatggt   2460
              acttatatta agggactttg taaagttggt ttatttgggg ttgcgtggag gttaattcaa   2520
              aacttgtgcc gtaaaaacca gcctctcaat aaccattgtt ttaatgctgt catatatgga   2580
              ttgtgtcaag gaggtatatt agatgaagct tcagaagttt ttaaagaaat gaagaactct   2640
              ggaatattgc ccgatgttta tagttatagc attttaatcg atggattttg caggaaaggt   2700
              agagtagacc aagcttcaga agtttttaaa gaaatgagga actctggaat attgcccaat   2760
              atttatagtt atagcatttt aatcgatgga ttttgcaagg aaggtagagt agataaagct   2820
              ttagaagttt ttgaagaaat gaagaactct ggaatattgc ccgatgttta tagttatagc   2880
              attttaatcg atggattttg caggaaaggt gatatggatt cagccataaa gttttgggaa   2940
                                                    594

              gagatgacta gcaataattt ttctccttct gcttttaatt attgcagttt aattaagggg   3000
<removed-date>
              tactacaaat cgaaacaatt cgctaacgca ttgaaagagt ttaggatcat gcaaaaactt   3060
              ggtatgtggc cagatacaat cgcttgcaat cacattctta gtatttactg caggaagccc   3120
              gacttcaata aagccttggc attgtcggag aaatttcaag aaaatggagt tcacttcaac   3180
              ccatattcat ataatgaatt catccacagg atttgcagag gaagtgttcc agaaaaggca   3240
              ctgcagcttt tgccagtaat gctgaaaagg aatgtacttc ccgatgttgt taattatagt   3300
<removed-apn>
              actcttatat cttgctttgc caaaaggttg aactctgaaa aggctgtgat gttattcata   3360
              aaaatgacaa aagtaggaat cactttcaac gtcaaaacgt atacaattct tattaaccta   3420
              ttcatcagtg attgcaaaat ggatgtggca tatagattat ttaagggaat gaaagaaagt   3480
              cgtgtatatc cagatcagat agcgtataca agtctagttg ctggtttttg taatactgga   3540
              gaaatgacta gggcacgggc gttatttgat gaaatgtcgc gagaaggctg ttcaccaaat   3600
              gtagttactt atacttgttt cattaatgaa tatttgaagt taaacaagaa caatcaggct   3660
              cataagttgt atgagaaaat gaaagaaaga ggtgtatatc cagatcagat cttgtataca   3720
              atgctaattg ctgccttttg taatactgga gaaatgaata gggcagaggc gttatttgat   3780
              gaaatgaagc aggaaggccg ctgtacaccg aatgtagtta tgtatacatc tcagaaggtt   3840
              ctgtgtctga aagctggtgc aattcatgga gttaggtag                          3879
              <210>   583
              <211>   1704
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 583
              atggcatgtc atgttattgg gattgaagtt gatattatgt cttgctattt cttgttgaaa     60
              tgtttggtag atgcaaatag agtgggtgat gatgatgatg atgatggtgt gagtgtgagt    120
              gctgatatca gtccggcttc tgagattttc gggaacattt ataggagtgg ggaaaccccg    180
              aatgttgtca cgtatagtac ttatattaag ggactttgta aagctggttc tcttagggtt    240
              gtatggaaag gtgagttaga tgaagcttca caagttttgg aagaaatgaa gagcatcgga    300
              atattgcccg atgtttatgg ttattatgtt tttgttaatg ctaaagatgt tgggattgaa    360
              gttgatatta tgtcttgcaa tttcttgttg aaatgtttgg tagatgcaaa tagagtgggt    420
                                                    595

              gatgatgatg atgatgatga tgatgatggt gtgagtgtga gtgtgagtgc tgatatcagt    480
<removed-date>
              ccggcttctg agattttcgg gaacatttat aggagtgggg aaaccccgaa tgttgtcacg    540
              tatagtactt atattaaggg actttgtaaa gctggttctc ttagggttgt atggaaaggt    600
              gagttagatg aagcttcaca agttttggaa gaaatgaaga gcattggaat attgcccgat    660
              gtttatggtt atagcatttt aattgatgcc ttctgcaaga atggagatga taagaaagtt    720
              gttgacttga gggaggatat gaagctcaac caaataaaac catccattgt taaccacact    780
<removed-apn>
              tccatcatcc accgtctatg caagagcaag actatgccga tgcaaatcgt gatgaataag    840
              ttccgtgcta ttggtgcttc gggttgcaaa tatgatcaga ctatttatga aactttagtt    900
              gatggatttt gcagggaagg tgatatggtt tcagccggaa agcttttgga ggaaatgggt    960
              agcaataatt ttgctccctc tgctttttgt tattgtagtc aaattaaggg gttctacaaa   1020
              ttgagacaat tcgctaacgc gttgaaagtt tatagtatca tgcaaaaacg tggtataagg   1080
              ccagatacca tcgcttgcaa tcatatcctt agtatttact gcaggaagcg tgaattcaat   1140
              gaagccttgg cattgtcgga ggaattccgg gatcatggag tttccctcaa cccatattca   1200
              tataatgaat tcatcaacaa gctttgcaga gaaagttttc cagaaaaagc actgcagctt   1260
              ctgccagtaa tgcttaaaag gaatgtactt cccggagttg ttaattatag tactcttata   1320
              tcttgctttg ccaaacagac gaattctaaa aaggctgtga agttattcac aagaatgaca   1380
              aaagtaggaa tcactttcaa catcaaaacg catacagctc ttattgacct atgcatccgt   1440
              aattgcaaaa ttgataaggc atgtgactta tttgaggata tggaaaaaag gggtgtgcat   1500
              ccagatcaga ttacatataa tactctaata gctgcttttt gtaatactgg agaaatgata   1560
              atagcgaaga cattatttga tagaatgtta caggaaggct gttcaccaaa tgtcataagt   1620
              ttccgtgtcc ggaagttggt gcaattcatg gagttagata gctctgtcaa ggcctccatt   1680
              atatccagct ggtatgtgtt ttga                                          1704
              <210>   584
              <211>   650
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 584
              ttctagcccc tccaaagcat acacaacatc tagtgtttcc atcataggag acctctagca     60
                                                    596

              atcatttcac gcagaagttt ctccgccttt tcattctcat ctttatgaaa gagagcctgg   120
<removed-date>
              atgagagttt cataagttac agcatcagga atgataccat tgtcatccat ttttgacaac   180
              aaggcctctg cttcatcaaa caagccctct ttacaaagtc cattgaccat aatattatac   240
              gtccaagcat ttacactata acccttactc aaaagatcct ggaaaacatc ttgtgcattc   300
              ttaagtcgtc ctactttgca taatccataa ataagtatat tgaacgtgta catatctggt   360
              tgaatgcctt gatctttaat tttcttaact aatgcaatag cctggtcaac atgatggttt   420
<removed-apn>
              ttacataaag catctattaa acagttgtaa gtgaatatat tggctggttg accattatca   480
              tgcatttcat caacaagctc ccaagcatag gagattctcc ctgatttgca caaaccatca   540
              atgagagaat tataagttac cttatcagga gcaattcctt tgaactgcat atcattaaag   600
              agactcaagg cttcatcaac cattttaatc ttacaaaatc cattaatcat              650
              <210>   585
              <211>   1905
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 585
              atgtcgaact ataatcgagt tggttcggtt cggttcattg ccaaccctac ccatacccat    60
              cagctgaaag aagggtgctg ccgcggtgct tcacctcgca ccgcgattca gcagttaagc   120
              cgcccgattg acaattatat ttcaacggaa gcaatggtca ctgataaact tactagatcc   180
              atacaaggtc caatcttgca gtcattaagc ataccgacaa tttcggagtt gttgagtaaa   240
              caacattggt cagagctcaa acctcatcta agagtaacca aacctgcgac atttctagat   300
              caattgctca atgccggagt cgattcagag cttgttttaa ggttctttaa gtggtctcag   360
              aaagagtacc gactttcata tggtcttgaa ccaacttcca aagttttaca ttttctagca   420
              aattcaaaaa ggtattctaa agttaggtct tttctggata gttttgttaa gaatgagaaa   480
              catacagtct cttctgtttt tcactccctt ttgttggacg gtggtcgacc gggtgctact   540
              gctctgataa ttgatatgtt ggtgttagca tatgtgaaaa atttagagtt gcactgtgct   600
              tatgaagcgt ttacgcgagc taaagattat ggatttaaat tatcactgac ttcgtgtaat   660
              ccgttgttga gtgcgttggt gaaggagaat aaaattggtg atgtggaata tgtgtacaag   720
              gagatgataa agagaagaat tcacactaac ttgaacacat ttaacatttt cattaatggt   780
                                                    597

              ctttgtagag ctggtaagtt gaataaggca gaggatgcta ttgaagacat gaaggcatgg    840
<removed-date>
              ggaatttcac caaatgtagt tacttataac actcttgttg atggttattg caagaggggc    900
              agtgctggaa aaatgtacaa agctgaagct tttatgaagg aaatgcttgc taataaaatt    960
              tgtccaaatg aagttacctt taacactctt attgatgggt tttgtaagga tgagaatgta   1020
              gcggctgcaa agaaggcttt tgaagagatg caaaagcaag gattaaaacc taatatagtt   1080
              acttataact cactgataaa tggtctatgt aataacggta agctagaaga ggctattgat   1140
<removed-apn>
              ttgtgggata agatggttgg cttgggtttg aagccgaata ttgtaactta taatgctctt   1200
              attaacgggt tttgtaagaa gaagatgatg aaggaggcaa caaaagtttt cgatgatgta   1260
              agtaagcaag agttggttcc caatgttata acatttaata ctatgattga tgcatattgt   1320
              aaggaaggga tgatggagga gggattttca ctttgcagtt caatgctaga cgaagggatc   1380
              ttgccaaatg tttcgaccta taattgcttg attgcaggcc tatgcagaaa acaggactta   1440
              caggctgcga aggagctact taatgaaatg gagaacaagg gtttaaaagg tgatgttgta   1500
              acatacaaca tcttgataga tggattgtgc aaaaacgaca aatcaagaaa tgcagaaaag   1560
              ttacttaatg aaatgttcaa ccttggtctg aaacctaatc atgtgacata taatactttg   1620
              atggatggct attgtatgga ggggaaactc aaggcagcat tgaatgtcag aacgcgtatg   1680
              gagaaagaac gaaagcagcc aaatgttgtt acttataatg tcttgattaa aggatattgt   1740
              aaaattaata agctagaggc tgcaaatggg cttcttaatg agatgttgga aaagggtttg   1800
              aatccaaacc gtactacata tgatatagta agactggaaa tgttggagaa aggttttagt   1860
              cctgacatag aaggacactt gtataatatc tctagcatgt cttaa                   1905
              <210>   586
              <211>   2592
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 586
              atgaagctcc gccatctccg tcgcgcacgt ctctccctct cacctcttca aagaaccttt     60
              tccacttcca aatccaccaa cgaaaacgac actcatttca tcacacacat ttccgacatt    120
              gttcgaggaa atctaagttg gaaaatcgca ttcaacgacc catcaatttc atccacattg    180
              aaaccccatc atgtcgaaca agtcttaatc aacaccttac atgattcaaa gttagcttta    240
                                                    598

              cgcttcttca acttcctcgg attacacaaa aacatgaacc acacgacaac ctcgtttgct    300
<removed-date>
              atcttagttc atgccctggt tcaaaataag cttttttggc ccgcgaattc gcttttgcat    360
              acccttctcc ttcgtgggtc ggatccaaaa tttgtttttg agaaatttct tgaatctcat    420
              aagcaatttg ttttaagact catgcttggt aatactttgt tgcctgaggt tagaactttg    480
              agtgcaattt taaatgggtt attgagaatt aggaaattta tattggtttg ggaagttttt    540
              gatgagtctg tgaatgctgg tgttaaacct gatccttata cttgttccgc tgtaattcgg    600
<removed-apn>
              agcttgtgtg agttaaaaga tttttgtaga gctaaggaaa agattttgtg gatggaatct    660
              aataggtttg atttgagtat tgtgacttat aatgtattga ttcatggtct gtgtaagggt    720
              ggtggggttt tggaagctct tgaggttaga aaatcgttga gggaaaaggg tttgaaggaa    780
              gatgttgtta catattgtac attggtgctt ggattttgta gggtgcaaca gtttgatgat    840
              ggaatttgcc tcatgaatga aatggttgaa ttagggtttg ttccaactga ggctgctgta    900
              tcggggttag tggatgggtt gcgaaagaag ggaaatattg acagtgctta tgatttggtt    960
              gttaagttag gaaggtttgg ttttctacca aatttgtttg tatataacgc gttaataaac   1020
              gctttgtgca aaggtgagga tttggataaa gcagagttgc tttataaaaa tatgcattcg   1080
              atgaacttgc cgctgaatga tgttacttac tctattctga ttgattcctt ttgcaaaagg   1140
              gggatgttgg atgttgctga atcttatttt ggtagaatga tagaagatgg tataagagaa   1200
              accatttatc cctacaactc tttgataaat ggccattgta agttcgggga tttgagtgct   1260
              gctgagtttc tgtatacaaa gatgatcaat gaagggttag agccaactgc cactaccttt   1320
              acaacattga ttagtggata ttgtaaagac ctacaagtag aaaaagcatt caagctatat   1380
              agggagatga atgagaaaga aattgctcca agtgtttata ctttcactgc acttatttac   1440
              ggactttgca gtacaaatga gatggccgaa gcatccaaac ttttcgacga aatggtggaa   1500
              agaaaaatca agccaactga ggtaacatat aatgttatga ttgaaggcta ttgtaaggct   1560
              cataacatgg ataaagcctt tgaattgctt gaagacatgc tccataatgg ccttgttcca   1620
              gacacatata catacagacc tcttataagt ggcctttgtt ctactggtag ggtttcagca   1680
              gctaaagatt ttattgatga tctccacaag aagaatctca agttaaatga gatgtgctat   1740
              agtgcacttc tacatggtta ttgcggccaa ggaagactga cggaggcact gagtgcttct   1800
              tgtgagatga ttcaacgagg aatcaacatg gaccttgttt gccacgctgt tcttattgat   1860
                                                    599

<removed-date>
              ggtgcaatga agcagcaaga catgaaaagg ttatttggtc tcttaaaaaa gatgtatgat   1920
              cagggattga gacctgatag tgtgatatat acaagtatga ttgatgcata cagcaaagaa   1980
              ggatctttta aaaaatccgg tgaatgttta gatttaatgg ttactgagaa atgctttcct   2040
              aatgttgtga cttatactgc tttcatgaat ggtttatgca aagttggtga aatcgataga   2100
              gcgggtcacc tttttgaaaa aatgctgact gcaaatatct ctcctaattc agttacatat   2160
<removed-apn>
              ggttgttttc ttgacagtct tacgaaggag ggaaatatga aggaagctac agaccttcac   2220
              catgagatgc ttaaagggct tttagcaaac actgcaacat ataacattct tatccgtggc   2280
              ttctgcaaat tgggtagatt aatcgaagcc accaaagttc tttctgaaat gactgaaaat   2340
              gggattttcc ctgactgtat aacctattca actataattt atgagcattg cagaagtggc   2400
              gatgtaggag cagcagttga actgtgggat accatgttaa gaaaaggtgt tgagccagat   2460
              tcagttgcat ttaacttgct aatatatggt tgctgtgtta atggagcact cgacaaggca   2520
              tttgaattgc gtaatgacat gctgagtaga gggttgaagc caagacaaat tttacaattg   2580
              cagaaggtgt aa                                                       2592
              <210>   587
              <211>   839
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 587
              caagcacaaa aattaattaa aacataaaac caatgcagac ttcctagaga ctgatctagc     60
              ctccaccgtt tttttttttc tgtttagatc aaagaagatt taaaattaat agataataat    120
              gtgaaaaggg aaaagaaaac acgggaagca ctgcctctgt cctgactata tctcggaaaa    180
              ttatctcaca ccagtatata actgatcaag atccatgaaa cagtgaaaaa taaagcaaca    240
              attggtgaga tactagtaga tgaagatgca ctttgtgtgg aaggagtagt ggtggtggtg    300
              gttgcagcag gggtgccatc agaaggtgaa cctttccctg atggcgatgg tgttgcagaa    360
              ggagcagaag aagcactaga agaagcctta actttaacag aaagtttcat gccacctgtg    420
              caatgtccag gaacagcaca tatgaagtaa tgtgttcctg ctttcttgag gggaatggtt    480
              gtgggaccac tgctgtcagt actaattgaa tttccagttg tgcatgattt atagtcactt    540
              tctttaactt catccactgt gtgcccagct ccatagttga atacgagact gtcaccaact    600
                                                    600

<removed-date>
              gcaaatgttt tgtcactagc ccatgtgtta taatcagaac caattgccca acctgattta   660
              tcaccaacgg tgtggacagt tgcaagagtt ggcactgcca cattgatcac taaaaagaag   720
              cctaaaatca aaggattaga gaatgtcatc ttaagagatg gctatgtttt ttcccccggc   780
              cataatgaag gaaggaggct atgaggatcc ccggccatat ggcctgcagt cgaccatat    839
              <210>   588
<removed-apn>
              <211>   841
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 588
              aagggttaag tctcaacctt gcaaaccgac tcacacaact cactataatt gctataggca    60
              tctatagttt ataccaagaa aaatagtgaa tatgactgag ggaagaggca gtgcttctat   120
              gaacatggtc actctaattt cactgctgtg ccttttggtt ctggctgaaa gtgctaatgc   180
              agcatcttac accgttggag gaactggggg atggacatac aatactgata cttggcctaa   240
              tggaaaaaag tttaaagctg gtgatgtgct cagcttcaac tatgattcaa ccacacacaa   300
              tgtggttgcc gtggacaaaa gtggatacaa caactgtaag acaccgggag gtgctaaagt   360
              gttcagttca gggagtgacc aaattaggct atcaagagga caaaactact tcatatgcag   420
              ctatcctggt cactgccaat ctgggatgaa ggtttccatc tatgcagttt agtcctctag   480
              ctaagtgacc acagtagtta attagttaat taatggtcaa ttagctgtag tggtaatggt   540
              atgatttctt taattaccat ataaataaca gcatgagtac taggctacta gctatatgtt   600
              gatttggtga tcaattacta ttattattat tatgtatgta aaaggagtgt ggtgaggtgg   660
              ctttctttat aaaattgtat gtttgatatt tttatttttg tggtgtgctg tgtgatgtga   720
              ggatatatat atatatatgt atgatagaga ttaactatct tgcataaaga aacatttgtt   780
              tgtttccggt ctagtttaat attttagttt gtttaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aacgtcgagg   840
              g                                                                   841
              <210>   589
              <211>   1358
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400>   589
                                                    601

              cacggttttc tagcaaataa tagtagagaa acatggctct gggaagaggc agtgcattgg     60
<removed-date>
              ttctactagt ctgctttttt gttcttaact ctgagttggc tcatgctgct acctacactg    120
              ttggaggtcc tggaggttgg acctttaaca ctgttggatg gcctaatgga aaacgcttta    180
              gggctggtga tacccttgtg ttcaactata gtccatcagc tcacaatgtg gtggcggtga    240
              acaaaggagg gtatgatagt tgcaagactc caagaggagc aaaagtgtat aggtcaggaa    300
              aggatcagat caggcttgct aggggacaaa actacttcat ttgcaacttt gtgggtcact    360
<removed-apn>
              gcgagaataa aattgaggta aactttgctc aaactgaaaa taagtccaag aaaaaaggaa    420
              aaaaaaaggc taaaccaaag aaaaatgata aatgtgtaga agagaataag caaacgcaaa    480
              atgatgaatc gattgcagca gatttggaag aggatacctc tgtttctgtt ttggatacag    540
              tgagagctaa gcttaatgac ttgtttataa atgcccaaac taagcattat gttatggcta    600
              ctactttgaa aaagaagatt gatgggttaa ttgcagacga aaaggagcat gttacacttg    660
              cattgaaaaa agctgtcact gaattgtaca tgtatgcaca aaaaaaggtt gctgctttgt    720
              acgtggaggc ggaggaagaa agtgttgaat cctctaacat tgttgaacct ggtaatgatg    780
              tgtcaaacat atattcaaaa tttctgtgga caccaaagcc gatttctgga tcagacccag    840
              catcttcctt agtcattaac cttggagagt ataaatggac tttcatagtt cgtcggacgg    900
              gaacctcgtt gcaatttcag ttatttgctg atggagacaa caatccaagg ttgaactttt    960
              atgctctgtg caaattagcg ataattcacc cacttgaccc cgggcaaact gattgttttg   1020
              atgcatttag cttcgtttct aaagattaca tgggcgatgt atttgggctt gcggctgcct   1080
              gtgaaataga ttttcttgac cctgagggta atgttaaagt agaattgcag attcaggtga   1140
              ttggtgaaaa agttttcccg cctttccttg aaaggaagtt tcgaattgag ctttttttgg   1200
              cgtttacgac agatttggac aacatttgtt ctacattctt tgagaagaca aaagaaaatt   1260
              tgaagagtct ggttcaagat aaaaacaagg ggtcaagttt actaatatat ggtggaatga   1320
              gtaaggactc taggcatctt gtcattagtt gcccttaa                           1358
              <210>   590
              <211>   3723
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400>   590
                                                    602

              atgaaggaac acataatagt cacattttca acccaaacaa ctttcaatag agaaaagcag     60
<removed-date>
              cgtctaagca agggcgagga cactcgctac ggtatcacta gccatcttca cgctgctctg    120
              attcataaat caatcaaaac atacgtggat agcctgcttg aaagaggaga agatatttgg    180
              ccaactcttg ccaaagcaat tgaggaatca catgtttcca tcgttgtttt ctctgaaaat    240
              tttgctacct caacatggtg tttggaagaa ctggtcaaag tactggaatg cagaaaagtc    300
              aaaggtcaag ttgttatacc tgttttctat aaaacagatc catctgacat aagaaatcag    360
<removed-apn>
              actggcagtt atgagaatgc attcgcaaaa catgagcgag atcttgggac caatgatctt    420
              aaagtgctta actggaaaat atttatgaat caaggtttta acaacggtca aggtcgtggt    480
              agcgttatgt attttgtgat ttcggctgtt aaggatgctg cattacatat tgcggtcgtt    540
              gtgctacaac tgaggtaccc taatgaacta gaaggtgtag tgagaaacga aaaaaactgt    600
              gaacaggttg aatcattggt ggaacgtttt ccaagacttg gaatttgggg tatgggtgga    660
              atgggaaaaa caatcattgc taaagtcttg tttgccaagc tgtttgccca atatgatcat    720
              gtctgctttg ctaatgcaaa agaatattca cttagtaagc ttttctctga gctactaaag    780
              gaagaaattt ccccatctaa tgtaggatct gcatttcata tgaggaggct gagaagtaga    840
              aaagttttga ttgtacttga taatatggac agcttagatc agtttgaata tttgtgcaga    900
              gattacggcg agctaaataa agatagtaga ctcattataa caacgagaga cagacagttg    960
              ctgagtggaa gagttgattg gatatatgag gtcaagcagt gggaatatcc aaaatctcta   1020
              gagctttttt gcctagaagc ctttgagcca agtaatcccc gagagaagta tgagcatctt   1080
              ttgcaaaggg caatcactta tgcagggggc gttccgcttg cccttaaact tttggcttta   1140
              catcttcgta caagagatat tgcattttgg gaaagttctt ttaagaaact cgatgatcat   1200
              cgtgatgaca aattgcacaa agttttaaaa gtgagttacg atgaactaga tgcactagag   1260
              aagaagatat ttctagacat tgcattcttc ttcataggag aaaagaaaga gtctgtcaca   1320
              aagatactag atgcttgtgg tttcgaacca aatagcggaa tagtagtcct caaagacaag   1380
              gctttgataa ctatctcaaa taaccaaaca atacaaatgc atgacttact gcaaaaaatg   1440
              ggttcggaca taatatgtaa tgattgtggc gaggacccgg cagcacatac ccgactgagt   1500
              gggagtaaag ctcgtgcagt tattgaagaa aacaagggga gtagctcaat tgaaggcata   1560
              acattggatt tgtcacaaaa taatgatttg cctttaagtg ccgacacatt caccaagatg   1620
                                                    603

<removed-date>
              aaagccttaa gaattcttaa attccatgca ccctctaacc tgcagagatg tactaacaca   1680
              tacctcaacc ttcccaaatt tcttgagcca ttttcaaata aactgaggta ttttgagtgg   1740
              aatggatacc cttttgaatc tcttccacaa catttttatg ccaagtttct tgttgagatc   1800
              cgtatgccgc acagcaatgt taaacaactg tggcagggga cgaaggaact gggtaaatta   1860
              gagggaattg accttagtga atgcaagcaa tttgaaaagc ttccgaattt ttctaaggcg   1920
<removed-apn>
              tcaagtctga aatgggttaa tctttctggt tgtgagagtc tggttgatct tcatccatct   1980
              gttttatgcg cagatacact tgttactttg atactggata ggtgtacaaa ggttaggagg   2040
              gttagaggtg aaaaacattt aaattttttg gagaagatca gtgtggatgg gtgcaaaagt   2100
              ctggaggaat ttgcagtgtc ctcggattta attgaaaact tggatttaag cagtacagga   2160
              atcaaaacac tggacctatc aattggacgt cttcaaaaac tcaaacaact taatctagag   2220
              agtttaagac tcaaccgtat tccgaaggag ttatctagtg tgagatctat tagggaattg   2280
              aagatttctg gcagtagact aatagttgag aaaaaacagc tacatgagtt gtttgatggc   2340
              ttacaatccc tacaaatact acatatgaag gattttataa accagtttga actccccaac   2400
              aacgtccacg ttgcatcaaa gttaatggaa ttaaaccttg atggaagcaa catgaaaatg   2460
              ttgcctcaaa gcattaagaa acttgaagaa ctggaaattt tgtctttggt gaattgcagg   2520
              aagcttgagt gcataccaga gcttccacct ctaatcacac tgttaaatgc agttaactgc   2580
              acatcgctgg tttcagtact ccgtgtggcc gtccgcagct acaactataa cagtgttgat   2640
              gcttgtcaac taggaacaag tatcccgagg ctattccaat gtctaacagc ttctgactct   2700
              tccattacca ttacattgct tcctgatcgt tccaacttgc tgggattcat atactcagtg   2760
              gttctttctc cagcaggtgg aaatggaatg aagggtggag gagctaggat aaagtgtcaa   2820
              tgcaacttgg gagaagaagg tataaaagct acctggctaa atactgatgt cacagaactg   2880
              aactcggatc atgtttatgt gtggtatgat ccattccatt gtgacagtat tctcaaattt   2940
              tatcaacccg agatttgttt cgagttctat gttacaaacg atactggccg ggaagttgat   3000
              ggttcagttg gtattaaaga gtgtggggta cgactagtaa gtgttcaaga attggagagt   3060
              gttttgccgg aattggattc acaaaagaaa gaagagttga agaaggcggt ggaattagaa   3120
              tcaggacgta ggataacctt gaagccaatt gttcaagaac aaagatcagc aatggttaaa   3180
                                                    604

              ctagaatcag ttgaacttga aagtcacttc tttaatgtgg aaaagagcat cagatcttct   3240
<removed-date>
              aacaacgaaa ccaataccaa tgctggaacc agtcatgagg agaatattac aaattccgca   3300
              aaagtcttcg aaagcaaagg aaatgaagga agaccaactg aatctgaagc tggattgtat   3360
              ctgccggtaa tgtcagcgtt tgaaggcaac acttctgata acaagtcaag tgaaaacaac   3420
              tatgatggga aagacaattt tgatgagacc aagcaatcag aaggaaaacc aaatatacaa   3480
              ggacaggtta ttgttcccga caccactgat ccaataagta aagaaaattc accaatggat   3540
<removed-apn>
              ctaagaaact ttgaagatga atcagatgag gacccttttg ctgaacttga gagcatcctg   3600
              ctgggaagtc cagagtctcc gccaaaagta acctgttcca caagtgatga tgttgctgta   3660
              aaagaagctt tgcacaacct tgaatgccta tttgaaaatt cactagagtc cattctctat   3720
              gac                                                                 3723
              <210>   591
              <211>   4398
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 591
              atggctagta gcagcaaatc aacttcagct cttgtgactt cttcaaagaa aaatcattat     60
              gatgtgtttg tcacctttag aggtgaagat actcgcaaca atttcactga ttttcttttt    120
              gacgcccttg aaagaaaaga catttttgca tttcgagatg acactaatct tcaaaaaggt    180
              gaatccatag gatctgagct tcttcgagca atagaaggat ctcaggtgcc aggaaaacat    240
              gttcttcctg ttttctatga tgttgatcct tctgaggtgc gaaagcaaag tgggatttat    300
              catgaagctt ttgtcaaaca tgaacaaaga ttccaacaag accttcagaa ggtgtcaaga    360
              tggagggaag ctctaaagca agtggggagt atcgctggtt gggatctacg tgataagcca    420
              caatgtgcag agattaaaaa gattgttcaa aagataatga atatattgga atgcaaatct    480
              tcatgtaatt caaaagattt agttgggata aattctcgta tagaagcatt aaaaaatcat    540
              ttacttttgg actcggttga tggtgttcgt gctataggaa tttgggggat gggaggaata    600
              gggaagacaa cccttgcttt ggatttatat ggccaaatct ctcatcgatt tgatgcatct    660
              tgtttcattg atgatgtaag caaaatttat agattacatg atggtccact tgaagcacaa    720
              aagcaaatca tatttcaaac tcttggcata gaacaccatc aaatatgcaa tcgttacagt    780
                                                    605

              gcaacatatt tgatacggca tagactatgt catgaaaggg cacttctgat tcttgataat    840
<removed-date>
              gtggatcaag ttgaacaatt ggaaaaaata gatgtgcatc ttgaatggtt aggtgcaggt    900
              agtagaatca ttatcatttc tagagatgag catatattga aaaagtatgg agtggatgta    960
              gtttacaaag ttccactttt gaattggaga gattcttaca agttattttg tcgaaaagct   1020
              ttcaaagttg agaacattat tatgagtaat tatcaaaatt tggcaaatga gatactgaga   1080
              tatgctaatg gtctaccact agcaattaaa gtaatgggct catttttgtt tggttgtaat   1140
<removed-apn>
              gtgactgaat ggaagagtgc attggctaga ttgagagaga gtccagataa agatgtcata   1200
              gacgtgctgc aattaagttt tgatgggcta aagcatactg aaaaggaaat atttcttgat   1260
              attgcttgtt ttttcaactc tgaatgtgag aaatatgtta aaaacattct taattgttgt   1320
              ggatttcatg ctgatattgg attaagagtt ctcattaata aatcacttat aagcattaat   1380
              ggtcaaaaca ttgaaatgca ttctttgttg gaagagctgg gcagaaaaat tgtgcaaaat   1440
              agttcaagca atgacccaag aaaatggagc aggttgtggt ctacagaaca actctatgat   1500
              gttattatgg cgaaaatgga aaagcatgtt gaagccatag ttttgaaata tactgaagag   1560
              gtggacgctg aacatttgtc aaaaatgagt aatcttagat tgctcatcat cgtcaaccat   1620
              actgcaacta tctcaggatt cccaagttgt ctttcgaaca aattaagata tgttgagtgg   1680
              cctaaatatc ctttcaagta tttgccaaca agttttcacc ccaatgaact agtagaattg   1740
              attttggatg ggagcaacat taaaaaccta tggaaaaaca agaagtatct tcccaatttg   1800
              agaagattgg atctaagtga ctctagaaag ctagaaaaga taatggattt tggagagttc   1860
              ccaaatcttg agtggttaaa tttggaagga tgtgaaagac ttgtggaatt ggatccatca   1920
              attggacttc taagaaagct tgtttacttg aacttaaaag attgctataa tctacattgc   1980
              aagttgttgg aatctttgcc tcaacttcct tttcctaccg ctatcgggcg ggaacgagtt   2040
              gagggcggat attaccggcc tacaggattg ttcatcttca actgtccaaa attgggtgag   2100
              agggaatgtt acagtagcat gacattttca tggatgatgc aattcattaa ggcaaaccct   2160
              ttctatttga ataggattca tattgttagt ccaggaagcg aaataccaag ttggatcaac   2220
              aataagagcg tgggtgattc aataagaata gaccaatctc ctattaagca tgacaataat   2280
              atcattggtt ttgtatgttg tgcagtattt tccatggcac ctcatcgtgg gaggtttcca   2340
              tcgtcggccc atatggaact ggttttgaaa tatccattta ataagcgtaa gtcagataag   2400
                                                    606

<removed-date>
              tctctgagta gaataactgt gagtgttccg gggcaagctt tgggtatgga ggtgaagagt   2460
              tgcgggtatc gttgggtatg taaacaagac ctacaagagt tcaacttaac aatgatgaat   2520
              cacgaaaaaa ccttggctca gaagtgcaag attttggcaa ttgaagatga gacacaacca   2580
              gaacaagaat cattcatctc acaagtcata actacttcac aaagaagaaa gtcaacaagt   2640
              gataacaaat caactgcaac aacaatctct gttgtcaaca acaagcaaag aaaaaaatct   2700
<removed-apn>
              cgaaccgcca tatcagccac agaagcagaa gtatctgtgg aggtaccaga ttcacctgtt   2760
              acagatgaag tttctactga atctccacag aaaaaaatct tgaacctcca tatcattggt   2820
              cgattcattg gtcagttcct caacaactgt tgccaacaag gtagcactga tacagacatg   2880
              gacaccggat acgacacgga cactataaat tcagatgcta aaagtttggt ttctgaagaa   2940
              gacttagatg ctgtaaattc aattattgaa gacctcaaca actgttgcca acaaggtagc   3000
              acggatacgg acatggacac cggatacaac acagacactg taaattcaga tgctgaaagt   3060
              ttggtttttg aagaggactt agatgctgta aattcaatta ttgaaaagac tattcagaca   3120
              gatattgcaa caagcaatgt cgaaactgac tcaccggttg aagtggctga tgaaattaag   3180
              gaagaagttc caactgcaac tgagacagac agcgatgtag ttgagcctga tgacaatgtt   3240
              gaagctgttc tagagaacaa taagattgat gctagtttga gtggacaaaa tgtaacagaa   3300
              gaaaacaatg aagttctctc tcctgaaagt cctgcaacca aagaagtgcc agaacaaaca   3360
              ccagcagcgg cacaagttga acgtgaagaa gttgcaattg catttgaaac aaacaatggc   3420
              gtatctaact ctaatggaca aaccagcatt acagcttcag atgaaggctt gaccaaagag   3480
              tttatggaaa cagctcatgt tgcttcatta tcgagttatc ttaatgtcaa gaaatcaacg   3540
              gtagtggtct cggaaaagaa agccattgaa agaaagccat tgctgaaact gaaggtgatc   3600
              ttgaaaaggc tcaagcatat ataccttagt aaaaaagctc tctcatcagc tggcaataaa   3660
              tccggcaggc tagcaactga aagaaaaatc ggtacattca ttcatgactc atgcaacggt   3720
              gttctaattg aagggaactg tgaaaccaac tttgtaatgc aagttgatgc ttgtccacat   3780
              gttcagtttg tatctattga agatattccc gaaaccattg tgaagaagga aaaagaactt   3840
              gagatgcagc agagggaaga cctttcttcg aaacccgaga atataagaga gaaaattgtc   3900
              gagggaagga tctcaaagag gttaggagag cttgctcttc tagagcagcc tttcattaag   3960
                                                    607

              gatgacagcg tttcagtgaa atatttggtg aggcaaagta tagctgctat tggagagttt   4020
<removed-date>
              aaagtgcggc gttttgttag gaaatcaaca gtagtggttt cggcctcatt ggttaaacaa   4080
              ttaagagaag aaaccggtgc tgggattatg gactgtaaga aagcccttgc cgaaactgaa   4140
              ggaagaatcg gtacatacat tcacgatgca cgcatcggtg gtctaattga attgaacttt   4200
              gaaaccgact ttgttggcag aagggagaga ttcaaggagt tggttgatga tcttgcaatg   4260
              caagtggctg cttttccaca gaggttccat gacactcact ttgatcctaa tatgatgtta   4320
<removed-apn>
              gatggtttca attccataag attaaactgt attatattct ccattgcatt ggctacaaat   4380
              cagatatatg tgatttaa                                                 4398
              <210>   592
              <211>   1441
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 592
              tggctttgtt ctctctctag attctctgtt tctgtaaact aacaatggcg gcgctgcttg     60
              gtcacattct gaagacccaa aagaattcct cgcttcttcg caacatcact tcctcttcgt    120
              tgcatcaaac acctttcatt ctcccacctt tatctcaagc aaggcggata ggaaatgtag    180
              cagaaagtgt ttgtggattt gatgagatgg tgagagacaa ggaaaggaga tattacatgc    240
              ttggtgggaa aggtggtgtt gggaaaacaa gctgtgctgc ttctcttgct atcaaatttg    300
              caaatcatgg acaccccact atggtggttt caactgatcc tgctcattca ttaagtgatt    360
              cttttgctca ggatttgaca gggggaaaac ttgttccggt tgaaggagtg aattctccat    420
              tatatgctct tgagataaac cctgataaat caatggaaga attccggaca gcaggtcaaa    480
              agcttggagg tcggccggct aagagtttgg tgcaaagcat gggacttgga gtggttgctg    540
              accagttagg ggaccttaat cttgaagagc tgttgcacac tcctccacct ggaacagatg    600
              aaatcattgc aattgctaag gtgatgcaat ttcttgagtc tgaagaatat agtatgttca    660
              gtcggatagt ttttgataca gcaccaacgg gtcatacact tcggctacta tcattgcctg    720
              acttcttgga tggatctata ggcaaactta tgaagatgaa gatgaaatta ggttcagttt    780
              tcaaatcctt gttgggaaaa gaacagcctc aaaacaatcc tttagacaaa cttgaaaagc    840
              tcaaggagag agtggcaaaa atacgggatc ttttccataa ttcagacact accgaattca    900
                                                    608

              taatagtgac gattcctacg gttatggcaa ttagtgaatc atcaaggtta catgcatcct    960
<removed-date>
              taaagaacga aagtgtacct gttaaaagac taatcgttaa tcaggtctta cctcctacga   1020
              cgggctgcaa gttttgttcg atgaaactaa aggatcaaat gcgcgcaatt gaaactatcc   1080
              acaatgattc agaacttggt ggattgagat tatgtcaggc acccttggtg gatatggaaa   1140
              taaggggtgt tccagctctc acattcatgg gagataagct ttggagataa aacttacatc   1200
              gtagataatt cacgaatttc acgaacgtgg atcacattat agagatgctg ttaaattttt   1260
<removed-apn>
              ttaggaagtt tagagactac tctagcattc tttcaagcag tgaaatgggg tactaacagt   1320
              ttgttacatt atctatttta agttttagat gttagtctct cttttcttgt ttattgaatg   1380
              gtactatctg ataaggcaac aaatgtatgt tacaactagc aattcatgca tatctttatt   1440
              g                                                                   1441
              <210>   593
              <211>   3174
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 593
              atggctagca gcagcaaatc atcttcagct cttgtgactt cttcaaagaa aaatcattat     60
              gatgtgtttg tcacctttag aggtgaagat actcgcaaca atttcactga ttttcttttt    120
              gatgcccttg aaacaaaagg cattatggta tttcgggatg tcattaatct tcaaaaaggt    180
              gaatgcatag gacctgagct ttttcgtgca atcgaaatat ctcaggttta cgttgcgatc    240
              ttctcaaaga actatgcttc ctcaacgtgg tgcttgcaag aattagaaaa gatatgtgaa    300
              tgcattaagg ggtcgggaaa acatgttctt cctgttttct atgatgttga tccttctgag    360
              gtgcggaagc aaagtggaat ttatagtgaa gcttttgtca aacatgaaca aagattccaa    420
              caagactcta tgaaggtgtc aagatggaga gaagctctag agcaagtggg gagtatatct    480
              ggttgggatc tacgtgatga gccactagct agagaaatta aagagattgt tcaaaagata    540
              atcaatatat tggaatgcaa atattcatgt gtttcaaaag atttagttgg gattgattct    600
              cctatacaag cattacaaaa tcatttgctt ttgaactcag ttgatggtgt tcgtgctata    660
              ggaatttgtg gaatgggagg aatagggaaa acaacccttg ctacgacttt atatggccaa    720
              atatctcatc aatttagtgc atcttgtttt attgacgatg taaccaaaat ttatggatta    780
                                                    609

              catgatgatc cactcgatgt acaaaaacaa atcctatttc aaactctcgg catagaacac    840
<removed-date>
              caacaaatat gcaatcgtta ccatgcaact actttgatac aaaggaagct atgtcatgaa    900
              agaaccctta tgattcttga taatgtggac caagttgaac aattggagaa aatagcggtg    960
              catcgtgaat ggttaggtcc aggtagtaga attattatca tttctagaga tgagcatgta   1020
              ttgaaagcgt atggagtgga tgtagtttac aaagtttcac tattggattg gaatgaagct   1080
              cacatgttat tttgtcgaaa agctttcaaa gatgagaaaa ttattatgag taattatcaa   1140
<removed-apn>
              aatttggtag atcagatact acattatgct aaaggtctac cactagcaat taaagtattg   1200
              ggctcgtttt tgtttggtcg taatgtgact gaatggaaga gtgcattgac tagattgaga   1260
              caaagtccag ttaaagatgt catggatgtg ctgcaattaa gttttgatgg gctcaatgaa   1320
              acggaaaaag acatatttct tcatattgct tgttttttca acaacgattc ggaggaagat   1380
              gttaaaaaca ttctaaactg ttgtggattt catgctgata ttggattaag agttctcatt   1440
              gataaatcac ttgtaagcat tagttattca attattaaca tgcattcttt gttggaagag   1500
              ctaggcagaa aaattgtgca aaatagttca agcaaagaac caagaaaatg gagcaggttg   1560
              tggtccacag aacaactcta cgatgttatg ttggagaata tggaaaagca tgttgaagcc   1620
              atagttttgt attacaaaga agatgaagag gcggactttg aacacttgtc aaaaatgagt   1680
              aatctcagat tgctcttcat cgccaactat atttcaacga tgttaggatt cccaagctgt   1740
              ctttcgaaca aattaagatt tgttcactgg tttagatatc cttccaagta tttgccatca   1800
              aattttcacc ccaatgaact tgtagaattg atcttgacgg agagcaacat taaacaacta   1860
              tggaaaaaca agaagtatct tcccaatttg agaacattgg atctacgtca ctccagaaat   1920
              ctagaaaaga taatagattt tggagagttc ccgaatcttg agcgtttaga tttggaagga   1980
              tgtataaacc ttgttgagtt ggatccatct attggacttc taagaaagct tgtttacttg   2040
              aacctaaaag attgcaaaag tctagttagc atacccaaca acatattcgg tcttagctct   2100
              cttcaatacc taaatatgtg tggctgttcc aaagtattta acaacccaag gcgtttgatg   2160
              aagtctggta tatcctcaga aaagaagcag cagcatgata tacgtgaaag tgcatcacat   2220
              cacctccctg gcctaaaatg gatcattttg gctcacgatt catcacatat gttgccttcc   2280
              ttgcatagtt tatgttgttt gcgtaaggtt gacataagct tttgctatct aagccatgtg   2340
              cctgatgcaa ttgaatgttt acattggcta gaaagattaa atttagcggg aaacgatttt   2400
                                                    610

<removed-date>
              gtgacattac ctagcctgag gaagctatcc aaacttgtat atttaaattt ggagcattgc   2460
              aaattgttgg aatctttgcc tcaacttcct tttcctacca atactgggga ggttcatcgt   2520
              gagtacgacg actatttttg tggtgcagga ttgctcattt tcaactgtcc aaaattgggt   2580
              gagagggaac attgcaggag catgacactt ttatggatga aacaattcat taaggcaaac   2640
              ccacgttcct cttctgagat tcaaatagtt aatccaggaa gtgaaatacc aagttggatc   2700
<removed-apn>
              aacaatcaga ggatgggtta ttcaatagca atagaccgat ctcctattag gcatgacaat   2760
              gacaataata tcattggtat tgtatgttgt gcagcattta cgatggcacc ctatcgtgaa   2820
              attttttatt cctcggagtt gatgaatctg gctttcaagc gtattgattc caatgagagg   2880
              ttgttgaaaa tgagagttcc agtaaagctc agtcttgtta cgaccaaatc aagtcaccta   2940
              tggattatct acttaccccg agagtacccc gggtattcct gtcatgaatt tggaaaaata   3000
              gaattaaaat tttttgaggt ggaaggtttg gaggtcgaga gttgcggtta tcgttgggta   3060
              tgtaaacaag atatacaaga attcaattta atcatgaatc acaaaaattc cttaactcca   3120
              aagtgcaaaa ttttgacaat tgaagatgag acacaaccag aaccgcaacc ataa         3174
              <210>   594
              <211>   3525
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 594
              gttcaggttc gtattcctat gtctacgatg tgttcatcag ctttagaggg gaggatacct     60
              cggcctaggg tttacgtgga tttctgtaca agactctatc tgaaaaggga ttccacacct    120
              tcattgacca ccacgcttga cgcgggaaga ggaacaacga agacacttgt agatgcaatt    180
              gaagagtcca ggattgggat tgttgttttt tctgagaact atgcttcctc cacatggtgt    240
              ctggatgaac ttgcgtacat tattgactcc ttttccaata agaaaaactt ccgtcgatct    300
              gttttcccag tattttacaa cgtagatcct tctcacgtgc gacatcagag tgggatttat    360
              ggacaggcac ttgactcgca ccagaagaac aacaacttca attcagagaa attgaacaaa    420
              tggaagaacg ctctcaaaca agcagctaat ttgtccggtt tccattttaa acatggggat    480
              ggatatgaat atgaattaat tgacaagatt gtaagacttg gtctccacca aaattgattc    540
              caccccttat ttacgtgttg tggatcaccc aattggtctc aattatcgag tgttagaact    600
                                                    611

<removed-date>
              aaactggctt ctcaatcata atactcatgc tgctactgcc accgttggat cccatggact    660
              caaactgctc ggtatctacg gtatgggtgg aatagggaaa acaacccttg ctcgagctgt    720
              attcaatttc atttcccccc aatttgatgc cttttgtttc ctcgaagatg tcagagaaaa    780
              ttcagcaaac cacggcttag tacatcttca acaaactctt ctcgccacct tagctggaca    840
              gaagaagaag aagaaagact tccaattagc aagcatcagt gaaggacttc tgctattaaa    900
<removed-apn>
              gaatatgctc caccgcaaga aggtcctttt ggttcttgat gacgttaaca gctcagatca    960
              gttgcaagct actcttggaa gaggcctcga cacttttggt tatggaacca ccatcatcat   1020
              tactacccgg gacaaacact tcctaacaac tcacggggtt catacgacat acaaggtaga   1080
              ggagttgacc aaggatgagt ccctcgagtt gctttcttgg aatgctttca agaccaacaa   1140
              aatttatcca gattatatcg acctgttaaa ccgcgtaaca acttgcgcat ctggccttcc   1200
              tttggctttg gaggttatag gctcatacct gcatgggaaa ggagtaaaag aatgggaatc   1260
              tgcattagac tcctatgaaa agattccttc taaagatatc caaaccatac ttaagcaaac   1320
              ctacaatgct ttggatggag atctcaggca actttttctc gacatcgcat gtttcttcaa   1380
              aggatacgaa ctctcagagg ttgaatacct actcagtgct caccacggtt actgcttcaa   1440
              accccaccgt ttcagattct tgctggaaac atctctcatc aagattgacg agcacaatca   1500
              tgtgaaaatg catgacttga tacgggacat ggccagagaa atcgtgaggc aggaatcacc   1560
              cgaccacccc ggcaaacgca gcaggctatg gcttactacg gatatcgtcg aagtttttgt   1620
              tacttgcacg ggaacaagtg aaattcaaac catcgttctg gatttcccca gatatgaaaa   1680
              aatggtacgg tgggacggaa aagccttcca gaagatgaca ggcctccaga cacttattat   1740
              tagaagtctg tgttttgctg aaggtccgaa gaatcttcca aatagtttaa gagtgctgga   1800
              gtggtgggga tatccttcac agtctttgcc ttcttatttt taccccaaga aattagctgt   1860
              tctgaagtta ccgcacagtt cctttatgtc actggagctg tccaagtcaa aggcaagtta   1920
              ccgcacatgt tcattctcac ggctgtctct tgattcttgt gagaatttag ttgaaattca   1980
              cgactctgtt ggattcttgg ataaacttga aattctgaat cttgggagtt gcgcaaagct   2040
              tcggaatttg ccacccatcc atttgacctc tctccaacac ctcaatcttt cacattgttc   2100
              aagtcttgtg agttttcctg agatattagg aaatatgaaa aatattacaa gtctttcttt   2160
                                                    612

              ggagtacact gccataaggg aatttccata ttcaatcgga aatcttcccc gacttaaaag   2220
<removed-date>
              tttagaactg cacggatgtg gaaatcttct gttaccaagt agcattattc tattgtcaga   2280
              acttgaggag ttgagtattt ggcaatgtga agggttgaaa tcatataagc aagacaaagg   2340
              tccagaaaaa gttggttcaa cagtgtcttc aaacgtgaag tatattgagt tcttttcttg   2400
              caatatatcg gacgacttca ttcgaatagg tctttcttgg ttttcaaatg tggtagaatt   2460
              gaacctttca gcaaacactt tcacagttct tccaacatgc atcaaagaat gccgcttttt   2520
<removed-apn>
              gacgatactt atactagatt actgcaggca acttcgagaa atcagaggaa ttccaccaaa   2580
              tttagaaata ttctctgcaa tacgatgcac atccttgaac gatttagacc tcacgaatct   2640
              tcttgtgtcc accaaagtct gttgtccttt gagagagctt gttttggatg actgtgaaag   2700
              tcttcaagaa attagaggga ttccacccag catagaactt ttgtccgcaa gaaactgcag   2760
              atccttgact atctcgtgca gaagaatgtt actgattcag gagttgcacg aggctggaaa   2820
              taagagcttt tgtttgcccg gaacacaaat gccggattgg tttgagcacc gtagcaaagg   2880
              acattcgatt tctttctggt ttcgtggcaa gttccctgca ctatctctct gttttgttgg   2940
              actcatgcat aaaatcccta ccgggttcag acccattgtg atcatcaatg gcaatataat   3000
              gaaaacaatg ttgccagctg aaaaatggtt tgattttgag ttcccagtgt taactgatca   3060
              tatatttatt gttggtgaaa gacacataaa atttgaagat aatatggatg aagtactttc   3120
              agaaaatgaa tggaatcatg cggtgatttc tattgatatt gattttaaat ggagctcaag   3180
              tggactgttt gctgcgtgga ttggactcca tgtgatcaaa caaaaatgca gcatggacag   3240
              aattcaattc accaatcctt gcaactgctg aaagaaaagc atttactggg gaacacagta   3300
              gattctcaga gactattgga tcggctgcaa aaataaacga cttcatttta tatattgcaa   3360
              ccatatttaa aacagggatg atagtggctt tcacctctag cacttctagc attatatgat   3420
              ttgaagacca aaccatggct tctttgttgc atgccttgag atttggccac aggaagaaag   3480
              gtcacactgt aagacccagg tgtggaaata gcaacttctg caagt                   3525
              <210>   595
              <211>   3813
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400>   595
                                                    613

              atggccaaca gtagcaactc atctttagct cttgtgactt cttcaagaag aaattattat     60
<removed-date>
              gatgtgtttg tcaccttcag aggtgaagac actcgcaaca atttcactga ttatcttttt    120
              gatgcacttg aaaccaaagg tatttatgca tttagggatg acacaaatct taaaaaaggt    180
              gaagtcatag gacctgagct ccttcgtgca atcgaaggat ctcaggtttt cgtcgcagtc    240
              ttttcaagga actatgcttc ctcaacatgg tgcctgcaag aattagaaaa gatctgtgaa    300
              tgtgttcagg gacctgaaaa acacgttctt cctgtttttt atgatattga tccttctgag    360
<removed-apn>
              gtgcggaagc aaagtgggat ttattgtgaa tcttttgtca aacatgaaca aagattccaa    420
              caagaccctc ataaggtgtc aagatggagg gaagctttaa accaagtggg gagtatctct    480
              ggttgggatc tacgtgataa gccacaagct ggagagatta aaaagattgt tcaaaatata    540
              atgaatatat tggattgtaa atcttcattc atttcaaaag atttagttgg gataaattct    600
              cggatagaag tattacaaaa tcatttactt ttggactcgg ttgatggtgt ttgtgctatt    660
              ggaatttgtg gaatgggcgg aataggaaag acaacccttg ctatgacttt atatggccag    720
              atatctcatc aatttagtgc atcttgtttt atagacgatg taagcaaaat ttatagatta    780
              tatgatggtc ccctcgatgc acaaaggcaa atcctacttc aaactgtcgg catagaacac    840
              catcaaatat gcaatcgtta cagtgcaact gatttgatac gacgtaggtt acgtcatgaa    900
              aaggcccttc tgatttttga taatgtggat caagttgaac aattggaaaa aatagctgtg    960
              catcgtgaat ggttaggtgc gggtagtaga atcgttatca tttctagaga tgagcatata   1020
              ttgaaagagt acggagtgga tgtagtttac aaagttccac ttatgaatag tacagattct   1080
              tacgagttat tttgtcgaaa agctttcaaa gttgagaaaa ttattatgag tgattatcaa   1140
              aatttggcaa atgagatact agattatgct aaaggtctac cactagcaat taaagtattg   1200
              ggctcatttt tgtttggtca tagtgtggct gaatggaaga gtgcattggc tagattgaga   1260
              gaaagtccgc ataatgatgt catggatgtg ctgcacttaa gttttgatgg ccccgagaaa   1320
              tatgttaaaa acgttctaaa ttgttgtgga tttcatgctg atattggatt aggagttctc   1380
              attgataaat cacttataag cattgaggat gcaaatatta aaatgcattc tttgttggaa   1440
              gagctaggca gaaaaattgt gcaagaaaat tcaagcaaag agcaaagaaa gtggagcagg   1500
              atctggtcca aaaaacaact ctacaacgtt atgatggaga atatggaaga gcatgttgaa   1560
              gccatatttt tgaatgatga tgggattgat atgaacgttg aacacttttc aaaaatgagt   1620
                                                    614

<removed-date>
              aatcttagat tgctcatcat ctacaacaat tcggcatgga attatacaac ctataaaaga   1680
              ccttgctttc atggaaaact gagttgtctt tcaaacaaat taaggtattt tgactgggag   1740
              cattatcctt tctgggaatt gccattaagt tttcacccta atgaacttgt tgaattgatc   1800
              ttgaagaata gcagcttcaa acaactatgg aaaagcaaga agtattttcc caatttgaaa   1860
              gcattggatc taagtgactc caaaatagaa aagataatag attttggaga gttcccgaat   1920
<removed-apn>
              cttgagtcgt taaatttgga aagatgtgaa aaacttgtgg agttggattc atcgattgga   1980
              cttctaagaa agcttgttta cttgaatttg gactattgca taaatttagt aagcataccc   2040
              aacagcatat tctgtcttag ctctcttgaa gatctatata tgtgtggctg ttccaaagtg   2100
              tttaacaatt caaggaattt gatcgagaag aagcatgata taaatgaaag tttccacaaa   2160
              tggatcattt tgcccactcc cacgagaaac acatattgct tgccatcatt gcatagctta   2220
              tattgtttgc gtcaagttga tattagcttt tgccatctaa accaagttcc tgatgcaatt   2280
              gaaggtttac attcgctaga aagattatat ttagcgggaa actattttgt gacactacct   2340
              agcttgagga agctttccaa acttgaatat ttagatttgc agcattgcaa gttgttggaa   2400
              tctttgcctc aacttccttt tcctaccact actgaacaag attggtggat tcgttcacag   2460
              gatttttcgg gatataggcg gactaatcac ggtcctgctt taataggatt gttcattttc   2520
              aactgtccaa aattggttga gagggaacgt tgcagtagca tcacaatttc atggatggca   2580
              catttcattc aggcaaacca acaacccaac aaattgtcgg cgcttcaaat tgtaactcca   2640
              ggaagtgaaa taccaagttg gatcaacaat cagagcgtgg gtgcttcaat atcaattgat   2700
              gaatctcctg ttataaatga caataacaat aatattattg gctttgtaag ttgtgtatta   2760
              atttccatgg cacctcaaga tacaacaatg atgcattgtt ttccactctc catctatatg   2820
              aaaatgggtg ctaagcgaaa ccgtagaaag cttccagtga ttatcgtaag agatcttatt   2880
              acaaccaaat caagtcacct atggctagtc tacttccccc gagagtccta tgatgtttat   2940
              ggaactctcc gtgcgaaatg ttatcagggt gaagttgtgg gttttgaggt gaaaagttgc   3000
              gggtatcgtt gggtatgtaa acaagaccta caaaagttca acttcacaat gatgaatcat   3060
              gaaaattcct tggctcagaa gtgtaagatt atggcaattg aaggcgagac acaaccacaa   3120
              ccagaacaag aatcattcat ctcacaagtc ataactactt cgaagaaaga agaaacaaca   3180
                                                    615

              gatggatcac aagaaggtca agaagagttt caacctaaca cgtttggatt tttaaaaaat   3240
<removed-date>
              aaatctcaaa cctctacagt tgaagtggct gatgaaagtg taacagaaaa tgtagttgat   3300
              caaattgttg ccgaatatga acaacaatca catatcgata atggaaagga agatgattcc   3360
              gctgcaacac agacagacag tgatgcagtt gagccttgcc atgttatcac agaatcagaa   3420
              gatgacaatg ttgaagatgt tctagataac aatgagattg atgctagttt ggccggacaa   3480
              agtggtgatt catctcctga gggcagcatg aataaagatg taactgaaga agtgcaagaa   3540
<removed-apn>
              gaacaaacac ctgtcgcagc acatgttgaa gaggttgcaa ttgcatctga gacaaacagc   3600
              atatctaatt ctactgaaga aacagaaggc tcgagtaaag gttttaattt cagtcgcccg   3660
              atgatcatct tgtttttgtc cctacctgtg ttgaaattat tagggatgtg ggtacgaaga   3720
              gaagaaaaaa cacatggatt acaagaaggt catcatgaag agtctaaaaa aaatggacaa   3780
              gaggagaggc atcgacatga tttacatctc taa                                3813
              <210>   596
              <211>   5013
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 596
              attatggccg gggatcctcg tctataatac tccacacaga cacacaatta ctcacttcac     60
              tcaaccatgt cttcttctcc aagctcctca tatgaagttc ctcatcctca tcatctttgg    120
              atgttcgatg tgtttttgag ttaccatgac aaatacattg gtaaatcttt tgcattggat    180
              ctctcttccg ctctcacaca agctggatat gctgtttata tcaacaatca cgatctcaca    240
              agcggagaac agagaaattc agctgcaatc aaagcgtgta gaacttccat catcattttc    300
              tcaagtaaat ttgatggttc aacatggttt cttgaagaaa tggagaagat attggagtgt    360
              cgtagaacca taaagcaggt atttgtgcct gtgttctatg atgttgatcc ctccgatgta    420
              ctaaaacaga agggggtgtt tggagaagct tttgtagatt gtattgcacg aggcatcttg    480
              acagaagaca gctcaatacg ttatagagac gcgctctttg aagctgccaa tatttcagga    540
              tttcggatga tggacaccag gagccaatat aatgaaatca atgacatagt gcaaggtttc    600
              tgtcatttga tagaagacca aaaatcgtta ttcattgctg aacatccggt gggagtagaa    660
              gctcgggtga aagatgtgat tcaactattg aacagcgaac aagcagaaaa taccatgatt    720
                                                     616

              gtagggatat gggggatggc tggggttggt aaaacaataa ttgctaaagc cacttataat    780
<removed-date>
              caaatgagtt tcacttttga ttgcaagagc attctcaaga atgtcaatga aacttgcaaa    840
              tcgggtgatg atgggctggt ttctttccag cgacaacttc ttttagacat ctgcaaaaca    900
              acaaagatac atatagatac agttgaatca ggaaagaaga tattacagag aagcctttgc    960
              cataagaagg tatttcttgt acttgacggt gtgaataaat tggaacagtt gaatgctttg   1020
              tgtggtgatc gtgattggtt tggtcatgga agtagaatag ttattacaac aagtgataaa   1080
<removed-apn>
              catatacttc gtaaccttca acttgatcat gtgtatagaa tgaaatatat ggacaatact   1140
              gaatctctta agctttttag ttggcatgca ttcagaactc caagtcctaa agaaagttac   1200
              gctgaccttt gtagagatgt tgttgagtac tgtggggggt tgccggtagc tcttgaaatc   1260
              cttgggtctt atttgtttga cagatctgta caagagtgga agattgcact ccagaaattc   1320
              aaaaccattc tcccctatca aattgagaaa aaattgagaa aaaatcttga tgtcttagac   1380
              catgacaacc aagatgtatt ccttaaaata gctactttat ttattgggat gcacaaagat   1440
              gatgtaattc agacattaaa ttactctggg catttcccgg aaattgcaat atcaatcctt   1500
              gaagataaaa gccttttaac tatagatggc aacaacagga ttggaatgca tactttgtta   1560
              cgagcaatgg gaagagaaat cataaggcaa cagtcgatgg atatggctgc gacaaagatg   1620
              tacgacgtgt tcttgagttt cagaggggaa gactgtcgag caaaattcat ttcacatcta   1680
              tatatctctc ttcaaaattc cgggctttat gttttcaaag acgatgatgg gattcaacga   1740
              ggagatcaga tctcagtcgc actaatccaa gctgtcggac agtctaaaat ttctattgtt   1800
              gttctgtcta aaaactttgc taattcaaaa tggtgtatga cagagttgga gagaattgtg   1860
              gaaatcagta gaaccaaggg tatggtgctt gtgccagtgt tctatgaggt agatccctcg   1920
              gaagtacgtc atcagacagg agagtttgga aaagcttttg aatgtcttct atctacaaaa   1980
              tcagtggatg aatacacaaa gagaaattgg aaagcagcac tccatgaagt tggtagcata   2040
              gcaggggttg tcatcttaaa atccagcgac gaaagcgagg atatcaagaa aatagttgat   2100
              cttgttactc atttgctaga caagacagaa ttatttgttg ctgaccatcc ggtgggacta   2160
              gaatcacgag tacgagatgt tattcaacta ctgagcagac aaaaatccaa agatcctcaa   2220
              ctactaggga tatggggcat gggagggatt gggaaaacaa cccttgctaa agccgtttac   2280
              aataaaattc gtcatgattt tgatgcaaag agcttcctgt tcaatgtcag agatgtttgg   2340
                                                    617

<removed-date>
              aaagtagacg atgacaaagt ttctttacag caacgacttc tttttgacat ctgcaaaact   2400
              acaaagataa agatagactc agttgaatca ggaaaaaaga tattacagga aagactttgt   2460
              tcgaaaaaga tatttcttgt aatcgatgat gtgaataaat tggatcaatt gaatgctttg   2520
              tgtggagatc gaaaatggtt tggtaaggga agtagaatac tcatcacaac aagggatgat   2580
              gatttactca gtaggcttga agtcgaccat gtatacagaa tgaaggaaat ggatagcagt   2640
<removed-apn>
              gaatctctag agctttttaa ttggcatgca ttcaagcaat caacatctag ggaaggtttt   2700
              accaacattt ccagagatgt tgtcaagtac tctggaggat tgccgctagc tcttcaagtc   2760
              attgggtcct ttttgtcgac taagaaaata aaagcagagt ggaaggatgt actggagaaa   2820
              ctcaaactga tacctaataa tgaagtgttg gagaagctga gaataagttt tgatggttta   2880
              agtgatgatg atgtgaaaga tatattcctt gatattgctt ttttctttat tggtatggac   2940
              cgggaagacg taactaagat actacaagac tgtgggcatt tttcagtaat tgggataagt   3000
              gtcctcgtac aacaaagtct tgtaactgtt gataggaaaa acaagatcgg aatgcatgat   3060
              ttgttacgag acatgggcag agagatcgtc cgcaagatat caaaagatgc ggacaaggag   3120
              cctagtagat tatggcatta tgaggatgtg cataagttgc caatagatac tagttcttta   3180
              gctgtcaagg gactgagttt aaagatgtca agaatggact caacaactta tttggaaacc   3240
              aaagcatttg agaagatgga caagctaaga tttcttcaac ttgttggcat acaacttaat   3300
              ggagattaca aatatctttc aagacatctt aggtggctta gttggcatgg attcccttta   3360
              aaatatatac ctgccgactt tcatcaagat actctagttg ctgttgtctt gaaatattcc   3420
              aatctggaac gagtgtggag aaagtctcag gatgaggatt acgagtgcag agaactaagt   3480
              aagattgctt cagagaaggt tgagatgctg aagccatttc tggtgaagct gaaaattctt   3540
              aatttgagtc attctcacaa cttgagacat acccccgact tttcaaaatt gccaaatctt   3600
              gaaaagttaa tacttaagga ttgtcccagt ttgtcttcgg tttcttctaa tataggacat   3660
              ctcaaaaaga ttcttttaat aaatttgaaa gattgtacag gccttcgaga acttccaagg   3720
              agcatatata agttagactc gctgaaaaca ctcattctgt ctggatgtac aaaaattgac   3780
              aagttagaag aggatataga acaaatgaaa tctttaacca ccttggttgc ggatgacact   3840
              gctatcacaa gagtgccctt tgcagtagta agatcaaaaa gcattgcatt tatttctcta   3900
                                                    618

              tgtggttata aaggatctgc acgtagagtg tttccttcta ttattcagtc ttggctgtct   3960
<removed-date>
              ccaacaaata acattctatc cctagttcaa acatctgcag gaactttatg tcgtgatttc   4020
              atcgatgaac aaaataatag tttctattgt ctatcatcca ttttagaaga tcttcagaat   4080
              actcaacgtc tttgggtgaa atgtgattca caagctcaac ttaatcaaac tgtagcaagt   4140
              attttatata gcttcaacac tcaaaattgt gagggattct caaatattga gacttcagca   4200
              tcaaattttc gtcgcactca agtttgtatt tccagctcaa aaaattcagt aacttccctt   4260
<removed-apn>
              ttgattgaaa tgggagtgag ctgcgatgtc gcaaacattc ttagagaaaa tattttgcag   4320
              aaaatgcctc ccactgggtc tggtttgctc cccggtgaca actatcctga ttggctaacc   4380
              ttcaatagca acagttcttc tgtaactttc gaagtacctc aagtggacgg gcgttctttg   4440
              aagacaatca tgtgcattgc ctattcttct tctctagaca atacaacaac agttggcttt   4500
              aaagttgtgt tggtgataaa ttgcaccaaa aacaccattc atgtctacaa gataggcgca   4560
              ttattatcat ctttcgacga ggaggagtgg cagagagtaa tatcaaatat agaacctgga   4620
              aacgaaatta aggtggttgt tgtttttaca aatgaattca ttgtgaagaa aacaacaatt   4680
              tatcttgtct atgatgaacc aattgaggaa aagacgaacc actgccatga gccagatgag   4740
              aatggcattg tgtctagtgg tgatgaaaat atatttggta gactcttctt cactattcct   4800
              tcccttgctc gagctgttct gatatcacgg cctttctggt tctgtttggc tggtattatg   4860
              gtttggtcgt ctagctgccg ttctgacaag cgaacaagaa acaaccctat tctaagggat   4920
              gttgcatcga cgagctctca aggattcaat aatttagaat ctttggacaa aaaccctttg   4980
              gatggtgtac aagatgtgaa aagacggggt taa                                5013
              <210>   597
              <211>   3295
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 597
              atggcagacg agctaactac gacaaaggaa gaatcaaaga aagaagtaaa gaaccgctgt     60
              atatttgtag ttttctataa gaagaagaat aaggatgatt ttgattcatg tgttggagat    120
              gatgacgaca agcaaaaaat gggaaaagat gttgaaggta agctgagaga acttcttaag    180
              attctagata aagaaaattt tgggaagaaa attagtggat ctattcttaa gggtcctttt    240
                                                     619

              gatgttcctg caaatcctga atttactgtt ggtttggatt tgcaattgat taagttgaag    300
<removed-date>
              gtggaaattc tcagagaagg tagatctact cttttgttga ctggtctggg tggaatggga    360
              aaaacaactc tggctacaaa gctgtgtttg gatgatcaag ttaagggtaa attcaaggaa    420
              aacattatat ttgtaacctt ctcaaaaaca cccatgctga agattattgt agagagatta    480
              tttgaacatt gcggatatcc ggtgcctgag taccaaagtg atgaagatgc ggtaaatgga    540
              ttgggacttt tgctgaggaa aattgaggga agtccaatat tgttagtcct ggatgacgtt    600
<removed-apn>
              tggcccggat cagaagacct agtcgagaaa tttaaatttc agatatcaga ttataaaatt    660
              ttggtcactt caagggttgc attttctaga tttgacaaaa catttatcct aaagcctctt    720
              gctcaagaag attcggtaac ccttttccgt cactacacag aggttgaaaa aaacagttca    780
              aaaattcctg acaaagatct tatcgaaaag gttgtggaac attgcaaggg tttaccactt    840
              gccattaaag tgattgcaac atcattccgt tatcgaccat atgagttatg ggaaaagatt    900
              gtaaaggaac tttcacgagg tcgttctata cttgattcta atactgaatt acttattcgc    960
              ctccaaaaga ttttggatgt tttggaagat aatgccatta gcaaagagtg cttcatggac   1020
              cttgcattat ttcctgaaga tcagagaatt cctgttgctg ccttgattga tatgtgggca   1080
              gagttgtatg gactagatga tgacggcaaa gaagcaatgg acataatcaa caaattagac   1140
              tctatgaatt tggctaatgt cttaatagct aggaatatta acttctgttc aattcccagg   1200
              aaaaatgcaa gtgacacaga aaattactac tacaataatc acttcatcgt ccttcatgat   1260
              ctgctgagag agcttgggaa ttatcaaaac acccaggaac ctattgaaca aagaaaaaga   1320
              cagcttatta acacaaatga aagcaaatgt gaccagaggc tcagggagaa gcagcaaggt   1380
              acaatggccc acatattatc caaattgatt ggatggtttg ataaaccgaa gcctcagaag   1440
              gtccctgccc gcacattgtc tatatcaatt gatgaaactt gcgcttcaga ttggtcccaa   1500
              gtgcagccag ctcttgctga ggttctgatt ttaaatcttc aaaccaaaca gtacacattt   1560
              ccagaattga tggagaaaat gaacaaactt aaagctctta tagtcataaa tcatggttta   1620
              cgcccttctg aactgaacaa tcttgagcta cttagctctt tatccaacct taaaagaatc   1680
              aggctagaga ggatttctgt tccttccttt ggcacattga agaatcttaa aaaattatcc   1740
              ctctacatgt gtaatacaag actcgctttt gaaaagggca gcatcctaat ttccgactta   1800
              tttcctaatt tagaagattt gagcatggat tattgcaagg atatgacagc attgcctaat   1860
                                                    620

<removed-date>
              ggggtgtgtg atattatctc gttgaaaaag ctcagtatta ctaattgcca taagctttct   1920
              ttgctgcccc aagaaattgg aaagttggag aatttggaac tcttgagcct gatttcctgc   1980
              actgatttgg tagagctacc agattctatt ggaaggcttt caaatctaag actacttgac   2040
              atctccaact gcataagcct ttcaagttta cccgaggact ttggcaatct gtgtaatcta   2100
              cgaaatctcg acatgactag ttgtgcaagt tgtgaattgc cattctccgt tgtcaatctt   2160
<removed-apn>
              cagaatttaa aggtgacatg tgatgaagag acagctgctt catgggaatc tttccaatct   2220
              atgatttcca atttaactat agaagttcct catgttgaag tcaatttaaa ctggcttcat   2280
              gcaaatcgct cctaaaacct acgtgcactc ttcctttgcc ttttcaagtt gtcgttgagg   2340
              acattgaagc cgatagacca aaatactccg ttttctgctt tggaactcgt caacatctag   2400
              ggtcattcaa atattgattc tagtagcaag taatgtgcct acatgtctca aaaaaggctt   2460
              catgtttacg atagatagga aggcaggaag taataaaaaa acaaaacagt ctgaaaatga   2520
              agaatgatgg tgatactgat gcactaaggc acatggaaag aaaatgaaat catgataagt   2580
              atgatggtta agcattggtt tggagtaaaa agtggccaag gaagaggtaa aggtgttagt   2640
              aaatgtgtcc ccctgtgaaa ctgaaacatt gtctagtagt attttaggta aattctaggc   2700
              tgcctttgaa aagttgtgga taagttacgc atatatcaat taaaaacagc cgcatgtact   2760
              cctaatgttt ttcttcaaaa attacatgtt tgatatatat tatggagtac atgtgactga   2820
              ttttaattgg ttgtgagtaa tttatccaca cctttttaaa ggtagcctag atctcgctgt   2880
              attttaagtt tttaacgtta ataagttgat gtgtcaaagt tgctgaagtt gtgcaaaggc   2940
              aaatcctcat tttaatcctt ctaatttatg acttgaaaat gtgaaataaa tttctgcttc   3000
              aagttatttc ctgaagacac gaggatcctc tgctgctatg gacagaaatc catgatgaag   3060
              atgatttgag tgcagtggag aaaattcaag ccagggtcaa atgtcatgtt tggtatttta   3120
              tttttatttt ttgttttgtt tggtttgtat aatagtacta gtggagtggc tcttaaacaa   3180
              tttgtgatat tatgtgtgat tttctgaaaa agccactaac tgcaagttgt gtaaaactat   3240
              ggttatgaaa taaaactgtt tgatatttct gtttggcaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa        3295
              <210>   598
              <211>   4507
              <212>   DNA
                                                    621

              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 598
              agtctagcca ataacattta gttcattcat agccgttgtg ggagtgggac tcaccacaca     60
              catttgaatc caacatcaat acttctcagc tactgctact tccatagttg tctgcaaaat    120
              ctactctgaa accttcccat ttatctttca tcttctgctg ctttgacagg gcagcatcat    180
              acgaagtttt agacttctta atactcgaca ttagctcttt gctttcagta atcttatttt    240
<removed-apn>
              tagcctcatc ttccaatttc ttcttttcat cttcgtgtct ttccatgctt tcctttaact    300
              tgattttttc caactcaata ctgttctttt gctcaacaag tattctaatt ttttcctcca    360
              ccttttcacc ctcttccacg agacgcttgg cttcatcctc aaactgactc ttttctttca    420
              tcattgattt cttctgtttc ttaccatctc tcattagctg cacaagcttt tctctttttc    480
              gcaaagcatt aatgtgatcc tcaaccacat ttttagtcat gacaaagttt ttggaaaggt    540
              tctgaataaa ggatgtcatt ttctggacaa gcttcacaac gtttggagaa actttttcat    600
              tggttgctag ttttatgcat tccaatgacg tgtgtaattg ttgttgtagc tctacgtcat    660
              agagaatgga ctctagtgaa ttttcaaata ggcattcaag gttgtgcaaa gcttctttta    720
              cagcaacatc atcacttgtg gaacaggtta cttttggcgg agactctgga cttcccagca    780
              ggatgctctc aagttcagca aaagggtcct catctgattc atcttcaaag tttcttagat    840
              ccattggtga attttcttta cttattggat cagtggtgtc gggaacaata acctgtcctt    900
              gtatatttgg ttttccttct gattgcttgg tctcatcaaa attgtctttc ccatcatagt    960
              tgttttcact tgacttgtta tcagaagtgt tgccttcaaa cgctgacatt accggcagat   1020
              acaatccagc ttcagattca gttggtcttc cttcatttcc tttgctttcg aagacttttg   1080
              cggaatttgt aatattctcc tcatgactgg ttccagcatt ggtattggtt tcgttgttag   1140
              aagatctgat gctcttttcc acattaaaga agtgactttc aagttcaact gattctagtt   1200
              taaccattgc tgatctttgt tcttgaacaa ttggcttcaa ggttatccta cgtcctgatt   1260
              ctaattccac cgccttcttc aactcttctt tcttttgtga atccaattcc ggcaaaacac   1320
              tctccaattc ttgaacactt actagtcgta ccccacactc tttaatacca actgaaccat   1380
              caacttcccg gccagtatcg tttgtaacat agaactcgaa acaaatctcg ggttgataaa   1440
              atttgagaat actgtcacaa tggaatggat cataccacac ataaacatga tccgagttca   1500
                                                    622

              gttctgtgac atcagtattt agccaggtag cttttatacc ttcttctccc aagttgcatt   1560
<removed-date>
              gacactttat cctagctcct ccacccttca ttccatttcc acctgctgga gaaagaacca   1620
              ctgagtatat gaatcccagc aagttggaac gatcaggaag caatgtaatg gtaatggaag   1680
              agtcagaagc tgttagacat tggaatagcc tcgggatact tgttcctagt tgacaagcat   1740
              caacactgtt atagttgtag ctgcggacgg ccacacggag tcttcttaca gacacattat   1800
              gaaacacagc actcatcatt gttaaattga gactttccat tataagtcca agtgaatgtc   1860
<removed-apn>
              cgtccaaatt caagctgttg ctgaatgaaa tatgtttggt ttttccgatc atctttgttg   1920
              ctaatttttt tagatttgac actgaaacca gcgatgtgca gttaactgca tttaacagtg   1980
              tgattagagg tggaagctct ggtatgcact caagcttcct gcaattcacc aaagacaaaa   2040
              tttccagttc ttcaagtttc ttaatgcttt gaggcaacat tttcatgttg cttccatcaa   2100
              ggtttaattc cattaacttt gatgcaacgt ggacgttgtt ggggagttca aactggttta   2160
              taaaatcctt catatgtagt atttgtaggg attgtaagcc atcaaacaac tcatgtagct   2220
              gttttttctc aactattagt ctactgccag aaatcttcaa ttccctaata gatctcacac   2280
              tagataactc cttcggaata cggttgagtc ttaaactctc tagattaagt tgtttgagtt   2340
              tttgaagacg tccaattgat aggtccagtg ttttgattcc tgtactgctt aaatccaagt   2400
              tttcaattaa atccgaggac actgcaaatt cctccagact tttgcaccca tccacactga   2460
              tcttctccaa aaaatttaaa tgtttttcac ctctaaccct cctaaccttt gtacacctat   2520
              ccagtatcaa agtaacaagt gtatctgcgc ataaaacaga tggatgaaga tcaaccagac   2580
              tctcacaacc agaaagatta acccatttca gacttgacgc cttagaaaaa ttcggaagct   2640
              tttcaaattg cttgcattca ctaaggtcaa ttccctctaa tttacccagt tccttcgtcc   2700
              cctgccacag ttgtttaaca ttgctgtgcg gcatacggat ctcaacaaga aacttggcat   2760
              aaaaatgttg tggaagagat tcaaaagggt atccattcca ctcaaaatac ctcagtttat   2820
              ttgaaaatgg ctcaagaaat ttgggaaggt tgaggtatgt gttagtacat ctctgcaggt   2880
              tagagggtgc atggaattta agaattctta aggctttcat cttggtgaat gtgtcggcac   2940
              ttaaaggcaa atcattattt tgtgacaaat ccaatgttat gccttcaatt gagctactcc   3000
              ccttgttttc ttcaataact gcacgagctt tactcccact cagtcgggta tgtgctgccg   3060
              ggtcctcgcc acaatcatta catattatgt ccgaacccat tttttgcagt aagtcatgca   3120
                                                    623

<removed-date>
              tttgtattgt ttggttattt gagatagtta tcaaagcctt gtctttgagg actactattc   3180
              cgctatttgg ttcgaaacca caagcatcta gtatctttgt gacagactct ttcttttctc   3240
              ctatgaagaa gaatgcaatg tctagaaata tcttcttctc tagtgcatct agttcatcgt   3300
              aactcacttt taaaactttg tgcaatttgt catcacgatg atcatcgagt ttcttaaaag   3360
              aactttccca aaatgcaata tctcttgtac gaagatgtaa agccaaaagt ttaagggcaa   3420
<removed-apn>
              gcggaacgcc ccctgcataa gtgattgccc tttgcaaaag atgctcatac ttctctcggg   3480
              gattacttgg ctcaaaggct tctaggcaaa aaagctctag agattttgga tattcccact   3540
              gcttgacctc atatatccaa tcaactcttc cactcagcaa ctgtctgtct ctcgttgtta   3600
              taatgagtct actatcttta tttagctcgc cgtaatctct gcacaaatat tcaaactgat   3660
              ctaagctgtc catattatca agtacaatca aaacttttct acttctcagc ctcctcatat   3720
              gaaatgcaga tcctacatta gatggggaaa tttcttcctt tagtagctca gagaaaagct   3780
              tactaagtga atattctttt gcattagcaa agcagacatg atcatattgg gcaaacagct   3840
              tggcaaacaa gactttagca atgattgttt ttcccattcc acccataccc caaattccaa   3900
              gtcttggaaa acgttccacc aatgattcaa cctgttcaca gtttttttcg tttctcacta   3960
              caccttctag ttcattaggg tacctcagtt gtagcttttg caatacatca ttcacaattt   4020
              tgtcgatgag gatagattct tccttgtggg tttgagtgtg ccatccagat atagtggctg   4080
              cttcagccaa ggcaactttc cagttaagca ctttaagatc attggtccca agatctcgct   4140
              catgttttgc gaatgcattc tcataactgc cagtctgatt tcttatgtca gatggatctg   4200
              ttttatagaa aacaggtata acaacttgac ctttgacttt tctgcattcc agtactttga   4260
              ccagttcttc caaacaccat gttgaggtag caaaattttc agagaaaaca acgatggaaa   4320
              catgtgattc ctcaattgct ttggcaagag ttggccaaat atcttctcct ctttcaagca   4380
              ggctatccac gtatgttttg attgatttat gaatcagagc agcgtgaaga tggctagtga   4440
              taccgtagcg agtgtcctcg cctctaaagc taagaaacac atcgtgcttc ttgctagaat   4500
              atgacat                                                             4507
              <210>     599
              <211>     1932
              <212>     DNA
                                                    624

              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 599
              atggccgatc aacaattctc ctcgacttcc tatacctacg atgtgttcat aagctttgaa     60
              ggtttcgata ctcgtaacgg ttttacaggc catctctgga aagctttgaa tgacatagga    120
              atcctcgcct tcatcgatga cacggagttt tccagggggg aagaaaccaa accggcaatt    180
              ttcaaggcca ttcatgtttc tcggattgcc attattgtgt tctcagataa ctatgccggg    240
<removed-apn>
              tctaagtttc tcttggaaga acttgcattt atcgtggaca actttcagca gagtgacaac    300
              cttcgattta ttgttccggt ttattacaat attgaagctt ctcatgtgcg acaccaaagt    360
              ggaccttttg aagctgcatt cgtaaagcac gaggagaggt tccatgaaaa cagggagaaa    420
              gtgcttaaat ggaaaaccgc tctatctcaa gtagctaact tgcccgggtg gcatttcgac    480
              gggttgaatg aagatgaaga tgagggaaga agaagaggag gaagaaaggt tgagtatgaa    540
              catcagtttc tccagaagat tgtgaaagag atctccagga ggttggatcg tgctccctta    600
              cacgttgccg attacccagt tggattggat tctcgattgg gagaagtttt ccggcatttg    660
              gagttggaat ctcatgaagt ccttacggtg gggatctatg ggattggcgg aatagggaaa    720
              acaacacttg ctcgagcagt ttataatacg atttcggatc aatttgaaac ctcgtgtttt    780
              ctttccaata ttagaaaaag ttcaaataca caaagtttag cgcaccttca aaatatactt    840
              ctttcagaaa tgactggatt gaaagatatt cagttaaaag atactagtaa aggaatttcc    900
              gaaataaagc acaggctcta ccgaaagaaa gttcttctca tcctagatga tgtggacaga    960
              ctagagcaaa tggaggcttt ggctggagga cttgattggt ttggtcctgg tagcagagtt   1020
              gtcattacaa cacgggatag gcatttgcta gcatttcgcg gggttgagag aagatacgaa   1080
              gtacaagagt taaatgacgt agatgctctt gatttgctta gccacaaggt ttttaaacaa   1140
              ggcattgttg atccaaatta cacagaactt ttaaaccgag cagtaactta tgcttccggg   1200
              cttccattgg ccttggaagt aataggttca agcttgtttg gattaagcgt tgaccaatgt   1260
              gaacatgcat taaatcagtt taaacggatt cttcctaagg atattcaaaa attacttaga   1320
              gtaagttttg atgctttgga tcaagaggta aagaacatat ttcttgacat tacttgttgc   1380
              ttcaaaggat atgccttggc agacgtcgag cagttacttt gtgctcgtta tggccacgac   1440
              atgaaatatc atattaaagt gttgattgac aagtcactca taaatatttt agatggtaag   1500
                                                    625

              gtgacaacaa cacatccctt gatagagagc atgggtaaag aaattgttcg tgaggaatca   1560
<removed-date>
              ccagaagatc ctgggagacg tagtagatta tggttctctg aagatatagt tgaagtcttg   1620
              aaaaataata agggaacaag tagtattgaa atcatacact tagattcccc cttaattgaa   1680
              gatgaagaag caatagaatg ggatggaaag gcttttaagg agatgccaaa cctcaaaata   1740
              ctattattag aaaatgttcg acttgcggat cctgaagttt ttaatctatc atggagagta   1800
              gttggcctta tgtcaagtat agtcggtctg gccaatccaa ttgttgatag tggtggtcaa   1860
<removed-apn>
              gctgttgatc aatcttcaca ttccaatcca aatgttgata gtggcgatca tcatctcatt   1920
              gacattcgtt ag                                                       1932
              <210>   600
              <211>   648
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (24)..(24)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (589)..(589)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 600
              ctgattcgcc agctcgaaat taancctcct aaagggaaca aaagctggag ctccaccgcg     60
              gtggcggccg ctctagaact agtggatccc ccgggctgca ggaattcggc acgaggagac    120
              gttaaaggat catgttgaaa tccttgaggc tgcaagagaa agaatgatcc attcagttaa    180
              aagtgaaagg gaaaatggta aagaaattga aaaagatgtt atgaattggt tggagaaagt    240
              ggatggggtc attaaagagg cgaatcaact tcaaaacgat tctcacaatg caaatgttag    300
              gtgctcacca tggtcattcc caaatttaat tttgcgtcat caactaagta ggaatgccac    360
              aaaaattgca aataatgttg ttgaagttca agggaaagaa aagtttaatt catttggtca    420
              ccttcctcct ctagatgtag tagcctcctc ctcaacaaga gatggtgaaa tgtatgacac    480
              aagggagtct ctaaagaagg acattgtgaa ggctttagga gattctactt catgcaacat    540
              tgggatctat gggttgggtg gggttgggaa gaccactctg gtggagaang ttactcaaat    600
                                                    626

<removed-date>
              agccaaggaa cataatttgt tcgataaagt ggttaaggca gaagtatc                648
              <210>   601
              <211>   999
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 601
              tgatacgcca agctcgaaat taaccctcac taaagggaac aaaagctgga gctccaccgc    60
<removed-apn>
              ggtggcggcc gctctagaac tagtggatcc cccgggctgc aggaattcgg cacgagggtt   120
              tcacactcct agaggaatct ttatagataa tctttgaaaa caaataattt agcatattca   180
              tcttcctaaa gataacattg attcatatcc tcactgtcca aattttggtt catttctgtt   240
              ctcgtaccta caaaatgact gatgttttac ttggaatcgt gattgaaaac ctcatatctt   300
              ttgttcgaga ggagctttcg acctttttgg gtgttggaga attgactcag aagctatgtg   360
              gaaatctcac cgcaattcgt gctgtcctcc aagatgctga agagaagcaa ataacaagcc   420
              gtgctgtgaa agattggctg cagaagctgg ctgatgctgc tcatgttctt gatgatatat   480
              tggatgattg ttcaacaaca tcaaaagcac atggagacaa caagtggatt gcccgtttcc   540
              atcctaagaa gattttggct cagcgtgcca ttggaaagag gatgaaagag gttgctaaaa   600
              agattgatga aattgccgaa ggcaggatca agtatggatt acaagtgaaa gtcacggagg   660
              agcaccaacg aggagatgat gaatggcggc aaactacttc tgtcatcact gaaccgaaag   720
              tctatggaag agatcatgat atagagaaaa ttgtcgaggt tcttgtaagc catgctatcg   780
              atagtgaaga actctcggtc tactccattg ttggagttgg tggattggga aaaacaacgc   840
              ttgctcaagt ggtcttcaat gacgaaaggc ttgatacact ttatgaacgt ttaacaaaca   900
              tgaaactatc ttcttcttct tcaatgatga aaattctgga gtccatcata aaatccaccg   960
              ttggaaaaaa tccataactc tcgtctttag aatcaatgc                          999
              <210>   602
              <211>   3687
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 602
              atggcatctc tcacagatcg tttcaaatat gacctttttc ttagcttcag aggcgaagat    60
                                                    627

              actcgccatg gtttcaccgg caatctttgg aaagcactga gtgacagagg aattcacacc    120
<removed-date>
              ttcatggatg atgaagaact tcaaaaaggc gaagaaatca caccatcact catcaaagct    180
              attgaagatt ccaacatggc tatcatcgtt ctttccaaga actatgcatc ttcaaccttt    240
              tgcttaaaag aactatccac catcctttat tcgattaaag ataagggtcg gtgtgtttgg    300
              ccggtttttt atgatgtgga accttctgat gtgagaaagt tgaaaaggag ttatggtgaa    360
              gcaatggttg aacatgaggc aagggatcat agtaacatgg atttgttgca gaaatggaag    420
<removed-apn>
              aatgctctga accaagttgc taatttgtct ggctttcatt tcaaaaatgg ggatgaatat    480
              gaacatgttt ttattgggaa gatagttgaa caagtctcaa gggagattat acctgctact    540
              ttacctgttc ctgattatct agttggactc gagtaccaaa agcagcatgt aacatccctt    600
              ttgaatgatg ggcctaatga taaagtccaa atggtaggga tccatgggat tggtggaata    660
              gggaaaacta cccttgccct ggcagtttat aattccattg tccatcaatt tcaaggttcc    720
              tgttttcttg aaaaagttag agaaaattca gacaaaaatg ggttgataca tctccaaaag    780
              atccttctat ctcaagttgt tggagaaaag aacattgagt taacaagtgt tagacaagga    840
              atttcaatat tacaaaaaag gttccaccaa aagaaggttc ttttgcttct agacgatgtt    900
              gacaaggagg agcaattaga ggctattgct ggaagatctg attggtttgg tcgtggcagt    960
              agagtcatca tcaccactcg ggacaaaagg ttgctaacat atcatggggt tgaacgtaca   1020
              tatgaggtga atgggttgaa tgaccaagat gcttttgagc tagttatctt gaaagctttt   1080
              aaaaataaat ttagtccaag ctataaggat gctttatttg cacagtatgg tagtctattg   1140
              gatgtgaaca aattgcctag actgaaagct tttaagactg acgaagtttt ttcaggttat   1200
              gtgcatgtta tattacgtgc catatcatat gcttctggcc ttccactggc tttggaagtc   1260
              ataggttctc acttttttaa taagacaatt gaacaatgta aatatgcatt agatcgttat   1320
              gaaaggattc ctgataaaaa gatccaaacg atactacaac ttagctttga tgctttgcag   1380
              gaagaagaga agtctgtttt tcttgacatt gcctgctgct tcaaaggata taaatggaca   1440
              agggtagaac aaatacttaa tgctcattat gataatatca tgaaagatca cattgatgtg   1500
              ttagtggaaa aatctctcat taaaacaagt atgtctggta acgtgacatt acatgatttg   1560
              atagaggata tggggaaaga aattgttaga caagaatcac ctgaagatcc tggaaaacgc   1620
              agtaggttat ggtcctctaa agatataatt caagttttag aagaaaatac gggaacaagt   1680
                                                    628

<removed-date>
              aaaattgaaa tcatatgtcc aagctcccgg attgaagtag aatgggatga agaggctttc   1740
              aagaagatgg aaaacctcag aacactaatt attatggatg gccaatttac tgagagtccc   1800
              aaaaatcttc cgaacagtct aagaatactt gaacatcacc tatatccttc atggggttta   1860
              ccgtctcaat tttatccaag aaaacttgcc atatgcaaga ttccgtctta ctctacatca   1920
              ttcgcgtggg atgacttttt caagaaggca agtaagttca agaatataag ggttttaagt   1980
<removed-apn>
              tttgatcacc acaaatcttt aacacggata cctgacatat ctggtctcgt aaatttagaa   2040
              gaactttctt ttcaagattg tgtgaattta atcacagtcg atgactccgt tgggtttctg   2100
              ggtaatctta aaaccttaag agctatgcgt tgcatcaagc tcaggagtat tccgcctctc   2160
              aagttggctt ctctggaaga actcgatctt tcacagtgtt cttgtcttga gagttttcca   2220
              cctgtggtag atgggttggt ggataaactt aaaaccatga ctgttagaag ttgcgtcaag   2280
              ttaaggagta ttccaactct taagttgact tcgttagaag aactcgatct ttcaaattgt   2340
              tttagtctcg agagttttcc acttgtggtg gatgggtttc ttggaaaact taaaatccta   2400
              cttgttaaat attgtcgcaa tctcaggagt attccacctc tcaggttgga ttcattagaa   2460
              aagcttgacc tttcacattg ttatagtctc gagagttttc caactgtggt ggatgggttg   2520
              ttggataaac ttaaattctt gagtatggaa cattgcgtca agcttacgag tatcccatcg   2580
              ctcaggttga cctcattgga acggttcaat ctttcacatt gtctgagcct agagagattt   2640
              ccaaaaatat tgggagagat gaataatata acagaaattc acttggataa tactctcata   2700
              caagaattgc cgtttccatt tcaaaatctt actccgcctc aaacattata tcaatgtaac   2760
              tgtggagttg tttatttatc gaatagagct gctgtgatgt caaaactggc tgaatttacc   2820
              atccaggctg aagaaaaagt gagcccaatg caatcttcac atgtagaata tatttgtctg   2880
              aggaactgca aattttcaga tgaatatttg tcaacgggtc tcatgttgtt tactaatgtg   2940
              aaagaattac acctaagtga taaccaattc aaaattcttc caaaatctat cgaaaaatgt   3000
              cattttttac agaggcttgt cctggataac tgtgaggaac ttcaggaaat tgaagggatt   3060
              ccaccatgct taaaaacatt atctgcatta aactgcaaat cattgacctc accgtgcaaa   3120
              agcaaattac taaatcaggt taaacttaca ttaataattt atgactacca ggaattacat   3180
              gaggcaggaa acacttggtt ccgtttgcca cgaacaagga ttccagagtg gttcgaccat   3240
                                                    629

              caatgcttgg caggattgtc tatttctttc tggttcagga acaagtttcc tgtcatagct   3300
<removed-date>
              ctctgtgttg tttctccatc gacatgggat gattctaggc gtcctgtaag agtgatcatc   3360
              aatggtgata catttttcta taggcatggt gaaaataaac gtttatcacc agaagtgtat   3420
              catctacatc tttttcatat gcaaatggaa aaattgaata ataatatgga caaagcactt   3480
              ttagaaaata agtggaacca tgcagaggtt gactttgggt tcccattcat gtatagtgga   3540
              atccatgtat tgaaaaagaa aagtaacatg aaggatattc aattcaccaa cccagataaa   3600
<removed-apn>
              gatgataata ttgagctcac tcaatataaa cgaaactctg attcattggt ctcagtcatt   3660
              gcttctgatg tggataaatg tgaatga                                       3687
              <210>   603
              <211>   2118
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 603
              atggcagacg agctaactac gacaaaggaa gaatcaaaga aagaagtaaa gaaccgctgt     60
              atatttgtag ttttctataa gaagaagaat aaggatgatt ttgattcatg tgttggagat    120
              gatgacgaca agcaaaaaat gggaaaagat gttgaaggta agctgagaga acttcttaag    180
              attctagata aagaaaattt tgggaagaaa attagtggat ctattcttaa gggtcctttt    240
              gatgttcctg caaatcctga atttactgtt ggtttggatt tgcaattgat taagttgaag    300
              gtggaaattc tcagagaagg tagatctact cttttgttga ctggtctggg tggaatggga    360
              aaaacaactc tggctacaaa gctgtgtttg gatgatcaag ttaagggtaa attcaaggaa    420
              aacattatat ttgtaacctt ctcaaaaaca cccatgctga agattattgt agagagatta    480
              tttgaacatt gcggatatcc ggtgcctgag taccaaagtg atgaagatgc ggtaaatgga    540
              ttgggacttt tgctgaggaa aattgaggga agtccaatat tgttagtcct ggatgacgtt    600
              tggcccggat cagaagacct agtcgagaaa tttaaatttc agatatcaga ttataaaatt    660
              ttggtcactt caagggttgc attttctaga tttgacaaaa catttatcct aaagcctctt    720
              gctcaagaag attcggtaac ccttttccgt cactacacag aggttgaaaa aaacagttca    780
              aaaattcctg acaaagatct tatcgaaaag gttgtggaac attgcaaggg tttaccactt    840
              gccattaaag tgattgcaac atcattccgt tatcgaccat atgagttatg ggaaaagatt    900
                                                    630

              gtaaaggaac tttcacgagg tcgttctata cttgattcta atactgaatt acttattcgc    960
<removed-date>
              ctccaaaaga ttttggatgt tttggaagat aatgccatta gcaaagagtg cttcatggac   1020
              cttgcattat ttcctgaaga tcagagaatt cctgttgctg ccttgattga tatgtgggca   1080
              gagttgtatg gactagatga tgacggcaaa gaagcaatgg acataatcaa caaattagac   1140
              tctatgaatt tggctaatgt cttaatagct agggagaagc agcaaggtac aatggcccac   1200
              atattatcca aattgattgg atggtttgat aaaccgaagc ctcagaaggt ccctgcccgc   1260
<removed-apn>
              acattgtcta tatcaattga tgaaacttgc gcttcagatt ggtcccaagt gcagccagct   1320
              cttgctgagg ttctgatttt aaatcttcaa accaaacagt acacatttcc agaattgatg   1380
              gagaaaatga acaaacttaa agctcttata gtcataaatc atggtttacg cccttctgaa   1440
              ctgaacaatc ttgagctact tagctcttta tccaacctta aaagaatcag gctagagagg   1500
              atttctgttc cttcctttgg cacattgaag aatcttaaaa aattatccct ctacatgtgt   1560
              aatacaagac tcgcttttga aaagggcagc atcctaattt ccgacttatt tcctaattta   1620
              gaagatttga gcatggatta ttgcaaggat atgacagcat tgcctaatgg ggtgtgtgat   1680
              attatctcgt tgaaaaagct cagtattact aattgccata agctttcttt gctgccccaa   1740
              gaaattggaa agttggagaa tttggaactc ttgagcctga tttcctgcac tgatttggta   1800
              gagctaccag attctattgg aaggctttca aatctaagac tacttgacat ctccaactgc   1860
              ataagccttt caagtttacc cgaggacttt ggcaatctgt gtaatctacg aaatctcgac   1920
              atgactagtt gtgcaagttg tgaattgcca ttctccgttg tcaatcttca gaatttaaag   1980
              gtgacatgtg atgaaaagac agctgcttca tgggaatctt tccaatctat gatttccaat   2040
              ttaactatag aagttcctca tgttgaaccg atagaccaaa atactccgtt ttctgctttg   2100
              gaactcgtca acatctag                                                 2118
              <210>   604
              <211>   3642
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 604
              atggcttccc tcacagtcac atgtcgcttc aagtacgatg tttttctcag ctttagaggc     60
              gaagacaccc gccacggttt cactggcaac ctctggaaag ctcttgatga caaaggagtc    120
                                                    631

              agaactttca tggatgacga gaatcttcag aaaggggatg aaatcacacc gtcacttatt    180
<removed-date>
              aaggcaattg aagactcaca aatcgccata gttgtcctct ctaagaatta tgcttcatca    240
              tccttttgct tacaagaact ttcaaagatc cttgatacca tgaaagataa ggtgggtcgt    300
              tttgttatgc cagtatttta taaggtggat ccttctgatg tacgaaagtt gaaagggaca    360
              tatggagatg cgatggataa acttggcgag gccagctcct ccagtcataa taaatggaag    420
              gactctcttc atcaagttgc taatttgtct ggatttcctt acgagaaaag ggatgggtat    480
<removed-apn>
              gtgcatgagt ttattgagaa gattgttgaa gaagtcttaa gaaatataaa acctgttgcc    540
              ttacctgctg gtgacttcct tgttggagtg gagcaccaaa agcaacacgt gactttgctt    600
              ttgaatgttg ggtctgacga ttcaatccac aaggtaggga ttcttgggat tggtggaata    660
              gggaaaacca ctcttgctct agaagtttat aattcaattg tcagtcaatt tgaatgttcc    720
              tgttttcttg aaaaagttag agaaaattct gacaaaaatg ggttgatata tctccaaaag    780
              atccttctat ctcatatttt tggagagaag aacacagaga taacaagtgt tggagaagga    840
              atttcaatac taaaaaaaag gcttccagaa aagaaggttc ttttgctttt agacgatgtt    900
              gacaagaagg agcaattaaa ggctattgca ggaagttcca attggtttcg taaaggcagt    960
              agagtaataa tcacaactcg gtacaaaaat ttgctaatta gcagtggagt tgaaagaata   1020
              tatgaggtga agggattgaa tgatgaagat gcttttgact tggtaggatg gaaaacttta   1080
              aaaaacgatt gtagtccacg ctataaagat gttttattag aacaaaagta tggaagagaa   1140
              tctgatgcaa acaaattgcg tagactgaaa gatttgaaga acgacgaagg ctacgcaaat   1200
              gtattaaaac gtgtcgtagc atatgcttct ggtcatccac ttgctttgga agtcatcggt   1260
              tctcactttt ctaataagac aatagaacag tgtaatgatg cactagatcg ttacaaaaga   1320
              gttcctcata acatgatcca aacgacacta caactgagtt atgattcttt gcaggaagaa   1380
              gagaagattg tgtttcttga cattgcatgt tgcttcaaag gatggaaatt gacaatggtt   1440
              gaaggaatac ttcatgctca tcatggtcat accatgaaag accaaattaa tgtgttagtg   1500
              gaaaagtatc tcataaaaat aaatgagtct ggtaatgtga cattacatga tttggtagag   1560
              gatatgggaa aagaaattgt tagacaagaa gcacctgaag atcctggaaa acgtagtagg   1620
              ttatggtttt ccgaagatat aattcaagtt ttagaagaaa atacaggaac aagtaaaatt   1680
              gaaatgatac atttcgacgg tgtgattgaa gtacaatggg atggagaagc tttcaagaag   1740
                                                    632

<removed-date>
              atggaaaatc tcaaaacact catttttagt aatgataagt tccagaatat gagagttcta   1800
              aaactttatt atagtgacgg tttaacacag atacctgata tatctggtct cccaaattta   1860
              gaagaatttt caattcaaaa ttatgggaaa ttattcacaa ttgatgaatc ggttggatct   1920
              ttgcgtaagc ttaaaatcct gagggttata agttgcaccg aaatccacag tcttccatct   1980
              ctcatgttac cctctctaga agaacttgat ctttcatatt gtattaatct tgagagtttt   2040
<removed-apn>
              tcgcatgtgg tagatgggtt tggtgataag cttagaacca tgagtgttag aggatgcttc   2100
              aagctaaaga gtattccacc tcttaagttg gattcactag aaacaatgga cctttcatgt   2160
              tgttttcgtc tcgagagttt tccacttgtg gtggatggga ttcttggaaa aattaaaact   2220
              ctgaatgttg aaagttgtca caatctcagg agtattccac cactcaagtt ggattcgtta   2280
              gaaaaacttg acatttcata ttgtggtagt cttgagagtt ttccacaagt ggagggaagg   2340
              tttcttggaa aacttaaaac cttgaatgtt aaaagttgtc ggattatgat aagtattcca   2400
              actctcatgt taagtttgct agaagagcta gatctttcgt attgtcttaa tctcgagaat   2460
              tttccacttg tagtggatgg gtttcttgga aaacttaaaa ccctgagtgc taaaagttgt   2520
              cgcaatttaa ggagtattcc atctctcaag ttggatttac tagaaacact tgacctttca   2580
              aattgtgtta gtcttgagag tcttccactt gtggtggacg ggtttcttgg aaaacttaaa   2640
              accctacttg ttacaaactg tcacaatctt aagagtattc cacctctgaa gtgtgatgca   2700
              ctagaaacac ttgacctttc atgttgttat agtcttcaaa gtttttcact tgtggctgac   2760
              agattatgga aactcgtgtt ggatgattgt aaggaacttc aggaaattaa agtgattcct   2820
              ccatgcttaa gaatgttatc tgctgtaaac tgcacgtcgt tgacttcttc gtgcacaagc   2880
              aaattactaa atcaggaatt acataaggct ggaaacactt ggttttgttt gccacgggtg   2940
              ccaaaaattc cagagtggtt tgaccacaaa tacgaggccg gattgtcaat ttctttctgg   3000
              tttcgtaaca agtttcctgc catagctctc tgtgttgttt ctccattaac atgggatggt   3060
              tctcgacgtc attctataag agtgatcatc aatggaaata catttatcta cacagatggt   3120
              ttgaagatgg gtacgaaatc accgctgaat atgtatcatt tgcatctttt tcatatgaaa   3180
              atggaaaact ttaatgataa tatggaaaaa gtactttttg aaaatatgtg gaaccatgca   3240
              gaggttgatt ttggattacc attccagaaa agtggaattc atgtatcgaa agagaaaagt   3300
                                                    633

              aacatgaagg atattagatt caccaatcca gagcctgcaa aaagagtgct cgcctttaca   3360
<removed-date>
              ctcacagaag gcggtgatga tttggacaat agagtagaca tgtcaaaatt aaaccaagca   3420
              gaggatgtag aagagagcct tagtcattcc ttttgggaaa ccaatgtaga tcaaactggt   3480
              ttggatgcat cggataacac tccttcatca ttggtggaac tggttaatgt gattgactat   3540
              ttggaaggcg gtttcttctg gctttgcagt gtcaagaatg cattagattt ggactcggtt   3600
              ctatcaagac ttcacagcaa tgtgatcaaa gaagatgaat ga                      3642
<removed-apn>
              <210>   605
              <211>   576
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 605
              atgggattgg tggaataggg aaaactactc ttgctctaga agtttataat tcgattgtcc     60
              atcaatttca atgttcctgt ttttttgaaa aagtcagaga ctttaaggaa agtgggttga    120
              tatatctcca aaagatcctt ctgtctcaaa ttgttggaga gacgaacatg gagataacca    180
              gtgttagaca aggagtttca atattacaac aaaggcttca ccaaaagaag gttcttttac    240
              ttctggatga tgttgacaag gatgagcaat taaaggctat tgctggaagt tccgaatggt    300
              ttggtctagg aagtagagtc atcatcacga ctcgggacaa aagattgcta acatatcatg    360
              ggattgaaag aagatatgag gtgaagggat tgaacgatgc agatgctttt gacttggtgg    420
              gatggaaagc tttaaaaaat tattatagtc caagctataa agatgtttta ttagaacaaa    480
              agcaaggaag agaattgaat gcgaatgaat tgtgtagact gaaatatttg aagaaagatg    540
              tacgtttttc aagttatgcg aatgtttata aaacgt                              576
              <210>   606
              <211>   683
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (634)..(634)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                    634

              <222>   (682)..(682)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 606
              gcaccaggcc gtctaaacgc taatagcggt aaagagaatg ataagaaact aaacaaagtt    60
              ccttttatta aaacatctat ggtaattata tttcttaatt catttttcaa aatctcaaac   120
              aacaaacaaa gcatagcaca atttgagcga ttttgccccg ttttcctcct ttgtaatttg   180
              gtagtctcct tcctcagttt catccaaata tatattattg tgacatcatt tattaactta   240
<removed-apn>
              acactcaatt aatgattttc ctttaaaatt taaaaataaa actcaaaaaa aatgtcaaaa   300
              tgtaaactcc taaaaaaatg gagacggcaa ttgtacggtc gctgtagata gaggatgaaa   360
              aacacaatta atcctaatat atgcacttga atgacctctt ttctcatatt ggacagggat   420
              atgcctgagc ataagtttat tggggagatt gttgaaaaag ttttaggaaa tatagaacct   480
              gttgcattgc ctgttggtga ttacaaagtt ggattggagc accaaaagca acatgtgatt   540
              tcccttttga atgtttgggt cggatgataa agcatgtatg gtagggatcc tacgggattg   600
              gtggaatagg gaaaacaact cttgctattt ctgnttataa tttgattgcc aatgaatttg   660
              agggttcatg ttttgttgaa ang                                           683
              <210>   607
              <211>   2838
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 607
              atggcagaaa ctgcagtatg gtttgtcttg agacaagtat accaacttct aaaagatgaa    60
              acaagattac taaaacatgt ccgtagagac tttgaagacg ttaagaatga actagaattc   120
              gttcgcgctt tcttaaaaga tgctgataaa agagccactt cggatgaagt aagcattcaa   180
              atttgggtga aacagttaag agaattatct tttcacatag aagatgtcat tgatgcatac   240
              atcatggatg tggctcatca ccatcatcat gatcatcatg atggattcat aggcaaactt   300
              cataatgttg ttggattgat gaaatggaaa accttaaaac ctcgtcatcg agtagcgtgt   360
              gagattcaag agatcaaatt aacaattcat ggaatcaaag aaagaagtga aaggtacaat   420
              tttcaacgct ctgaacaacg aggatcgtcg attgtagaag attgtgttat ggttaagtgg   480
              cgcgatcctg atcgacttgc ttcacttttt gttgaagaag gtgaaattgt tgggtttgag   540
                                                    635

              aagcctagag acgaaattgt tgattggttg gttgatgaag aagaaagaac tcggagtgtg    600
<removed-date>
              atttcggtgg ttggaatggg gggacttggg aaaacaactc ttgctaaaaa tgtttttgat    660
              aatcaacaac tgaaaggtta ctttgattgt cgtgcatttc tggtggtttc tcaatcgtat    720
              agtgttgaag ccttgttgag aagcatgatg atgcagtttt ctgaagaaac taaagagcct    780
              cttcctcaag gtataaacac gatggacaag acgtcactca ttaattttgc aaggtcttac    840
              ttgaagaata agaggtatgt ggtttacttt gatgatgtat ggaaagtaga tttttgggat    900
<removed-apn>
              gagatccaac ttgccacacc agataataag ttaggaagta ggataatgat cacaaccagg    960
              aatttggatg ttgccaacta ttgtaggaaa gattcggttg ttcaagtgca caagttgcaa   1020
              cccttgtctc caaacaaatc atgggaactc atttgtaaca aggcgtttcg atttggtttc   1080
              agtggaaatt gtccaccaga gctcgaagat atgtctaagg aaattgttca aaaatgtgag   1140
              gggttaccgc ttgcaattgt ggctatagga ggtctcttgt caactaaaga taaaactgtt   1200
              tctgagtgga aaaaactatg ccaaaatcta agttcggagt tagaccgtaa tccacattta   1260
              gctaatataa caagaatttt aggcatgagt tatgatgact tgccacatta tttgaagtca   1320
              tgtgtcttgt attttggtat atacccagaa gattactcaa ttcggagttc aaggttgatt   1380
              cggcaatgga tagcagaggg gtttgttaaa catgaagtgg gaaaatcttt ggaggaagtt   1440
              ggagaggaat atttgacaga gttgatccac agaagtttgg ttcatgtctc ccgtgttcac   1500
              tatgatggta aagcgacaag ctgtcgaatc catgatttgt tacgagaaat gatcatgaga   1560
              aaaatgaagg atttgagttt ttgtcatgtg atggatgaag atggtcatga acaaatctct   1620
              gatgcaatga ttattaggag attggctata aataccagtt ccaagaatgt gctaaggagc   1680
              attgaaaact tccccatacg ctccctatat atattcgatg ctttaataaa attatctgat   1740
              tactttggga gtaggttctt tgcaaagtct aagcttttga aagtattgga cttggaaggt   1800
              acttggttgg actatattcc tgatgatctt ggaaatatgt ttcacttaaa gtatttgagc   1860
              ttaagatata ccaatgtcaa gaatcttcct aaatccattg gcaaactaca taatctagaa   1920
              accttggacc taaagggaac actaattcac gacttaccga ttgaaataaa taagcttaca   1980
              aagttgcgtc atcttttagt ttacaacaga agagcacatt taagaattag tggtgaaagt   2040
              ggggtgagaa taattcaagg tgttggaagc atgacagtgt tgcaaaaact ttatcatgtg   2100
              gaggtagacc atggtgggtt agaactaatt gcagagttaa aaaagcttaa acaattaagg   2160
                                                    636

<removed-date>
              aagttgggat taaagaatgt aaagagagaa tatggaaatg ctctttgtga gtcaatagag   2220
              gaaatgaaat gccttgaatc acttcatatt agtgcaataa atgaaaatga agtcatagac   2280
              ttgcaattta tttcatctct acctcaactt agacaacttc acttgttcgg tcgtttagaa   2340
              aagcttccaa attgggttcc aagacttgaa caacttgtta gactgtcgat tcgcttttcc   2400
              aagttgaagg acgatccttt aaagttactc aaagatttgc caaacttgct gcgtcttgca   2460
<removed-apn>
              attgtgtgcg atgcatatga tggagaaatg ttgcacttcc aagttgggtt taagaagttg   2520
              aacaaactat atcttgtgca gttgaataac ttgaattcca ttttaataga caacggaact   2580
              ttacctgccc ttaaactaat tgaaatggtg tctattccca aactaagtga gattccctct   2640
              gattttcatc tactaaagag ccttgaaact ctgcgtttgg ttaatatgcc ttatgagttc   2700
              aaccaaagca ttgatccaaa tggtggaccg aagaactggg tcattgaaca tgtgaaaatg   2760
              gtaactgttg tagagaaggt tggttcaaat tctgtagaat tcagctatcg cactattcgt   2820
              catccaagga gtacatga                                                 2838
              <210>   608
              <211>   3531
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 608
              atggcttccc tcacagtcac atgtcgcttc aagtacgatg tttttctcag ctttagaggc     60
              gaagacaccc gccacggttt cactggcaac ctctggaaag ctcttgatga caaaggagtc    120
              agaactttca tggatgacga gaatcttcag aaaggggatg aaatcacacc gtcacttatt    180
              aaggcaattg aagactcaca aatcgccata gttgtcctct ctaagaatta tgcttcatca    240
              tccttttgct tacaagaact ttcaaagatc cttgatacca tgaaagataa ggtgggtcgt    300
              tttgttatgc cagtatttta taaggtggat ccttctgatg tacgaaagtt gaaagggaca    360
              tatggagatg cgatggataa acttggcgag gccagctcct ccagtcataa taaatggaag    420
              gactctcttc atcaagttgc taatttgtct ggatttcctt acgagaaaag ggatgggtat    480
              gtgcatgagt ttattgagaa gattgttgaa gaagtcttaa gaaatataaa acctgttgcc    540
              ttacctgctg gtgacttcct tgttggagtg gagcaccaaa agcaacacgt gactttgctt    600
              ttgaatgttg ggtctgacga ttcaatccac aaggtaggga ttcttgggat tggtggaata    660
                                                    637

<removed-date>
              gggaaaacca ctcttgctct agaagtttat aattcaattg tcagtcaatt tgaatgttcc    720
              tgttttcttg aaaaagttag agaaaattct gacaaaaatg ggttgatata tctccaaaag    780
              atccttctat ctcatatttt tggagagaag aacacagaga taacaagtgt tggagaagga    840
              atttcaatac taaaaaaaag gcttccagaa aagaaggttc ttttgctttt agacgatgtt    900
              gacaagaagg agcaattaaa ggctattgca ggaagttcca attggtttcg taaaggcagt    960
<removed-apn>
              agagtaataa tcacaactcg gtacaaaaat ttgctaatta gcagtggagt tgaaagaata   1020
              tatgaggtga agggattgaa tgatgaagat gcttttgact tggtaggatg gaaaacttta   1080
              aaaaacgatt gtagtccacg ctataaagat gttttattag aacaaaagta tggaagagaa   1140
              tctgatgcaa acaaattgcg tagactgaaa gatttgaaga acgacgaagg ctacgcaaat   1200
              gtattaaaac gtgtcgtagc atatgcttct ggtcatccac ttgctttgga agtcatcggt   1260
              tctcactttt ctaataagac aatagaacag tgtaatgatg cactagatcg ttacaaaaga   1320
              gttcctcata acatgatcca aacgacacta caactgagtt atgattcttt gcaggaagaa   1380
              gagaagattg tgtttcttga cattgcatgt tgcttcaaag gatggaaatt gacaatggtt   1440
              gaaggaatac ttcatgctca tcatggtcat accatgaaag accaaattaa tgtgttagtg   1500
              gaaaagtatc tcataaaaat aaatgagtct ggtaatgtga cattacatga tttggtagag   1560
              gatatgggaa aagaaattgt tagacaagaa gcacctgaag atcctggaaa acgtagtagg   1620
              ttatggtttt ccgaagatat aattcaagtt ttagaagaaa atacaaagtt ccagaatatg   1680
              agagttctaa aactttatta tagtgacggt ttaacacaga tacctgatat atctggtctc   1740
              ccaaatttag aagaattttc aattcaaaat tatgggaaat tattcacaat tgatgaatcg   1800
              gttggatctt tgcgtaagct taaaatcctg agggttataa gttgcaccga aatccacagt   1860
              cttccatctc tcatgttacc ctctctagaa gaacttgatc tttcatattg tattaatctt   1920
              gagagttttt cgcatgtggt agatgggttt ggtgataagc ttagaaccat gagtgttaga   1980
              ggatgcttca agctaaagag tattccacct cttaagttgg attcactaga aacaatggac   2040
              ctttcatgtt gttttcgtct cgagagtttt ccacttgtgg tggatgggat tcttggaaaa   2100
              attaaaactc tgaatgttga aagttgtcac aatctcagga gtattccacc actcaagttg   2160
              gattcgttag aaaaacttga catttcatat tgtggtagtc ttgagagttt tccacaagtg   2220
                                                    638

              gagggaaggt ttcttggaaa acttaaaacc ttgaatgtta aaagttgtcg gattatgata   2280
<removed-date>
              agtattccaa ctctcatgtt aagtttgcta gaagagctag atctttcgta ttgtcttaat   2340
              ctcgagaatt ttccacttgt agtggatggg tttcttggaa aacttaaaac cctgagtgct   2400
              aaaagttgtc gcaatttaag gagtattcca tctctcaagt tggatttact agaaacactt   2460
              gacctttcaa attgtgttag tcttgagagt cttccacttg tggtggacgg gtttcttgga   2520
              aaacttaaaa ccctacttgt tacaaactgt cacaatctta agagtattcc acctctgaag   2580
<removed-apn>
              tgtgatgcac tagaaacact tgacctttca tgttgttata gtcttcaaag tttttcactt   2640
              gtggctgaca gattatggaa actcgtgttg gatgattgta aggaacttca ggaaattaaa   2700
              gtgattcctc catgcttaag aatgttatct gctgtaaact gcacgtcgtt gacttcttcg   2760
              tgcacaagca aattactaaa tcaggaatta cataaggctg gaaacacttg gttttgtttg   2820
              ccacgggtgc caaaaattcc agagtggttt gaccacaaat acgaggccgg attgtcaatt   2880
              tctttctggt ttcgtaacaa gtttcctgcc atagctctct gtgttgtttc tccattaaca   2940
              tgggatggtt ctcgacgtca ttctataaga gtgatcatca atggaaatac atttatctac   3000
              acagatggtt tgaagatggg tacgaaatca ccgctgaata tgtatcattt gcatcttttt   3060
              catatgaaaa tggaaaactt taatgataat atggaaaaag tactttttga aaatatgtgg   3120
              aaccatgcag aggttgattt tggattacca ttccagaaaa gtggaattca tgtatcgaaa   3180
              gagaaaagta acatgaagga tattagattc accaatccag agcctgcaaa aagagtgctc   3240
              gcctttacac tcacagaagg cggtgatgat ttggacaata gagtagacat gtcaaaatta   3300
              aaccaagcag aggatgtaga agagagcctt agtcattcct tttgggaaac caatgtagat   3360
              caaactggtt tggatgcatc ggataacact ccttcatcat tggtggaact ggttaatgtg   3420
              attgactatt tggaaggcgg tttcttctgg ctttgcagtg tcaagaatgc attagatttg   3480
              gactcggttc tatcaagact tcacagcaat gtgatcaaag aagatgaatg a            3531
              <210>   609
              <211>   3753
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 609
              atggcggcgg cggttgttgg tgaagctttt ttgtctgctt tcattgaagt tgtccttgac     60
                                                    639

              aagctttctt ctcctgaggt tgttgacttg atccgtggga agaaagttgc cgtcaatttg    120
<removed-date>
              atccaaaggt tgaagaacac tctttatgct gttgaagctg tgcttaatga tactgaacag    180
              aaacagttca aagactctgc tgttaacaaa tggcttgatg atctcaaaga tgctgtttat    240
              tttgctgatg atcttctcga ccacatttct accaaagctg ctactcagaa gaacaagcag    300
              gtgagcaccg ctgttaacta cttctctagc tttttcaact ttgaagaacg ggatatggtt    360
              tgtaagttgg aagatatagt tgctaaactt gaatacattc tcaagttcaa agatattctt    420
<removed-apn>
              ggtcttcaac atattgcaac tcaccaccac tcttcttgga gaactccatc cacctctcta    480
              gatgccggcg aatctaactt atttggtagg gatcaagaca aaatggccat gctcaagtta    540
              ctgttagatg atgatcatgt tgatgataag actcgtgtga gtgtgatccc catagttggc    600
              atgggtggtg tgggaaaaac tactttagcc caatctgtgt acaaccatga caatataaag    660
              caaaaatttg atgttcaagc atgggcatgt gtttctgatc atttcaatga actcaaggtt    720
              acaaaggcaa tcatggaggc aattactaga agtgcatgtc atataaataa tatagagttg    780
              cttcatctag atttgaagga aaaactggct ggaaagaagt tcttaattgt tttggatgat    840
              gtttggaccg aggattatga cgcttggaat tcacttttaa gacctcttca tgatggcacc    900
              aggggaagta aaattcttgt aacaacccga agtaaaaaag ttgcttgtat ggtacaaact    960
              tttcaaggtt actctcttga gcaattgtct gatgaagatt gttggtcagt gtttggaaat   1020
              catgcatgcc tttctccaaa agaatacact gagaatatgg atcttcaaat aattggcaaa   1080
              gagattgcta gaaaatgtaa gggattgcct ttagcagcac aatcacttgg gggcttgttg   1140
              cgaagtaaac gggacatcaa tgactggaat aatatactaa atagtaacat ttgggaaaat   1200
              gagagtaata tcattccagc actccgaatt agttatcatt atctctctcc ctatttgaaa   1260
              cgctgctttg tttattgttc cttgtatcct aaagattaca catttcgtaa agacaatttg   1320
              atcttgttat ggatggccga agatctttta aagtctccta aaaatgggaa gactttagaa   1380
              gaagttggta atgaatattt taatgactta gtttcaaggt cattttttca atgttcagga   1440
              agtgagaaca agagttttgt tatgcatgac ctggtgcatg atttggccac attgcttggt   1500
              ggagaattct attacagagt agaagaactc ggaaatgaaa caaatattgg taccaagact   1560
              cgacatttat catttaccac gttcattgat ccaatcttgg gaaactatga tatttttggc   1620
              cgagcaaaac atcttcggac atttttgaca accaattttt tctgtcctcc attcaacaac   1680
                                                    640

<removed-date>
              gaaatggcat catgcatcat tttgtcaaat ttgaagtgct tgagagtctt gtcattttcc   1740
              cacttttcac attttgatgc attgcccgat tcaataggtg aacttatcca tttacgttat   1800
              ttggatatct cttacacagc tataaagacg ttaccagagt cattgtgtaa tttgtacaat   1860
              ctacaaacgt tgaagttgtg ttattgttat cgtctaagca ggcttcccaa tgatgtgcaa   1920
              aatcttgtga atctgcgcca tcttagtttc attggaacta gtttagaaga gatgaccaaa   1980
<removed-apn>
              gaaatgagaa aattaaaaaa tttgcaacat ctgagttcct ttgttgtggg caagcatcaa   2040
              gagaaaggga tcaaggaatt gggagcactt tcaaatcttc atggatcact atccattacg   2100
              aaattagaga atattacaaa caactttgaa gcctcagagg caaagataat ggataagaag   2160
              taccttgaga gattattatt gtcatggtct caagatgtaa atgatcattt tacagattcg   2220
              caaagtgaga tggatatact tggcaagtta caacccgtca agtacttgaa aatgcttgat   2280
              ataaatggat atattggcac aagatttcca aaatgggttg gagatccttc ttaccacaat   2340
              ttaactgaat tatatgtgtc tggttgtcca aattgttgta ttcttccacc ccttggacta   2400
              ttacattctc tcaaggattt gaaaatcggc aaaatgagta tgcttgagac tattggatct   2460
              gaatatggtg attcattttc cgggacaatt tttccctccc ttgaaagttt gaagtttttt   2520
              gacatgccat gttggaaaat gtggcatcat tcccataaat cagatgattc ttttcctgta   2580
              cttaaatctc ttgagattcg tgattgtcca agattgcagg gagattttcc acctcatctt   2640
              tccgttttgg aaaatgtttg gattgaccga tgcaacctgc ttggttcttc tttcccaagg   2700
              gctccttgca tccgcagttt aaacatactt gaaagtaaag tatccttgca tgagctatcc   2760
              ctttcattgg aagttttaac tattcaagga agggaggcaa caaagtctgt cttggaagtc   2820
              attgccatca ccccattaat ttctcttaaa aaattagata tcaaggattg ttggtctttg   2880
              atttcgtttc ccggagactt tttaccctta tcatccttag tgagtttgta cattgtaaat   2940
              tctagaaatg tagatttccc aaagcaaagc catctgcatg agtcactgac gtatcttcat   3000
              atagatagtt gtgattctct cagaaccctc tcactggaga gccttccgaa cctctgtctt   3060
              ctccaaatca agaactgtga aaacattgaa tgcatttccg cttcaaagtc tcttcaaaat   3120
              ctctatctta ttacaattga caactgcccc aaatttgtat cattcggaag agaaggattg   3180
              tctgcgccca acttgaaatc attgtatgtt tctgactgcg ttaaattgaa gtcattacct   3240
                                                    641

              tgtcatgtaa atactcttct cccaaagcta aacaatgtgc aaatgtcgaa ttgcccaaag   3300
<removed-date>
              attgagacgt ttccagaaga gggtatgccg catagcttga gatcacttct tgttgggaat   3360
              tgcgagaaat tattaaggaa cccatctcta actttgatgg acatgcttac ccgacttaca   3420
              attgatggtc catgtgatgg tgttgattcc tttccgaaga agggttttgc gttgcttcct   3480
              ccctccatta cctcccttgc tctatggtct ttttcaagcc tgcacacatt ggagtgcatg   3540
              gggcttctcc acctcacgtc cctcgagaaa ttaacaattg agtactgccc caagctggag   3600
<removed-apn>
              actctggaag gagaaaggtt gcctgcttct ctaatcgaac ttcaaatcgc tagatgtcct   3660
              ctgttggaag aacggtgccg catgaaacac ccacaaattt ggcccaaaat atcccatatc   3720
              cgaggcatta aggttgatgg aaaatggatt tag                                3753
              <210>   610
              <211>   1527
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 610
              atggctgttg cggttgtggg tgaatcattt ctgtccgctt tcattgaagt tgtcctcgac     60
              aggcttgctt ctcctgaggt tgttgacttg atccgtggga agaaagttga cgtcaacttg    120
              gttcaaaggt tgaagaacac tctttatgct gttgaagctg tgttgaacga tgctgaacag    180
              aaacagctca aagactctgc tgttatcaaa tggcttgatg atctcaaaga tgctgtttat    240
              tttactgatg atcttctcga ccacatctct accaaagctg caattgggaa ggaaaacaaa    300
              gaggtgagtg ttgttaacta cttctctcgc tttttcaact ttgaagaaag agatatggtt    360
              tgtgagttgg tagatatagt tgctagactt gaatacattc tcaaattcaa agatattttt    420
              ggtcttcaac atattgcaac tcaccaccac tcttcttgga gaactccatc cacctctcta    480
              gatgccggtg aatctaactt atttggtagg gatcaagaca aaatggtcat tctcaagtta    540
              ctgttagatg atgatcatgt tgatgataag acttgtgtga ctgtgatccc catagttggc    600
              atgggtgggg tgggaaaaat catattagcc caatttgtgt acaacaatga caatataaag    660
              caaaattttg atgtgcaagc atgggcttgt gtttccgacc atttcgatga attcaaagtt    720
              acaaaggcaa tcatggaggc agttactaga agtgcttgta atataaataa tatagagttg    780
              cttcatctag atttgaagga aaaactggcc ggaaagaagt tcttaattgt tttggatgac    840
                                                     642

              gtttggactg aggattatga tgcttggaaa tcccttttaa ggcctcttca gtacagtgac    900
<removed-date>
              aaaggaagta aaattcttgt aacaacccgt attaaaaaag ttgcttctat gctacaaact    960
              tttcaaggtt actctcttga gcaattgtct gatgaagatt gttggtctgt gtttgaaaac   1020
              catgcatgcc tttctctaaa acactccatt gagaaaatgg aactccaaaa aattggcaaa   1080
              gagattatta gaaaatgtca aggattgcct ttagcagcac aatcacttgg gggcttattg   1140
              cgaagtaaac gtgacatcaa ggattgcaat aatatactaa ctagtaacat ttgggaaact   1200
<removed-apn>
              gagagattgt ctgcgcccaa cttgaaagta ttgaacatct tcaactgcgt taacctaaaa   1260
              tcgttacctt gtcatgtaaa tactcttctc ccaaagttag acactttgct aatgtttgat   1320
              tgcccaaaaa ttgagacgtt tccagaagga ggtatgccgc taagcttaag atcattttct   1380
              ataaggaatt gcgaaaaatt attgaggaac ccatctctaa cttcgatgga gatgcttact   1440
              catcttacaa ttagtggtcc atgtgatggt gtcgaggact tccctaacaa gggttttgtg   1500
              atgctgcctc ttcccttacc tccctag                                       1527
              <210>   611
              <211>   3984
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 611
              atggctgcag tagctgttgg tgaagcattt ctgtcagctt tcattgaagt tgtccttgac     60
              aggcttgctt ctcctgaggt tattgacttg atacgtggga agaaagttga cgtcaatttg    120
              atccaaaggt tgaagaacac tctttatgct gttgaagctg tcttgaatga tgctgaacag    180
              aaacagttca aagactctgc tgttaacaaa tggctcgatg atctcaaaga tgctgtctat    240
              gttgctgatg acattttgga tcacatctct actaaagctg ctgctacttc ttggaagaac    300
              aaggagaagc aggtgagtac tcttaactac ttctctcgct ttttcaactt tgaagaaaga    360
              gatatgtttt gtaagttgga aaatatcgcc gctagacttg aatccattct caaattcaaa    420
              gatattcttg gtcttcaaca tattgctagt gaccaccact cttcttggag aaccccatca    480
              acctctcttg atgctggcga atctagcata tttggaagag ataaagacaa agaagccata    540
              ctcaagttac tcttagatga tgatcatgtt gatgataaga cttgtgtgag tgtgatcccc    600
              atagttggca tgggtggggt gggaaaaacc actttagccc aatctgtgta caaccatgac    660
                                                    643

              aatataaagc aaaagtttga tgttcaagca tgggcttgtg tttctgacca tttcgatgaa    720
<removed-date>
              ttcaaggtta caaaggcaat catggaggca gttactagaa gtgcttgtaa tataaataat    780
              atagagttgc ttcatctaga tttgaaggaa aaactgtccg gaaagaagtt cttaattgtt    840
              ttagatgatt tctggaccga ggattatgat gcttggaatt ctcttttaag gcctcttcaa    900
              tatggtacca agggaagtaa aattcttgta acaacccata ttaaaaaagt tgcttctatg    960
              gtacaaactt ttcaaggtta ctctcttgag caattgtctg aagaagattg ttggtccgtg   1020
<removed-apn>
              tttgcaaacc atgcctgtct tcctccagaa gaatcctttg agaaaatgga tctccaaaaa   1080
              attggcaaag agattgttag aaaatgtcag ggattgcctt tagcagcaca atcacttggg   1140
              ggcttgttgc gaagtaaacg taacctcaag gactgggatg atatactaaa tagtaacatt   1200
              tgggaaaatg agagtaagat cattccagca ctccgaatca gttatcatta tctccttcct   1260
              tatttgaaac gttgctttgt ttattgttcc ttatatccta aggattatga atttcataaa   1320
              gacaatttga tcttgttatg gatggccgaa ggtcttttac agcctaaaag aagtgggatg   1380
              actttagaag aagttggtaa tgaatatttt aatgacttag cttcaaggtc attttttcaa   1440
              tgttctggaa atgagaacaa aagttttgtg atgcatgatc tagtgcacga tttagccacg   1500
              ttgctcggtg gggaattcta ttacagaaca gaagaacttg gaaatgaaac aaagattagt   1560
              accaagactc gtcatttatc atttagcaca ttcactgatc caatctcgga aaactttgat   1620
              atttttggcc gagcaaaaca tcttcggacg tttttgacaa tcaattttga ccatcctcca   1680
              ttcaaaaatg aaaaggcacc atgcaccatt ttgtcaaatt tgaagtgctt gagagttttg   1740
              tcattttcac actttccata tcttgatgca ttgcctgatt caataggtga actgatccat   1800
              ttatgttatt ttttggatat ctctaaaaca actataaaga cgttaccaaa gtcattgtgt   1860
              aatctgtaca atctacaaac gttgaagttg tgttattgta attatctaaa aaggcttccc   1920
              aatggcatgc aaaatcttgt aaatttgcgc catcttagtt tcattggtac taggttagaa   1980
              gagatgactg gagaaatgag caaattaaaa aatttgcaat atttgagttg ctttgttgtg   2040
              ggcaagcctg aagagaaagg gatcaaggaa ttgggagcac tttcaaatct tcatggatca   2100
              ctttcaattg agaagttaga gaatgtgacc aacaactttg aagcatcaga ggcaaagata   2160
              atggacaagc accttgagaa attactattg tcatggtctc tagatgcaat gaataatttt   2220
              acagattcgc aaagtgagat ggatatactg tgcaagttac agcctgccaa gtacctggaa   2280
                                                    644

<removed-date>
              aagctaggta tagatggata caggggcacg cgatttccag aatgggttgg agatccttct   2340
              taccacaatt tgaccaagtt atctctgtct cattgtcaga attgttgtat ccttccacca   2400
              cttggacaat tacgttctct gaagaagttg gtaatttatc gaatgagtat gctgaagatt   2460
              attggatctg aatttttcaa gattggtgat tcgttttcag agacaccttt tccctccctt   2520
              gaatgtctgg tgtttagtaa catgccatgt tgggaaatgt ggcagcatcc cgaagattca   2580
<removed-apn>
              tatgattctt tccctggaga ttttccatct catcttcccg ttttggaaaa aattaggatt   2640
              gatggatgca acttgcttgg ttcttctctc ccaagggctc atgccatccg tgatttatac   2700
              ataattgaaa gcaataaagt agtcttgcat gagctacccc tttcattgaa agtgttatcc   2760
              atcgaaggaa gagatgtgac aaagtccttc tttgaagtca ttgtcatcac cccatcaata   2820
              tctattaaaa atttggagat tgaggattgt tcctctgcag ttttgtttcc cagagatttt   2880
              ttacccttat ccttagagag gttgtccatc ataaatttta gaaatctaga tttctcaatg   2940
              caaagccatc tgcatgagtc atttaagtat cttcgtatag ataggtgtga ttctctcgca   3000
              accctcccac tggaggccct tccaaacctc tactctctcg aaatcaataa ctgtaaaagc   3060
              attgaatatg tttccgcttc aaagatcctt caaaatctct ttcatattat aattagagat   3120
              tgccccaaat ttgtatcatt ctcaagagaa ggattgtctg cgcccaactt gaaacaattg   3180
              cacatcttca attgctttaa cttaaagtca ttaccttgtc atgtaaatac tcttctccca   3240
              aagttaaacg atgtgcaaat gtatgattgc ccaaatactg agatgtttcc agaagggggt   3300
              atgccgcgta gtttgagatc actttgtgtt ggaaattgtg agaaattatt gaggaatcca   3360
              tctctaactt cgatggacat gcttacccga cttaaaattt atggaccatg tgatggtgtc   3420
              gagtccttcc cgagcaaggg ttttgtgttg ctgcctccct cccttacctc cctggatcta   3480
              tggacttttt caagcctgca cacattggag tgcatggggc ttctccacct caagtccctc   3540
              caacaattaa cagttgaaga ctgtcccatg ctggagacta tggaaggaga aaggctgcct   3600
              ccttctctaa taaaacttga aattgttgaa tgtcctttgt tggaagaaag aacaacaatt   3660
              actgctgaag atttgttagc tactatgcaa aaattgggct ttgatgacta tgctcggtat   3720
              tccttccgct acatccaact ttttcgtcat ggtgctcgtg taggtcaata tgctccccca   3780
              cctccacctc caccaccgcc gccacaggat tttcaagctc ataattttcc attggatccg   3840
                                                    645

              aatttcatgt ttgccgaccc aacagaaatg ggtgcaattt taggagatgg tgatgatgaa   3900
<removed-date>
              agagaacttg gtggtggtgg tggtgatggc aactcaagtg atggaagctt tgatgttttt   3960
              gcttttctta atagtgatga ctga                                          3984
              <210>   612
              <211>   2826
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 612
              atggcagagg tagcagtatc aacagtagta acaaaactaa ccgaacttct cttagaacaa     60
              acaacctcaa caatctcaca catatccaca gttcgcgacc aagtcgaatc tctcaaaaac    120
              caactatcat ggatgcaatg tttcctcaaa gatgctgacg ctaaacaaca atccaacgaa    180
              cgtgttcgta tgtgggtttc cgatattcgt aacgtcactt tcgaagctga agaaatcatt    240
              gaaactcata tctataattc cactattcaa acccattttc ataacaaaat cttcactcct    300
              tttcatctct ataaacttgg ttcccgaatt gaaagaattt gtaaaaaaat caaagaggtt    360
              tctgatagac gtgaaatgta tggtgttgtt atcaaaaacc ctggctctaa ctctaaccct    420
              gacgaccgtg atggtagcag ttctaacgag agattgagac attggagaca accttcccct    480
              tattatgctg aagaagagta tgttgttgag gtaaaagaag attttggttc aatttttaca    540
              cagttggtta gtttggattc tacgagacat gttgtttcgc ttgttggtat gggtggttta    600
              ggaaaaacta ctttggcaaa gaaattgtat aatgatagta gaattgcgaa tcattttgag    660
              attaaagctt gggtttatgt ttctgaggag tataggagga aggatgtttt gcaagggatt    720
              ttgagaggtg ttgatggtgt tgcgagggag gatatggata ggatgccgga ggaggagttg    780
              gtgaataagc ttcacaatgc tttggcggag aaaaggtatt tggttgtgct tgatgatatt    840
              tgggggatgg aggtttggga tgggcttaaa tatgcttttc cgaggaggaa attagggagt    900
              aagattttgc tgacgacgag gattttggag gttgctttac atgctgatgg gaatagtgat    960
              ccttatcagt taaggccgtt gaatcatgat gagagttatg cattacttag gagtaaagcg   1020
              tttcctggtg cgagtgtgat accatccgag tttgagaatc ttgccaagga gattgtagtg   1080
              aaatgtgaag gtttgcctct tgctgttgtt gtggttggtg gtttgttgtc tagaaagttg   1140
              aagtctagtg gggaatgggc tagggagttg cagaatatta gagggggttt gcttgaagat   1200
                                                    646

              caagagaaga taacaagaat tttagcattg agctataatg atttgcctcc gccgttgaaa   1260
<removed-date>
              tcgtgttttc tgtatttggg tcttttccca aagggtatga acattcagac aaaaaaattg   1320
              attagactat gggttgctga aggttttttg cctcaagaag gtggtgaaac tgcagaagat   1380
              gttgctcaga ggtacttgaa tgagttgatt ggtaggtgta tgattcaagt tggaacggtg   1440
              agttcgatgg ggagagttaa gacgattcga atccacgatc ttcttagaga gctttcggtc   1500
              accaaaggaa aagaggagta ttttggtgat atggcaggct catcatcaac atctcagcta   1560
<removed-apn>
              actaaatccc ggcggcattc tctacattct tgccatgaac ggtatgattt cttaaaacat   1620
              attgcagatt attcgcgttc gttgttgttc ttcaatagag aatataatgc agatatagac   1680
              aagaaagtct ggattcattt gagttttatg caagaaaaga aattgaattt catctacacc   1740
              gaatttaagc tactcagggt gttagaatta gacggtgttc ggttagttag cttgccaagt   1800
              actatagggg acctgattca attaaggtat ttgggattga ggaagactaa tctcgaaggg   1860
              aaacttccgc tttccattag aaacttgctt aacctacaaa cacttgattt aaggtattgt   1920
              tgttttctta agaaaatacc aaatgtaatt tggaagttgg tgaacttaag acatttgctc   1980
              ctgtatacac catttgattc tcccgatagc gggcatctac ggttggatac attaaccaac   2040
              cttcaaagcc taccatatat tgaggctgga aactggatat cagatggtgg tttagcaaat   2100
              atgaccaatc ttaggcaatt ggggataaat gggttatcag gacaaatggt gaattctgtt   2160
              ctttctacta tacaaggatt acgcaacctt cattcactgt cactatcact tcaatctgaa   2220
              gaggatgaat ttccaatctt tatgcagctt tctcagtgca cacaactgca gaagttatct   2280
              ttgaatggaa agatcaagaa gctacctgat ccacatgagt tcccgccgaa tctgttgaaa   2340
              ctaactttac ataattccca cctacagaag gagtctattg ccaaacttga gagattgcca   2400
              aaacttaaaa tgcttgtttt gggtaaaaag gcatacaatt gggcagaatt gagcttcagt   2460
              gctgaagggt tttcacaatt gcatgttttg cggctcactc ttttgaaaga attggaggaa   2520
              tggaaagttg aggaaaaggc aatgccaatg ctcgagtaca tggttattga ccggtgcgag   2580
              aagctgagaa agattccaga agggctgaag gatatcactt ctttgaagaa actaaaaatt   2640
              acaggcatgc cggtagattt tgaacataga cttcgaacta aagatttgct tgagttcaaa   2700
              aatattccaa ttatcgaatc aacaacagac attttatcga ttgtaaggag agtagatcag   2760
              atgaacgata gtcagatcaa aagaggtaga ggaagaccta gaaaaactat aaagagaaac   2820
                                                    647

<removed-date>
              tactag                                                              2826
              <210>    613
              <211>    731
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Medicago sativa
              <400> 613
              acaaaatgtg tgacactgca ctttcctgcg ctcgtgataa cttgcttcca ctagcccgtg     60
<removed-apn>
              atcatttgct tccaatcttg aaggaagcat tcaacatgat taagggtgtc ccaaaagaaa   120
              ttgcagaatt gaaagatgaa ctagaaagaa ttgaaaaatt catcaacaat gcagatagaa   180
              tggctgatgc tgaagaagac gtggaaacaa gtcagaaaat caaagcaatg atcaaacagt   240
              tgatagaagc atcttttcat atagaagatg tcattgatga ttatatcttc cttgaagaac   300
              atcaatcttc tgatcttgga tgtgctgctg gtcttgactt gatcaaaact aagattcttc   360
              gtctccaaat agcagttaag attcagaaca tcaattctcg aattagagaa ataaaacaag    420
              attcaagtga aaaagatcat ggcttccaaa tccgatcttc ttccgataag ccatcaagta   480
              gttctccaac aagtgaaaac gcctcattat tgcacaacct tcaagacgct tccatttata   540
              tggatgaagc tgatattgtt ggctttgaag agccaagaga caaattgatt gatttgttgg   600
              tagagggaag agaagaccgc acagttgtct ccattgttgg aatgggagga ttgggaaaac   660
              cactctagcc agacaaattt ttgacaacca aaaggtagtt aagcactttg actgtctttt   720
              atggatcatg g                                                        731
              <210>    614
              <211>    3505
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Medicago sativa
              <400> 614
              atggatattt taatttctgt tgttgcaaaa atagcagaat ataccgttgt gcctattgga     60
              cgtcaagcaa gttacttgat attctacaaa ggcaacttca agaagttaaa ggatcatgtt    120
              gaagaccttc aggctgcaag agaaataatg ctccattcgg ttgcaagaga aaggggaaat   180
              ggtagagaaa ttgaaaaaca tgttctaaat tggttggaga aagtgaacga ggtcattgaa   240
              aatgcaaatc ggcttcaaaa cgatcctcgt cgtcccaatg ttaggtgctc agcatggtca   300
                                                    648

              ttccccaact tgattttacg tcatcaacta agtaggaaag ctacaaaaat tacaaacgat    360
<removed-date>
              gttgatcaag ttcaaagaaa ggaggttttt gatcaaattg gctaccttcc ccctcttgat    420
              gtagtagcct cctcctcctc aacaagagat ggtgaaaagt atgacacaag ggagttgctt    480
              aaggaggaca ttgtgaaggc tttagcagat cctacttcac gcaacattgg ggtctatggg    540
              ttgggtgggg tggggaagac cactctggtg cggaaagttg ctgagacagc caatgaacat    600
              aaattgtttg ataaagtggt tatcacagaa gtatcgaaaa atccagacat taaaaaaatt    660
<removed-apn>
              caagcggaga ttgcagattt cttgggtctg cgatttgaag aggagagtat tctcggcaga    720
              gcagaacgcc ttagacaaag aatcaagatg gagagaagtg tccttatcat tctagataac    780
              atatggacca tacttgattt gaaagaagtg gggataccag ttggtaatga acataatggt    840
              tgcaaattgt tgatgacaag tagaaatcaa gatgtgttgc tgcaaatgga tgtcccaaag    900
              gatttctctt tcaaagttga acttatgagt gaaaatgagt catggagctt gtttcaattt    960
              atggcagggg atgtggttaa agatagcaat ttgaaagatc taccatttaa agtggccaga   1020
              aaatgtgcag gtttgcctct tagggtagtg acagtagcgc gtgcaatgaa aaataagagg   1080
              gatgttcagt cttggaaaga tgcattaagg aaattacaaa gtaatgatca tacagagatg   1140
              gacccgggaa cttattctgc tttggaattg agttacaact cattggagag tgatgatatg   1200
              agggatctct tcttgctttt tgcattaatg ctaggtgatg atatagagta ctttctcaaa   1260
              gttgcaaagg ggttggacat attgaagcat gttaatgcca tagatgatgc aagaaacaga   1320
              ctttacacaa taatcaaatc tttggaggcg gcttgtcttt tgcttgaagt taaaacagac   1380
              ggaaatatcc aaatgcatga ctttgttcgt gattttgcta tctccatagc acgtagggac   1440
              aagcatatat ttctaagaaa acaatctgat gaggaatggc caaccaatga ttttctaaaa   1500
              aggtgcacgc agatctttct aaaaagatgt catacactcg agcttcctca aacgatagat   1560
              tgtccaaacg ttaagctttt ctatttgggc tgtaacattt cttctttcaa aatccctgat   1620
              gctttttttg agggaatgag aagccttaga gtgctagact taacgcgctt gaacttgtta   1680
              tcattaccca cgtcgtttcg gttcctaaca gagcttcaaa cattgtgttt ggattattgc   1740
              attttggaaa atatggatgc aatagaagct ttgcaaaatt tagaaattct tcgcctttgg   1800
              aaatcttcaa tgatcaagtt gccaagagaa atagggagat tgattcgatt gagaatgctt   1860
              gacttgagcc attcaggaat agaggtagtc ccacccaaca tcatatcaag cttgactaaa   1920
                                                    649

<removed-date>
              ttggaggagt tgtacatggg taatacctct attaattggg aagatgtgag ttcaacgttt   1980
              cataatgaaa atgctagtct tgccgagctt caaaaactac ccaaattgac agctctagaa   2040
              ttacaaattc gtgagacttg gatgttgcca agggacttgc aattggtgtt tgagaagctg   2100
              gaaagatata aaatagctat tggagatgta tgggactggt ctgacatcaa ggatggaacc   2160
              ttaaacacat tgatgctcaa acttggtaca aacatacatt tggagcatgg aattaaagca   2220
<removed-apn>
              ttgattaaag gtgttgagaa tttgtatttg gatgatgtag atggaattca aaatgtgctt   2280
              cctcacctaa atagagaagg atttacattg ctgaaacatc tccatgtcca aaataatact   2340
              aacttgaatc acattgttga caataaagag agaaatcaaa tccatgcgtc ctttcccatc   2400
              ttggaaacac tagtgcttct taatcttaga aacttggagc atatatgtca tggtcaacct   2460
              tcagttgctt cttttggaag tctcagtgtt atcaaagtaa aaaattgcgt ccagttaaag   2520
              tatcttttct cctttacaat ggttaaagga ctttctcacc tttctaagat tgaagtttgt   2580
              gagtgcaatt ctatgaagga gatagtgttc agagacaacg attcaagtgc taataatgat   2640
              atcactgatg aaaaaatcga gtttcttcaa ttgcgttctt tgactttaga acatttgaag   2700
              acacttgata attttgcctc tgattatttg acacatcata gaagtaagga aaagtatcac   2760
              gatgtagagc catatgcttc tactacacca tttttcaatg ctcaggtttc atttcctaat   2820
              ttagataccc tgcacgtggg ctcacttctc aatttgaaca aagtctggga tgacaatcat   2880
              caatcaatgt gcaacttgac tagcttgatt gtggataatt gtgttggatt gaagtattta   2940
              ttcccctcta ctttggttga aagttttatg aacctcaaac accttgaaat aagtaactgt   3000
              cctatcatgg aggagataat agctaaagaa gacagaaaca atgcagtgaa agaggttcgt   3060
              tttttgaatt tagagaaaat cgtattgaag gatatggaca gcttgaagac aatatggcat   3120
              cgccaatttg aaacatccaa gatgttggaa gtgaacaatt gtaagaaaat tgtggtggtt   3180
              tttccttctt caatgcaaaa cacatataat gagcttgaga agttggaggt tacaaattgt   3240
              gcttttgttg aagagatatt tgaattgact ttcaatgaaa ataacagtga agaggttacg   3300
              acacatttga aagaggtcac tatagatgga ttgtggaatc tggaaaagat atggagtgga   3360
              gatccggaag gaattcttag ttttcaaaat ctaataaatg ttcaagtagt aaattgtgct   3420
              agcttggagt atttattacc attctccgta gccactcgtt gctcacatct caagaaactt   3480
                                                    650

              ggtataaaat ggtgtgaaaa catta                                         3505
<removed-date>
              <210>   615
              <211>   3149
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 615
              ggcacgagga atcaacttag catattcaga tggctagcag cagcaactcc tcttcttcag     60
<removed-apn>
              ctcttatggc attgccaagg aggaagaatt attatgatgt gtttgtcacc tttagaggcg    120
              aagatactcg cttcaacttc attgatcatc tttttgctgc ccttcaaaga aaaggcattt    180
              ttgcatttag agacgacgct aatcttcaaa aaggtgaatc cataccaccc gagctcattc    240
              gtgcaattga agggtctcag gttttcattg cggtcctctc caaaaactat tcttcctcaa    300
              cttggtgctt gcgagaattg gtacacatcc ttgactgcag tcaagtttct ggaagacgtg    360
              ttcttcctgt tttttatgat gttgatcctt ctgaggtgag acatcaaaaa ggaatttacg    420
              gtgaagcctt ttccaaacat gaacaaacat tccaacatga ctctcatgtg gtacaaagtt    480
              ggagggaagc tctgacacaa gtggggaata tctctggctg ggatcttcgt gataagcctc    540
              aatatgctga gattaaaaag attgttgaag agatattgaa tatattgggt cacaactttt    600
              catctcttcc aaaagaacta gttggtatga atcctcatat agaaaaagta gtaaatctat    660
              tacttttgga ctcggttgat gatgttcggg ttgtaggaat ttgtgggatg ggtggaatag    720
              ggaagacaac tctgactact gctttatatg gtcaaatctc tcatcaattt gatgcacgtt    780
              gttttattga tgatctaagc aaaatatata gacatgatgg tcaagttggt gcacaaaagc    840
              aaattctaca ccaaactttt ggcaaggaac actttcagat atgcaatctc tttgacacgg    900
              atgatttgat acgacgtagg ttacgtcggc tacgagcact tatcattctc gataatgttg    960
              ataaagttga acagctcgat aagttagctt taaatcgtga atatttaggt gcagggagta   1020
              gaatcattat aatttctaga gatgagcata tcttgaatga gtatggagtt gatgaagttt   1080
              acaaagttcc actcttgaat gagaccaact ctcttcaatt attttgtcaa aaagctttca   1140
              aacttgagca tgttatgagt ggttatgata aaatggcact tgacacacta tcttatgcca   1200
              atggcctacc actagctatt aaagtattgg gctcattttt gtttggtcga gatatctccg   1260
              aatggagaag tgcattggct agattgaaag aaagtccaaa caaagatatt atggatgtgt   1320
                                                    651

              tgcgattaag ttttgatgga ttggagaatt tggaaaaaga aatatttctt gatattgctt   1380
<removed-date>
              gttttttcga aaggtacgat aaggaatgtc ttacaaatat tctaaattgt tgtggatttc   1440
              atccagatat cggattaaga attcttattg ataaatccct tataagcttt tatcacggag   1500
              gttgtgtaat gcatagtttg ttggtagagt tggggaggaa gattgttcaa gaaaattcga   1560
              ccaaagactt gaaaaagtgg agcaggttgt ggttccccga acatttcgac aatgtaatgt   1620
              tggagaatat ggaaaagaac gtccaagcca tagttttggc ctaccacagt ccaagacaaa   1680
<removed-apn>
              taaaaaaatt cgcagcggaa acattgtcaa atatgaatca tattaggtta cttatactcg   1740
              agaatacgta cttttcagga agcctcaatt acctttcaaa tgaattgaga tatgttgaat   1800
              ggaacagata tcctttcacg tatttgccta agagttttca gcccaaccaa cttgttgaac   1860
              ttcatttgag ctatagcagc atcaaacaac tatggaaagg caagaagtat ctacccaatt   1920
              tgagaattat ggatctgatg cactccagaa acctaatcaa gctgccagat tttggagagg   1980
              ttccaaatct tgagatgctg aatctggcag gatgtgtaaa tctgataagc atacccaaca   2040
              gcatatttgt tctcacctct cttaaatatc taaatctttc tgggtgttcc aaagtgttta   2100
              actatccaaa gcatttgaag aaacttgatt cgagtgaaac tgtactacat tcccaatcaa   2160
              aaacttcctc cttgatattg accacgattg gtttacattc cttgtatcag aatgcacaca   2220
              aaggtttagt tagtcgtttg ttgtcatcct tgcctagctt tttctttttg cgggaacttg   2280
              atattagttt ttgcggtcta agccaaatcc cagatgctat tggatgtata cgatggttag   2340
              gaagattagt tttatcggga aacaattttg tgactctgcc tagtctcagg gagctttcta   2400
              aacttgtata tttagacttg cagtactgca agcagttaaa ttttttgcct gagctccctt   2460
              tgcctcactc ttcaactgtt ggtcaaaatt gtgtggtggg attgtatatt tttaactgtc   2520
              ctgaattggg ggagaggggt cattgtagta gaatgacttt atcatggttg atacaatttc   2580
              ttcatgccaa ccaagaatcc tttgcttgct ttcttgagac tgatattggt attgttattc   2640
              ctggaagtga aataccaagg tggttgaaca atcagagcct aggtaattca atgagcataa   2700
              acctatcttc cattgtgcat gacaaagatt ttattggcct tgtagcctgt gtagtatttt   2760
              ctgtgaaact tgattatcca aatattacaa caaatgaact tgaaaataat atatgcataa   2820
              gtcttgatga agatcatact cgtactggtt atggattcaa ttttagttgt ccggtaattt   2880
              gttatgcgga tctttttaca ccggaatcag accacacatg gctattatat ctcccttggg   2940
                                                    652

<removed-date>
              atcgcctgaa tccagacaaa acattcaggg gttttgatca tatcacaatg acaactttca   3000
              ttgatgaaag agaaggtttg catggggagg tgaagaaatg tgggtatcgt tgcatattta   3060
              aacaggatca acaacagttt aactcaacaa tgatgcacca cagaaattca tcttcacaaa   3120
              agcgcaagtt tttggcaatt gaagattag                                     3149
              <210>   616
<removed-apn>
              <211>   4464
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 616
              atggagtttc ttactgaact atcaaaagaa gctgtctcaa aacttggaga attggcagtg     60
              cagtctacag tgaagcagtt tgaatatgtg atccagcaca aacaaattat tgccgacttg    120
              aaggaagaac acaataagtt gaagggtgtc aaagaagctc tacaagcatg ggttgacaca    180
              aaaagaatga atagagaagg aactgaacct aacatagaaa agtggctcaa tgacgttgca    240
              gcatttgaaa atgtgttaca aagtttctac gaagaaaaag ttaagatgaa caagaaatgt    300
              tttggtggaa agtgtccaaa tttgacatat aattactcat tgggaaagca agcctctaaa    360
              agcattgaat atattataag gttgaaggag gaaaaaaatg aattccagct catatcctac    420
              cataaagctc caccaactct tggatccacc ttcactgaag atattaagag cttggagtct    480
              aggaagataa tcataaaagg agtcatagag aaactgaagg atgataagtt caaaagaata    540
              agcatatgtg gaatgggtgg agtgggaaaa accactctgg taaaagaaat catcaaatct    600
              gtagaaaata agttatttga taaagttgtg atggcagtga tatcccaaaa tcctgattac    660
              aagtatatcc aaagtcaaat tgctgattgt ttaggcttga gtttgaaaag tgaaagtgtg    720
              gatggaagag gcagggaatt aattcatagg ttgaaggaaa tcgatgatga tggaaagatt    780
              aaagtcctag ttgtgctcga tgatgtgtgg agtgagctta attttgattg ggtgggactt    840
              ccatctcgag ataatcaaaa atgtagcaaa ataatattca catcacgaaa tgaaaaggaa    900
              tgtcaaaaga tgggaagcca agtgaatttt catgtttcta ttttgcttaa ggatgaagcc    960
              tggtatctgt ttcaatcaat ggcaggtgat gttgtatatg aacctcgtat ttatccaata   1020
              gcaaaacaag ttgcaaagga atgtggaggc ttgcctcttg ctattgtaat tgttggaaaa   1080
              gcacttgaaa atgagaaaaa gcttagtgca tgggaggatg catttgaaca attacaaaat   1140
                                                    653

<removed-date>
              tcacaatcat cttccttctc agatgttcac aattttgttt actcacgcat cgaacttagt   1200
              ttcaaatttt ggggtagcac agaacacaag aaattcctta tgctttgtgg attgtttccg   1260
              gaagactttg acatacctat tgaaagttta ttatgtcacg caatgggctt gggattgttc   1320
              aaagctatcg gtgagccatg gaaagcaaga aaccgagtga atagttttgt ggacgatcta   1380
              aagagatgct tcttgttgtt ggatagcaat gtcccagggt gtgtgaagat acatgatatt   1440
<removed-apn>
              gtacgtgatg ttgtcatatt agttgcattt aaaatagaac atgggtttat ggtgagatat   1500
              gacatgaaga gtttgaaaga agagaaatta aatgacatca gtgcattatc acttatcttg   1560
              aatgagacgg tagggttaga agacaactta gagtgtccta cccttcagct tctacaagtt   1620
              agatcaaaag aaaagaaacc aaaccattgg ccggaacatt tcttccaatg catgaaatca   1680
              ctcaaagttt tgtctatgca aaatgtgtac attccaaaac ttccatctct atctcaagtc   1740
              tcagttagcc tccatatgct gctattagaa tattgtgatg ttggagatat atctataatt   1800
              ggtaaggaac ttatacacct agaagtctta agttttgcac actctaaaat taaagaactt   1860
              ccagttgaaa taggaaactt gagcattcta agattattgg atttgacaaa ttgcaatgat   1920
              cttaaagtca tttctactaa tgtcttgata agattgtctc gattggaaga actttattta   1980
              aggatggaca attttccttg ggaaaaaaat gaaattgcga tcaatgagtt gaaaaagata   2040
              tctcatcagc taaaggttgt tgagatgaaa gtcagaggga ctgaaatttc agtcaaggac   2100
              ttgaacttat acaacctaca aaagttttgg atttatgtgg atctttatag tgattttcag   2160
              cgctctgcat atttggagtc aaatttattg caagtcggtg ctatagatta tcaatctatt   2220
              aatagcatat tgatggtctc acaattgatt aagaaatgtg aaatccttgc aataagaaag   2280
              gtgaaaagct tgaaaaatgt tatgccacaa atgtcacctg attgtccaat tccatacttg   2340
              aaagatttaa gggttgattc atgtcctgat ctccaacatc tgatagattg tagtgttcgt   2400
              tgcaatgact ttccacaaat ccattcattg tctttgaaaa aacttcagaa tttgaaagag   2460
              atgtgttata cacataataa ccatgaggtc aagggaatga taattgactt ctcatatttt   2520
              gtgaaattgg aattaataga cctcccaaac ttgtttggct ttaacaatgc tatggatttg   2580
              aaagagctca atcaagtaaa aagaattagt tgtgataaat ctgaactaac aagggtcgag   2640
              gaaggtgtgc tatcaatgag tggcaagttg ttttcatctg attggatgca acatttccca   2700
                                                    654

              aaattggaaa caatcttgct acaaaattgt tcttccatta atgtggtctt tgacactgaa   2760
<removed-date>
              agatatttag atggccaagt atttccacaa ttgaaagaac tggagatatc tcaccttaat   2820
              caactaacac atgtctggag taaagctatg cattgtgttc aaggttttca aaatttgaaa   2880
              actttgacaa tatcaaattg tgactctctg agacaagtat ttactccagc tattattgga   2940
              gcaatcacca atattgagga attggagata caatcttgta agttgatgga gtatttagtg   3000
              acagatgatg aagatggtga tgaaggtgac catattaata aagaggaagt aaatattatc   3060
<removed-apn>
              tcgtttgaaa aattagattc cttaacactt tcaagactcc caagtatagc acatgtttct   3120
              gcaaattctt acaagataga atttccatcc ttaagaaagt tggtaattga tgattgtcca   3180
              aagctagata cattgctttt gctatgtgca tatacaaagc acacaaatca ttccactgca   3240
              tcatatttaa atcttgatgg cactggtgtt agccattttg aagaaaacaa cccaagatct   3300
              tctaattttc attctggttg tacgccgctg tgttctaaat tgattcgaca aagcaaaaaa   3360
              aataacaaaa tcaacaaggc tccttctgtt tctgaaacaa aactcgagat agagttgggt   3420
              ggtgcacctc ttcttgaaga tctttatgta aactattgtg gtttgcaagg gatggataaa   3480
              acaaggataa gaagcgcgcc agttatagac ggacacttgt tcccatactt aaaatcacta   3540
              atcatggaga gctgtaacaa aataagtgtc ttgttatctt tttcgtctat gagatatctt   3600
              gagcgtctag agaagctaca cgtattgaat tgcagaaact taaatgagat agtatctcaa   3660
              gaagaatcag aatcaagtga agaaaagatt gtgttcccag cattgcaaga tctgcttctt   3720
              gaaaaccttc caaaccttaa ggctttcttc aaaggaccct gtaatcttga ttttccatca   3780
              ctacaaaaag tggacatcac agattgccct aatatggaat tgttttcacg aggactttgt   3840
              agtgcacaga atcttgagga tatcaacata tgtcagaatg aattatgcat caccagctac   3900
              ataaataaga atgacatgaa tgccactata caaagatcta aagcatgtgt ggaattgaaa   3960
              agttctgaga tgttgaactg gaaggagcta attgataaag acatgtttgg atacttttcc   4020
              aaagaagggg caatatacat cagagaattt cgtagattat caatgcttgt accattcagt   4080
              gagatacaaa tgcttcaaca tgtaaggata ctcggtgtag gtgactgtga ttcattggtt   4140
              gaggtgtttg aatcagaagg agaatttaca aaaaggggtg tcgctacaca ttatcatcta   4200
              caaaagatga cactggaata tttgccaaga ttgagtcgca tatggaaaca caatatcaca   4260
              gagtttgtaa gctttcagaa tctaacagaa attgaagttt ctgattgccg caatttgagg   4320
                                                    655

<removed-date>
              agtttgctct cccattctat ggctagaagc cttgtgcaac ttcaaaaaat agtagttgtt   4380
              agatgtggaa tcatggagga gataataaca atagaagggg aatctataga aggaggcaac   4440
              aaagtcaaga ctttatttcc ttag                                          4464
              <210>   617
              <211>   3390
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 617
              atgttgggat caagttcttc tgctgctgcg gctatttctc ctcctagtca aactcagaag     60
              tatgatgtgt tcctcagcta tagaggggag gacacacgtg acaacttcat cactcatcta    120
              tatgctgaat tgattcatct atatgatgaa tcaatgattt atgtcgttgt tttgtctgag    180
              aactatgctt cttccacatg gtgtttgaaa tttacaagca acggcagttg ggagttggga    240
              ccaaaccgcc gccatgcaag aatctggggt atgggaggaa tagggaaaac aacaattgct    300
              agtgcaatat atcgcaaatt ggcaacccaa ttcagtttta acagcatcat cctaaatgtt    360
              caacaagaaa tagagagatt tggactgcac catatacaaa gcaaatatag atttgagctt    420
              ctgggagaaa acaacacatc ctctggatta tgtctttcat ttgatcaaag gctcaaatgg    480
              actaaggctc tccttgttct tgatgatgtt aacaattcgg atcaacttag agatttaatt    540
              ggaaagctta gtaagtttgc accaggtagt agaatcattg tgactagcag agacatgcag    600
              gtactgaaga atgtcaaagc tgatggaata tatgaagtca aggagatgaa ttttcatgaa    660
              tctctacgac tcttctgttt aaatgccttt aaacaaagtt atcccttaga aggttacgtg    720
              gggttatcag agaatatatt aaattatgcc aaaagggttc cattagcact caaagttttg    780
              ggttttttac tttgcggtag accaaaggaa gcatgggaaa gtcagttaca aaagctggat    840
              aagcttcctg agaatgacat tttcgaagtg ctgaaattga gttatgtaga acttgatgaa    900
              gaacagaatg agatatttct tgatatagct tgtttctata gaggacattt ggagaatgtt    960
              gttttacaaa cactggatag ttgtggtttc tcttccctaa ttggaataga ggttctcaaa   1020
              gatagaggcc ttatatctat tgtggaaagt aggattgtta tgcatgatct aatacaggaa   1080
              atggggcatg aaattgtcca tcaacaatgt gtcaatgatc ctggaaaacg cagtcgacta   1140
              tggaagcata gagaaattta taaagtttta agaaacaaca aggggacgga cgcaatcagg   1200
                                                    656

<removed-date>
              tgtatattgt tggacatatg caagatagaa aaggttcaac tacatgctga aacattcaaa   1260
              aagatggaca atcttagaat gatgttattc tataagcctt atggcgtttc aaaagagtca   1320
              aatgtgatcc ttcctgcatt tctagaaagt cttccagatg atttaaagtt tcttcgttgg   1380
              gacggattcc ctcaaaagtc tttgccagag gattttttcc ccgacaatct tgttaaactt   1440
              tatatgcccc atagccatct taaacaacta tggcagagag ataaggaaaa tcaatcattt   1500
<removed-apn>
              aattatttta ttccatggtt taccaaatct gaaaacactt tacctttgtg gttctcagaa   1560
              cctgattcag ataccagacc tggtcaatgc ccaaatattg aagaagtaat tcttagtcac   1620
              tgcacaaagt tgagtaaagt ctactcttct agttttctgt ccaagctcaa gtgtttatgg   1680
              ttaaattggt gtattagcct caagagtgta cacattccta gcaatattct ccagacaact   1740
              tccgggttaa cagtactcca tggttgttcc agtcttgaca tgtttgtagt aggtaatgaa   1800
              aaaatgaggg ttcaacgtgc tacaccatat gacatcaaca tgtccagaaa taagcgtctc   1860
              aggattgtag caacagcaca aaaccaatca ataccgcctc ttgagtcaaa tacttttgaa   1920
              cccctagatt ttgttgtgtt aaataaagaa ccaaaagata atatacaatt actgagccta   1980
              gaagtgttga gagaagggtc accctcatta ttcccaagtc ttaacgagct ttgttggtta   2040
              gatctctctc actgtgattc tctcttgagc cttccaactg aaatcttcaa attaaaattt   2100
              ctaaaaagac tttacctcct tggttactta aatttggaga agatccctga aattaaggag   2160
              actcatttgg ttggacttga agaattgagc ttgtgttact gtcgagagct cgagactatt   2220
              ccatcttcca ttggaagtct tagcaaactc agcaagttag accttaccta ctgtgagtca   2280
              cttgaaactt ttcctagcag cattttcaaa ttgaagttga aaaagcttga tttgcatggt   2340
              tgctcaatgc tgaaaaactt cccagatatc ttggagcctg cagaaacttt tgttcacatt   2400
              aacctaacaa aaacagcaat taaggaactg ccttcatctt tggagtataa tttggttgca   2460
              cttcaaacct tgtgcctgaa gttatgcagt gatctggtgt cacttccaaa cagtgttgta   2520
              aatctaaact atctatctga gattgattgt tctggctgtt gtagtttaac agaaatccca   2580
              aataacattg gtagtttgtc ctcattgagg aaactttcac ttcaagaaag caatgttgtg   2640
              aaccttcctg agagcatagc taacctctca aatttaaaat cacttgattt aagtttttgc   2700
              aaaaggcttg aatgcatccc acaacttcca tcctctctaa atcaattgtt ggcgtatgat   2760
                                                    657

              tgcccgtctg ttggaagaat gatgccaaat tcaaggttgg aattatcggc aatttccgat   2820
<removed-date>
              aacgatatct tcatattcca tttcaccaat agtcaagaac tggatgaaac tgtttgcagt   2880
              aatatcgggg ctgaagcatt tcttaggatc accaggggtg catataggtc tctgttcttc   2940
              tgttttcctg ggagtgcagt tcctggtcgg ttcccttatc gttgtacagg aagtttggta   3000
              accatggaaa aagattctgt agattgtccc aataattaca ggctttttgg ttttgctctg   3060
              tgtgtggttt tgggacgtgt ggatatggta attgataaca tcatttgcaa attaacattt   3120
<removed-apn>
              gaatctgatg gtcacacaca cagtcttcct atttctaact ttggcaataa ttactattgc   3180
              tatgggaagg gtcgagacat gttattcatc caagatcaca cattcatatg gacatatcca   3240
              ttgcactttc gaagcattga caacagagtc tttgatgccc agaaatttac ttttgagttc   3300
              agtgaagtct gtgaagacaa ttgtctctca tatcttaaat cggatgtcat ggtgaaagag   3360
              tctggagtat gcccttttta tacaatatga                                    3390
              <210>   618
              <211>   5887
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 618
              atggattttt gtatggagct gccaaaagga gctgcctcaa aacttggaga aatgggagtg     60
              gagtctatca taaagcaatt taaatatatg atccaataca aaaatataat tgccaatttg    120
              aatgaagagc acaataattt ggattctttg agacaatcat tgcaagggtg ggtggatgca    180
              gaaagcacaa aaggaaacga aattccacgt aacgtgttga actggctctc taaagaagca    240
              gaaattgaag ctgtgttaga aagtttctat gaaaacaaag ttaacaagaa caagaagtgc    300
              ttttggggcc agtgtataaa ttttgcattc aattactcac tgggtaagca agcaactgaa    360
              aaaatagaag ttgttacaag attgaacgag gaaggaaaac agctttcact tatatcctac    420
              cgtaaggatg caccagcact tggatcaacc ttcatagaaa attacaagag tttggagtcc    480
              agaaaccaaa ttatacaagt gctcatagag aagttgaagg atggtcaact caaaaggatt    540
              ggcatttgtg ggatgggtgg agtggggaaa accacacttg tgaaagaact catcaaaact    600
              gtagaaaata agttatttga taaagttgtg atggctgttg tatcccaaaa tcctgattac    660
              gagaagattc aaagacaaat tgctgatggt ttaggtttgg agttaaaagg gcagagtttg    720
                                                    658

              gaaggaaggg gttgggaaat atttcaaagg tttaaagaat ttgaagagaa gaatgttaag    780
<removed-date>
              gtgctaatag tcttagatga tgtgtggaaa gaacttaatt ttgagttgat aggactttct    840
              tctcaagacc atcagaaatg tataaaaata ttattcacat cacgagatga aaaggtgtgc    900
              caacagaata gaagccaaga taatgtacat gtctctgtgt tgctccacga tgaagcttgg    960
              agcctatttc gagaaatggc tggaaatgtt gcaagcaaac ctgatatcaa tccaatagca   1020
              agtgaggttg caagggaatg tggtggtttg ccccttgcaa ttgcaacagt tggacgagca   1080
<removed-apn>
              cttggcaacg aggaaaaaag tatgtgggag gttgccctac aacagctgag acaagctcaa   1140
              tcatcatcct tctcaaacat gcaggaatgt gtatattcac gaattgaact tagcatcaat   1200
              atattgggtg ttgaacacaa gtcatgcctt ttcctttgtg gattgtttcc agaggacttt   1260
              gacattccta tagaaagcct gttgcgtcac ggggtgggct tggggttgtt tatggtagat   1320
              gattatgttt ggaaagcaag aaattatata aactatttgg tgaatagtct gaaaaaatgt   1380
              ttcctattgt tagacagtga agaaccaggg tgtgtaaaga tgcatgatgt tgtgcgtgat   1440
              gttgtcctaa aaatttcatc cagagaagaa cttgggattt tggtgcagtt taatgtagaa   1500
              ttaaagaggg tgaaaaagaa actagcaaaa tggcgtagga tgtcccttat tttggacgag   1560
              gatattgagt tagaaaatgg cctagaatgt ccaactctag agcttttaca ggttctatgt   1620
              caaagagaaa atagagaagt gaatatatgg ccagagaact ttacccatgg aatgactaaa   1680
              ctcaaagttt tatatattca aaatgtgtgc attccaaaaa cattatctca tttccatgcc   1740
              tcagtcaacc ttcgcacgct gcagctagaa ggatgtgatg ttggagatat atctataatt   1800
              ggtaaagagt taaataaact agaaatcctg agctttgcca attctaatat tgaagaactt   1860
              ccacttgaaa ttgggaattt ggagtttctc acattattgg atttgacagg atgtgattat   1920
              cttaattcta tttctcctaa tgtcttagca aggttatcaa gtctggaaga gttttatttt   1980
              aggataaaaa actttccttg gttgctaaac agagaagttc tcaatgagtt aagaaatatt   2040
              tctccacagt tgaaggttct tgagatcaga gtaaggaaga tggaaatttt accatgtgat   2100
              atggatttca aaaacctgga atttttttgg gtttatattg tttctaatga ttcttatgag   2160
              cgctgtggat atttggagcc aaatagaata caattaagag atttagatta caactctatc   2220
              aagagtagtg tgatgatcat gcaactgttc aagaaatgtg aaattctcat attagaagaa   2280
              gtgaaggact tgaaaaatgt catatctgaa ttggatgatt gtggactcca atgtgtgaga   2340
                                                    659

<removed-date>
              gatttaaccc ttgtttcatg cccccatctt gagtgtgtca tagattgcaa tactccattc   2400
              tctgcattcc cattgatcag gtcgttgtgt ttatcgaaac ttgccgagat gagagaaatt   2460
              attcatgcac ctgatgacca agaaaccaca aaagcaatta tcaaattctc aaatttggag   2520
              aaattggagc tgatgttcct cgacaagttg attggcttta tgaacttcag ttttttgaac   2580
              gagcatcatc aactaattca tagtggattg agttctacaa ctaaattaac agattcaaca   2640
<removed-apn>
              aacatcgagg atggtgaaac ctccagatca aatccagatg gttgtagacc ctcatcagtt   2700
              agtggcaagt tgttttcatc taattggatc atacactttc caaagttgga aataatggag   2760
              ttactagaat gtaattccat agagatggta tttgacttgg aaggatattc agaattgatc   2820
              ggaaatgcac aagattttct gtttcctcag ctaagaaacg ttgagataat acagatgcat   2880
              agtttgttat atgtgtgggg taatgttcca tatcatattc aaggctttca taatttgaga   2940
              gttctaacga tcgaagcatg tggttcttta aaatatgtat ttacttctgt cattgttaga   3000
              gcaatcacaa atcttgagga attgagagta agctcttgta aaatgattga gaacataata   3060
              gtttacagca gagatggtaa agaggatgat actattaaag gagatgtggc cgcaactatt   3120
              aggtttaata aactatgtta tttatctctt tctggacttc caaagcttgt gaatatttgt   3180
              tcagattctg ttgagttaga atatccatcc ttgagggaat ttaagattga tgattgtcca   3240
              atgttgaaga tatctctatc accaacatat atccatgcaa atcaagacag cctcaacaat   3300
              gtcacacatt caaaaaataa agaagatgat aatattgaag taaacaactc aaactcgtca   3360
              acttgccccc ctgcagggtg tactcctttt ctgtccaaat tctttcataa aggaaacgca   3420
              aataagagaa ttaacaagga agtatcaata acacgagcac cagaggatca tataccttct   3480
              agttttgaaa tgaagatgaa gaaaggaaaa agtcatatgc ctgttctaga agacttgtgc   3540
              ataggaaaat gtgattttct agagtttata ttttttcaca aagaaaaagt caatttctta   3600
              gttccttcac acttgaaaac catcaaaatt gaaaagtgtg agaagttaaa gaccatagtt   3660
              gctagcacag aaaatagaaa ggacgtgaca aactcgttta ctcagttagt gtcaccttca   3720
              cttgaaagat cttccacatc ttgtgaagtt tagcatttgt ggaccatatg agtcatggaa   3780
              caaccaaata gacaaggatg aatgtatgga tgatcaagaa agtattagat gtcatctact   3840
              catggatgat tccttgtttc caaacttaac ttctttgctc atagaagctt gcaacaaaat   3900
                                                    660

              tagcatctta atctctcatt catctttggg gagtcttgag catcttgaaa agctagaagt   3960
<removed-date>
              acgaaattgc aagaacatgc aagaaatagc atctctagaa gaaagttcaa ataagattgt   4020
              gttacatagg ttgaaacatc taattcttca ggagctaccc aaccttaaag ccttttgcct   4080
              aagttcatgt gatgtctttt tcccgtcatt gcaaaaaatg gaaattaatg attgtcccaa   4140
              tatggaagtt ttttcactag gattttgtac tacacctgtg cttgtggatg tcacaatgag   4200
              gcaatcatca ctcaatatta gaggctatat acagaagaca gacatcaatg atattgtacg   4260
<removed-apn>
              aggatttaaa gcatttgtgg catcacaagg atcgaagatg ttgagctgga ccatgttgca   4320
              taatgaagga tactttatca aaaactcaaa aataagtatc aaagaatgtc atgaactgcc   4380
              atatcttgtt ccttacaata aaatacaaat gcttcaacat gtggaggaac tcactgcagg   4440
              ttattgtgat tcactagttg aggtgattga atcaggagga ggaaaaggta caagaaaagg   4500
              ggatgtcaac acacattatc aattaaaaaa tttgacattg cagcagttgc caaaattgat   4560
              tcacatatgg aaacatgata ttgtggaggt tataagcttc cagaagctta caaaaattga   4620
              tgtttatgct tgccacaatt tgaagagttt gttctcccac tctatgggta gaagccttgt   4680
              gcaacttcaa gaaatatcag tttgggattg tgaaatgatg gaggagataa taacaaagga   4740
              agaggaatat atagaaggag gcaataaagt caggacatta tttcctaagt tggaggtatt   4800
              gtcacttgca tatcttccta agctgaaatg tgtttgttca ggagattatg actatgatat   4860
              ccctttatgc actgttgaag tggaaaagga attcaataat aatgataagg ttctgatttt   4920
              atttccacaa ttaaaggatt tagtgcttag taaagtacca gagctcaagt gtttttgttc   4980
              aggagtgtac gactacgata tcatggtgtc gtcaactaat gagtgtccaa atatgagaac   5040
              ctttccccat ggaaatgtta ttgtagacac acccaacctt gatcatctat ggttggagtg   5100
              gatatatgtg caaacacttg gagacctaaa tttgacaata tattatcttc ataattcaga   5160
              gaaatacaag gcggagttgc aaaaattaga gacatttaga gatatggatg aagagcttct   5220
              tggctacatc aaaagagtaa tagtgcttga gattgtaaac tgtcataagc tattgaattg   5280
              catcccatcc aacatgatgc aattattctc acatgtgaag tctctaacag tgaaagaatg   5340
              tgagtgctta gtagagatat ttgaatcaaa tgatagcatc ttgcagtgtg aactagaggt   5400
              cttaaatttg tattgtcttc caaaactgaa gcacatctgg aaaaatcatg gtcaaacttt   5460
              aaggttcggg tatttacaag agataaggat caagaagtgc aatgatttgg aatatgtgat   5520
                                                    661

<removed-date>
              tccggatgtt tccgtggtca caagccttcc aagtttgatg tcgattcatg tgtctgaatg   5580
              cgagaagatg aaggagatca ttgggaataa ttgtttacaa cagaaagcta agattaaatt   5640
              cccaaagctg atgaaaatta aactaaagaa gcttcctagc ctcaaatgtt tcagtgaaag   5700
              ctctttccat tgctacgttg agatgccagc atgtgagtgg atactaatta atgactgtcc   5760
              agagatgaag accttttggt acaatggaat cttgtacact ccagatatga cgacggacgc   5820
<removed-apn>
              ttcacatgct tcttcagaag tggtttctag ttcaaatcta gatgaagctc tttggttcct   5880
              agactaa                                                             5887
              <210>     619
              <211>     3225
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Medicago sativa
              <400> 619
              atggtgagtg atcagagcag aaaatcatca tatgacgtgt ttatcagctt cagaggagca     60
              gacacacgat tcaacttcac tgatcatctt ttttccgccc tccaaataag aggcattgtt    120
              gcatttagag atgacactaa gcttaagaaa ggtgaatcta tagcacctga actccttcgt    180
              gctatcgaag cctctcggac tttcattgtt gtcttctcaa acaactatgc ttcctcaact    240
              tggtgcttgc gggaattgca atacatcctt cattgcgtac aactttctgg aaaacgtgtt    300
              ctccctgttt tctatgatgt tgatccttcc gaggtgcgaa agcaaagtgg gagttataaa    360
              aaagcatttg cccaacatga ggaaagattc aaacaagaca ctgaggtcct gcaaggatgg    420
              aggacagctc tcacgcaagt cgccaatctt tcaggttggg atatacgtga taagccccag   480
              tcagcagaga ttaaaaagat tgttgaagag atagtaaata tattgaattg caaattttca    540
              agccttccaa atgatttagt tgggacgcat tctctcatag aaagattgga aaagctttta    600
              cttttggatg tggttgatga tgttaggatt gttggaattt ctgggatggg tggagtaggg    660
              aagacaactc ttgctaggat tttatataga agaatctctt ctcggtttga tgcatgttgc    720
              tttattgatg atctaagcaa aatttgcaaa catgctggtc cagttgctgc acaaaagcaa    780
              attctaagcc aaactttagg cgaagaacac cttcagatat gcaatctaag tgacggagct    840
              aatttgatac aaaataggct tggtcatctg agggccttca taattcttga taatgttgat    900
              caaggagaac aattggagaa attggctttg aaccgtaagc tgttaggtgt tgggagtaga    960
                                                    662

<removed-date>
              atcattataa tttcgagaga tactcatatc ttgaataggt atggagtgga tgtagttttc   1020
              aaagttccac tcttgaatca aactaattct cttcaattat tttgccaaca agctttcaaa   1080
              cgtgataata ttttgagtaa ttatgacgag ttggtatatg agatactaaa ttatgctaat   1140
              ggcttaccac tagcgattaa agcattgggc tcatttttgt ttggtcgaga tatttatgaa   1200
              tggagaagtg cattgactag attgagagac aatccaaaca aagatatctt cgatgtattg   1260
<removed-apn>
              cgattgagtt ttgatgggct agagaacatg gaaaaagaaa tatttctcga tattgcatgt   1320
              tttttcaatg gacgtaagga agcacttgtt aaaaatgtac tgaattgttg tggatttcat   1380
              gctgatattg gattaagagt tctcattgac aaatcactta taagcatatc agaaaaaagt   1440
              aagattgaaa tgcatggttt gttagaagag ctgggcaaaa aaattgttca agaaaattca   1500
              agcaaagatt caagaaagtg gacaaggttg tggctccatg aatatttcaa caatgttatg   1560
              tcagagaata aggaaaagaa tgttgaagcc atagttttga ggcgtggacg gcaaagagaa   1620
              acaaaaatag ttatagccga agcattgtca aagatgagtc atcttagaat gcttatactt   1680
              gatggaatgg acttctcagg aagcttggat tgtatttcta atgaattaag atatgttgag   1740
              tggcgggaat atcctttcat gtatttgcca tcaagttttc aaccctacca acttgttgag   1800
              ttgatcttgg aagatagcag catcaaacaa ctatgggaag gcacgaagta cttgccaaat   1860
              ttgagaactc ttgaattgag gaactccaaa agtctaataa aagtgccaga tttcggagag   1920
              atccctaatc ttgagcggct aaatctcaaa ggatgtgtaa aacttgagca gatagatcca   1980
              tctattagtg ttctaagaaa acttgtttac ttgaatttgg aagattgcaa aaatctagta   2040
              accataccga atgacttgtt tggtctcacc tctcttgagt atctaaatct ttctggatgt   2100
              tacaaggcat ttaacacttc attgcatttg aagaattata ttgattcaag tgaaagtgcg   2160
              tcacattccc aatcaaaatt ttccatattt gactggatca ctttgcctct ccaatctatg   2220
              tttccaaaag aaaacctgga catgggttta gcaataccta gttgtttgtt gccttcattg   2280
              ccaagcttat cctgtttgcg taaacttgat attagttatt gcagtttaag ccaaatccct   2340
              gatgctattg gttgcctact ttggttagaa agattaaatt tagggggaaa caattttgtg   2400
              acattgccta gtttcagaga actttcaaaa cttgcatatt tgaatttaga gaactgtatg   2460
              cagttgaaat attttcctga gcttccttca gcttcctcca tcgaacacga gcacagtcat   2520
                                                    663

              atgttttcag atactagtta ttggaggaga gcaggattgt gtattttcaa ctgtcctgaa   2580
<removed-date>
              ttgggtgaga tggaaaagtg cagtgacttg gcattttcat ggatgataca atttttgcag   2640
              gcaaaccaat tagaatcctc ctctgtcttc ttccgcgaaa tcaatattgt tatacctgga   2700
              acagaaatgc caaggtggtt caacaatcag aacatggaaa gttcaataag tatagacata   2760
              tctcctatca tgcatcatga cagtgatgtc attgcttttg cgtgttgtgt agtattttct   2820
              gcagcgcctt atccatctac gaatatgaaa accaattacc gaaagcctgt aatacatttg   2880
<removed-apn>
              tgttttagta gcggtgactt ggaggtattt ctaggcattc cagcacatac aaatttaaat   2940
              atgctgaaat caaatcacat ttggctagct tatttcactc gagaatcatt cattgatctt   3000
              atgagtgata tagacagtac acttggtgat attagaatgg aagttttgat tgtggatggt   3060
              gaaggtttgg atgtagaggt gaagaattgt ggttatcgtt gggtatataa acatgatcta   3120
              caacatctca actttacaat gatgcattgc aaaagttcat tagctcagaa ctgcgacatt   3180
              ttgggaatcg aagatgaggc acaaccagaa gtgaaaccac ggtaa                   3225
              <210>   620
              <211>   1941
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 620
              atggattgtc ttactgaatt gggaaaggaa gctgtcacaa aattgggaga attggttgtg     60
              gagtcaatca tgaagcattt caaatatttg acacaacaca aaaaaatcac aacaaatttg    120
              gaggaagaac ttgagaggtt gaaaatgata aaacaagcat tgcaaacaag ggttgaaact    180
              gaaagaagga aaggatatga aattgcacct aatatgcaaa aatgggtcta tgatgtgaca    240
              acaattgaag atcagttgca aaagtggctc tctgatgaaa atagaggaga agattataaa    300
              gaggtcatag agaaactcaa ggatgatcaa gtcaatatga ttagcatttg tgggatgggc    360
              ggagtgggaa aaaccacaat gtgcaatggc agtgaggttt tgggcatgga attgaaaaag    420
              gtcagcgaga aaggaagagc catgcaatta catgagagac tgatgagaaa agataaaaag    480
              gttctaattg tccttgatga tgtgtgggat attctagact ttgagtggga agttgtagat    540
              agaaatgata tcaatccaat agcaaaagag gttgcaaagg aatgtggcgg cttaccgctt    600
              gcaattgcga caattggaag agcactgagc aatgaaggga agtctgcatg ggaagatgca    660
                                                    664

              ctaagacaat taaacgacgt tcaatcatct tcctccttgg gtgttggaaa acatatctac    720
<removed-date>
              ccccggattg agcttagttt aaacaagaaa ccgagtgcat acattggtgg aagatctaag    780
              acgaaagttc ttgttgttgg acagcaatgt gctgtgaaga tgcacgatat tgtgcgcaat    840
              gttgttatat ctatagcatt taaaaatgca gaagataaat ttatggtaca atacaccttt    900
              aagagtctaa aagaagataa attgagcgag atcaacgcaa tatcacttat tttggatgat    960
              acaaaagtgt tagaaaatgg cttacactgt ccgacgctta aacttttaca agtaagtaca   1020
<removed-apn>
              aaaggcaaga aaccattgtc ttggcctgaa cttttcttcc aaggcatgag tgcacttaaa   1080
              gttttatcct tacaaaattt gtgcattcca aaactgccat atttatccca agcttcactc   1140
              aatctccaca cgttgcaagt ggaacattgt gatgttggag atatatctat aattggtaag   1200
              gaacttaaac acctagaagt cctaagtttt gcagattcta atattaaaga gctcccattt   1260
              gaaataggaa atctgggcag tctaagatta ttggatttgt caaattgcaa cgatcttgtc   1320
              atcatttctg ataatgtctt gataagattg tctcggttgg aagaaattta ctttagaatg   1380
              gacaattttc cttggaagaa aaatgaagct tcactgaacg agttgaaaaa gatatctcat   1440
              cagctaaagg ttgttgagat gaaagttgga ggggctgaaa ttttagtcaa ggatttggtt   1500
              ttcaacaact tgcaaaatgg ggtgtccgac attcgaactc caacatgtat tcacttttct   1560
              gtcattgcaa gagaaatcac aaatcttgag aaactggaag ttaaatcttg tgcgttgatt   1620
              gagaatataa ttgaatggag tagagatgaa gaagatgaaa ataaagggca tgtggcaact   1680
              attagcttca ataaacttga ttgtgtatca ctttcaagcc ttccaaagct tgtgagtatt   1740
              tgttcagatt cactttggtt agaatgtcca tccttgaagc aatttgatat tgaggattgt   1800
              cctatcttgg agatgtattt cttaccaacc aatattgatg caaagcatga caacctcaat   1860
              aacgtaaaag atgttggttt tcaaagtttc caagaaaaca actcaaggtc ttcaagttgg   1920
              tcctctagaa atgataccta a                                             1941
              <210>   621
              <211>   2952
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 621
              atggctagca gcagcaactc ctcttcttca gctcttatgg cattgccaag gaggaagaat     60
                                                    665

              tattatgatg tgtttgtcac ctttagaggc gaagatactc gcttcaactt cattgatcat    120
<removed-date>
              ctttttgctg cccttcaaag aaaaggcatt tttgcattta gagacgacac taatcttcaa    180
              aaaggtgaat ccataccacc cgagctcatt cgtgcaattg aagggtctca ggttttcatt    240
              gcggtcctct ccaaaaacta tgcttcctca acttggtgct tgcgagaatt ggtacacatc    300
              cttgactgca gtcaagtttc tggaagacgt gttcttcctg ttttttatga tgttgatcct    360
              tctgaggtga gacatcaaaa aggaatttac ggtgaagcct tttccaaaca tgaacaaaca    420
<removed-apn>
              ttccaacatg aatctcatgt ggtacaaagt tggagggaag ctctgacaca agtggggaat    480
              atctctggct gggatcttcg tgataagcct caatatgctg agattaaaaa gattgttgaa    540
              gagatattga atatattggg tcacaacttt tcatctcttc caaaagaact agttggtatg    600
              aatcctcata tagaaaaagt agtaaatcta ttacttttgg actcggttga tgatgttcgg    660
              gttgtaggaa tttgtgggat gggtggaata gggaagacaa ctctgactac tgctttatat    720
              ggtcaaatct ctcatcaatt tgatgcacgt tgttttattg atgatctaag caaaatatat    780
              agacatgatg gtcaagttgg tgcacaaaag caaattctac accaaacttt tggcaaggaa    840
              cactttcaga tatgcaatct ctttgacacg gatgatttga tacgacgtag gttacgtcgg    900
              ctacgagcac ttatcattct cgataatgtt gataaagttg aacagctcga taagttagct    960
              ttaaatcgtg aatatttagg tgcagggagt agaatcatta taatttctag agatgagcat   1020
              atcttgaatg agtatggagt tgatgaagtt tacaaagttc cactcttgaa tgagaccaac   1080
              tctcttcaat tattttgtca aaaagctttc aaacttgagc atgttatgag tggttatgat   1140
              aaaatggcac ttgacacact atcttatgcc aatggcctac cactagctat taaagtattg   1200
              ggctcatttt tgtttggtcg agatatctct gaatggagaa gtaaattggc tagattgaga   1260
              gaatgtccaa tcaaagatat tatggatgtg ttgcgattaa gttttgaagg gctagagaat   1320
              atggaaaaag atatatttct tgatattgct tgttttttca aagggtacaa caaggaatgt   1380
              gttacaaata ttctaaattg tcgtgggttt catgctgata tcggattaag aattctcatt   1440
              gataaatccc ttataagcat ttcttacgga actaatatta caatgcatag tttgttggta   1500
              gagttgggcc ggaaaattgt tcaagaaaat tcgaccaaag acttgagaaa gtggagcagg   1560
              ttgtggtccc tcgaacattt caacaatgta atgttggaga atatgcccaa ccagcttgtt   1620
              gaactttatt tgtggcgtag cagcatccaa caactatggg aaggcaagaa gtatctgccc   1680
                                                    666

<removed-date>
              aatttgaaaa ctatggatct gatgtactcc aaacacctaa tcaagatgcc aaattttgga   1740
              gaggttccaa atcttgagcg gctgaatctc gacggatgtg taaatcttgt gcaaatagat   1800
              ccatctattg gtcttctgag aaagcttcac tgcaagcaat tgaaattttt gcctgagctc   1860
              cctttgcctc actcttcacc ttctgttatc aagtgggatg aatattggaa gaagtgggga   1920
              ttgtatattt tcaactgtcc tgaattgggg gagaaggatc aatatagtag catgacttta   1980
<removed-apn>
              ttatggttga tacaatttgt tcaggctaac caagaatctc ttgcctgctt tcgtgggact   2040
              attggtatcg ttattcctgg aagtgaaata ccaagctggt tgaacaacca gtgcgtaggt   2100
              aaatcaacac gcatagactt atctcctact ttgcatgaca gtaatttcat tggccttgct   2160
              tgttgtgtcg tattttctgt gacatttgat gatccaacta tgacaacaaa ggaattcgga   2220
              ccagacatat cgctagtttt tgattgtcat actgctacac ttgaatttat gtgtccgaac   2280
              aaagcattca aagatgttga tcatatcaca atgacagctt gccttgagga cggaaacggg   2340
              ttgcatgtgg atgtgaaaac atgtgggtat cgttatgtat tcaaacagga tctaaaacag   2400
              tttaactcaa cagtgatgca ccacagaaat ccgtttgcac agaagcgcaa cgatttcatt   2460
              tcagctgcac ttccaatcaa ctttgaaatt acaacaaggt ttgcattagg tggtactggt   2520
              caacaatggt tggaatcaat aggcaatcgg atcctcaatt tggaatcagt ctgcaattgt   2580
              ccgaaattcc atttgtcggc aacagttaga cctgcacaaa gtccaacagc aattctttat   2640
              cctacaagtg gaagaaacat caattatctt caagccataa caccttgtgc agtctttgac   2700
              attttatctc cacaccatag tcttcagagg atggaagagc tgactccact tccggcaatc   2760
              acaaagaaaa gaacttccag ctctaatgag atcgacaaga ggaggaacta ctatgacgtg   2820
              tttgtgagct tcaaaggtaa agacactcgc tacaacttca ttgatcatct ttttgcttcc   2880
              ttccgaagaa aaggtatcat tgcattcaag gacgatgcaa tgctcaagaa aggtgaatcc   2940
              attgcaccat ag                                                       2952
              <210>   622
              <211>   3385
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 622
              tatcatccaa agaagcacca gttcctctct tcttcggcta tgatgatcaa gtatgacgtt     60
                                                    667

<removed-date>
              tttgtgagct ttagaggcca agacacacac aacaattttg ccgatcatct ttttgctgcc    120
              cttcaaagaa aaggcatcgt tgcattcagg gatgattcta acctgaagaa aggtgaatcc    180
              atagcacccg agctccttca tgcaattgaa gcctcaaagg tttttattgt actcttctca    240
              aaaaactatg cttcctcaac atggtgcttg cgagagttgg aatacatcct tcactgcagt    300
              caagtttctg gaactcgtgt tctccctatt ttctatgatg ttgatccttc tgaggtgaga    360
<removed-apn>
              catcaaaatg gaagttatgg agaagccctt gccaaacacg aggaaagatt ccaacatgaa    420
              tcagagatgg tacaaagatg gagggcaagt ctaacacaag tcgccaatct ctctggttgg    480
              gatatgcatc ataagtaaga aattttctac ggattgatga ttgaaaagat tgttgaagag    540
              ataacgaata tatcgggtca caaattttca tgtcttccaa aagaattagt tggaataaat    600
              tatcctatag aaaaagtagc aaatctatta cttttggact ccgttgatga tgttcgggtt    660
              gtaggaattt gtgggatggg tggaataggg aagacaactc ttactactgc tttatgtggt    720
              agaatctctc atcgatttga tgtacgttgt tttattgatg atctaagcag aatatataga    780
              catgatggtc caattggtgc acaaaagcaa atcctacacc aaactcttgg cggggaacac    840
              tttcaaatat acaatctata tgacacaact aatttgatac aaagtaggct acgccgccta    900
              cgagcactta taatagttga taatgttgat aaagttgaac aacttgataa attagctgtg    960
              aatcgtgaat gcttaggtgc agggagtaga atcgttataa tttctagaga tgaacatatc   1020
              ttgaaagagt atggagttga tgtagtttac agagttccac tcttgaatgg gaccaactct   1080
              cttcaattat tttctctaaa agctttcaaa ctttatcata ttatcagtga ttatgaggag   1140
              tttgacatat gacatattaa attatgctaa tggcttacca ctagccgatt acagtgttgg   1200
              gatcattttt gtttggtcga gacatctatg aatggaaaag tgcattggct agattgagca   1260
              aaagtccaaa caaagatatc atggatgtga tgcgattaag ttttgaaggg ttagaaaaat   1320
              tggaaaaaga aatatttctt gacattgctt gttttttcat tcagagcaag aagatttatg   1380
              tccaaaaagt tctaaattgc tgtggattcc atgctgatat tggattaaga gttctaattg   1440
              ataaatcact tctaagcatt tcagaggaaa ataatattga aatgcatagt ttgttaaaag   1500
              aattgggcag agaaattgtc caagaaaagt caatcaaaga ttcaagaagg tggagtaggg   1560
              tgtggctcca tgaacaactc cacaatatta tgttagagaa tgtggtaaac tgtagaaatg   1620
                                                    668

              aaggttgaag ccatatattt tccctgtgat atagacgaaa acgaaacaga aatattaatc   1680
<removed-date>
              atgggtgaag cattgtccaa aatgagtcat cttagattgc tcatactcaa ggaagtgaag   1740
              ttcgcaggga acctcggctg cctttctaac gagttaagat acgtagagtg gggtagatat   1800
              cctttcaagt atttgccagc atgttttcag cccaatcaac ttgttgaatt gatcatgagg   1860
              catagcagcg tcaaacaact atggaaagac aagaagtatt tgcccaattt gaaaattttg   1920
              gatctaagcc actcaaagaa tctaagaaag gtgccagatt ttggagagat gccaaatcta   1980
<removed-apn>
              gaagagctaa atctcaaagg ctgtataaag cttgtgcaga ttgatccatc aattggggtt   2040
              ctaagaaagc ttgttttcat gaaattgaaa gattgcaaaa atctagtaag cataccgaac   2100
              aacatacttg gtctcagctc tcttaaatat ctaaatcttt ccgggtgttc caaagtgttt   2160
              aacaatccaa ggcatttgaa gaaatttgat tcgagtgata ttttatttca ttcccaatca   2220
              acaacttcct ccttgaaatg gaccacaatt ggtttgcatt ccttgtatca tgaagtttta   2280
              actagttgtt tgctaccttc ttttcttagc atatactgtt tgagtgaagt tgatatcagt   2340
              ttctgtggtc taagctatct ccctgatgca attggatgtc tacttcgact agaaagatta   2400
              aatatagggg ggaacaattt tgtgacactg cctagcctga gggagctttc caaacttgta   2460
              tatttaaact tggagcattg caagcttttg gaatctttgc ctcaacttcc ttttcatgca   2520
              cacaaagata tagctagtcg ttttctgcat tccttgctta gcttatcttg tttgaatgat   2580
              cttgatatta gtttttgtgg tataagccaa ctaccgaatg caattggacg tttacgttgg   2640
              ctagaaagat taaatctagg gggaaacaat tttgtgacgg tacctagcct taggaagcta   2700
              tccagacttg catatttaaa cttgcagcat tgtaagttgt tgaaatcgtt gcctcaactt   2760
              ccttttgcta ctgctatcga gcatgatctt catattaaca atcttgataa gaacaaatct   2820
              tggaagtcaa aaggacttgt cattttcaac tgtcctaaat tgggtgagag ggaatgttgg   2880
              aatagcatga tattttcatg gatgatacaa ctcattcggg cgaacccaca atcctcatct   2940
              gatgtgattc aaattgttac tccgggaagt gaaataccaa gttggttcaa caatcagagc   3000
              aatagtcgtt cattatcaat agccctatct cccgttatgc atgatgacac tgacaataat   3060
              ttcactccta gtgtactact accttcttac tatctttgtt ttgtcaactg tttttctctg   3120
              ttctctattt tgacactcag ttcttttcaa ttgctcagca tggggagtta tgaaaatata   3180
              tcatacacat tgtcttcaac tatttctgca ataggatcgg acgatcctac gacccagcac   3240
                                                    669

<removed-date>
              tcgtttttgg ctaccttgat cttaagttct aaaagtttca agttggtcaa aaatgttact   3300
              caaattggag taagttaacc ctttctatca cttggcattt agagatctgg ttgagaatac   3360
              aggcgttgga atttcttatt tacag                                         3385
              <210>   623
              <211>   627
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 623
              atggatccta ttgcggataa aattgttgaa gttgtggttc caccctttac tcgtcaaatt     60
              agttacgtat tcaactacaa cgacaacttt aaaaaaatga tactcgggct ccaaaacctt   120
              gatggaaaaa gagctagtgt gcaacacaca gttgatgagg ctataaggaa cggagaaaaa   180
              attgaaaatc ttgtccacaa ttggctgaac aaagctgcca acaccgttgc tgatgcaaac    240
              aaacttcttg acaccgaaga ccatgcgaag gttcagtgtt ctatgggaca ctgtcccaat    300
              ccgatcaaaa ggcaccggtt gagcaggaac atggcaaaga tgattcaaga tatttccgaa    360
              gtcatagcag aaggagaatt tgaacgaatt tcttaccgtg gtgcttctaa aatcacaatt    420
              acgccattca gtagaggtta tgaggctcta gattctagaa catcaatgtt gcatgaaatt    480
              atgatggatt tgaagaatcc taacatatcc attattggtg tttgtgggat ggggggagta   540
              ggcaagacaa cactaaattg tggcacttca agaggaatgc aactttggag cttcagcata   600
              gtttctatct tctccttgat tttctag                                       627
              <210>   624
              <211>   3159
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 624
              ctgattacgc caagctcgaa attaaccctc actaaaggga acaaaagctg gagctccacc     60
              gcggtggcgg ccgctctaga actagtggat cccccgggct gcaggaattc ggcacgaggg    120
              tcctgctctc ctctctctct ctctctgctt ctccgctatc aaatcttctc tctagcatta    180
              acaagatcat ccaaatccgc tcctcttctt cagctctgat ggcatcgccg tggaggaaga   240
              attattatga cgtgtttgtc accttcagag gcgaagatac tcgcttcaac ttcactgatc   300
                                                    670

              atctttttgc tgcccttcaa agaaaaggca tttttgcgtt tagagacgac gctaagcttc    360
<removed-date>
              aaaaaggtga atccatacca cccgagctca ttcgtgcaat tgaagggtct caggttttca    420
              ttgcggtcct ctccaaaaac tatgcttcct caacttggtg cttgcgagaa ttggtacaca    480
              tccttcactg cagtcaagtt tctggaagac gtgttcttcc tgttttttat gatgttgatc    540
              cttctgaggt gagacatcga aaaggaattt acggtgaagc cttttccaaa catgaacaaa    600
              cattccaaca tgactctcat gtggtacaaa gttggaggga agctctgaca caagtgggga    660
<removed-apn>
              atatctctgg ctgggatctt cgtgataaaa ctttcaggcc tcaatatgct gagattaaaa    720
              agattgttga cgagatattg aatatattgg gtcacaatta ttcatctctt ccaaaagaac    780
              tagttggtat gaattctcat atagataaag tagcaaatct attacttttg gactccattg    840
              atgatgttcg ggttgtagga atttgtggga tgggtggaat agggaagaca actctggcta    900
              ctgctttata tggtcaaatc tctcatcaat ttgatgcacg ttgttttatt gatgatctaa    960
              gcaaaatata tagacatgat ggtcaagttg gtgcacaaaa gcaaatccta caccagactc   1020
              ttggcgtgga accctttcag ctttgcaatc tatatcacac aactgatttg atgcgaagga   1080
              ggctacgtcg cctacgagta cttataattg ttgataatgt tgataaagtt ggacaacttg   1140
              ataaattggg tgtgaatcgt gaatggttag gtgcagggag tagaatcatt ataatttctg   1200
              gagatgaaca tatcttgaaa gagtatggag ttgatgtagt ttacagagtt ccactcttga   1260
              attggaccaa ctctcttcaa ttattttctc taaaagcttt caaactttat catattatca   1320
              gtgattatga ggagttgaca tatgacatat taaattatgc taatggctta ccactagcga   1380
              ttacagtgtt gggttctagt ttgttcagtc gaagtatctc tgaatggaga tctgaattga   1440
              ctaaattgaa agtaagtcca cataaagata ttatggatgt gctgcagttg agtttaattg   1500
              ggctaatgga gatggaaaaa gaaatatttc ttcatattgc atgtttcttc aacgggcgag   1560
              aggaggacta tgttaaaaat gttctgaact attgtggatt tcatgctgat ataggattaa   1620
              gagttcttgt tgataactca ctcatacaca tttcagatga aagtaagatt gaaatgcatg   1680
              gtttgttcga agtgctaggc aaaaatattg ttcatgaaat ttcaagaaag tggagcaggt   1740
              tgtggctgca tgaacaattc tacaatgtcg tgtcaaataa tatgggccta aattatcttt   1800
              ctaataaatt aagatatctt gaatgggaag ccgaaaaggg aatattgatg gctgaagcat   1860
              tgtcaaaaat gaacagtctt gaattgctca ttctcaaaaa agtgaaagtt tcgggaagcc   1920
                                                    671

<removed-date>
              taaattatct ttctaataaa ttaagatatc ttgaatggga tgaatatcct ttcttgtatt   1980
              taccatcaag ttctcagctt gatgaacttt ccgaattgat cttagtaggt agcagcatca   2040
              cacaactatg gaaagacaag aagtatctgc ccaatttgag gaatctggat ctaagctgct   2100
              ctaaaaatct agccacgatg ccacattttg cagagttccc aaatcttaag cggctaaatc   2160
              ttgaaggatg tgtaagcctt gtgcagatta attcatctat tggccttcta agagagcttg   2220
<removed-apn>
              ttttcttgaa tttgaagaat tgtaaaaatc ttatatgcat acccaatgaa atatctggtc   2280
              tcacctctct taaatatttt actatttgcg gctgttccaa cacgtttaaa aactccaaag   2340
              cacatggata tttttctagc tgtttgttgc cttccttgcc tagcgtgtct tgtttaagtg   2400
              aaattgatat cagtttttgc aacctaagtc aaattgtttc cttgaattta aaagattgca   2460
              agaatcttgt aagcataccc aacaacatat ttggtctcag ctttcttaaa gatctaaata   2520
              tgtgtgggtg ttccgaagtg tttaacattc catgggattt gaatataatt gaaagtttga   2580
              gaaatttgga tctaagccac tccaaaaatt taataaagat gccacatttt ggagagttcc   2640
              cgaaccttga gcggctagat ctggaaggat gtataaaact tgtgcagata gatccatcta   2700
              ttggtcttct aacaaagctt gtttacttga acttgaaaga ctgcaaacat ataataagcc   2760
              tactcagcct tgatattagc ttttgcggtc tatgtctaat ccccgacgca attggatcta   2820
              tattggttag aatatttaaa cttaggggga aataattttg tgacagtacc tagcctgagg   2880
              gagctttcca aacttgtata tttaaacttg gagcattgca aactgttgga atctttgcct   2940
              gttcttcctt ctcctactgc tatcgagcac gatctttata aaaacagtct tcctgcgtat   3000
              gaaactaggt ggcgtacaag attgcttatt ttcaactgtc ctaaattgga tgagagggaa   3060
              tgctacatta gaatgacatt ttcatggatg atacaattca ttaaggcaaa aatgactaat   3120
              attcaattta aatttctcat tccatctgca atctgaagg                          3159
              <210>   625
              <211>   5634
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 625
              atggattgcc ttactgaatt gggaaaagaa gctgtcacaa aattgggaca attggttgtg     60
              gagttatcca tgaagcattt taaatatttg acacaacaca aaaaaattac aatcaatctg    120
                                                    672

<removed-date>
              gaggaggagc tcaagaactt aaaaatgatg aaacaagcat tgcaaacaaa ggtggacaat    180
              gaaagaagga agggacatga aattgaaccc atcgtgcaaa aatggctatc tgatgtgaca    240
              attattgaaa atgagtggca aaaatggatc tctaatgaaa ataatgttaa caagaagaag    300
              aaatgttttg gtggacaatg ttcagatata gcatttaatt actcattggg aaagcaagca    360
              actaaaagga tagaatatat tacaagcctg aaggaggaaa aaaacaaatt taaagatata    420
<removed-apn>
              tcttacccta aagcttcatt aacacttgga tctaccttca caaaagatgt caagagccta    480
              ttgtctagag aaaaaattat aacagaggtc atagagaagc tcaaggatga tcaagtcaaa    540
              atgattagca tttgtgggat gggcggagta ggaaaaacca cactggtgaa agaagtcatc    600
              aaaacaatag aaaaaaacaa tctatttgat gaagttgtga tggcagtggt ttctcaagat    660
              gtaaattatg agaagatcca aattcaaatt gctgatactt tgggcatgga atttaaaaag    720
              gacagcttgc taggaagagc aatggaacta cttgagagac tgagtaaagg taaaagagtc    780
              ttaatagttc tagacgatgt gtgggatatt cttgattttg agcgtattgg acttcaagaa    840
              cgtgataaat attgcaaaat attgttcaca tcacgggatc aaaaagtgtg ccaaaatatg    900
              ggatgcagag tgaattttca agtccctgta ttgtcggagg atgaagcttg gagcctattt    960
              caagaaatgg caggagatgt tgtaaacaaa catgatatca atccaatagc aagagaggtt   1020
              gcaaaggcat gtggtggctt gccccttgca attgtgacag ttggaagagc actaagcatt   1080
              gaagggaagt ctgcatggga agacacactt aaacaattaa gaaattttca atcatcttcc   1140
              tcgtcagatg ttgaaaaatt tgtccaccct cgcattgagc ttagtttaaa gtttttggga   1200
              aacaaagaat acaagctatt ccttatgctt tgtggattgt ttcctgaaga ctttgatatt   1260
              cctattgaat gtttgttgca tcatgcagtg ggtttgggaa tgttcaaaca cattactgca   1320
              tcatgggaag caagagacca agtgcataca ttggtagata atctaaagag aaagtttttg   1380
              ttgctggaaa gtaatgtgcg aggatgtgta aagatgcatg atattgtgcg aaatgttgtt   1440
              atatcatttt tatttaaaag tgaagaacat aaatttatgg tgcaatacaa ctttaagagt   1500
              ttaaaagaag agaaattgaa tgacatcaaa gcaatatcac ttatcttgga tgattcaaac   1560
              aagttagaaa gtggcttaga gtgtccgaca cttaaacttt ttcaagtaag gtcaaaaagc   1620
              aaggaaccaa tctcttggcc cgaacttttc ttccaaggaa tgtgtgctct taaagtttta   1680
                                                    673

              tctatgcaaa atttgtgcat tcctaaactc tcgtctctat cccaagcccc attcaatctc   1740
<removed-date>
              cacacattga aagtagaaca ttgtgatgtt ggagatatat ctataattgg taagaaactt   1800
              ttacttctag aagtcctaag tttgtcacat tccaatgtta aagaactccc aattgaaata   1860
              ggagatttgg gcagtctaag attattggat ttgacaggtt gcaatgatct gaatttcatt   1920
              tctgataatg tcttgattag actgtttcgg ttggaagaac tttactttag gatgtacaat   1980
              tttccttgga ataaaaatga agttgcgatc aacgagctga aaaagatatc tcatcagcta   2040
<removed-apn>
              aaggttgttg agatgaaatt tagaggtact gaaattttac tcaaggattt ggtcttcaac   2100
              aacttacaga agttttgggt ttatgtggat cgatactcta attttcaaag atcttcatat   2160
              ttggagtcaa atttattgca agttagttct ataggttatc aatatataaa tagcatattg   2220
              atgatctcac aagtgattaa gaaatgtgaa atccttgcaa taaaaaaagt gaaagacttg   2280
              aaaaatatta taagccactt attaagtgat tactcaattc catacttgaa agatttaagg   2340
              gttgtctcat gccctaattt ggagtatctc atagattgca ctgttcattg caatggcttc   2400
              ccacaaattc agtcattgtc tttaaaaaaa cttgagaatt tcaaacagat atgctactcc   2460
              tctgatcacc atgaagtcaa aagattgatg aatgagttct catatttggt gaaaatggaa   2520
              ttaacaggtc tcccaagctt tattggcttt gacaatgcaa ttgaatttaa tgagctcaat   2580
              gaagaattta gtgttggcaa attgtttcca tctgattgga tgaaaaagtt tccaaagttg   2640
              gaaacaatat tattaaaaaa ttgcatttcc ttaaatgtgg tgtttgattt gaatggagac   2700
              ttgaattcta gtgggcaagc attagatttt ctgtttcctc aactaacaaa aattgagata   2760
              tccaacctaa aaaatctatc atacgtgtgg ggcattgttc caaaccctgt ccaaggcttt   2820
              caaaatttga gattcctgac aatctcaaat tgcaaatctt taacacatgt atttacttct   2880
              gttattgtaa gagcagtcac aaatcttgag agattggaag taagttcttg taagttgatt   2940
              gagaatatag tgacctcaaa tagatgtgaa gaagagtatg acaataaagg acatgtgaaa   3000
              actattggtt tcaataaact ttgttattta tcactttcaa gacttccaaa gcttgtgagt   3060
              atttgttcag aattactttg gttagaatat ccatccttga agcaatttga tgttgtgcat   3120
              tgtcctatgt tggagatctc tttcttacca acacatattg gtgctaaacg agacaacctc   3180
              gatgtcacgt attctgcaaa ctcaaaagat gttagttttc acagtttaaa agaaaacaat   3240
              tcaaggtctt ctaatcggtc tgttagctgt attccattta tacccaaatt tattcaacaa   3300
                                                    674

<removed-date>
              ggaaccacaa gtaagagaaa tagtaaggaa gcattggtca cacgagctac aagagaaaag   3360
              ggggaagaca tgatacactc ttttccttta ctagaatctc ttcacttaat atatctgcca   3420
              aatcttgtga gactttgctc ttttggaaca tacgaatctt gggataaaca acaattcatg   3480
              aatggtggat ttgtggaaga tcatgtaagc tcaagatgtc acccactcat agatgatgcc   3540
              ttgtttccaa acttaacttc tttgctcata gaaacatgta acaaagtcaa catattgttc   3600
<removed-apn>
              tctcattcaa tcatgtgtag tcttgagcat cttcaaaagc tcgaagtacg acaatgtgaa   3660
              aacatggagg aaataatatc taatcaagaa gaaatagatg caactaataa taaaattatg   3720
              ctccctgcat tgcaacatct acttcttaaa aagttaccca gccttaaggc ctttttccaa   3780
              ggtcaccata atcttgattt tccatcattg gaaaaagtgg atattgaaga ttgtcccaat   3840
              atggaattgt tttcaagagg tgattcttat acacctaatc ttgaggatct caccataaag   3900
              attgaatcac tcagcagcaa ttatatgcag aaggaagaca taaactccgt aatacggggg   3960
              ttcaaatcat ttgtagcgtc acaaggattc gtgatgttga actggaccaa actacataat   4020
              gaaggatatt tgattaagaa ctctaaaaca aacatcaaag catttcataa attgtcggtg   4080
              cttgtgccgt acaatgagat acaaatgctt caaaatgtga aggaactgac cgtaagtaat   4140
              tgtgattcac taaatgaggt gtttggatca ggaggaggag cagatgcaaa aaagatagat   4200
              cacatttcca ccacacacta tcagctgcaa aatatgaaat tggataattt acccaaactg   4260
              agttgcatat ggaaacacaa tattatggcg gttgcaagct tccagaagat aacaaatatt   4320
              gatgttttac attgccataa tttgaagagt ttgctttccc attcaatggc aagaagcctt   4380
              gttcaactta aaaaactaac agttggttat tgtgacatga tggaagagat aattacaaag   4440
              gacgaccgga atagtgaagg acgaaacaaa gtcaagattt tatttcctaa attggaggaa   4500
              ttgatccttg gtccccttcc taacttggaa tgtgtttgtt cgggagatta tgactatgat   4560
              gtcccaatgt gcgatgtagt agaggacaaa gaaatcaata ataataagat tcagatttca   4620
              tttccagaat taaagaagtt aatattttat catgtgccaa agctcaagtg tttttgtttg   4680
              ggagcgtacg actacaatat catgacgtcg tcaactgaag agtgtccaaa tatggcaaca   4740
              tttccctatg gaaatgttat tgtaagggca cccaaccttc atattgttat gtgggactgg   4800
              agtaagattg tgcgtactct tgaagacctt aatttgacaa tatattattt tcaaaattca   4860
                                                    675

              aagaaataca aggcagagat ccaaaaatta gagacattta gagatatcaa tgaagagctt   4920
<removed-date>
              gttgcctaca tcagaagagt aacaaagatc gacattaaaa agtgtcacaa gctgttgagt   4980
              tgcatcccag cgaacaagat gcacttattc tcacatatgc agattctcaa tgtgcgagaa   5040
              tgtgggggct tagaagagat atttgaatca aatgatagaa gtatgaaata tgatgaatta   5100
              ttgtctatat acttgttttc tctgcctaaa ctgaagcaca tttggaaaaa tcatgttcag   5160
              atattaagat ttcaggaatt gatggaaata tacattgaaa agtgtgatga actgagctgt   5220
<removed-apn>
              gtgttctggg atgtttccat gaccacgagc cttccaaatt tactatacct ttcagtgtgt   5280
              gattgcggaa aaatgcagga gataatcggg aatagtagta attcaaatcc tattaattgt   5340
              gtaatagaac agcaacagag ggctaagatc atattcccaa aattgtttga aattagacta   5400
              cagaagcttc ccaaccttaa atgtttctct cagagctctt tcccttccta tgttgaactg   5460
              ccaagctgtt atttaatcat aattgaagac tgccatgaga tgaagacttt ttggttcaat   5520
              ggaaccttgt acacaccaaa tctttggtct ttatttgtgg agaataccaa atttgacata   5580
              gatgaagatg tgaacgaggc gatactacaa cacaacaaat gctttgaacg ttga         5634
              <210>   626
              <211>   1080
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 626
              atgccacgga ggaaagatat ctttaaacaa aggataaata agattgtgct tccagctcta     60
              gacactcgtc gtccgagtgc tagttgttcc aatttctggt tagatctcaa ccgaagtcac    120
              caccatcaac aagtgccacc gtcgccgctc tccaacgccg tcctccgcct cacagtccaa    180
              aattgttctc actttagatc cattcccaat ggttttgttg ttgataatgc tgttttgtcg    240
              ttcaatcgca tgctccaaat gcgtcatact ccatccattg ttgaattcaa taagatcttg    300
              actactctta tcaaaggttt gtgtcttaat ggtaaggtca atgaagctct tctttttcac    360
              gaccacgtgc ttgcacttgg atttcacttg aatcatgtta cttatggtat cttgatcaat    420
              ggattgtgta aaatgggaca aacaagagcc gccttacaag tgttgagaca aattgaaggg    480
              aaattggtca acaccaatgt gattaaaatg gttgatgaag ccttgaatct cttcacagaa    540
              atgcattgca aacccaatac agtatcttac aacactctta ttgatggatt ctgcaaatct    600
                                                    676

              gggagacttt ctcatgcttg gaagcttctt gatcagatgc gtgatagagg ccaacctccc    660
<removed-date>
              aatgtaatca cttacaattc cttattacat gctttatgta aaaaccatca tgttgacaag    720
              gcaattgcat tggtcaacaa ttttaaagac caaggcattc aaccagatat gcacacatat    780
              aatacacttg ttgatggact atgcaaacaa ggaagactta aggacgcgca actgattttt    840
              caagatcttt tgattaaagg ctacaattta ccaacctgga catataatat tatgatcaat    900
              ggtctttgtt tagagggctt gcttgatgaa gctgagacct tgctgtcaaa aatggaagac    960
<removed-apn>
              aatggatgca tacctgatgt tgtaacttat caaaccatta ttcacgctct atttgaaaag   1020
              gatgagaatg ataaagcaga gaaacttgta cgtgaattga ttgttagagg tttactttaa   1080
              <210>   627
              <211>   3258
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 627
              atgagtatga ggagaaagaa cagagagtta aaaactcttc tctctcgttc tctccaattc     60
              tcatcttctt cttcaaaaca ccctctccac ggtttacatc accccaatga ctccactttt    120
              tccccttcaa cacccacccc tcgtgattta tcacaagact acgcatttct ccgcaacact    180
              ctcatcaact ccacttcccc acaatccact ccttcttccg gtgacgacgc catttcaaca    240
              atatcaaaag cactcaaaac cggtttcaac attgaaactc atcaattttt tagacagttt    300
              cgtaatcagt taaacgactc tttggtcgtt gaagtcatga acaatgtcaa aaaccctgag    360
              ttgtgtgtga agtttttctt gtgggctggt agacaaattg gttacagtca caccccccaa    420
              gtgttcgata aattgcttga cttattagga tgcaatgtaa atgccgatga tagagtgcct    480
              ttaaagtttt tgatggaaat taaggatgat gatcatgaat tgcttcgtag attgcttaat    540
              tttctagttc gaaagtgttg tcgaaatggg tggtggaata tggctttgga agagttgggg    600
              aggttgaagg attttgggta caagccttct caaactactt ataatgcttt gattcaagtt    660
              tttcttagag ctgataagtt agatactgct tatttggtta agagagagat gttgagttat    720
              gcgtttgtta tggataggta cactcttagt tgttttgctt attcgttgtg taaaggtggg    780
              aaatgtaggg aagcttttga tttgattgat gaggctgagg actttgtgcc ggatacggta    840
              ttttataata ggatggtttc tgggctgtgt gaagcttcac tttttgaaga agcgatggat    900
                                                    677

              atcttacata gaatgaggtc tagttcttgc attcccaatg ttgttactta taggattttg    960
<removed-date>
              ctttctggtt gtttgagaaa aggacagttg gggaggtgta agagaattct cagtatgatg   1020
              attacagagg gatgttatcc gaatcgtgag atatttaatt ctcttataca tgcttattgt   1080
              aaatcaaggg attactctta tgcctacaag ttgtttaaga aaatgataaa atgtgggtgc   1140
              cagccaggat atctggttta taatattttc attggtagtg tatgtagtaa tgaggaacag   1200
              cctagctcgg atattttaga tttggtggag aaagcttata gtgagatgct tgatttaggg   1260
<removed-apn>
              gttgtattaa ataaggtcaa tgtcagcaat tttgcacggt gtctttgtgg agctggaaag   1320
              tttgatcaag cttttaagat tatctgtgaa atgatgggca agggttttgt tcccgatgat   1380
              agtacatatt ctaaagtgat tggcttcctt tgtgatgcct ccaaggtaga gaaagctttt   1440
              tcgttgttcg aagaaatgaa aaggaatggc attgttccca gcgtttacac ttatactatt   1500
              ttaattgata gcttttgcaa agctggtctt attcagcagg ctcgcaaatg gtttgatgaa   1560
              atgttacaca aaggttgcac gccgaatgtg gtgacttata ctgctcttat tcacgcatac   1620
              ctgaaagcca aacagatgcc tgttgcagat gaactctttg agatgatgtt gcttgaaggt   1680
              tgcaagccta atgttgttac atatacagct ttaattgatg gtcattgtaa ggctgggcag   1740
              attgaaaaag cttgccagat ctatgccaga atgcgaggtg acatagaatc ctcagatatg   1800
              gacaaatatt ttaagctaga ccacaacaac tgtgaaggac caaatgttat tacatatggg   1860
              gctttggtgg atggtttatg caaagcaaac agggttaaag aggcacacga attgttggat   1920
              accatgttgg ctcatggttg tgagcctaac caaatagtct atgatgctgt tattgacggg   1980
              ttttgcaaga tcggaaagct tcaggatgca caggaggtgt tcacaaagat gtcagagcgt   2040
              ggatacagtc caaatttata tacctatagc tctttcatcg attgtctgtt taaagataac   2100
              cggttggatc ttgttttgaa agtgttgtcg aagatgctag agaattcttg cactccaaat   2160
              gttgttattt acacagagat ggtcgacggc ctctgtaaaa ttggaaagac agatgaagct   2220
              tacaagctca tgcttaagat ggaagaaaag ggttgtaatc caaatgttgt aacttatacc   2280
              gcaatgattg atggctttgg gaaatcagga aaaattgagc agtgccttga gctctttaga   2340
              gatatgtgct caaaaggctg tgctccaaac tttataacct atagagtttt gataaatcat   2400
              tgttgttcca atggccttct tgatgaagct tacaaactct tggatgaaat gaaacaaaca   2460
              tattggccaa agcatatact aagtcaccgt aaaattattg agggcttcag ccaagagttt   2520
                                                    678

<removed-date>
              ataacctcaa tcggactttt agatgagttg agtgagaatg aatcagtgcc tgttgattct   2580
              ttgtacagaa ttttgatcga taattacatc aaggctggga gattggaagt cgcattggat   2640
              cttcttgaag agatttcatc atcaccaagc catgcagttt ccaacaaata tctatatgct   2700
              tctttaatcg agaatctgtc acatgcaagt aaggttgata aagccttaga actgtatgct   2760
              agcatgataa gtaagaatgt cgttccagaa cttagcatac ttgtccacct catcaaaggc   2820
<removed-apn>
              cttatcaagg ttgataagtg gcaagaagca ctacaattat cggatagcat atgccaaatg   2880
              gatatccact ggcttcagga aaaggcaacc ggtaggacag aagaaatggt caagctggta   2940
              atagcagcaa tggtggaagc agaaacagga gtttctgaag aaatcttgga aagatgttct   3000
              tcatattcca ttaatgtccg aatcctgtgt ttttttggtc cacccatcca tcattacatc   3060
              atgcagcatg ctaatagatc tcaagaaaga gttaaaatta tgaggtgttc catttgtgca   3120
              tcaaagaacc aagaaattaa ggtcgatata gtgagttgtg gaatgaactg gttggtcgca   3180
              agtcagagtt gtgataataa cttctctgct cactccatat atccgacgtc tgcagacttc   3240
              acggcggtgg gatcttaa                                                 3258
              <210>   628
              <211>   829
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 628
              gattcctact tccggcgccg caaacatcaa ccgaacaatt cgccggcgac acattgaagc     60
              cttttgcatc gcaaccatca acccgtcact tccattaaga atgagaaaag aaggaaatgt    120
              gaaaggagct aagaatgcgt tggctatgat gatcaaagga agtataaaac cagatgttgt    180
              tacatacaat tcattaatgg atgggtattg cctagttaat gaagtgaata aggccaaaca    240
              tgttttaagc actattgctc gaatgggagt ggctcctgat gctcagagct ataatatcat    300
              ggttaatgga ttctgtagaa tctcccatgc ttggaagctt gtcgatgaga tgcatgttaa    360
              tggtcaacca cctgacatat ttacctacag ttctttaata gatgctttat gcaaaaacaa    420
              tcatcttgac aaagctattg cattagtcaa gaaaattaaa gaccaaggca ttcaaccaaa    480
              tatgtacaca tacaatatac ttattgatgg gttatgcaaa ggaggacgac ttaagaatgc    540
              acaagatgtt tttcaagatc tattaactaa gggttatagt ctaaacatcc gaacgtataa    600
                                                    679

<removed-date>
              tattttgatc aatggacttt gtaaagaggg cttgtttgat aaagcagagg ccttgttgtc    660
              aaaaatggag gataatgata tcaatcctaa tgttgtaact tatgaaacta ttatccgctc    720
              tctcttttat aaagattaca atgaaaaggc ggagaaactt cttcgtgaaa tggttgctag    780
              aggtctattg taagaattta ctctagattt gctacctaag ggacacgtt                829
              <210>   629
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1134
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 629
              atgaactctt tgttgaaaga tgggattact agtatggtat ggaaggttta taagagaatg     60
              gttcaagatg gggttgttcc gaatatttat gtttataatt gtttaattca tgcttgttcg    120
              aaatcgagag atgtggagag agcagagttt atattgaatg agatggaagt gaagggtgtg    180
              gttcctgata tttttacgta caatactttg atagctttgt attgcaaaaa gggtctgcat    240
              tatgaggctt tatcggtcca ggataaaatg gaaagagagg gaataaatct tgatattgtt    300
              agttacaatt ctcttattta tggattttgc aaagaaggga aaatgaggga agctatgagg    360
              atgtttggcg aaatcaaaga tgccattccg aatcatgtca catatactac attgattgat    420
              ggatattgta aagcgaatga gtttgaggaa gctttgaggt tgcgtgaaat gatggtggct    480
              aagggattgt accctggtgt tgttacttac aattcgattt tgcgtaagct gtgttcagat    540
              ggcagaataa gggatgccaa caaactcttg cacgaaatga gtgaaaaaaa agtccaagct    600
              gacagtgtca catcattgat tcatggattc tgcaaacaaa gcgagctcga aagtgccaag    660
              gaactattgt ttggaatgct cgatgccgga ttttctccaa attatcgcac ttattcgtgg    720
              attgtagata gctattgcaa gaaagacaat actgatgcag ttctagcact gccagatgag    780
              tttttgagta aagggaaggg tatttcaggt gatagtgtta tctacactag tcttgctttt    840
              tcttactgga aatcagggaa cacaaatgct gcctcagata tgttagaaga gatggctagg    900
              agaaggttga tgatcactgt caaaatctat agatgcttta gtgctcttga tgctagtcaa    960
              aacaaagtgt cacagatgtt ctgggatcat gtcgtggaaa gggaacaatt gctgaatgag   1020
              atgaatgtaa agggtgtggg caggacacta actggcagaa ccaacaacca agggtcaaag   1080
              attgtctgtc gtgtgcttca tgttttgaat ggttgctggt tgcatgcttc atga         1134
                                                    680

<removed-date>
              <210>   630
              <211>   2328
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 630
              atggtttgtg gtgcacatga attgtatgat gaggtgcttg aaagaggaat ttatggcgat     60
              tggaaaaaaa aaacagagaa atttgaggag gagttgaggg aattgggatg ggtaccgtat    120
<removed-apn>
              gaggatattg tgatggtgag cgttgattta ccgatgaatg taattgttgc aagaagcttg    180
              atgaaaggat attgtgttct aggatatgtg attcttgcgg cgcagttgtt tgatgagatt    240
              gttgagggaa ggtatggttt cgaatccgat tcgcgggttt ttaattattt gttgaagagt    300
              tttgttagag ttaataagat tacagatgct gttgagtgtt ttagaactat gttggagcat    360
              gatttggttc cttgggttcc gattatgaac aatcttttaa ctgcaatggt taggaggaat    420
              atggtttgtg atgcacgtca actgtatgat gaaatggttg agagagggat ttatggtgat    480
              tgttatactt tgcatgtggt tatgcgcgcg tgtatgaaag aagggaaatt tgaggaggtt    540
              gagaagtttt ttaaggaggc taaggggaga ggtttggagg ttgatgcggc tgcctatagc    600
              attttggttc aggcggtttg tcgaaggttg gacttgaatt tggcgtgtga gttgttgaag    660
              gagatgaggg agtttgggtg ggtgccatca aagggtacat atactgctgt tattgttgct    720
              tgtgtgaagc aggggaattt tgtggaggcg ttgaggctta aggatgagat ggtgagcgtt    780
              ggtttaccta tgaacgtaat tgttacgaga agcttaatga aagggtattg tgtgctagga    840
              gatgtgaatc ttgcgttgca gctgtttgat gaggttgttg agggtggtgt tgttcccgat    900
              gtggttatat tctcggtttt gatcaatggg tgctctaagg ttggggatat ggagaaggca    960
              tatgaactgt atacacgaat gaaactcatg ggcatccagc ccaatgtctt cattgtaaat   1020
              tctctgttgg aaggattcca cgaacaaaat ttgctagaac atgcgtatgg attgtttgat   1080
              gaggcagttg aacatggtat caccaatgtc gttacgtata acattctttt gaagtggctt   1140
              ggtgaactgg gaaaggttaa tgaggcatgt aatttatggg aaaagatggt gagtaagggt   1200
              attacacctt cgctagtttc ttacaacaac ttaatacttg gtcactgcaa aaagggttgc   1260
              atggataaag cctatagtat gttgaagagt attcttgaaa ggggtttgaa accaaatgct   1320
              gttacataca ctcttttaat agatgggttt ttcaaaaagg gagattcaga gagagccttt   1380
                                                    681

<removed-date>
              gttgtgtttg agcaaatgat ggctgcgaat attgcgccta ctgaccacac atttaacact   1440
              gtcataaatg gcttgggtaa aactggccgg gtgtctgaga cacaggacaa gttgaacaat   1500
              tttatcaagc agggttttgt atccacttcc attacttata atagcatcat agatggattt   1560
              ttcaaggaag gtgcggtgga ttctgcactt cttgcctacc gggagatgtg cgaaagtgga   1620
              atttctcctg atgtgatcac ctacaccagt ttgattgatg gactttgtaa atctaataag   1680
<removed-apn>
              attggtcttg ctttggaaat gcatagtgat atgaagtaca agggtatgaa attggatgtc   1740
              gttgcgtata gtgctctcat tgacggtttt tgcaaaatgc atgacatgga aagtgcaagc   1800
              aaattcttca ctgaactttt ggacattggt ttgactccaa acacagttgt ttataacagc   1860
              atgattagtg gcttcataca tttgaataac atggaagccg cacttaactt gcaccaggaa   1920
              atgataaaga ataaggttcc atgtgatttg caggtataca cctcaataat tggcgggctt   1980
              ttgaaagagg gcaaattgag tttagcttta gatctttact cggagatgct ttccaaggat   2040
              attgttcctg acatcgtcat gtatacagtt ctgataaacg gactctctaa caatggacaa   2100
              ctggaaaatg caagcaagat tctaaaggaa atggatggga ataatataac tccttcggtt   2160
              cttgtttata acattttaat tgctggaaac ttcagggagg gtaatctgca agaggctttt   2220
              agattgcatg atgagatgct tgataaaggt cttgtgcctg atgatactac atatgatatt   2280
              cttgtaaatg gaaagctcaa ggtatcacat actcttggtg gatcttaa                2328
              <210>   631
              <211>   1449
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 631
              atggaactca gaggaattca aactgatctt gttaatctca atatattgga aacccttcac     60
              tttcatgatg atgttatagc aaaggggttt caacttaatc aagttagtta tgggaccttg    120
              attgatgggt tatgcaaagc aggagaaaca agagctgcca tgcaggataa acttgtaatt    180
              gatgcttttg atttatattc tcaaatgctt ctcaagagaa tttctcctga tgtcatcact    240
              tacaatactt taatgtatgg ctgtttgatt gtgggtcgat tgaaagaagc agttggagag    300
              atgaaaaaag ctagaaatgt gttagctgtt atgataaaac aaagtgtgga tcctgatgtc    360
              attacttata attctttgat ggatgggtat ttcttggtca aacaagagaa taaggccaca    420
                                                    682

<removed-date>
              tttgtgttca acactatggc tagaagggga gtgactcctg atgttcatag ctatagtgtc    480
              atgattaatg gactatgtaa gactaaaatg gtggatgaag ccgttaatct cctcaaagaa    540
              atgcattcca aaagtatggc tcctaatact gtaacataca gttcacttat cgatggtctt    600
              cacaaatctg ggagaatctt tgatgcttgg gatcttgtaa atgagatgca taatagaggc    660
              caacctgctg atgtgatcac ttacaattcc ttattggatg ctttgtgcaa aaaccatcag    720
<removed-apn>
              gttgacaagg caatcacatt acttacgaag atcaaagacc aaggaattca gccggatata    780
              tatacataca caatacttgt tgatggttta tgcaaaaatg gaagactcaa ggacgcgcaa    840
              gagagcttgt tcgataaagc attgtcctta ctgtcaaaaa tggaagacaa tggttgcacc    900
              cctaatcctg taactttcga aattcttatc cgtgctttgt ttgaaaacga catgaatgat    960
              aaggcagtgg aacttcttcg tgaaatgatt gctagagatg agtcttcatc tcttccggcc   1020
              acacatgatg attccggcac ggtggtcgct ggtggtggca ccaccgcgcc ggagttcaaa   1080
              actccgtcca aatcaaatag ttttcacgtg ttgttccgat ccggttcgaa tcttgttgtg   1140
              gtaggctgta cgaactctcc ctctacctct tctaaaccga ttctggatgt tcttctttat   1200
              gcgggaacga cgcgagtggt agatgatgtt tatgtgattt tatgcggttt agtgttcatg   1260
              aggttcacgg tttcagatct gaatacggtg atgatgatga acgacggtgt tgatgatgag   1320
              attgaagatt ctggaaacca tttccacagc aaaatgggtt tggatacggt gaagatgacc   1380
              gtgatgatga tgaacgacag tgttgatgat gagattgaag attctagtgg tgatgatgaa   1440
              cgacggtga                                                           1449
              <210>   632
              <211>   508
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 632
              gccagatgtt gttacctaca gttcattaat ggatggatat tgtcttgtta atgaagttaa     60
              taaggccaaa catgtgttaa gtatattata tctcgaatga gagtggctcc caatgctcgt    120
              agctatagta tcgtgattaa tggattctgt aagattaaaa tggtcgacaa agccttgagt    180
              ctcttttatg aaatgcgttg cagaagaatt gctcctgata cggtaactta caattctcta    240
              attgatggtt tgtgcaaatc tgggagaatc tcctatgctt gggagcttgt tgatgagatg    300
                                                    683

<removed-date>
              cgtgatagtg gtcaaccagc tgatataatc acttacaatt cattaataga tgctttatgc    360
              aaaaaccatc atgttgacaa ggctattgca ttagtcaaga aaattaaaga ccaaggcatt    420
              caactagata tgtacacata caatatactt atcgatggac tatgcaaaca aggaaggctt    480
              aacgatgcac aagtgatttt tcacgatc                                       508
              <210>   633
<removed-apn>
              <211>   3093
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 633
              atggctaggg acgaggatga gtggcaacgg gttattagag aggataggat gcgcaacggc     60
              aaaacggcga gtaccgctag cgctcagaag gaaaaggtgg atcaaaaccc gtatgtcccg    120
              aagactcgga agcggatgga cgcgaggcca ggtgtagaga gctcacaacc acatatggat    180
              cactcctcac aggtggttga tccgacacag acatatgagt atgcgaaggg atttcgggga    240
              tatgatcgga tggaggagga tataatgttt tatcagctgc aggacgaggc agaggatgag    300
              gaggtggcat gtgatgagga ggtgccagag gatgttgtgg cggattatat agaggcagag    360
              aatgttgttc ctgagggtga gcctgagcct gagcctcaga ctcagcaacg acgtcgtcgt    420
              gttccaccga tatcgccata tcctgttgga gagcctccct atcctggagg acctgagacc    480
              acaccactgt tgtcccacta cgtgaggcac gtgacgaacc ctctttggat gaactatcat    540
              aatatgtggc atgatcagac gggttataag tgtataaatg cagggaaaaa gatgaaagag    600
              cttggtaagc cggagacggg tttgaggtgg ttttgggagc ttgtggaggg tagttttcat    660
              ctacctgtgg gggagatgac aatcactttg gacaatgtgc ataatctcct acacattcct    720
              attcacggcc gcatgctgga ccacgatgaa gcaatgggtc aggagcgtgc gtttgatttg    780
              atgaccaggt tgttggccat gtcagatgtt gatgttaggg ctgagattag gactgagtct    840
              gctggtcata tcagttatcc cacattgaag cgggtttatg aagaccacct gacagaggct    900
              agacggctgg acgacccaca tatgagggag gagttgcagg agagagccag gaggagacag    960
              tggtgtgtga ggagttttct tctatatctc gtcggttgtg cgctgttcac taacaaaacg   1020
              aatagacaca tcgacatgat atatcttgat tgtatggtgg acttgcagac gattgggaag   1080
              tggtcatggg gagggatggc cttagcgtac ctgtacgact atctggatga ttatgttatt   1140
                                                    684

<removed-date>
              ctgaataaca gaacgatagc tgcgagaacg actcttttta tgggatggat tttggagcat   1200
              ttgtcaggtc cgtacccaag gaagaaaaac aaggagtgga cgctgaagag accatgtgct   1260
              gggagatggc ttacatgcaa agggcataaa gttgtgcacc attaccgctc atggcttgat   1320
              cacttagagg tggatgacga gatggtgtac cgtcatttac ctgagcgggt aaagaggcag   1380
              cttttctatg tacaggatgt tcccagacat ccgtcatctg tcgctcaggt gcctacgcat   1440
<removed-apn>
              ttgctgcaga atgctcagat gtggttcttc actgcttggg gagatgcgag catgcctaac   1500
              acactgacga tcatccggga tgtggtgcat atagctgatg atattgtggc cagacaagcc   1560
              gagatgacta aagaggagat tgtccaggag gtgatgcgga tagccggtac tggtcgccct   1620
              gccgttacgt atcagattgc caagcggcgc tgtgggtcga gtaaaacttt gtttaagtgg   1680
              ccaaagcaaa ttacaaattc actagttgag cagttaataa aagccgaaaa ggacataaac   1740
              aaaactcttg ttatgtttga ttctgcaaca gaagagtata gcaatggatt tcgtcatgat   1800
              cacaatactt tcggtgcaat gattcatagg ctagtttctg tgaatcagtt taggccagct   1860
              gaaggaatgt tggagagaat gaagcaagaa gattgcgagg ttactgagga cgtgttttta   1920
              actatatgta gaggctatgg acgtgtgcat aggccacttg atgccatcag ggttttccat   1980
              aagatggaag attttcaggt taagccgacg cagaagtctt accttacggt atttgatatt   2040
              ctcgtggagg aaaaccatgt gaaaagggct attggttttt ataaggagat gcgagaaaag   2100
              ggcattccgc caactgttgt ttccctcaat attttgatca aggcgctctg caaaaacgag   2160
              gaaactgttg agtctgcttt tcgactattt cgtgaaatgc ccaatcgtgg atgccagcct   2220
              gattcgtata catatggtac gttgattaat gggctgtgca aacttggaaa aatcagtcag   2280
              gcaaaggaac tgttggatga gatggaggag aaaggtttgt cgccttctgt tgttagttac   2340
              actagtttga tacatggctt gtgtcaatct aataatttgg acgaagctat agaattgctc   2400
              gaagagatga taataaatgg catcgagcca aatgttttta catatagttc tttaatggat   2460
              ggtttgtgta aaagtggaca ttcttcacaa gcaatggagt tgttagaagt gatggttaga   2520
              agacgtctat tgcccaacat ggtcacttat agtactttaa tcaatggact gtgtaaagaa   2580
              ggaaagcata gagaagctgt ggagattctt gacaggatga ggcttcaagg gttgaaacca   2640
              gatgcaggga tgtacgggag aatcataagc ggcctttgtg ctgcttgcaa ctatcaagaa   2700
                                                    685

              gcagcaaact tcattgatga gatggctctt ggtggtatct cacctaatcg agcaagttgg   2760
<removed-date>
              acctttcatg tcaaaatgca taacatggtt gtccaaggtc tttgtaataa tgttgatcca   2820
              actcgcgcat tccaattgta tcttagtatg cgtactaggg gtatctctgt tgagattggc   2880
              acttttgatt gtttagtcaa atgtttttgc aagagaggag acctgaataa agctgctcga   2940
              attctggagg agatgatatt agatggctgc attccggatg agggaatgtg gaatgtatta   3000
              atgtgtggac tttgggatcg gaaaaaagtt cgagaaacta ctgagctatt ggtggctgag   3060
<removed-apn>
              ctgaagcaga aatttgttga agctgagagt tga                                3093
              <210>   634
              <211>   1743
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 634
              atgggtcatc attcttcaac ttcactcatc tcttccctta ttcaaaccgt tccaactcat     60
              catcgccata accattctgt tcttgttttt gatgctttga ttattgctta tactgattct    120
              gaattcattg aggatgcaat tcagtgttta agattggtta aaaagaataa cttttccatt    180
              ccggtttgtg gttgtgatta tttacttcgt cgtgtgatga agttgaatca acagcctgga    240
              cattgttggg agttttattt ggaggttttg gattatgggt atccgccaaa tgtttatctt    300
              tttaacattt tgatgcatgg gttttgtaaa attggtgatg ttatgaatgc acggatggtg    360
              tttgatgaaa tttctagacg gggtttgcgt cctagtgttg ttagttttaa tactttgata    420
              agtggatatt gtagaagtaa gaatgtggag gagggttttg tgttaaagag tgttatggag    480
              agtgaaagaa tatctcctga tgtttttact tatagtgctt tgatcaatgg gttgtgtaag    540
              gagagtaggg tggaggaggc gaatggtttg tttgatgaaa tgtgtgagat gggtttggtt    600
              cctaatggtg taacgtttac tactttgatt gacgggcaat gtaaacatgg gaagattgat    660
              ttggcattga gaaattttga gataatgaag gatcggggta ttagaccgga tttgattact    720
              tataatgcgt tgatcaatgg gctttgtagg gatggagatt tgaaggaggc taggaagctt    780
              ttgaatgaga tgattgggaa tggtttcaag ccggataaga tcactttcac cactctaatg    840
              gatggatgtt gtaaggacgg agatatggat tctgcattag aaatcaagga tagaatggtt    900
              gaggagggga tcgagcttga cgatgttgct tttactgcac taatatctgg actatgtaga    960
                                                     686

              gacggaagag ttcgcgatgc tgagaggatg ttgaaggaca tgttgagtgc cggtcacaaa   1020
<removed-date>
              cctgatgatc caacatatac catggttatt gattgctttt gtaagaaagg tgatgttaag   1080
              atgggagcca agttactaaa ggagatgcag cgtgatggac gtgtaccagg agtcgtcact   1140
              tataatgcgc tgatgaacgg tttttgtaaa caagcaccga cacttcagat tgaaggcgtg   1200
              cttgagtgtc caacgcatat cggtattcaa taccggcaga acactgacat cgacagatta   1260
              cagatccctt atgaaagaag atactttggc tgttattctc aatgccagaa gccagagttg   1320
<removed-apn>
              agcgacagat tacagatccc ttatgaaaga agatactttg gctgttattc tcaatgccag   1380
              aagccagagt tgagagcaat ctgctccttt atcagagctt ccaaattcca atctcttttc   1440
              caaacatcag ataagatcta tgtggatgtt aagtggaatt ttcctgaggt ggattgggtg   1500
              agccattgta cggatgattc cttcccgagg ccaactcaga ttgctggttg tggaggatcg   1560
              acccgaagtg agcatggggt ctgggtttgc ggcttctcac gaaaagtaaa gaagctactg   1620
              aagcatgtca taaaaatttc ggaaggggat tggattgtga ggataaagta tgtctttgga   1680
              aaagcgaaca aatgtgcaga ctttcttgca aacttatcaa gtttctactt tggtggtgca   1740
              tga                                                                 1743
              <210>   635
              <211>   1662
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 635
              atgatgctga atccaaccta tttcaccacc attctcttca cctctctccg caattcatcc     60
              tccaccacca caaccttcct ccttctctac cctttcacaa ccttcttcgc acgcacccac    120
              cacaaaaaac tccacaaact cccaaccttc aacgacaccg tttcatcctt ccaccacatc    180
              ctccaccacc acccaccacc tccaatccaa cacttcaaca agctcctatc aaccctaatt    240
              aaactcaaac gctacaacgc cgtcgtttca ctctacacca tcttacaatc caaaccaacc    300
              attaaaccct cactcatcac ctttagtata ttaatcaacg cttttgctca attgggtcaa    360
              atgggttttg ctttttcact tcttgggaac attctcaaaa tgggttttca aattgatgtt    420
              agaatactta ctactttgat gaaaggtttg tgcttgaaag gtagggtttt ggaagctgtt    480
              agcttgcttc atgagtatgt tgatagaggg tttaggtttg atgaggtttg ttatgggact    540
                                                    687

              attattaatg ggttgtgtaa aattggtaaa actagggatg ctattcagat gtttcctaag    600
<removed-date>
              atgaaaaaaa ttagggttta tcctaatttg attatgtata atactgttat tgatggtctt    660
              tgtaaacaag gacttgttga cgaggcttgt ggtttgtgta ccgagatggt tgagaatggt    720
              attgaacttg atgtttatag ttataattct atgattcatg gtttttgttc ggttggtagg    780
              tttcaagctg cggttaagtt gctcgatgaa atggttgtaa gggggaaggt ttatccggat    840
              gtgtatactt ttaatatatt gattgacggg ttgtgtaagc tagggagggt tagtgaagcg    900
<removed-apn>
              tataatgtgg ttgcggtgat gattaaaaga ggttggaagc cggatattgt tagttataat    960
              gctttgatga atggttattg tttgagtgga agtgtgggtg aggctaaaca ggtgtttgat   1020
              aagatggttg agagaacggc tttgcctaat gttattagtt attgtacttt gattaatgga   1080
              tattgtaagg ttaggatggt ggatgaagct atggtgttat taacggaaat gcataataag   1140
              aatttagttc cggatactgt aacttataat tgtcttcttg atggtttgtc gaaatcggga   1200
              agatcgttgt atgagtggga cctggttgag gccatgcgag ccagtggaca accagctgat   1260
              ttaatcactt acaatgtatt gttagatgat tatttcaaac atgagaaatt tgacaaggca   1320
              cttgcattgt ttcagcacat tattgagata gggatttcac caaacatacg cacgtataat   1380
              atacttcttg atggtctttg caaaagtgga agactaaagt atgcaaaaga gatttttcaa   1440
              cttctgtctg ccaaaggctg tcaaccaaat attcggacgt ataacattat gatccatggt   1500
              ctttgtaaag agggtttttt agacgaagcg gaggccttac tttataaaat gaattatcta   1560
              aagatggggt acgagtatgt tcgacagaag atttcactct gctggactaa aatctgggct   1620
              aagatcctgt taactgggct cttgtacgat agcattctgt ag                      1662
              <210>   636
              <211>   1693
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 636
              aactcaatct gatgcttcct cagcactcac atttttcaat tgggttaaaa atgatttgag     60
              gttcacactt agtttgcaga attattgctt aattgttcac atacttggtt ggaatcaaat    120
              ttttgatcaa gccatgaaat tgttgtgtga attgatacaa ttgaacaatg tgaatgttgt    180
              ttcttatgat gatgtttata agtgtttgat tgattgtact gaggattgta attggaatcc    240
                                                    688

              tgtgatattt gatatgctta ttaaggctta tgtgaaatta ggtatggttg agaagggttt    300
<removed-date>
              agagactttt tggaagaatg ttgagggtag ttttgttcct aatgttgttg cttgtaattg    360
              tttgttgaat ggtttgtcta agattaatta tattggtgaa tgttgggaag tgtatgaaga    420
              aatggggagg cttgggattc ataggaatgg gtatactttt aatattatga cgcatgtttt    480
              gtgtagagag ggagatagtg ataaggtgaa tggatttctt gagaagatgg aggaagaagg    540
              atttgaaccg gatttggtta catataatat acttattaat ggttattgta agaaaagaag    600
<removed-apn>
              gttggaggat gcattttatt tgtataagat tatgggcatt agaggtgtgg ttcctaattt    660
              gatttcgtat agtgcgttga tgaacggtct ttgtaaagaa ggcaagatta aggaggctca    720
              tcaacttttt aatcagatgg ttcaaagagg gattgatccg gatgttgtgt cgtataatac    780
              acttatatct ggttattgta aagaaggtgg taagatgcaa atgtgtagat cactattgca    840
              tgaaatgata ggaatcggga ttcgtccgga caatgttact tgtaggattg tttttcaagg    900
              atatacaagg gagggaaagc ttttatcggc gttgaatatg gttgcggaac ttcagaggtt    960
              tggaattaag atccctgaaa atttatatga ttatctctta gttgcattgt gtaaagaagg   1020
              tcggccgttt gcggcacgaa gctttctgat aaggatatct caagatggag actatgtgcc   1080
              tgaaatgagc acttacatta aactagcaga gtctctatgt tcgttcaata atgtggaaga   1140
              ggcactgatt ttgaaatctg agatggcaaa aaagagtatg aaactaaatc tcactaccta   1200
              taaagctatc ataagctgct tgtgtagagt aaaaaggact tcagaggctg aaaacttgtt   1260
              ggaggaaatg gttagtttag gtattctacc tgatttagaa ataaagaggg cattaataaa   1320
              tggatattgt gaagaaaacg atgttgataa agctgtgtcg ttattgaaat tctttgccaa   1380
              ggagtttcaa gtttacgata ccgaaagcta caatgcaatt gttaaagtct tttgcgaggt   1440
              cggtaatgtg gctgagttga tggagcttca agataagctt gtcaagatag ggtatgttcc   1500
              aaatagttta acatgtaagt acgttatccg aggattgcag aaaggtatgg aactcgatga   1560
              tgatgatgat atatcggacg gcgacatgct tgaatatcta agcactcggg gaaccgagcc   1620
              ttatacagct attgaggggg aagaatcaag tcgcttaaat gcttcaccga gtattcctga   1680
              ttacttgatt tga                                                      1693
              <210>   637
              <211>   2364
                                                    689

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 637
              atgttgattt atacttataa agattggggt tcacaccctc ttgtgtttga tttgtatttt     60
              caagtgcttg tggaaaatgg gttgtcttgt aattttgagg ggattaagat tgcggttaag    120
              gtgttcgagg aatttcctga attgggtgtt tgttggaata cagtttcgtg taatattgtt    180
              cttcattgtc tttgtcaatt ggggaaggtg agagaagcac ataacctgct tgtacaaatg    240
<removed-apn>
              acggatagag gaaattttcc cgatgttgta agttatggtg ttgttgttag cggatattgt    300
              agaattggtg agttggataa ggttttgaag cttgtcgatg agttaaaagg aaaggggttg    360
              aaaccagatg aatacattta caataacata attttacttc tttgtaagaa tggtgaagta    420
              gttgaagcgg agcaactgtt gagggggatg aggaaatggg gtgtttttcc tgataatgta    480
              gtgtatacga ctgtcattag cggtttctgc aagttgggga atgtttcggc tgcgtgcaaa    540
              ctgtttgatg aaatgaggcg taagaaaata gttcccgaca ttgtcactta tacttctgtg    600
              attcatggga tttgtaagag tgggaaaatg gtagaagcgc gtgaaatgtt taatgaaatg    660
              ttggtgaaag ggttggagcc ggatgaagtt acttatactg cacttattga tgggtattgc    720
              aaggctggtg aaatgaaaga agctttctct gttcacaatc agatggttca gaagggtctg    780
              actcctaatg ttgtcactta tactgcattg gctgacggtc tatgtaagaa cggagagatc    840
              gacgtagcga atgagcttct tcatgagatg tctagaaaag gacttcaacc gaatgtctac    900
              acgtataata cgatcgttaa tggtctttgt aagataggaa atatagaaca aacagttaaa    960
              cttatggaag aaatggatct ggcagggttt tatcccgaca ctattacata cactacactc   1020
              atggatgcat attgtaagat gggggaaatg gccaaggctc acgagttgct gcggattatg   1080
              ctcaataaaa gacttcaacc tacacttgtt acattcaatg tgctaatgaa tggattttgc   1140
              atgtctggga tgttggaaga tggtgaaagg ttaatcgaat ggatgttgga gaaaggtata   1200
              atgccaaatg ccacgacatt taattctctt atgaagcagt actgcattaa aaataacatg   1260
              cgagcaacta ccgagattta caaggctatg cacgatcgag gagtgatgcc tgacagtaac   1320
              acttataata ttttgatcaa agggcattgt aaagctagaa atatgaaaga agcatggttc   1380
              ctgcataaag aaatggttga aaaaggatat agtgtcactg cggctaccta tgatgcactt   1440
              ataagaggtt tttataagag gaagaaattt gtggaagcta ggaagttgtt tgaggagatg   1500
                                                    690

<removed-date>
              agaaaacatg gtttggttgc tgagaaagat atatatgata tttttgtcga tgtgaactat   1560
              gaagaaggga actgggaaat aactctcgag ctttgtgatg aagcaataga gaaatctgtt   1620
              ttccgaattg taaataccag tgaggaaaaa atggaactta gtttgagaat agatgatata   1680
              ttctcattgg ttaatcttcc attatctgcg ttcttttttg tcatatccat tagagggtca   1740
              tcagggattc ttgtgataag aatatccgat gtagtagcga catatacatc agttccgact   1800
<removed-apn>
              gatggaaatt tgagtcctta tgctgcttca ccctatatgg ttgatgccat tgcaagtagc   1860
              tgtggcattg gatatccaat ttcaatggca atgagtgatg tgaagcttat tggcaaatgg   1920
              tcaagtcctt atgtgacaag ggtgaagatt gcccttaaca tcaaatccct tgaatatgaa   1980
              aactttgaag agaatgaaac ctttaacccc aaaagtgata ttcttcttca atccaaccct   2040
              atttatggca aagtcccagt gcttattcac caagatagac caatctgcga gtctctcatc   2100
              attgttgaat atatagatga aacatggtcc agtgctcctt ctattctccc ttctgatact   2160
              tatgatagag cacttgcaag attctgggct gcttatatag atcaaaagtg gtttcctcct   2220
              atgcaaagca taattactgt tgaaggagag gatgaaagaa agccatattt tgaggtattg   2280
              gaagaagtgg tcgagaggat ggaggaagct tttgacaaat gcagcaaagg aaagcccttt   2340
              ttcggtggtg ataggattgg ttaa                                          2364
              <210>   638
              <211>   2613
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 638
              atggaagaaa caacaagaaa actaataaaa tccattcacc aaaacacaaa caacccaaaa     60
              ctcgcatggc atctcttcaa acgaatcctc tcttcatctc cctcatcctc atcctcatcc    120
              tcatcctctt cctcttccca tcatcaccac ctcattccca ccatcacacg catccttctc    180
              cgccacaaca tggacaacga aatcaaccat ctctttcaac tcaccacatc acaccattcc    240
              cacatttcaa ttctcaatat cttatcccaa tcaccccacc atctcgattt cgctttctcc    300
              catttcaaat cactcagaac ccatttccca tcaacccctc ttcctcttca actctaccac    360
              ctcctcctcc gttccagcct ccaacagaat cgtccacatt acgttacttc gttgtacact    420
              gacatgattc aaactggtgt taacccggaa acatatactt ttaatctttt gatacagtcg    480
                                                    691

<removed-date>
              ttatgtgaat ctaacgcgct tgatcatgca cgtgaactgt ttgataaaat gtctgaaaag    540
              ggttgtcagc ctaataagtt cactgttggg atacttgttc gtgggttttg tcgagctggg    600
              agaactaaac aggctttgga gtttgttgat gggaagatgg gggggaatgt taatagggtt    660
              gtgtataata ctcttgtgtc gagtttttgt aaacaggata tgaatgacga ggcggagaaa    720
              ttggttgaga ggatgacgga gaagggtttg ttacctgatg ttgttacgtt taattcgagg    780
<removed-apn>
              atatctgcac tttgtagagc ggggaaggtt tttgaggcgt cgagaatttt tagagatatg    840
              cagatggatg gggaattggg acttcctaag ccgaatgttg ttacttttaa tttgatgctt    900
              aaggggtttt gtcaagaagg gatgatggag gaagctaggt ctttggttga gactatgaag    960
              aaaggtggga attttgttag tttggagagt tataatactt ggttgttggg tttgcttaga   1020
              aatgggaagt tgttggaggg tcgatcggtt cttgatgaaa tggtggagaa tggtattgaa   1080
              ccgaatattt actcgtataa tattgtgatg gatggactgt gtaggaacca tatgatgttg   1140
              gatgcgagaa ggttgatgga tttgatggtg agtaatggtg tttacccgga tactgttact   1200
              tatactactc tactacatgg ctattgtagc aaagggaagg tttttgaagc taaagcgatt   1260
              cttaatgaaa tgattaggaa aggttgtcat ccaaatactt atacttgcaa tacgttgctg   1320
              aatagcctgt ggaaagaggg gaggaagtca gaggctgagg aaatgctgca aaagatgaac   1380
              gaaaagagtt atcagttaga tactgtgacc tgtaatatcg tggtcaatgg tctgtgtaga   1440
              aacggagaat tggagaaagc aagtgaagtt gtaagtgaga tgtggactga tggaacaaat   1500
              tcccttggta aagaaaaccc agttgctggc ctagttaatt caatccacaa tgtatcgacc   1560
              aatgtgcctg atgtgatcac ttatacaacc ttaattaatg gactttgcaa ggttgggaaa   1620
              ctagaagaag ccaaaaagaa atttattgag atgatggcga aaaacttgca ccctgattct   1680
              gtgacctatg atacgtttgt attgaatttc tgcaaacaag ggaagatatc atcggcttta   1740
              cgtgtattga aagacatgga gagaaatggt tgcagcaaga ctcttcaaac ttataattca   1800
              ttgatcttgg ggttaggaag taaagggcaa atatttgaaa tgtacggatt gatggatgag   1860
              atgagagaaa gaggaataca tccagatatt tgcacttaca ataatatgat caattgtctc   1920
              tgcgaaggag ggaaaacaaa ggatgccact tctcttttac atgaaatgtt ggataaggga   1980
              gtcgtctctc ccaatgtatc ttccttcaaa atattgatta aagcattctg caagtctgga   2040
                                                    692

              gattttaaag tagcatgtga actttttgat gtagctctga gtgtatgtgg ccacaaagaa   2100
<removed-date>
              gccttgtaca gtttgatgtt caatgaatta cttgctgggg gaaaactctc tgatgcaaaa   2160
              gagctatttg aagcttcatt agaaagatct ctcttatcaa agaatttcat gtatgaagat   2220
              ttgattgaca aactttgcaa ggatggaagg ttagacgatg ctcacggcct tcttcagaaa   2280
              ttgattgata agggatattg cttcgaccat tcatcattca tacctgtgat tgatggctta   2340
              agtaaaaggg gaaacaaaca acaagctgat gaactaggaa ggataatgga attggcttta   2400
<removed-apn>
              gaagataaaa cttctgatag gacttaccga aatggaaact ccatctttcg tcgaaaatta   2460
              cacaaggatg gtggaagtga ttggcaggat ataattaaca gggatattgg cggtaatatt   2520
              gcattgaaaa ctctgaagcg tgtagaaaaa ggctggggtc aaggaagtat atcgagtttg   2580
              ctgcctcaaa agaatgatta tcttgattac taa                                2613
              <210>   639
              <211>   693
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 639
              atggtggatg aagctgtcaa tctcttcaaa gaattgcatt taaaaaacat ggctcctgat     60
              attgtagcat acagttcact tattgatgga ctttgcaaat cggggaaaat atctgatgtt    120
              tgggatctta tagatgatat gcatgataga ggtcaacaag ctgacataat catttacacc    180
              tcgttattgg atgcattgtt taaaaaccat caagttgaca aggcaattgc gttattgaag    240
              aagatcaaag accggggaat tgaaccagat atgttcacat acacaatgct tgttgatgga    300
              ctatgcaaaa atggaagact taaggatgca caagaggttt atcgggatct tatggttaag    360
              ggctatcatt ttaatgcttg catgcataat gtcatgatta atgggctttg taaagagggc    420
              ttgtttgacg aagcattgtt tgtactgtcc gaaatggaag acaatggttg cacacctgat    480
              gttgtaactt acaaaactct tatccgtgct ttgttcaaaa acgacatgaa tgataaggcc    540
              gtgaaactcc tccgtgaaat gctttctaga ggtctactgt atggccgtat gggtcctaaa    600
              ggaggaatta gcaactctga aattgactct ggaggaataa acaactgtga aattgactct    660
              tggagtctca tgatgctttc gcatttacat taa                                 693
              <210>   640
                                                     693

              <211>   1432
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 640
              atggggagga aaaatggaga ggatcccaac tcgtctgcag ggggagaggg aatggccttg     60
              gattggctag agtcaaacaa aaagcttgaa tttactgaga aagagtatgc ttctaaactt    120
              gatttgattg ccaaattgcg tggcctacca aaggcagaaa aatacctcga gcatgttcca    180
<removed-apn>
              aattctttca gaggagaatt attatacaga acattactag ctaactgtgc tagtctggaa    240
              aatttgagga aaacggagga aacattcaac aaaatgaggg agttaggttt tcctgttaca    300
              gcatttgctt gcaatcagtt gcttctcatt tataagaaga ttgacaagaa gaaaatagct    360
              gacgtgttac ttatgatgga aaaggagaat gtcaaacctt cttcttatac ttacaaaatt    420
              ttaatagacg tgaagggcct gtctaatgat attgatggga tgtctcaaat tgttgagaca    480
              atgaaggcag aaggttgtga actagaccat ctaacacggg catccttggc caggcattat    540
              gccgcagctg ggcttaccga aaaaactgaa gctatattga aggagattga aggtgaaaac    600
              ttaaaagaga atatgtgggt atgcccaact ttgcttcgcc tttatgcaat tctgggtagg    660
              gctgatgaag tggagagaat ttggaaggtt tgtgagtcaa agccacgggt tgaggactgc    720
              cttgccgcaa ttgaagcttg gggaagattg aagaaaattg aagaagcaga ggcagttttt    780
              gagatgatgt caaataaatg gaaacttact gccaggaatt acgaatcact cctgaaaatt    840
              tatataaggc ataagatgct aaacaagggt aaggatctta ttaagacaat gggagatagt    900
              ggatgcacaa taggtccaac aacctgggat gcacttgtgt ctctttatgt tcaagcaggg    960
              gaagtcgaaa aggcagacac tgttttgcag aaggcactac agcaaaataa gatgaagcca   1020
              atgtttacta cttttatgac tattatggag cagtatgcaa agaggggcga cgtccataat   1080
              gcagagaaga ttttctatag attgagacaa gctaattata tttctagaat atctccgttc   1140
              catgctctag cacaggctta taaaaacgcc aaactaccgg catatgggat cagggagagg   1200
              atgaaagctg ataacctatt ccccaacaaa gctttggctg accagttggt gcaagttgat   1260
              ccgtttagga aaactccagt ttctgatttg cttgattgag gagattagca tattatctct   1320
              tgtgcttcaa cttttcaaat gcaactatta ttagttagtt tgatggtaag attgaacttc   1380
              ccgaatttga atattttgtc ttgtactgat taatgcatta atagggtttt at           1432
                                                    694

<removed-date>
              <210>   641
              <211>   6561
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 641
              atggaagaag agaacacgca gctccgtacc gaattggcat ctctaaggga ggaattggcc     60
              aaagctcatg atgctatgac tgctctgttg gctgctcaag aacaaccaac tcctatagtt    120
<removed-apn>
              tctgcagctg caaattactt gactcaagcc gcaacaactg ttaccgagcc cattgtgaat    180
              acggtgcctc aatttgtcca tattaatgcg caccgcggga gtattgccac aaccggaact    240
              atggaagaga ggatggaaga gcttgccaaa gagctccgac gggaaattaa ggccaacagg    300
              ggaaacggag actccattaa aacccaggat ctctgcttag tatcgaaggt agatgttcca    360
              aaaaagttta aagtcccgga gttcgacaaa tataacgggc tgacttgtcc tcaaaatcat    420
              attgtcaaat atgtccggaa gatgggcaac tacaaggaca atgattccct tatgatccat    480
              tacttccaag acagtctgat ggaagatgct gcagagtggt atactagtct gagcaaagat    540
              gatgtccaca cttttgatga gctagcagcc gctttcaaaa gccattatgg gttcaataca    600
              agactgaagc caaataggga gtttctcagg tccctatctc agaagaagga ggaaagtttc    660
              cgtgaatacg cgcaaaggtg gagaggggca gctgcccgta tcactcctgc tttagatgaa    720
              gaagaaatga ctcagacatt tctgaagact ctcaagaggg attatgttga aaggatgatt    780
              atcgcagccc caaacaattt ctcagagatg gttaccatgg gaacacgtct ggaagaagct    840
              gttcgggaag gcatcatcgt gtttgagaag attgagtcat ctgcaaatgc tgtgaagaga    900
              tatggtaatg gacatcacaa gaagaaagat acggaggtgg gaatgatagc cgctggaact    960
              aatccatcca aggctactgt tgctcctatc aatgctgctc agtttccccc gtcctaccct   1020
              tatgcaccgt actctcagca tccgttcttc ccaccgtttt atcatcagta ccctttgcca   1080
              ccgggccaac ctcaggtccc tgtcaatgcc atcgctcaac aggtgcaaca tcaaccgcca   1140
              gttcaacagc agcagcaaca atatgctaga ccaacttttc ctcctatacc aatgttgtat   1200
              gcagagcttc ttccaacttt actccagaga ggacactgca cgactaggca gggcaagcct   1260
              ccaccggacc ctttacctcc aaggttccgc tctgatctta agtgtgactt ccatcaaggc   1320
              gctttagggc atgatgttga ggggtgctat gctctaaagt acatcgtcaa gaagcttata   1380
                                                    695

              gatcaaggga agttaacttt tgagaacaat gtgccacatg tcctcgataa tccgctccca   1440
<removed-date>
              aatcatgatg ccgtgaatat gattgagata tgtgaagagg ttcccatgct ggatgtccgc   1500
              aatgttgcaa ctcctctggt gccactccat atcaagttgt gccaagcttt attgtttgaa   1560
              catgatcatg ctgagtgcca agaatgttcc cgcaaccctt tgggctgcca tgtcgtccaa   1620
              aacgatgtcc agagcttgat ggacggcaat taccttactg tcagtgatgt ttgcgtaatt   1680
              gtgccggtct ttcacgatcc acctgttaag agggtgcctt tgagggagag cgttgagccg   1740
<removed-apn>
              ttggtgataa ggttgccagg accaattcct tatgtttcgg acaaggctgt tccatacaaa   1800
              tacaatgcta ctatgataga aaatggagtg gaggtgcctc tagcctcctt tgccacagta   1860
              agcaatattg ccgaagggac ttctgcagcg ctaagaagcg ggaaggtccg tccgccgtta   1920
              tttcagaaga aggtagctac gccaaccact ccaccagttg aagaagcaac tccaaccgtt   1980
              gtttcaccca ttgctacaga tgtgaaccag ccaggcaaat ctatagagga ttcgaattta   2040
              gatgagattc tgaggataat aaagaggagc gattacaaga tcgttgatca attgctgcaa   2100
              actccttcaa agatatctgt cttgtcgtta ctcttgagct ctgaggctca catgaatacc   2160
              ttgttgaaag tgctggagca ggcttatgtt gaccacgaag tcacggtaga tcgtttcggt   2220
              ggcatagtgg gaaatattac tgcttgtaac aacctctggt ttagtgagga agagttgccg   2280
              aaagtgggaa agagtcacaa tctggctttg cacatctcgg tgaattgcaa atcagacatg   2340
              atatcaaatg tgttggtgga taccggttcc tccctcaatg taatgcccaa gtcaactcta   2400
              gatcagttga gctaccgagg gatcccttta aggaggagta ctttcttggt caaagctttt   2460
              gacggatctc gaaagaatgt gctgggggag atagacttgc cgataaccat tggccctgag   2520
              aatttcttga ttaccttcca agtgatggac gttaatgcat cctacagttg tctgctggga   2580
              agaccgtgga tacacgatgc gggtgcggta acctccacct tacatcagaa gttgaagttc   2640
              ataaggaatg gaaagcttgt taccattcat ggagaggagg catacctggt tagccagcta   2700
              tcatctttct cttgcataga agcagggtct gcagagggga ccgcttttca aggattaact   2760
              gtcgaaggta cggagcccaa gagggatgga actgccatgg cttctttgaa ggatgcacag   2820
              agagccgtcc aagagggtca agctgccggc tggggcaagt taatacagct tcgtgagaac   2880
              aagcataagg aaggtcttgg cttttcccca acttcaggag tttccaccgg ggcattctgt   2940
              agtgctgggt ttgtcaacgc aatcacagaa gaagcaactg gatttggccc gaggcctgta   3000
                                                    696

<removed-date>
              tttgttatac caggaggcat tgcgagagat tgggatgcca ttgacattcc ctcaatcatg   3060
              catgtttctg aattgaacta taatgaaccc gttgggcaca gtaatcctgc attctctccg   3120
              aattttgaat tcccagtgta tgaagccgaa gatgaggaag gtaatgatat accatacgag   3180
              atcacccggc tacttgagca agaaaagaaa gccattcagc ctcaccaaga agagattgag   3240
              ctcatcaaca taggtaccga ggagaacaag caagagatca agatcggtgc tgctctagag   3300
<removed-apn>
              gaaggggtta taaagaagat catccaactc ctccgggaat atccggatat ttttgcatgg   3360
              tcgtatgaag atatgccagg tctagatcct atgattgtgg aacatcggat ccccaccaag   3420
              cctgaatgtc ctcccgtcag gcagaaattg agaaggactc atccagatat ggctctcaag   3480
              attaagagcg aggttcaaaa acagattgat gcgggtttcc tcatgacagt tgagtaccct   3540
              gaatgggttg ctaatattgt acctgtgcca aagaaggatg gtaaagtccg gatgtgtgtt   3600
              gacttcagag acctgaacaa agtcagtcca aaagacaact ttccattacc tcatattgat   3660
              gtgcttgttg ataatactgc tcagtctaag gtgttctcct tcatggacgg tttctccggt   3720
              tacaatcaga tcaaaatgtc tcctgaagat agagaaaaga cgtcttttat cactccatgg   3780
              ggtactttct gctacaaagt gatgccgttc ggcctaataa atgctggtgc tacctaccaa   3840
              agagggatga ctactctgtt tcatgacatg attcacaaag aagtcgaagt atatgtggat   3900
              gatatgattg taaagtcaac agatgaggag caacatgttg aatatttgac aaagatgttt   3960
              gaaaggttga gaaaatacaa gcttcgattg aatcccaaca aatgtacatt cggcgtcaga   4020
              tccgggaagt tattaggctt cattgtcagc caaaagggca ttgaagtcga tcctgataaa   4080
              gtccgggcca tccgagaaat gccagctcca cagaccgaga agcaagtcag aggtttcctc   4140
              ggacgtttga attacatctc ccgattcata tctcacatga ccgcaacctg cgggccgatc   4200
              ttcaagctac tcagaaagaa tcagcctgtt gtatggaatg atgaatgcca agaagctttt   4260
              gatagcatca agaattacct gctggaacca cctatccttg tcccacccgt ggaaggaagg   4320
              cctttgatta tgtatttggc agtatttgat gaatccatgg gatgcgtact tggtcaacaa   4380
              gatgagactg gaaagaaaga acatgctatc tactatctaa gcaagaagtt caccgattgt   4440
              gaaactcggt atacaatgct tgagaagact tgttgtgctc tggcctgggc cgctaaacgc   4500
              ctgcgtcatt atttggtgaa tcatacaact tggttgatat ccagaatgga tccgataaag   4560
                                                    697

              tatatctttg agaaagctgc tgttactggg aagattgcac gctggcagat gcttttgtct   4620
<removed-date>
              gaatatgata ttgtgttcaa aactcaaaag gcaatcaaag gtagcattct tgccgatcac   4680
              cttgcttacc aacctcttga tgattatcaa ccaattgagt tcaatttccc cgatgaggag   4740
              atcatgtatt tgaaatcaaa agactgcgaa gaaccgttga ttggtgaagg tccagatccc   4800
              aatggcaagt ggggtttagt ctttgatggt gctgtcaatg cttatggtaa aggaattggg   4860
              gcagtcattg tatccccgca ggggtatcac attcctttta ccgccagaat tctattcgaa   4920
<removed-apn>
              tgtacaaaca atatggctga gtatgaagca tgtatcttcg ggatcgagga agcaattgac   4980
              atgagaatca aacacctcga catctatgga gattctgcgc tcgtcatcaa tcagataaag   5040
              ggtgaatggg agacccacca tgccaagttg gttccttatc gtgattatgc gagacgtttg   5100
              ctgacatatt ttacaaaggt tgagctgcac catattcctc gtgacgagaa caaaatggct   5160
              gatgctcttg ctactctatc ctccatgttt cgagtaaacc attggaatga tgtgccacta   5220
              atcaaagtgc aacgccttga aagaccttca catgtgtttg ctattgggga tgtgatcgat   5280
              caggctggcg aaaatgtgat tgactataaa ccctggtact acgacatcaa acagttcttg   5340
              ctgagccgtg agtatccgcc gggtgcttcc aaacaagaca agaagacctt gagaagattg   5400
              gccagtagat tcctgttaga tggagatatt ctgtacaaga ggaactatga catggtattg   5460
              ttaagatgtg ttgatgaaca tgaagcggag cagttaatgc atgatgtaca tgacggtacc   5520
              ttcgggaccc atgctacagg gcataccatg tcaaggaagt tgttacgggc aggttactac   5580
              tggatagcca tggagcatga ttgctaccag cacgccagaa agtgccacaa atgtcaaatc   5640
              tatgctgata agattcatgt gcctccgcac gctctcaatg ttatttcatc cccatggccg   5700
              ttctcaatgt ggggcatcga catgattgga agaattgaac cgaaggcttc aaatggtcat   5760
              cgtttcatct tagtggcaat tgactacttc actaagtggg ttgaagcagc atcttatacc   5820
              aatgtgacca agcaagtggt agctaagttc atcaagaaca atatcatatg tcgatatggt   5880
              gttcccagca agattattac cgacaatggt accaacctga ataacaatgt ggtgcaagct   5940
              ctttgtgaag aattcaaaat tgagcatcat aactcttctc cttatagacc tcagatgaat   6000
              ggtgcagttg aggccgccaa caagaatatc aagagaattg tccagaagat ggtaaccact   6060
              tacaaggact ggcatgagat gttaccctat gctctgcatg gctaccgtac taccgtgcgc   6120
              agttcaaccg gggcaacccc tttctctctt gtatatggta tggaagcagt tcttcctttg   6180
                                                    698

<removed-date>
              gaagtggaga tcccatctct ccgtgtgatt atggaagcaa agttatccga ggctgaatgg   6240
              tgccaaagcc ggtatgatca gttgaatttg attgaggaaa aacgtatgga tgccatggct   6300
              cgtggacagt catatcaagc aagaatgaag actgcctttg acaagaaagt ccatcctcga   6360
              gaattcaagg taggggaact tgtattgaaa aggaggataa gccagcaacc cgacccaagg   6420
              ggcaagtgga cgcctaacta tgaaggtcct tatgttgtca agaaggcctt ctccggtggt   6480
<removed-apn>
              gctttaatcc ttacacacat ggacggtgta gagcttccaa atccagcgaa tgccgatata   6540
              gtcaagaaat actttgccta g                                             6561
              <210>   642
              <211>   8139
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 642
              atgaagaaga ctaaatgcta caagttcaag gaagtggatt tggtcagttt aagagagttg     60
              gcactcaagg tcaagagtca aacagggttc cgactccggt atgggggatt gcttactttg    120
              ctccgaaccg atgtggaaga gaagctagtg cacactctag tgcaatttta tgatccgagc    180
              ttccgttgct taactttccc ggacttccag ttggttccta ctctcgaggc ttactccaat    240
              ctagtgggtt tacctatagc cgagaagacg cctttcaccg gtcccgggac ttctcttact    300
              cctctggtta ttgctaagga tctctatctc aagacttctg atgtctccaa ccatcttgtt    360
              accaagtctc acatccgggg gttcacttcg aagtatcttc ttgagcaggc taatctcagt    420
              actacttgtc aggatacact cgaggctatt cttgctttgc ttatctacgg gctcattctc    480
              tttccgaacc tcgacaactt cgtggacatg aatgctatcg aggtcttcca ttccaagaac    540
              ccggttccta ctttgctagc ggatacctac cacgccattc atgacaggac tctcaagggc    600
              cgtgggtata ttctttgctg catatctctt ttgtataggt ggtttatttc gcaccttccg    660
              agttccttcc atgacaactc ggagaactgg tcctactcgc agcggattat ggccctcact    720
              cctaatgagg tcgtctggct cactcctgcc gctcaggtga aggaaatcat tatgggttgt    780
              ggagactttc tcaatgtacc tcttcttggt acccgtggag gaatcaacta caaccccgag    840
              cttgctatga gacagtttgg tttccctatg aagtcgaagc ccatcaatct tgctacatct    900
              ccagagttct tcttctacac gaatgctcct accggacaaa ggaaagcttt catggatgct    960
                                                    699

<removed-date>
              tggtccaagg ttcgaaggaa gagtgtgaag catctaggtg tgagatccgg tgttgcttat   1020
              gaggcctata ctcagtgggt gatagatcga gctgaggaga ttggtatgcc ttatccagct   1080
              atgagatacg tgtcttcatc tgctccatct atgcccctac ctctactccc cacgacccag   1140
              gatgtgtatc aggagcatct agctatggag agtcgtgaga agcaagtgtg gaaagctcgg   1200
              tacaatcaag ctgagaatct aatcatgact ttggatggta gagatgagca gaagactcat   1260
<removed-apn>
              gagaacctga tgttgaagaa ggaactagct aaggtccgga gagaattgga agagaaagac   1320
              gagctgctta tgagggattc caagagagcc agaggacgac gagacttctt tgccagatac   1380
              tgtgattcag attccgagtc cgatgattct ccgactactt cctatgtcta cgaacctgac   1440
              agaatcgatc gaaccagaga atacagaaga aggaaaaagg ctatggaaga agagaacgct   1500
              cagctccgta ccgagttagc cactctaagg gaggaattgg ctaaagctaa tgatgtcatg   1560
              actgctctgc tagccgctca agaacaatca gctacggcta tccctatagc cacagctgca   1620
              ccggtgacta caagcgtgct cccaaccgca tctgcagacg ctcgccttgc tatgccagcc   1680
              gggtttccgt atgggcttcc accgttcttc actcccagta ctgcagcggg cacttcgggc   1740
              actgctaaca atgttctgat ccctgcaaca aatgttggct ccatcaatgc tactttgcca   1800
              caaacaacgg cagctgtcac tgagcctctt gtgcatacca tgcttcaaag tgttaacatc   1860
              aacacacaac acggaagcat ccccgtaacc aaaaccatgg aagagatgat ggaggaactt   1920
              gctaaagaac tcgtcatgag atcaaagcca atcgaggaaa tgcggactct ttcaaaactc   1980
              aagatctctg cttggtgtca aaagtggatg tccctaaaaa gttcaaaatc ccggatttcg   2040
              accgatgccg cagagtggta tactagtttg agcaaaaatg atatccatac cttcgatgaa   2100
              ttagccgctg ctttcaagag ccactacggg tttaacaccc gattgaagcc gaacagggaa   2160
              ttcctcagat ctctctctca gaagaaggag gaaagcttcc gtgaatacgc acaaagatgg   2220
              aggggggcag ctgcccgcat tactcccgct cttgatgaag aagaaatgac ccagacattc   2280
              ttaaagacct tgaagaagga ttatgttgag agaatgatca tagctgcccc gaataacttt   2340
              tcggagatgg tcaccatggg aacccgtctg gagaaagccg tcagggatgg aatcattgtg   2400
              ttcgagaaag ctgaatcctc tgtgaatgca tcgaagaggt atggtaatgg acaccacaag   2460
              aagaaagaaa cggaagtagg gatggtgtca gctggagccg gtcaatccat ggctactgtt   2520
                                                    700

              gctcctatca atgcagctca aatgcctccg tcatacccat atgtgccgta ttctcagcat   2580
<removed-date>
              cctttctttc cgccatttta tcatcagtac cctctgccac cgggtcaacc tcaagtaccc   2640
              gtcaatgcaa ttgctcaaca gacgaaacaa cagttgccgg ttcaacaaca acaacaaaat   2700
              cagcaagcta gacctacttt ccctccgata ccgatgttgt atgctgagtt gcttccgact   2760
              ttactccata gagggcattg tacaaccaga cagggcaagc ccccacctga tccgttgcct   2820
              ccaaggttca ggtctgatct caaatgtgat tttcatcaag gcgccctggg tcatgatgtc   2880
<removed-apn>
              gaggggtgct acgctttgaa gtatatcgtg aaaaagctta ttgatcaagg aaagctgact   2940
              tttgagaata atgtcccaca cgtcctcgac aatcctcttc caaatcatgc cgctgtgaat   3000
              atgatcgaag tatgtgagga agctcctaga cttgatgtcc gtaacgtcgc aactcctctg   3060
              gtgcctctac acatcaagct gtgcaaagct tctctgttca gccatgatca tgccaagtgc   3120
              ctaggatgcc ttcgtaatcc tttgggttgc tatactgttc aagataacat ccaaagcttg   3180
              atgaatgata attttttgac tgtcagtgac gtctgcgtga ttgtgccagt ttttcacgat   3240
              ccgcctgtca agagtatacc tttgaagaag aatgctgagc ctttggtgat aaggttgccc   3300
              ggaccggtac cgtatacttc agatagggct atcccgtaca agtataatgc taccataatt   3360
              gaagacggag tagaagtgcc tctggtgtcc ttggctgtgg tgaacaatac tgccgaagga   3420
              acttcagcag ccctcagaag cggaatagtc cgtccaccat tgtttcaaaa gaaggcagct   3480
              acgcctaccg tgccacccat tgacgagcca accccgactg atgtttctcc cgttaacaga   3540
              gacgtgggcc aaccaggccg gtctatagag gattctaatc tggacgagat tttgaggttg   3600
              atcaaaagaa gtgattacaa gattgtggat cagctgttgc aaactccgtc gaagatatcc   3660
              attttgtctc tactcctgag ttccgctgcc cacagagata cccttttgaa attattggag   3720
              caggcttatg tggatcatga ggtaactgtg gatcactttg gtagcatagt gggaaacatt   3780
              accgcctgca gcaacctgtg gttcagtgaa gatgaattgc ccgaagcagg aaagcatcat   3840
              aatctggcct tgcatatctc tgtgaattgc aagtccgaca tgatctcaaa tgtgttagta   3900
              gacactagtt catctttgaa cgtgatgccc aagtcaacgc tggatcaact gagttaccgg   3960
              ggaactcctt tgagggagag cacttttctg gtcaaagcct ttgatggaac ccgcaagagc   4020
              gttctcgggg agatagactt gccaataact atcggccccg aaacctttct aatcaccttt   4080
              caggtcatgg atattaatgc ctcttacagt tgcctcttgg ggaaaccatg gatacacgac   4140
                                                    701

<removed-date>
              gcgggagcag tgacctctac tttgcaccaa aagttgaaat ttgcaaaaaa tggaaagctt   4200
              gttaccattc atggagagga agcatacctg gttagtcagc tatcatcttt ctcttgcata   4260
              gaagcagggt ctgcagaggg gaccgctttt caaggattaa ctgtcgaagg tacggagccc   4320
              aagagggatg gaactgcaat ggcttctttg aaggatgcac agagagccgt ccaagagggt   4380
              caagctgccg gctggggcag gttaatacag cttcgtgaga acaagcataa ggaaggtctt   4440
<removed-apn>
              ggcttttccc caacttcagg agtttccacc ggggcattct atagtgctgg gtttgtcaac   4500
              gcaatcacag aagaagcaac tggatttggc ccgaggcctg tatttgttac accaggaggc   4560
              attgcgagag attgggatgc cattgacatt ccctcaatca tgcatgtttc tgataacctt   4620
              gcattccctc cgaattttga gttcccagtg tatgaggccg acgatgagga aggtgatgac   4680
              ataccatatg agatcactcg gctacttgag caagaaaaga aagccattca gcctcaccaa   4740
              gaagagattg agctcattaa cataggtacc gaggagaaca agcgagaaat caagatcggt   4800
              gctgctctag aggaaggggt taaaaagaag atcatccaac tcctccggga atatccggat   4860
              atttttgcat ggtcgtatga agatatgcca ggtctagatc ctatgattgt ggaacatcgg   4920
              atccccacca agcctgaatg tcctcccgtc aggcaaaaat tgagaaggac tcatccagat   4980
              atggctctca agattaagag cgaggttcaa aaacagattg atgcgggttt cctcatgaca   5040
              gttgagtacc ctgaatgggt tgccaatatt gtacctgtgc caaagaagga cggtaaagtc   5100
              cggatgtgtg ttgacttcag agacctgaac aaagccagtc caaaagacaa ctttccatta   5160
              cctcatattg atgtgcttgt tgataatact gctcagtcta aggtgttttc cttcatggac   5220
              ggtttctccg gttacaatca gatcaaaatg tctcctgaag atagagaaaa gacgtctttt   5280
              atcactccat ggggtacttt ctgctacaaa gtgatgtcgt tcggtctaat taatgctggt   5340
              gctacctatc aaagaggaat gactactctg tttcatgaca tgattcacaa agaagtcgaa   5400
              gtatatgtgg atgatatgat tgtgaagtca acagatgagg agcaacatgt tgaatatttg   5460
              acaaagatgt ttgaaaggtt aagaaaatac aagcttcgat tgaatcccaa caaatgtaca   5520
              ttcggcgtca gatccggaaa gttattaggc ttcattgtca gccaaaaagg cattgaagtc   5580
              gatcctgata aagtccgggc catccgagaa atgccagctc cacagaccga gaagcaagtc   5640
              agaggtttcc tcggacgttt gaattacatc tcccgattca tatctcacat gaccgcaacc   5700
                                                    702

              tgcgggccga tcttcaagct actcagaaag aatcagcctg ttgtttggaa taatgaatgt   5760
<removed-date>
              caagaagctt ttgatagcat caagaattac ctgctgaaac cacctatctt tgtcccaccc   5820
              gtggaaggaa ggcctctgat tatgtatttg gcagtatttg atgaatccat gggatgcgta   5880
              cttggtcaac aagatgagac tggaaagaaa gaacatgcta tctactatct aagcaagaag   5940
              ttcaccgatt gcgaaactcg gtatacaatg cttgagaaga cctgttgtgc tctggcctgg   6000
              gccgctaaac gcctgcgtca ttatttggtg agtcatacaa cttggttgat atccagaatg   6060
<removed-apn>
              gatccgataa agtatatctt tgagaaagcg gctgttactg ggaagattgc acgctggcag   6120
              atgcttttgt ctgaatatga tattgtgttc aaaactcaaa aggcaatcaa aggtagcatt   6180
              cttgccgatc accttgctta ccaacctctt gatgattacc aaccaattga attcgatttc   6240
              cccgatgaag agatcatgta tttaaaatca aaagactgcg aagaaccgtt gattgatgaa   6300
              ggtccagatc ccaatagcaa gtggggttta atctttgatg gtgctgtcaa tgcttatggt   6360
              aaaggaattg gggcagtcat tgtatccccg caggggcatc acattccttt taccgcccga   6420
              attttgttcg aatgtaccaa caatatggct gagtatgaag catgtatctt tgggatcgag   6480
              gaagcaattg acatgagaat caaacacctc gacatctatg gagattctgc gctcgtcatc   6540
              aatcagataa agggtgaatg ggagacccac catgctaagt tgattcctta tcgtgattat   6600
              gcgagacgtt tgctgacata ttttacaaag gttgagctgc accatattcc tcgtgatgag   6660
              aaccaaatgg ctgatgctct tgctactcta tcctccatgt ttcgagtaaa ccattggaat   6720
              gatgtgccaa taatcaaagt gcaacgcctt gaaagacctt cgcatgtgtt tgctattggg   6780
              gatgtgatcg atcaggctgg tgaaaatgtg gttggctata aaccctggta ctacgacatc   6840
              aaacagttct tgctgagccg tgagtatccg ccgggtgctt ccaaacaaga caagaagacc   6900
              ttgagaagat tggccagtag attcctgtta gatggagata ttctgtacaa gagaaactat   6960
              gacatggtat tgttaagatg tgttgatgaa catgaagcgg agcagttaat gcatgatgta   7020
              catgacggta ccttcgggac ccatgctaca gggcatacta tgtcaaggaa gttgttacga   7080
              gcaggttact actggatggc catggagcat gattgctacc agcacgccag aaagtgccac   7140
              aaatgtcaaa tctatgctga taagattcat gtgcctccgc acgctctcaa tgttatttca   7200
              tccccatggc cgttctcaat gtggggcatc gacatgattg gaagaattga accgaaggct   7260
              tcaaatggtc atcgtttcat cttagtggca attgactact tcaccaaaaa agaatgtgac   7320
                                                    703

<removed-date>
              attccgttta tgttgaaaga ctctgattat ttatgcgaaa tttttatgtt gggaaaacgg   7380
              ggtgttacat cttataccaa tgtgaccaag caagtggtag ctaagttcat caagaacaac   7440
              atcatctgtc gatatggtgt tcccagcaag attattaccg acaatggtac caacctgaac   7500
              aacaatgtgg tgcaagctct ttgtgaagaa ttcaaaattg agcatcataa ctcttctcct   7560
              tatagacctc agatgaatgg tgcagttgag gccgccaaca agaatatcaa gagaaatgtc   7620
<removed-apn>
              cagaagatgg taaccactta caaggactgg catgagatgt taccctatgc tctgcatggc   7680
              taccgtacta ccgtgcgcag ttcaaccggg gcaacccctt tctctcttgt atatggtatg   7740
              gaagcagttc ttcctttgga agtggagatc ccatcccttc gtgtgatcat ggaagcaaag   7800
              ttatctgagg ctgaatggtg ccagagccgg tatgatcagt tgaatttgat tgaggaaaaa   7860
              cgtatggatg ccatggctcg tggacagtca tatcaagcaa gaatgaagac tgcttttgac   7920
              aagaaagtcc atcctcgaga attcaaggta ggggaacttg tattgaaaag gagggtaagc   7980
              cagcaacccg acccaagggg caagtggacg cctaactatg aaggtcctta tgttgtcaag   8040
              aaggccttct ccggtggtgc tttaatcctt acacacatgg atggtgtaga acttccaaat   8100
              ccagtgaatg ccgatatagt caagaaatac tttgcctag                          8139
              <210>   643
              <211>   6630
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 643
              atggaagaag agaacacgca gctccgtacc gaattggcat ctctaaggga ggaattggcc     60
              aaagctcatg atgctatgac tgctctgttg gctgctcaag aacaaccaac tcctgtagtt    120
              tctgcagctg caaatgtgac tcctaccgta acaactgatc cccgctttat catgccatct    180
              gggtatcctt acggacttcc gccgtactat actgctaata caggggcagg cacctctggt    240
              actaccaaca atggcccaat ttcaggggca aacttgactc ctgttagtac cgccttgact    300
              caagccgcaa caactgttac cgagcccatt gtgaatacgg tgcctcaatt tgtccatgtt    360
              aatgcgcacc acgggagtat tgccgcaacc gaaactatgg aagagagaat ggaagaactt    420
              gccaaagagc tccgacggga aattaaggcc aacaggggaa acggagactc cattaaaacc    480
              caggatctct gcttagtatc gaaggtagat gttccaaaaa agttcaaagt cccggagttc    540
                                                    704

<removed-date>
              gacaagtata acgggctgac ttgtcctcaa aatcatattg tcaaatatgt ccggaaaatg    600
              ggcaactaca aggacaatga ttcccttatg atccattact tccaaggcag tctgatggag    660
              gatgctgcag agtggtatac tagtctgagc aaagatgatg tccacacttt tgatgagcta    720
              gcagccgctt tcaaaagcca ttatgggttc aacacaagat tgaagccaaa tagggagttt    780
              ctcaggtccc tgtctcagaa gaaggaggaa agtttccgtg aatatgcgca aaggtggaga    840
<removed-apn>
              ggggcagctg cccgtatcac tcctgcttta gatgaagaag aaatgactca gacatttctg    900
              aagactctca agagagatta tgttgaaagg atgattatcg cagcaccaaa caatttctca    960
              gagatggtta ccatgggaac acgtctggaa gaagctgttc gggaaggcat cattgtgttt   1020
              gagaagattg agtcatctgc aaatgctgcg aagagatacg gtaatggaca tcacaagaag   1080
              aaagatacgg aggtgggaat gatagccgct ggaactaatc catccaaggc tactgttgct   1140
              cctgtcaatg ctgctcagtt tcccccgtcc tacccttatg caccgtactc tcagcatccg   1200
              ttcttcccac cgttttatca tcagtaccct ttgccaccgg gccaacctca ggtccctgtc   1260
              aatgccatcg ctcaacaggt gcaacatcaa ccgccagttc aacagcagca gcagcaatat   1320
              gctagaccaa cttttcctcc tataccaatg ttgtatgcag aacttcttcc aactttactc   1380
              cagagaggac actgcacgac taggcagggc aagcctccac cggacccttt acctccaagg   1440
              ttccgctctg atcttaagtg tgacttccat caaggcgctt tagggcatga tgttgagggg   1500
              tgctatgctc taaagtacat cgtcaagaag cttatagatc aagggaagtt aacttttgag   1560
              aacaatgtgc cacatgtcct cgataatccg ctcccaaatc atgctgccgt gaatatgatt   1620
              gagatatgtg aagaggttcc catgctggat gtccgcaatg ttgcaactcc tctggtgcca   1680
              ctccatatca agttgtgcca ggctttattg tttgaacatg atcatgctga gtgccaagaa   1740
              tgttcccgca atcctttggg ttgccatgtc gtccaaaacg atgtccagag cttgatggac   1800
              ggcaattacc ttactgtcag tgatgtttgc gtaattgtgc cggtctttca cgatccgcct   1860
              gttaagaggg tgcctttgag ggagagcgtt gagccgttgg tgataaggtt gccaggacca   1920
              attccttatg tttcggacaa ggctgttcca tacaaataca atgctactat gatagaaaat   1980
              ggagtagagg tgcctctagc ctcctttgcc acagtaagca atattgccga agggacttct   2040
              gcagcgctaa gaagcgggaa ggtccgtccg ccgttatttc agaagaaggt agctacgcca   2100
                                                    705

              accactccac cagttgaaga agcaactcca accgttgttt cacccattgc tatagatgtg   2160
<removed-date>
              aaccagccag gcaaatctat agaggattcg aatttagatg agattctgag gataataaag   2220
              aggagcgact acaagatcgt tgatcaattg ctgcaaactc cttcaaagat atatgtcttg   2280
              tcgttactct tgagctctga ggctcacagg aataccttgt tgaaagtgtt ggagcaggct   2340
              tatgttgacc acgaggtcac gagtcacaat ctggctttgc acatctcggt gaattgcaaa   2400
              tcagacatga tatcaaatgt gttagtggat accggttcct ccctcaatgt aatgcccaag   2460
<removed-apn>
              tcaactctag atcagttgag ctaccgaggg acccctttga ggaggagtac tttcttggtc   2520
              aaagcttttg acggatctcg aaagaatgtg ctgggggaga tagacttacc gataaccatt   2580
              ggccctgaga atttcttgat taccttccaa gtgatggaca ttaatgcatc ctacagttgt   2640
              ctgctgggaa gaccgtggat acacgatgcg ggtgtggtaa cctccacctt acatcagaag   2700
              ttgaagttca taagaagtgg aaagcttgtt accattcatg gagaagaggc atacctggtt   2760
              agccagctat catctttctc ttgcatagag gcagggtcgg cagaggggac cgcttttcaa   2820
              ggattaactg tcgaaggtac ggagcccaag agggatggaa ctgccatggc ttctttgaag   2880
              gatgcacaga gagccgtcca agagggtcaa gctgccggct ggggcaagtt aatacagctt   2940
              cgtgagaaca agcataagga aggtcttggc ttttccccaa cttcaggagt ttccaccggg   3000
              gcattctgta gtgctgggtt tgtcaacgca atcacagaag aagcaactgg atttggcccg   3060
              aggcctgtat ttgttacacc aggaggcttt gcgagagatt gggatgccat tgacattccc   3120
              tcaatcatgc atgtttctga attgaactat aataaacccg ttgggcacag taaccctgca   3180
              ttccctccga atttcgagtt cccagtgtat gaggccgaag atgaggaagg tgatgacgta   3240
              ccatatgaga tcactcggtt acttgagcaa gaaaagaaag ccattcagcc tcaccaggaa   3300
              gagattgagc ttatcaacat aggtaccgag gagaacaagc gagaaatcaa gatcggtgct   3360
              gctctagagg aatgggttaa aaagaagatc atccaactcc tccgggaata tccggacatt   3420
              tttgcatggt cgtatgaaga tatgccaggt ctagatccta tgattgtgga gcatcggatt   3480
              cccaccaagc ctgaatgtcc tcccgtcagg cagaaattga gaaggactca tccagacatg   3540
              gctctcaaga ttaagagcga ggttcaaaaa cagattgatg cgggtttcct catgacagtt   3600
              gagtaccctg aatgggttgc caatattgta cctgtgccaa agaaggatgg taaagtccgg   3660
              atgtgtgttg acttcagaga cctgaacaaa gccagtccaa aagacaactt tccattacct   3720
                                                    706

<removed-date>
              catattgatg tgcttgttga taatactgct cagtctaagg tgttttcctt catggacggt   3780
              ttctccggtt acaatcagat caaaatgtct cctgaagata gagaaaagac gtcttttatc   3840
              actccatggg gtactttctg ctacaaagtg atgccgttcg gcctaataaa tgctggtgct   3900
              acctaccaaa gaggaatgac tactctgttt catgacatga ttcacaaaga agtcgaagta   3960
              tatgtggatg atatgattgt aaagtcaaca gatgaggagc aacatgttga gtatttgaca   4020
<removed-apn>
              aagatgtttg aaaggttaag aaaatacaag cttcgattga atcccaacaa atgtatattc   4080
              ggcgtcagat ccgggaagtt attaggcttc attgtcagcc aaaagggcat tgaagtcgat   4140
              cctgataaag tccgggccat ccgagaaatg ccagctccac ggatcgagaa gcaagtcaga   4200
              ggtttcctcg gacgtttgaa ttacatctcc cgattcatat ctcacatgac cgcaacctgc   4260
              gggccgatct tcaagctact cagaaagaat cagtctgttg tatggaatga tgaatgccaa   4320
              gaagcttttg atagcatcaa gaattacctg ctggaaccac ctatccttgt cccgcccgtg   4380
              gaaggaaggc ctttgattat gtatttggca gtatttgatg aatccatggg atgcgtactt   4440
              ggtcaacaag atgagactgg aaagaaagaa catgctatct actatctaag caagaagttc   4500
              accgattgtg aaactcggta tacaatgctt gagaagactt gttgtgcttt ggcctgggcc   4560
              gctaaacgcc tgcgtcatta tttggtgaat catacaactt ggttgatatc cagaatggat   4620
              ccgataaagt atatctttga gaaagctgct gttactggga agattgcacg atggcagatg   4680
              cttttgtctg aatatgatat tgtgttcaaa actcaaaagg caatcaaagg tagcattctt   4740
              gccgatcacc ttgcttacca acctcttgac gattatcaac caattgaatt cgacttcccc   4800
              gatgaagaaa tcatgtattt gaaatcaaaa gactgcgaag aaccgttgat taatgaaggt   4860
              ccagatccca atagcaagtg gggtttagtc tttgatggtg ctgtcaatgc ttatggtaaa   4920
              ggaattgggg cagtcattgt atccccacag gggcatcaca tcccttttac cgccagaatt   4980
              ctgttcgaat gtacaaacaa tatggctgag tatgaagcat gtatctttgg gatcgaggaa   5040
              gcaattgaca tgagaatcaa acacctcgac atctatggag attctgcgct cgtcatcaat   5100
              cagataaagg gtgaatggga gacccaccat gctaagttga ttccttatcg tgattatgcg   5160
              agacgtctgc tgacatattt tacaaaggtt gagctgcacc atattcctcg tgatgagaac   5220
              caaatggctg atgctcttgc tactctatcc tccatgtttc gagtaaacca ttggaatgat   5280
                                                    707

              gtgccaataa tcaaagtgca acaccttgaa agaccttcac atgtgtttgc tattggggat   5340
<removed-date>
              gtgatcgatc aggctggtga aaatgtggtt gactataaac cctggtacta cgacatcaaa   5400
              cagttcttgc tgagccgtga gtatccgccg ggtgcttcca aacaagataa gaagaccctg   5460
              agaagattgg ccagtagatt cctgttagat ggagatattc tgtacaagag aaactatgac   5520
              atggtattgt taagatgtgt tgatgaacac gaagcagagc agttaatgca tgatgtacat   5580
              gacggtacct ttgggaccca tgctacaggg catactatgt caaggaagtt gttacgggca   5640
<removed-apn>
              ggttactact ggatggccat ggagcatgat tgctaccagc acgccagaaa gtgccacaaa   5700
              tgtcaaatct atgctgataa gattcatgtg cctccgcacg ctctcaatgt tatttcatcc   5760
              ccatggccgt tctcaatgtg gggcatcgac atgattggaa gaattgaacc gaaggcttca   5820
              aatggtcatc gtttcatctt agtggcaatt gactacttca ccaagtgggt tgaagcagca   5880
              tcttatacca atgtgaccaa gcaagtggta gctaagttca tcaagaacaa catcatctgt   5940
              cgatatggtg ttcccagcaa gattattacc gacaatggta ccaacctgaa taacaatgtg   6000
              gtgcaagctc tttgtgaaga attcaaaatt gagcatcata actcttctcc ttatagacct   6060
              cagatgaatg gtgcagttga ggccgccaac aagaatatca agagaattgt ccagaagatg   6120
              gtaaccactt acaaggactg gcatgagatg ttaccctatg ctctgcatgg ctaccgtacc   6180
              actgtgcgca gttcaaccgg ggcaacccct ttctctcttg tatatggtat ggaagcagtt   6240
              cttcctttgg aagtggagat cccatccctc cgtgtgatca tggaagcaaa gttatctgag   6300
              gctgaatggt gccaaacccg gtatgatcag ttgaatttga ttgaggaaaa acgtatggat   6360
              gccatggctc gtggacagtc atatcaagca agaatgaaga ccgcttttga caagaaagtc   6420
              cgtcctcgag aattcaaggt aggggaactt gtattgaaaa ggagggtaag ccagcaaccc   6480
              gacccaaggg gcaagtggac gcctaactat gaaggtcctt atgttgtcaa gaaggccttc   6540
              tccgatggtg ctttaatcct tacacacatg gatggtgtag aacttccaaa tccagtgaat   6600
              gccgatatag tcaagaaata ctttgcctag                                    6630
              <210>   644
              <211>   6222
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400>   644
                                                    708

              atgaagaagg tagatgttcc aaaaaagttc aaagtcccgg agttcgacaa gtataacggg     60
<removed-date>
              ctgacttgtc ctcaaaatca tattgtcaaa tatgtccgga agatgggcaa ctacaaggac    120
              aatgattccc ttatgatcca ttacttccaa gacagtctga tggaagatgc tgcagagtgg    180
              tatactagtc tgagcaaaga tgatgtccac acttttgatg agctagcaac cgctttcaaa    240
              agccattatg ggttcaatac aagactgaag ccaaataggg agtttctcag gtccctatct    300
              cagaagaagg aggaaagttt ccgtgaatat gcgcaaaggt ggagaggggc agctgcccgt    360
<removed-apn>
              atcactcctg ctttagatga agaggaaatg actcagacat ttctgaagac tctcaagagg    420
              gattatgttg aaaggatgat tatcgcagcc ccaaacaatt tctcagagat ggttaccatg    480
              ggaacacgtc tggaagaagc tgttcgggaa ggcatcatcg tgtttgagaa gattgagtca    540
              tctgcgaatg ctgtgaagag atatggtaat ggacatcaca agaagaaaga tacggaggtg    600
              ggaatgatag ccgctggaac taatccatcc aaggctactg ttgctcctgt caatgctgct    660
              cagtttcccc cgtcctaccc ttatgcaccg tactctcagc atccgttctt cccaccgttt    720
              tatcatcagt accctttgcc accgggccaa cctcaggtcc ctgtcaatgc catcgctcaa    780
              caggtgcaac atcaaccgcc agttcaacag cagcagcagc aatatgctag accaactttt    840
              cctcctatac caatgttgta tgcagagctt cttccaactt tactccagag aggacactgc    900
              acgactaggc agggcaagcc tccaccggac cctttacctc caaggttccg ctctgatctt    960
              aagtgtgact tccatcaagg cgctttaggg catgatgttg aggggtgcta tgctctaaag   1020
              tacatcgtca agaagcttat agatcaaggg aagttaactt ttgagaacaa tgtgccacat   1080
              gtcctcgata atccgctccc aaatcatgct gccgtgaata tgattgagat atgtgaagag   1140
              gttcccatgc tggatgtccg caatgttgca actcctctgg tgccactcca tatcaagttg   1200
              tgccaagctt tattgtttga acatgatcat gctaagtgcc aagaatgttc ccgcaatcct   1260
              ttgggctgcc atgtcgtcca aaacgatgtc cagagcttga tggacggcaa ttaccttact   1320
              gtcagtgatg tttgcgtaat tgtgccggtc tttcacgatc cacctgttaa gagggtgcct   1380
              ttgagggaga gcgttgagcc gttggtgata aggttgtcag gaccaattcc ttatgtttcg   1440
              gacaaggctg ttccatacaa atacaatgct actatgatag aaaatggagt agaggtgcct   1500
              ctagcctcct ttgccacagt aagcaatatt gccgaaggga cttctgcagc gctaagaagc   1560
              gggagagtcc gtctgccgtt atttcaaaag aaggcagcta cgcctaccgt gccacccatt   1620
                                                    709

<removed-date>
              gacaagccaa ccccgactga tgtttctccc gttaacagag acgcgagcca accaagccgg   1680
              tctatagagg attctaatct ggacgagatt ttgaggttga tcaaaagaag tgattataag   1740
              attgtagatc aactgctgca aactccgtcg aagatatcca ttttgtctct actcctgagt   1800
              tccgctgccc acagagatac ccttttgaaa gtattggagc aggcttatgt ggatcatgaa   1860
              gtaactgtgg atcactttgg tagtatagtg ggaaacatta ccgcctgcag caatctgtgg   1920
<removed-apn>
              ttcagtgaag atgaattgcc cgaagcagga aagcatcata acctggcctt gcatatctcc   1980
              gtaaattgca agtccgacat gatctcaaat gtgctagtag acactggctc atctttgaac   2040
              gtgatgccca agtcaacgct ggatcagctg agttaccgag gaactccctt gaggaggagc   2100
              acttttctgg tcaaagcctt tgatggaacc cgcaagagtg ttctcgggga gatagacttg   2160
              ccaataacta tcggccccga aacctttcta atcacctttc aggtcatgga tattaatgcc   2220
              tcttacagtt gtctgctggg aagaccgtgg atacacgacg cgggagcagt gacctctact   2280
              ttgcaccaaa agttgaaatt tgcaaaaagt ggaaagcttg ttaccattca tggagaggag   2340
              gcatacctgg ttagccagct atcatctttc tcttgcatag aggcagggtc tgtagagggg   2400
              accgcttttc aaggattaac tgtcgaaggt acggagccca aaagggatgg aactgcaatg   2460
              gcttctttga aggatgcaca gagagccgtc caagagggtc aagctgccgg ctggggcagg   2520
              ttaatacagc ttcgtgagaa caagcataag gaaggtcttg gcttctcccc aacttcagga   2580
              gtttccaccg gggcattctg tagtgctggg tttgtcaacg caatcacaga agaagcaact   2640
              ggatttggcc cgaggcctgt atttgttaca ctaggaggca ttgcgagaga ttgggatgcc   2700
              attgacattc cctcaatcat gcatgtttct gaattgaact ataatgaacc cgttgggcac   2760
              agtaatcctg cattctctcc gaattttgag tttccagtgt atgaagccga agatgaggaa   2820
              ggtgatgaca taccatatga gatcactcgg ttacttgagc aagaaaagaa aaccattcag   2880
              cctcaccagg aagagattga gcttatcaac ataggtaccg aggagaacaa gcgagaaatc   2940
              aagatcggtg ctgctctagg ggaaggggct aaaaagagga tcatccaact cctccgggaa   3000
              tatccagata tttttgcatg gtcgtatgaa gatacgccag gtctagatcc tatgattgtg   3060
              gagcatcgga tccccaccaa gcctgaatgt cctcccgtca ggcaaaaatt gagaaggact   3120
              catccagata tggctctcaa gattaagagc gaggttcaaa aacagattga tgcgggtttc   3180
                                                    710

              ctcatgacag ttgagtaccc tgaatgggtt gccaatattg tacctgtgcc aaagaaggat   3240
<removed-date>
              ggtaaagtcc ggatgtgtgt tgacttcaga gacctgaaca aagccagtcc aaaagacaac   3300
              tttccattac ctcatattga tgtgcttgtt gataatactg ctcagtctaa ggtgttctcc   3360
              ttcatggatg gtttctccgg ttacaatcag atcaaaatgt ctccggagga tagagaaaag   3420
              acgtctttta tcactccatg gggtactttc tgctacaaag tgatgccatt cggcttaata   3480
              aatgctggtg ctacctacca aagaggaatg actactctgt ttcatgacat gattcacaaa   3540
<removed-apn>
              gaagtcgaag tatatgtgga tgatatgatt gtaaagtcaa cagatgagga gcaacatgtt   3600
              gaatatttga caaagatgtt tgaaaggtta agaaaataca agcttcgatt gaatcccaac   3660
              aaatgtacat tcggcgtcag atccgggaag ttattaggct tcattgtcag ccaaaagggc   3720
              attgaagtcg atcctgataa agtccgggcc atccgagaaa tgccagctcc acagaccgag   3780
              aagcaagtca gaggtttcct cggacgtttg aattacatct cccgattcat atctcacatg   3840
              accgcaacct gcgggccgat cttcaagcta ctcagaaaga atcagcctgt cgtatggaat   3900
              gatgaatgcc aagaagcttt tgatagcatc aagaattacc tgctggaacc ccctatcctt   3960
              gtcccacccg tggaaggaag gcctttgatt atgtatttgg cagtatttga tgaatccatg   4020
              ggatgcgtac ttggtcaaca agatgagact ggaaagaaag aacatgctat ctactatcta   4080
              agcaagaagt tcaccgattg tgaaactcgg tatacaatgc ttgagaagac ttgttgtgct   4140
              ttggcctggg ccgctaaacg cctgcgtcat tatttggtga atcatacaac ttggttgata   4200
              tccagaatgg atccgataaa gtatatcttt gagaaagctg ttgttactgg gaagattgca   4260
              cgctggcaga tgcttttgtc tgaatatgat attgtgttca aaactcaaaa ggcaatcaaa   4320
              ggtagcattc ttgccgatca tcttgcctac caacctcttg atgattacca accaattgag   4380
              tttgatttcc ccgatgaaga gatcatgtat ttgaaatcaa aagactgcga agaaccgttg   4440
              attggtgaag gtccagatcc caatagcaag tggggtttag tctttgatgg tgctgtcaat   4500
              gcttatggta aaggaattgg ggcagtcatt gtatccccgc agggacatca cattcctttt   4560
              accgcccgaa ttctgttcga atgtacaaac aatatggccg agtatgaagc atgtatcttt   4620
              gggatcgagg aagcaattga catgagaatc aaacacctcg acatctatgg agattctgcg   4680
              ctcgtcatca atcagataaa gggtgaatgg gagacccacc atgctaagtt gattccttat   4740
              cgggattatg cgagacgttt gctgacatat tttacaaagg ttgagttgca ccatattcct   4800
                                                    711

<removed-date>
              cgtgatgaga accaaatggc tgatgctctt gctactctat cctccatgtt tcgagtaaac   4860
              cattggaatg atgtgccaat aatcaaagtg caacgccttg aaagaccttc acatgtgttt   4920
              gctattgggg atgtgatcga tcaggctggc gaaaatgtgg ttaactataa accctggtac   4980
              tacgacatca aacagttctt gctgagccgt gagtatccgt cgggtgcttc caaacaagac   5040
              aagaggactt tgagaagatt ggccagtaga ttcctgttag atggggatat tctgtacaag   5100
<removed-apn>
              agaaactatg acatggtatt gttaagatgt gttgatgaac atgaagcaga gcagttaatg   5160
              catgatgtac atgacggtac cttcgggacc catgctacag ggcatactat gtcaaggaag   5220
              ttgttacgag caggttacta ctggatggcc atggagcatg attgctacca gtacgccaga   5280
              aagtgccata aatgtcaaat ctatgctgat aagattcatg tgcctccgca cgctctcaat   5340
              gttatttcat ccccatggcc gttctcaatg tggggcatcg acatgattgg aagaattgaa   5400
              ccgaaggctt caaatggtca tcgtttcatc ttagtggcaa ttgactactt caccaagtgg   5460
              gttgaagcag catcttatac caatgtgacc aagcaagtgg tagctaagtt tatcaagaac   5520
              aacatcatat gtcgatatgg tgttcccagc aagattatta ccgacaatgg taccaacctg   5580
              aacaacaatg tggtgcaagc tctttgtgaa gaattcaaaa ttgagcatca taactcttct   5640
              ccttatagac ctcagatgaa tggtgcagtt gaggccgcca acaagaatat caagagaatt   5700
              gtccagaaga tggtaaccac ttacaaggac tggcatgaga tgttacccta tgctctgcat   5760
              ggctaccgta ctactgtgcg cagttcaacc ggggcaaccc ctttctctct tgtatatggt   5820
              atggaagcag ttcttccttt ggaagtagag atcccatctc tccgtgtgat catggaagca   5880
              aagttatctg aggctgaatg gtgccaaagc cggtatgatc agttgaattt gattgaggaa   5940
              aaacgtatgg atgccatggc tcgtggacat tcatatcaag caagaatgaa gactgccttt   6000
              gacaagaaag ttcatcctcg agaattcaag gtaggggaac ttgtattgaa aagaaggata   6060
              agccagcaac ccgacccaag gggcaagtgg acgcctaact atgaaggtcc ttatgttgtc   6120
              aagaaggcct tctccggtgg tgctttaatc cttacacaca tggatggtgt agaacttcca   6180
              aatccagtga atgctgatat agtcaagaaa tactttgcct ag                      6222
              <210>   645
              <211>   4575
              <212>   DNA
                                                    712

              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 645
              atgggaacac gtctggaaga agctgttcgg gaaggcatca tcgtgtttga gaagattgag     60
              tcatctgcga atgctgtgaa gagatatggt aatggacatc acaagaagaa agatacggag    120
              gtgggaatga tagccgctgg aactaatcca tccatggcta ctgttgctcc tatcaatgct    180
              gctcagtttc ccccgtccta cccttatgca ccgtactctc agcatccgtt cttcccaccg    240
<removed-apn>
              ttttatcatc agtacccttt gccaccgggc caacctcagg tccctgtcaa tgccatcgct    300
              caacaggtgc aacatcaacc gccagttcaa cagcagcagc agcaatatgc tagaccaact    360
              tttcctccta taccaatgtt gtatgcagag cttcttccaa ctttactcca gagaggacac    420
              tgcacgacta ggcagggcaa gcctccaccg gaccctttac ctccaaggtt ccgctctgat    480
              cttaagtgtg acttccatca aggcgcttta gggcatgatg ttaaggggtg ctatgctcta    540
              aagtacatcg tcaagaagct tatagatcaa gggaagttaa cttttgagaa caatgtgcca    600
              catgtcctcg ataatccgct cccaaatgat gctgccgtga atataattga gatatgtgaa    660
              gaggttccca tgctggatgt ccgcaatgtt gcaactcctc tggtgccgct ccatatcaag    720
              ttgtgccaag ctttattgtt tgaacatgat catgctgagt gccaagaatg ttcccgcaat    780
              cctttgggct gccatgtcgt ccaaaacgat gtccagagct tgatggacgg caattacctt    840
              actgtcagtg atgtttgcgt aattgtgccg gtctttcacg atccacctgt taagagggtg    900
              cctttgaggg agagcgttga gccgttggtg ataaggttgc caggaccaat tccttatgtt    960
              tcggacaagg ctgttccata caaatacaat gctactatga tagcaaatgg agtagaggtg   1020
              cctctagcct cctttgccac agtaagcaat attgccgaag ggacttctgc agcgctaaga   1080
              agcgggaagg tccgtccgcc gttatttcag aagaaggtag ctacgccaac cactccacca   1140
              gttgaagaag caactccaac cgttgtttca cccattgcta cagatgtgaa ccagccaggc   1200
              aaatctatag aggattcgaa tttagatgag attctgagga taataaagag gagcgactac   1260
              aagatcgttg atcaattgct gcaaactcct tcaaagatat ctgtcttgtc gttactcttg   1320
              atctctgagg ctcacaggaa taccttgttg aaagtgctgg agcaggctta tgttgaccac   1380
              gaagtcacgg tagatcgttt cgatggcata gtgggaaata ttactgcttg taacaacctc   1440
              tggtttagtg aagaagagtt gccgaaagtg ggaaagagtc acaatctggc tttgcacatc   1500
                                                    713

              tcggtgaatt gcaaatcaga catgatatca aatgtgttgg tggataccgg ttcctccctc   1560
<removed-date>
              aatgtaatgc ccaagtcaac tctagaccag ttgagctacc gagggacccc tttgaggagg   1620
              agtactttct tggtcaaagc ttttgacgga tctcgaaaga gtgttctcgg ggagatagac   1680
              ttgccaataa ctatcggccc cgaaaccttt ctaatcacct ttcaggtcat ggatattaat   1740
              gcctcttaca gctgtctcct ggggagacca tggatacacg acgcgggagc agtgacctct   1800
              actttgcacc aaaagttgaa atttgcaaaa agtggaaagc ttgttaccat tcatggagag   1860
<removed-apn>
              gaagcatacc tgattagcca gctatcatct ttctcttgca tagtagcagg gtctgcagag   1920
              gggaccgctt ttcaaggatt gactgtcgaa ggtacggagc ccaagaggga tggaactgca   1980
              atggcttctt tgaaggatgc acagagagcc atccaagagg gccaagctgc cggctggggc   2040
              aggttaatac agcttcgtga gaacaagcat aaggaaggtc ttggcttttc cccgacttta   2100
              ggagtttccg ccggggcatt ctatagtgct gggtttgtca acgcaatcac agaagaagca   2160
              actggatttg gcccgaggcc tgcatttgtt acaccaggag gctttgcgag agattgggat   2220
              gccattgaca ttccctcaat catgcatgtt tctgataacc ctgcatttcc tccaaatttt   2280
              gaattccctg tgcatgatgc cgaaaatgaa gaggatgatg atataccata tgagatcact   2340
              cgactgcttg aacaagaggg aagagccatt cagcctcacc aggaagagat cgagatcatc   2400
              aacttcggta taccgactgc tatctactat ctaagcaaga agttcaccga ttgtgaaact   2460
              cggtatacaa tgcttgagaa gacttgttgt gctctggcct gggccgctaa acgcctgcgt   2520
              cattatttgg tgaatcatac aacttggttg atatccagaa tggatccgat aaagtatatc   2580
              tttgagaaag ctgttgttac tgggaagatt gcacgctggc aggtgctctt gtctgaatat   2640
              gatattgtgt tcaaaactca aaaggcaatc aaaggtagca ttcttgccga tcaccttgct   2700
              taccaacctc ttgatgatta ccaaccaatt gaattcgatt tccccgatga agagatcatg   2760
              tatttaaaat caaaagactg cgaagaaccg ttgattgatg aaggtccaga tcccaatagc   2820
              aagtggggtt tagtctttga tggtgctgtc aatgcttatg gtaaaggaat tggggcagtc   2880
              attgtatccc cacaggggca tcacatccct tttaccgcca gaattctgtt cgaatgtaca   2940
              aacaatatgg ctgagtatga agcatgtatc tttgggatcg aggaagcaat tgacatgaga   3000
              atcaaacacc tcgacatcta tggagattct gcgctcgtca tcaatcagat aaagggtgaa   3060
              tgggagaccc atcatgctaa gttgattcct tatcgtgatt atgcgagacg tttgctgaca   3120
                                                    714

<removed-date>
              tattttacaa aggttgagct gcaccatatt cctcgtgatg agaaccaaat ggctgacgct   3180
              cttgctactc tatcttccat gtttcgagta aaccattgga atgatgtgcc aataatcaaa   3240
              gtgcaacgcc ttgaaagacc ttcacatgtg tttgctattg gggatgtgat cgatcaggct   3300
              ggcgaaaatg tggttgacta taaaccctgg tactacgaca tcaaacagtt cttgctgagc   3360
              cgtgagtatc cgccgggtgc ttccaaacaa gataagaaga ccctgagaag attgaccagt   3420
<removed-apn>
              agattcctgt tagatggaga tattctgtac aagagaaact atgacatggt attgttaaga   3480
              tgtgttgatg aacatgaagc agagcagtta atgcatgatg tacatgacgg taccttcagg   3540
              acccatgcta cagggcatac tatgtcaagg aagttgttac gggcaggtta ctactggatg   3600
              gccatggagc atgattgcta ccagcacgcc agaaagtgcc acaaatgtca aatctatgct   3660
              gataagattc atgtgcctcc gcacgctctc aatgttattt catccccatg gccgttctca   3720
              atgtggggca tcgacatgat tggaagaatt gaaccgaagg cttcaaatgg tcatcatttc   3780
              atcttagtgg caattgacta cttcaccaag tgggttgaag cagcatctta taccaatgtg   3840
              accaagcaag tggtagctaa gttcatcaag aacaacatca tatgtcgata tggtgttccc   3900
              agcaagatta ttaccgacaa tggtacaaac ctgaataaca atgtggtgca agctctttgt   3960
              gaagaattca aaattgagca tcataactct tctccctata gacctcagat gaatggtgca   4020
              gttgaggcca ccaacaagaa tatcaagaga attgtccaga agatggtaac cacttacaag   4080
              gactggcatg agatgttacc ctatgctctg catggctacc gtactaccgt gcgcagttca   4140
              accggggcaa cccctttctc tcttgtatat ggtatggaag cagttcttcc tttggaagtg   4200
              gagatcccat ctctccgtgt gatcatggaa gcaaagttat ccgaggctga atggtgccaa   4260
              agccggtatg atcagttgaa tttgattgag gaaaaacgta tggatgccgt ggctcgtgga   4320
              cagtcatatc aagcaagaat gaagactgcc tttgacaaga aagtccatcc tcgagaattc   4380
              aaggtagggg aacttgtatt gaaaagaagg ataagccagc aacccgaccc aaggggcaag   4440
              tggacgccta actatgaagg tccttatgtt gtcaagaagg ccttctccgg tggtgcttta   4500
              atccttacac acatggatgg tgtagaactt ccaaatccag tgaatgccga tatagtcaag   4560
              aaatactttg cctag                                                    4575
              <210>   646
                                                    715

              <211>   1693
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 646
              ggtactttca caagctacta atatagggtc ttaaattcac aacatgcaca caaaaacaaa     60
              ttattcaaac acatataaca gcttctcaca gaactgttat ttattgacag aactaaaaag    120
              aggtcattca gcatttccag caagaaactg caacaatagg ctttgatttc catccaagaa    180
<removed-apn>
              ccaaacaccc tttctcttcc acaacagtat atccatcaca aacattattc ttcacaagcc    240
              actgcttagc ttgaaccacc atcttaatag gtgaaccttg aaatccagcc ctactcattc    300
              tcctcctcca ctgatcaact ttctcatgcc tctccatcct caatggtcct tcacagctca    360
              caatgttctt tatctcctca gcaaaataaa actgttccat ttttgccctc ttagtgtcat    420
              actttggcag catagcatcc aatgagtcaa aaatagcaga ataataatgc aatgattcca    480
              taaaccttcc aaggaaaaaa ggtccattat gaccagaatc ttgctcagcc ataaccaaca    540
              ctttcggtga aagaccgtgt atcatttgta aaaccgcatt caaagcgcca cgactctctt    600
              taacaacaca atgcaattga agaatgctgt taaccacaag gacctctttt tcattcactt    660
              ttatgtcctt aggtttcaaa ttctccaaat tcttctcaac aattgagaat tccaaatgaa    720
              tccccaagtt tttcgcgtaa attgagagtt cttcaccaat gacttggatt ctagcaatgc    780
              atagaccaat cgctgtgatc ctaagcctcc gaacacggtg gctggatcga tccgcgagac    840
              tttgaattag tcctcgccat tggtgtccat gtggaagacc aaggctcatg ccaagatcaa    900
              ccacatgaag aaaactctca ccctcaaagg cttccaatat tatggaatta gccacaaaat    960
              gtccaaattg aatatgtgga caattttcat aaaccaactt gaatgcttct tccatttctt   1020
              ctgatgcagc atccattatg ttcatcattg attttgtatc tgatccagca gagttattac   1080
              caattggttg aatcagagtt agtctctctg tgagtccttg aacaaaacaa gaagcaactc   1140
              tttgaaacga agaaccaaac accaaagcat ttgatttaag ctcagatagt aaaaccgaag   1200
              cgtgtgattt atcgcgacac gcgacagctt cagcacatgc aattagaagt tgaactagtc   1260
              tcattccatc agcacatgaa ccatcttctt cagcttcgca attattgtag ttgaagttat   1320
              cttctgctgc ttcttcaaca gcttcagaag caaaatatct ttgtttataa gttcttatgt   1380
              gatctctgaa atgaagcctt ggaatgctat tcacactgtt gttattgctg ttgatgttat   1440
                                                    716

              tgaagaaact attactatgg ctgctgaaat tagcaaacca aatagggata gttacggttg   1500
<removed-date>
              atcttttcaa tttcttgtga tccctaatgg tttcagtttc atgatcagaa aatggattaa   1560
              ggatccatgt tgaagtagca ctgttttcta aaataggcaa atttggatat aaagaagcat   1620
              agtaagaacc cattaatgat ggattttcat ctacctcaca tttgaaggta ctagcataaa   1680
              gtgcaggtga cat                                                      1693
<removed-apn>
              <210>   647
              <211>   3561
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 647
              atggcagcta ttgtgggaga aaaaatgatc tcaaattctg tagaggtgtt gttagaaaag     60
              cttgtttctg gtgagttcgt ggatgatttt cggagcacaa agcttgacga ttcactcttg    120
              acaaagctga agaaaacact gatgactatt gaatatgtac tttatattga cgagaataaa    180
              gggttcacca cttgttcaaa aaagaaaaaa gggctcacca ctttatttat tgaggggaaa    240
              gggatcatca cccgttcaaa aaaaataaat aaagagatca ccaatcctac tttcaaccaa    300
              cggttggata tgctgagatg tgttgtctta gaagttgaaa ataaagggat caaagagcta    360
              ggtgaatctt ctgcacgttc tgctcgggta gatgaatctt ctatttatgg aagagatgat    420
              gatagaaaga aacttaaaca tcttttatta tctactggtt ttgataatag taaagtagga    480
              attatttcca ttgtgggtat gggagggatt ggtaaaacat cccttgctaa actgctttac    540
              tatgatcccg aagtaagaga aaaatttgag ttaaaactgt gggcaaatat ctcaaatgct    600
              tttgaacatg ttaatgattt tagtgttttt gaaaccattc ttgaatctat tgcttcaaaa    660
              aaaatcagcg atgataactt gaatagacaa aaaactgaca caagtgatgc gaaaatcatt    720
              tacccaaaag ttttgctcgt actggacgac gcgagggatg cagaaattgt caatcgaata    780
              tatcagatgg atatctttat tgctggggaa atgggaagta ggatcattgt tacaactcgg    840
              aatgaaaaag ttgctatgtc catgaaatac tctctttatg ttcactattt gagacctctc    900
              gaaagtgaag attgctggtc tttaattgcc agacatgcat ttggaccatg taactaccaa    960
              gaaagaacca atctagaaga aattggcagg gaaattgcaa aaaaatgtgg tggattgcca   1020
              tatattgcac tagcacttgg gactcttctt cgcagcaaaa tttccccaga ttactggaat   1080
                                                    717

              tatgtgctag aaactaacat ttgggaattg acagattctg aggtgcaaga ggctttacga   1140
<removed-date>
              ttgagcttac attatctgtt gcttcctcta aaagaatgct ttgcatattg ttcaaatttt   1200
              ccaaagaatt ccatcttaga aaagaagacg ataattcagt tgtggattgc agaaggttta   1260
              gtagaatcgt ccacaagtca ggagtgttgg gaaaaagttg gagaagaata ctttgatcta   1320
              ctagtgtcga ggttgttgat acaactacga tctatcgatg atgaggaagc aaactttgaa   1380
              attaataact tcatgcatga cttaggtaca acggtttcat cacaatatga cttgtggact   1440
<removed-apn>
              ctaaaacata atttctctta cactagaggg gattatgact cattaaataa atttgataaa   1500
              ttgcatgaat taaaaggtct acgtaccttt ctagcattac catttcaaga acaatctcct   1560
              ctttgtctac tatcgaacaa ggtcatacat gcaatgctgc caaggatgaa gaagttacgg   1620
              gtgttatctt tgtcaaacta cagaagtatc actgaggttc ccaactctat tggaagtttg   1680
              atatacctgc ggtacctaaa tctttctcac acacagattg aaaggttgcc ttctaaaaca   1740
              tgcaagcttt acaatctaca gttcttgttg ttgtcaggct gtaaaaggct cactgaattg   1800
              ccggaagaca tgggaaaatt agttaatcta ctccacctta acattagtga cactgcattg   1860
              agggagatgc ccgaacaaat agccaaacta caaaatctcc aaagtttgtc tgactttgtt   1920
              gtcagcagtg gattgaagat tgcagagcta ggaaaatttc cccaactaca tggaaaactt   1980
              gcaatctcac agctacaaaa tgttaatgac ccattggaag cttctctagc taatatgatg   2040
              atgaaagaaa gaatagacga gttagcttta gaatgggatt gtggtagtaa tttttcagat   2100
              tcaaaaatac aaagtgttgt acttgaaaat ttgcgaccct cgacaaattt gaaaagtctc   2160
              accatcaaag gctatggtgg aatcagcttt ccaaattggt tgggtgatat tttatttagc   2220
              aacatgatgt ctttaaggat ctcgaattgt gatgcttgtt tatggcttcc tccccttgga   2280
              cagttgggta atctaaaaga gctcattatt aaagggatgc aatcaataca gacaattggt   2340
              actgagttct atggaagtga tcggtcttca tttcaaccat tcccctcctt ggtgactcta   2400
              cactttgagg atatggaaga gtgggaggaa tgggacttga atggaggtac aacaacaaag   2460
              tttcctagtt taaaaacttt attattgagt aagtgcccaa aacttagcgt aggaaacatg   2520
              cctaacaaat ttccttcctt aactgaactt gagttgagag aatgtcctct actggtgcaa   2580
              tcaatgccat cattagatcg tgtattcagg caactgatgt tcccttcgaa tcatcttcga   2640
              cagctaacca tagatggctt ttcatctccg atgtctttcc caacagacgg tctacagaaa   2700
                                                    718

<removed-date>
              accttgaaat ttctgataat cagtaattgt gagaatctag agttccctcc tcatgactac   2760
              ttgcgcaatc acaattttac atctcttgag gaattaacaa tatcttatag ctgtaattca   2820
              atggtatcat ttaccttggg cgctctccct gtcctcaaga gtttgttcat tgagggttgt   2880
              aaaaatctga aatcgatatt aattgcagaa gacgactccc aaaatagtct ctcatttctt   2940
              agaagcatca aaatatggga ctgtaacgag ctgaagtcat ttcccacagg tggattgccc   3000
<removed-apn>
              actccaaacc tcatttatat tgcagtgtgg cagtgtgaga agcttcattc actgccagaa   3060
              ccaatgaaca ctctaaccaa ccttcaagaa atggaaattg ataatctacc aaatcttcaa   3120
              tctttaatca tagatgattt gcctgtcagt ttacaggaac ttactgttgg ctctgttgga   3180
              gtgattatgt ggaatacgga gccaacttgg gaacatctga cttgtctttc agtgttgcga   3240
              attaatggtg ctgatacggt gaagacactg atggggccat ctctacctgc atcgcttctg   3300
              acactatgca tctgtggtct tactgataca cgcattgatg ggaagtggct tcaacatctc   3360
              gtctctctcc aaaaacttga gattattaat gctcccaaac tcaagatgtt tcctaaaaaa   3420
              ggatttcctt cctctctttc agtgctaagt atgactcggt gtccattact agaagcaagt   3480
              gtgcgcagga agcgagggaa agagtggcgt aagattgctc atattccctc catagttatc   3540
              gatgatgaac ttatcacctg a                                             3561
              <210>   648
              <211>   646
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (595)..(595)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 648
              ggccgagggg cagaagcagt gattggtgga gctttcctct ctgctttctt tgatgttgtc     60
              ttcaaaaggc tggcatcacc tgaagttgct aatttgatcc ttggaaacaa acttgacaag    120
              aaattgcttc agaggctcga gacaactttg agagtggtta gagctgtgct taatgatgct    180
              gagaagaaac aaaccaggga ttctgatgtc aacaactggc tcaatgatct caaagatgct    240
              gtctatgtag ctgatgactt attggatgaa gtttcgacaa aaactgtgat tcaaaaagag    300
                                                    719

<removed-date>
              gtaactaatc tcttttcgcg ctttttcaat gtgcaagata ggggtatggt tagtaagttt    360
              gaagatatag ttgagagact agaatatatt ttgaaactca aagacagtct tgaactcaaa    420
              gagattgtag tggagaattt gtcatataaa actccatcaa catctctcca agacgaatct   480
              cgtgtgtatg gcagggacaa agacaaggag ggcatcatca agtttttgtt agatgataac   540
              agtgataatg gtgaagaagt gattgtgata cctattgtgg gaatgggagg ggtangaaaa   600
<removed-apn>
              actactttag ctcagttggt gtacaatgat gagtatttga agcatg                  646
              <210>   649
              <211>   3807
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 649
              atggctgcaa ctttggtggc aggtgcattt ctctctgcta ctattcaaac catagcagat     60
              aagctaagct catcggagtt tcgcagtttc atcagaagca ccaagttcaa ttactcacaa    120
              ctgaaagagt tgaaaacgac actgttttct cttcaagctg tgctggttga tgcagaacag    180
              aaacaattca acgatcttcc tgtcaaacaa tggcttgatg atttgaaaga cgctatcttt   240
              gacacggaag atctgctcga tttaatcaac tacgatgcct tgaggtgcaa ggtggagaaa   300
              acaccagttg atcagctgca gaatttacct tcatctataa agatcaattt gaagatggag   360
              aagatgtgta aaaggttgca aacttttgtc cagcagaaag acatcctttg cttgcaaaga   420
              acggtaagtg gtagagtttc tcgtagaacc ccttcaagtt ccgtggtaaa tgaatctgtc   480
              atggtaggaa ggaatgatga taaaaataga cttgtcagta tgctggtatc agacataggc    540
              accagcataa ataacaattt aggtgttgtt gcaatattgg ggatgggagg tgtcggtaaa    600
              acgacccttg cacagcttgt ttacaatgat gaaaaggttg aacatcattt tgatctcaaa   660
              gcctgggttt gtgtatcaga agattttgat gttgtgagag taaccaagtc tctccttgaa   720
              tctgttgtta gaaatacaac atttgctgct tcaaaggtct gggaaagcga taatcttgat   780
              atcctccgag ttgaattaat gaaacaattg atggatagaa gatttttgtt tgtgttggac   840
              gacttatgga atgacaatta cgttgattgg agtgagctag taactccctt gtttaaggga   900
              aaagctggaa gcaaggtcat cataacaaca cgcctaaaaa aagttgcgga ggttgcacgc   960
              acatttccaa ttcataaatt agaacctata tccgatgaag attgttggtc tttgctctca   1020
                                                    720

<removed-date>
              aagcatgcat ttggaggtga agaccttggt cacagtaaat actcaaattt agaagcaatt   1080
              ggcaggaaga tatctagaaa gtgtgatggc ttgccaatag ctgccaaagc actcggtgga   1140
              ctaatgcgct cgaaggtaga tgaaaatgag tggactgcaa ttctgaatag cgatatatgg   1200
              caattacaaa atgataaaat tctcccggct ttgcatttga gttatcaata tcttccgtct   1260
              catttgaaaa tatgttttgc atattgttca attttctcaa aggattactc atttgatagg   1320
<removed-apn>
              aagaaattgg ttttgttgtg gatggcagaa ggattcctcg actattctca agggggaaaa   1380
              gcagcagagg aagtgggtga cgactgtttt tctgaattgt tatccagatc cttaattcaa   1440
              caaacaaatg atgattctca tgagaaaaag tttttcatgc acggccttgt ctacgactta   1500
              gctacagtcg tatctggaaa aagttgttgc aggtttgaat gtggtgacat ctctgaaaat   1560
              atccgtcatt tgtcatacaa tcaaggagag tatgatatct tcatgaagtt taagaattta   1620
              tacaatttca aacgcctgcg aagcttcctt cctatttact tctcaacggc aggaaattac   1680
              ttatccatca aggtggttga tgatttccta ccaaagctca aaaggttgcg tgtgttatcg   1740
              ctatcaaatt ataaaaacat caccaagcta ccagattcag ttgccaattt ggtgcaatta   1800
              cgttatctag atctctcctt cactaaaatc aaaagcttgc ccaatacaac aagtaacctt   1860
              tacaatttgc aaaccatgat tttagcatat tgtcgggttc tcactgaatt gccattacat   1920
              attggaaatt taatcaattt acgtcacctt gatataagtg ggacgacaat aaaggagttg   1980
              cctgtggaaa ttgctagact agaaaacctt caaactttga ctgtttttgt agtggggaaa   2040
              cgacaagtag gattaagtat caaagagctt agaaaatttc cacatctaca aggaacactt   2100
              accatcaaga acctgcatga tgtcattgag gccagagatg caggtgatgc caatttgaaa   2160
              agcaaagaga aaatggagaa gttggagcta caatggggcg aacaaactga agactcgcga   2220
              atagaaaaag acgtgcttga tatgttgcaa ccatcggtta acctgaagaa actaagcatt   2280
              gacttttatg gtgggacaag ttttccaagt tggctaggag attcttcgtt ttctaacatc   2340
              gtgttcttgg gcatcagtaa tggtgaacat tgcatgacac ttccaccgct ggggcagcta   2400
              ccttctctga aggacctact aatttgtggt atggagatat tggagagaat cggtccagag   2460
              ttctatcatg tccaggcagg agaaggttcc aattcttcct ttcaaccatt tccgtccctt   2520
              gagtgtttaa tgtttcgcaa catgccaaat tggaaggaat ggcttccctt tgtaggcatc   2580
                                                    721

              aattttgctt ttcctcgtct taaaattctg attttatcta attgtcctaa acttaggggg   2640
<removed-date>
              tatttcccta gccacctttc ttcaatagaa gtatttaaaa tagaaggctg tgctcgtcta   2700
              ttggaaacac cacctacttt ccattggata tcagcaatta aaaaaataca tattaaagga   2760
              ttttctgaaa gatctcaatg gtcgttggtt gggagtgatt ctgcttgtca gctgcaatat   2820
              gcaacgattg aaaggtgtga taagctattg tccctgccta aaatgattat gaggagcact   2880
              tgtcttcaac acttgacact caatgatatt ccgtctctca ctgcatttcc gacggatgtt   2940
<removed-apn>
              caactcactt cattgcagtc acttcatatt agtatgtgta agaatttatc cttcatgcct   3000
              cctgaaacgt ggaacaatta cacatcactt gcgagtcttg agttatggag cagctgcgat   3060
              gcacttacct ctttctcatt ggatggtttt cctgcgctcg aaagacttca catttatagt   3120
              tgtaagaatc tagattcaat ttttatttca gaaagtcctt cacatcagcc ttcagtcctc   3180
              cggtcactta aaatcaaatc tcattactca attggatctc ttaaagtcaa gcttcgaatg   3240
              gacacactca ctgctcttga agaactgtct ctaggatgtc gagagttgtc attttgtgga   3300
              ggagtttccc tacctcccaa gttacaatca attgatattc attcccgaag aacaacagcc   3360
              ccgcctgtaa cagaatgggg tctccaaggc ctaactgctc tttcatcatt gagtcttgga   3420
              aaggatgatg atatagtgaa caccttgatg aaggagtcgt tgctcccaat atccctcgtg   3480
              tctctgacta tctgtcatct ctataatctg aactcctttg atggaaatgg acttcgacat   3540
              ctttcctctc ttgaaagtct tgactttctt aactgtcaac aacttgagtc attgccacaa   3600
              aactgcctcc cttcctcact gaaatcgctt gaattttgtt attgtaaaag acttgagtcg   3660
              ttaccagaag acagcctccc ttcctctctt aagcgactgg tcatttggcg atgccctata   3720
              ttagaagaaa ggtataaaag gcaggaacat tggtccaaaa ttgctcacat ccctgtcata   3780
              gaaattgagg accaagtcac aatatga                                       3807
              <210>   650
              <211>   214
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 650
              gggaaatctg aaagaactaa tcattgaagg gatgcattca gtacagataa ttggtcctga     60
              attctatgca agtgattgtt ctccttcatt tcaaccattt ccatccttgg agactctaca    120
                                                    722

              ctttgagaat atgcaagagt gggaggagtg gaatttgatt ggaggtacaa ctaatgaatt   180
<removed-date>
              tcctagtcta aaaactttgt tacttagtaa gtgt                               214
              <210>   651
              <211>   790
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 651
<removed-apn>
              attatttgtc ctgggggaag tgttggaatt cctaaaagag aaacaatctc ctgagtggtg    60
              tgcacaaaga ttttttagac atcaaagatg aacttgagag cattcaagtc ttcctcaaag   120
              atgcagatat aagagctgca gatgaagcag acaccaatga tggaataaga acttgggtga   180
              agcagctgag agaagcatca tttcgcattg aagatatcat cgatgaatac cttcggctca   240
              tgcatagggc aaaatccaat ccttctggat gccgtcaatc tttattctgc aagattgcaa   300
              gcctaatcaa aactttgatt ccccatcatc agatagcatc tgagattaaa aacattaaga   360
              tatcaattcg tggaatcaag gaaagaagtg agaggtataa ctttcaaatt tcacagacac   420
              caggatcatc aagcagcagc aacagcagta gagagacgga caatagaaga tggcatgatc   480
              cctcggttgt cttccctttt cattgaagaa actgcaattg tcggatttga aggcccgagg   540
              gaagaattgt ctggttggtt attggagggc acagctgagc gcacagtgat ttcagtggtt   600
              ggaatgggag gtctaggaaa aaccactctt gcgtgcttgc atcaccgttt ctcaatcatt   660
              caccgtgagg gggatattga tcaacatgat ggaggaattt tgtagcgaaa ctgaaggccc   720
              tcttttgcag atgttacaca aaatggatga caagtcactc attctacaag tgaggggcat   780
              acctgaacat                                                          790
              <210>   652
              <211>   6102
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 652
              atgggtacaa atacccacca tagcgagatg ggtacacaag ttgtcaccca atttaatacc    60
              tgtgacaaca aggagtgtca tgattcttct cttcacaatg cacctcaggt tcaggttcag   120
              gttcctaatc aaagaaattc aattgacttg acacttcaaa attcttttga attgcttgaa   180
              aatgatgctg agcaggttat aggggatgct aaaatcagtg atgaagaatc taaccccatt   240
                                                      723

<removed-date>
              ctattggata tgtacattga caaaaatcaa aatggggcag agaatttact aaggaaggag    300
              gaatttactc ataacacaat cttagagagt actggtaaca tgacaaatat gaaatctaac    360
              cttgttgatt tgagtacatg taaccctttt ttgggtcctg ttaatgggaa gaaggcatcc    420
              ctcattacag ttccctttgt tgatgatgcc atcacattgc aacctataac tataaatgat    480
              gaaattctag gccaagacaa gaggaaggcg caactcactg ttggccctaa aaacaagatt    540
<removed-apn>
              gctgcatgtt tgaaagatgg caaggttttg agaaagtttt ggggggatga agacactgat    600
              agtgcgtatg agcctgacat tgaagccaac ccttgccctc cagatgctaa tcagtatttg    660
              gacactcctt gtgacactgt gaagaaatcc aaaagaggcg ttgaggttga gcgatgtttg    720
              catcgtggtg gtgatgggtg gcgagagaaa attgtgaagg tgaagggaag agacaaatct    780
              cagcgtgaga gagaagaggc gaggtacgat gtgtacttga gtttctgcga ccaagacaaa    840
              gacctgcatt cttttgtttt cagtatctat aatgctctta gtagaaaagc tggagttgat    900
              gttttctggg agaatgagag ggatggctat ggagatcgag aaaaaccaac ctctgtgctc    960
              aatgttataa gagattgcaa agtttttgta attgtatttt caagagacta tttcaattca   1020
              aggtcgtgtc ttcatgaatt taaaaaaata actgagtgtt gccgaaccaa agatgatctt   1080
              atggttctac ctgtgttcta tgatggtgtt gatctctcgt tcggaagttg ggaaagaggt   1140
              atgtttggag gagagacttt gcatgattgc gtggataaaa tcttgatgaa gaaaaccttt   1200
              aaagaggaag ataagttcat gacttgggtg gcatcaatca gcaaagctac catatatacg   1260
              ggacaaagtg atctcgaaga caggaacagt agtatatata ttgacgacgt agtcgaatgt   1320
              gttactaatg tgctacgcca ctggaaagac ttctcccgtg ctttctgtcc agtgagcata   1380
              aaatctggtg tgcaagatgt gattcaacta ttgaaacaat caaactctcc tcttctaata   1440
              gggatatggg ggatgggagg gattggtaaa tcaaccattg cccaagctat ttatgatcaa   1500
              gttggtccct attttgaaca caagagtttg ctaaaaaacg tcaggacatt ttggcaacaa   1560
              aatggaggtc aagtttcttt acaaaagaaa cttcttatgg ctgtcaacaa aacaactgaa   1620
              aaaaagatac ttcatattga atcagggaaa gtgattttaa aagaaagact ccgtcataaa   1680
              agtgtacttc ttatacttga cgatgttaat aaattggagc agctgaagtc tttgtgtgga   1740
              aatcgggatt ggtttggtcc aggtagcaaa ataatcatta tcaccagaga tagacatcta   1800
                                                    724

              cttatggagc atggagttga ccatatatat aaagtgaaac aattggaaga aagtgaatcg   1860
<removed-date>
              attgagcttt ttaattgggg tgcattcagc caagcaacaa ctcctcaagg ttttagtgaa   1920
              ctttctaggc aattagttgc ttattctaag ggattgcctc ttgctcttaa agcccttggg   1980
              gagtttttgc atggaaagga cgcacttgag tggaaacgtg tgttgaagag tcttgaaaga   2040
              ttttcctttc ccgaccaaga agtactgcaa gctctagaga cgagttttga tgatttgaag   2100
              gatgaagaaa aacatatatt ccttgatata gcatacaaga gccttttaac cattggtgag   2160
<removed-apn>
              aataacaagc ttgaaatgca tggtctgcta caagcgatgg caagggatat cattaagaga   2220
              gaatcaagta ataagactga tcagccaaag atgtacgatg tgttcttgag tttcagaggg   2280
              gaagacagtc gtgcaaagtt catttcacat ctctattcat ctcttcaaaa tgccgggatt   2340
              tatgttttca aagacgacga tgaaattcaa cgaggcgatc agatctcaat ttcactattg   2400
              cgagcaatcg gacactctag aatttttatt gtggttttat ctacaaacta tgctaattca   2460
              agatggtgta tgctagagtt ggagaagata atggaaattg gcagaaccgg gggtctggtg   2520
              gttgtaccag tgttctatga ggtagatccc tcagaagtac gtcgtcggga aggtcagttt   2580
              ggaaaagctt ttgaaaaact tataccaaca atctcagtgg atgaatccac aaagagtaat   2640
              tggaaaagag cactcttcga tattggtagc atagcaggtt ttgtactcat agattccagg   2700
              aatgagagtg cagatatcaa gaatattgtt aaacacgtga cccgtttgct agataggaca   2760
              gaattattcg ttgctgaaca tccagtgggt gtagaatctc gtgtggatgc tgtgactaag   2820
              ctactcaata tccaaaactc cgaagatgtt ttacttttag gaatatgggg aatggggggt   2880
              gtgggtaaaa caaccattgc caaagcgatt tataatcaaa ttgggagaaa attcgatgga   2940
              cggagctttc ttttgaatat aagagaattt tgcgagacag atgccaatca tgtttctctg   3000
              caacaacaaa tactttgtga tgtttacaaa acaacggcat tcaagatacg cgatatcgaa   3060
              tcagggaaaa atatattgaa ggaaagactt gcccagaata gggtacttct tgtgcttgat   3120
              gatgtgaatg aattggacca actaaaggct ttgtgtggaa gccgtgaatg gtttggtccg   3180
              gggagtagaa ttatcatcac aacaagggat atgcatcttc ttaggtcgtc tagagttgac   3240
              ctagtgtata caattgaaga aatggatgag agtgaatctc ttgagctttt cagttggcat   3300
              gcattcaagc aaccaagtcc ggcagaaggt tttgctacac attcaacaga tgtgattgct   3360
              tattccggga gattgccact agcacttgaa gttcttgggt gctatttgtc tgactgtgaa   3420
                                                    725

<removed-date>
              ataacagagt ggcagaaagt tttggagaaa ctcaaatgta ttccccatga tgaagtacag   3480
              aagaagctaa aagtaagctt tgatggttta aaagatgtta cagagcaaca aatattcctt   3540
              gatatagcct gtttcttgat tggaatggat aaaaatgatg caataaaaat attaaatggg   3600
              tgtgggtttt ttgcggatat tggaattaaa gtccttgtag agcgaagcct tgtaactgtt   3660
              gacaatagga acaagcttag aatgcatgac ttgttgagag atatgggaag gcaaataatc   3720
<removed-apn>
              tatgaagaat caccatttga tcctgagaac cgcagtaggt tgtggcgccg tgaggaagtg   3780
              tatgatgtat tattaaagca gaagggaaca gaagctgtca agggactggc tttggtgttt   3840
              ccaagaaaaa ataaagtttg tctgaatacc aaagcattta agaagatgaa taaactcaga   3900
              ttgcttcaac tttccggggt tcagcttaat ggagatttta aatacctttc aggagaactt   3960
              aggtggcttt actggcatgg atttccatta acttacactc ctgcagaatt tcaacaagga   4020
              agtctaattg tcatccaatt aaaatatagc aatctcaaac agatatggaa ggagggccag   4080
              gatgtcccaa catgcgatgg gatgggaggt gtggagggac ctccttcacc tcatgttgtg   4140
              ggatctctgg tagcctcaga ggttttggag atgctaaaga atctaaaaat tcttaatctt   4200
              agtcattctt tggatttgac tgaaacccca gatttttcat acatgcctaa tctcgaaaag   4260
              ctagtgctca aagactgtcc aagaccttct aaagcttcga agtctttgtg tggaatgtgg   4320
              ctcagatcta cagctaatca aaatgtagca agagttttgg aagtattaaa agccaaaaat   4380
              tgtcagagat tggaagcaag tgcaactaca tcacagatct ctgatatgta tgcttctcct   4440
              ttaattgatg attgcctagg tcaagttcgc ccttcagggt caaataatta cttgaaatct   4500
              gtcttaattc aaatgggaac aaaacaccaa gtcccgagtc ttgccaaaga tcgcatctta   4560
              cagactgcaa atgggacttg ggagtcattt ttgcacaata gttctgagtg gaaaaccttt   4620
              agttgccaag gatgttccat tatatttgat atcccaacaa tgaaggggcg taacctgaag   4680
              agtatgatgt tgtccgtcat ttattactct tcacaggaga acataacatc agaaggttgc   4740
              caaggtgtgt tgatcattaa tcacacaaag acaaacattc aggcctataa aagagataca   4800
              ttagcctcct ttgaggatga ggactggaag aacttaacat caagtctaga acctggtaac   4860
              acagtggagg ttatggctgt ttttgcggag ggattcaatg tagaaaaaac aacagtatct   4920
              ctcttatatg atgaaccaat tgacaaagaa atggaacagt gcaatgcagg agatgaggag   4980
                                                    726

              gatattactg tttctggaga tgtcaataag aatattaatg ttggtgatta tattgatgtg   5040
<removed-date>
              ccagtgaata acaatattag tggtcctggt gaagataagc actcacatgc agtgaataca   5100
              aattgtattg tttctagtga cgatgagtca accgacaaag aaactgaaca ctgcaatgga   5160
              cgagatgagg cggatgttac tgtttctgaa gatgtcaata agaatgttaa ttttattgat   5220
              gatgttacaa attgtattgt ttctagtgat gatgagtcaa ccgacaaaga aaccaaacac   5280
              tgcaatggag gagctgagga ggatgttact gtttctgatg atgagtattt cgatgcgccg   5340
<removed-apn>
              tgggataata atttgattgg tcctggtaaa gataaacact cacatgcagt gaataaaaat   5400
              tctactgttt ctagtgatga tgccctgaca gcaaatcaga attatgctgt ctcttttggt   5460
              ggtgatattc cagcagataa aaatgttatt gtttctgggg aagatgaaaa tgtgtccact   5520
              ggtagtgttg tgttcatgtt tatgtcggtg caagaaaccc ctcaactgca cttaaacatg   5580
              aaacaacatg atgcagccga ccaagtactt gcctgtgagg ttaagaaact tcgagaggat   5640
              gaggaggtcc ctatgccgcc agataggtgg catagacaga tggacagttt ccacctactt   5700
              cctatggaga tgaagatcgt gggtcaaaac tcgtacagga aatcatggag atcgaagccg   5760
              caagaggttg acatgtttgc tttagttggt cctgtgatgt ctaccaggag taggtgtgca   5820
              tggttgtggg tgccttgcat acttatacat gcatctagag gatcttatgt gacctatgca   5880
              agaaagttcc ttgaggtggt gggtcattgt gcgcaaggcg ctacaacctc tggtacagga   5940
              gtaccatgtt tagccgttgc gcgttgtcaa cttgatgata ttgccattga tttacgcccg   6000
              acaacaatat ctcttggtgt caattgtggt gtttactcct atctccctat ctccaactcc   6060
              agaaatgaca gttttagtcc aaccgcctat gttcaaccat ga                      6102
              <210>   653
              <211>   6501
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 653
              tcatggttga acataggcgg ttggactaaa actgtcattt ctggagttgg agatagggag     60
              ataggagtaa acaccacaat tgacaccaag agatattgtt gtcgggcgta aatcaatggc    120
              aatatcatca agttgacaac gcgcaacggc taaacatggt actcctgtac cagaggttgt    180
              agcgccttgc gcacaatgac ccaccacctc aaggaacttt cttgcatagg tcacataaga    240
                                                    727

              tcctctagat gcatgtataa gtatgcaagg cacccacaac catgcacacc tactcctggt    300
<removed-date>
              agacatcaca ggaccaacta aagcaaacat gtcaacctct tgcggcttcg atctccatga    360
              tttcctgtac gagttttgac ccacgatctt catctccata ggaagtaggt ggaaactgtc    420
              catctgtcta tgccacctat ctggcggcat agggacctcc tcatcctctc gaagtttctt    480
              aacctcacag gcaagtactt ggtcggctgc atcatgttgt ttcatgttta agtgcagttg    540
              aggggtttct tgcaccgaca taaacatgaa cacaacacta ccagtggaca cattttcatc    600
<removed-apn>
              ttccccagaa acaataacat ttttatctgc tggaatatca ccaccaaaag agacagcata    660
              attctgattt gctgtcaggg catcatcact agaaacagta gaatttttat tcactgcatg    720
              tgagtgttta tctttaccag gaccaatcaa attattatcc cacggcgcat cgaaatactc    780
              atcatcagaa acagtaacat cctcctcagc tcctccattg cagtgtttgg tttctttgtc    840
              ggttgactca tcatcactag aaacaataca atttgtaaca tcatcaataa aattaacatt    900
              cttattgaca tcttcagaaa cagtaacatc cgcctcatct cgtccattgc agtgttcagt    960
              ttctttgtcg gttgactcat cgtcactaga aacaatacaa tttgtattca ctgcatgtga   1020
              gtgcttatct tcaccaggac cactaatatt gttattcact ggcacatcaa tataatcacc   1080
              aacattaata ttcttattga catctccaga aacagtaata tcctcctcat ctcctgcatt   1140
              gcactgttcc atttctttgt caattggttc atcatataag agagatactg ttgttttttc   1200
              tacattgaat ccctccgcaa aaacagccat aacctccact gtgttaccag gttctagact   1260
              tgatgttaag ttcttccagt cctcatcctc aaaggaggct aatgtatctc ttttataggc   1320
              ctgaatgttt gtctttgtgt gattaatgat caacacacct tggcaacctt ctgatgttat   1380
              gttctcctgt gaagagtaat aaatgacgga caacatcata ctcttcaggt tacgcccctt   1440
              cattgttggg atatcaaata taatggaaca tccttggcaa ctaaaggttt tccactcaga   1500
              actattgtgc aaaaatgact cccaagtccc atttgcagtc tgtaagatgc gatctttggc   1560
              aagactcggg acttggtgtt ttgttcccat ttgaattaag acagatttca agtaattatt   1620
              tgaccctgaa gggcgaactt gacctaggca atcatcaatt aaaggagaag catacatatc   1680
              agagatctgt gatgtagttg cacttgcttc caatctctga caatttttgg cttttaatac   1740
              ttccaaaact cttgctacat tttgaattag ctgtagatct gagccacatt ccacacaaag   1800
              acttcgaagc tttagaaggt ccttgaaagt actaagagat ggcatggatg cagatgtttg   1860
                                                    728

<removed-date>
              aactagtgat atctcattat aagatggtga catccaagag cgaataagtg aaggaaacac   1920
              atcccgtgaa aatccttcaa atccacataa agaaatatat ccaatgtttt tagatcgtac   1980
              tattgaaaag ggaacttttg ttatagcagt cttatccgca atcaaggttg tcaatgattc   2040
              catctgttcc aagtcctcct ccaatttgtc aatcatggaa catcctgaaa gaattaaagt   2100
              ttctagagat tttaatttat agatgcttct tggaagttta cgaagacgta tgcagtctgt   2160
<removed-apn>
              caaatttata aggagaagtt tatggagaga tccaatgcta tgggagactg tagacaaact   2220
              tggacagtct ttgagcacta gcttttcgag attaggcatg tatgaaaaat ctggggtttc   2280
              agtcaaatcc aaagaatgac taagattaag aatttttaga ttctttagca tctccaaaac   2340
              ctctgaggct accagagatc ccacaacatg aggtgaagga ggtccctcca cacctcccat   2400
              cccatcgcat gttgggacat cctggccctc cttccatatc tgtttgagat tgctatattt   2460
              taattggatg acaattagac ttccttgttg aaattctgca ggagtgtaag ttaatggaaa   2520
              tccatgccag taaagccacc taagttctcc tgaaaggtat ttaaaatctc cattaagctg   2580
              aaccccggaa agttgaagca atctgagttt attcatcttc ttaaatgctt tggtattcag   2640
              acaaacttta ttttttcttg gaaacaccaa agccagtccc ttgacagctt ctgttccctt   2700
              ctgctttaat aatacatcat acacttcctc acggcgccac aacctactgc ggttctcagg   2760
              atcaaatggt gattcttcat agattatttg ccttcccata tctctcaaca agtcatgcat   2820
              tctaagcttg ttcctattgt caacagttac aaggcttcgc tctacaagga ctttaattcc   2880
              aatatccgca aaaaacccac acccatttaa tatttttatt gcatcatttt tatccattcc   2940
              aatcaagaaa caggctatat caaggaatat ttgttgctct gtaacatctt ttaaaccatc   3000
              aaagcttact tttagcttct tctgtacttc atcatgggga atacatttga gtttctccaa   3060
              aactttctgc cactctgtta tttcacagtc agacaaatag cacccaagaa cttcaagtgc   3120
              tagtggcaat ctcccggaat aagcaatcac atctgttgaa tgtgtagcaa aaccttctgc   3180
              cggacttggt tgcttgaatg catgccaact gaaaagctca agagattcac tctcatccat   3240
              ttcttcaatt gtatacacta ggtcaactct agacgaccta agaagatgca tatcccttgt   3300
              tgtgatgata attctactcc ccggaccaaa ccattcacgg cttccacaca aagcctttag   3360
              ttggtccaat tcattcacat catcaagcac aagaagtacc ctattctggg caagtctttc   3420
                                                    729

              cttcaatata tttttccctg attcgatatc gcgtatcttg aatgccgttg ttttgtaaac   3480
<removed-date>
              atcacaaagt atttgttgtt gcagagaaac atgattggca tctgtctcgc aaaattctct   3540
              tatattcaaa agaaagctcc gtccatcgaa ttttctccca atttgattat aaatcgcttt   3600
              ggcaatggtt gttttaccca caccccccat tccccatatt cctaaaagta aaacatcttc   3660
              ggagttttgg atattgagta gcttagtcac agcatccaca cgagattcta cacccactgg   3720
              atgttcagca acgaataatt ctgtcctatc tagcaaacgg gtcacgtgtt taacaatatt   3780
<removed-apn>
              cttgatatct gcactctcat tcctggaatc tatgagtaca aaacctgcta tgctaccaat   3840
              atcgaagagt gctcttttcc aattactctt tgtggattca tccactgaga ttgttggtat   3900
              aagtttttca aaagcttttc caaactgacc ttcccgacga cgtacttctg agggatctac   3960
              ctcatagaac actggtacaa ccaccagacc cccggttctg ccaatttcca ttatcttctc   4020
              caactctagc atacaccatc ttgaattagc atagtttgta gataaaacca caataaaaat   4080
              tctagagtgt ccgattgctc gcaatagtga aattgagatc tgatcgcctc gttgaatttc   4140
              atcgtcgtct ttgaaaacat aaatcccggc attttgaaga gatgaataga gatgtgaaat   4200
              gaactttgca cgactgtctt cccctctgaa actcaagaac acatcgtaca tctttggctg   4260
              atcagtctta ttacttgatt ctctcttaat gatatccctt gccatcgctt gtagcagacc   4320
              atgcatttca agcttgttat tctcaccaat ggttaaaagg ctcttgtatg ctatatcaag   4380
              gaatatatgt ttttcttcat ccttcaaatc atcaaaactc gtctctagag cttgcagtac   4440
              ttcttggtcg ggaaaggaaa atctttcaag actcttcaac acacgtttcc actcaagtgc   4500
              gtcctttcca tgcaaaaact ccccaagggc tttaagagca agaggcaatc ccttagaata   4560
              agcaactaat tgcctagaaa gttcactaaa accttgagga gttgttgctt ggctgaatgc   4620
              accccaatta aaaagctcaa tcgattcact ttcttccaat tgtttcactt tatatatatg   4680
              gtcaactcca tgctccataa gtagatgtct atctctggtg ataatgatta ttttgctacc   4740
              tggaccaaac caatcccgat ttccacacaa agacttcagc tgctccaatt tattaacatc   4800
              gtcaagtata agaagtacac ttttatgacg gagtctttct tttaaaatca ctttccctga   4860
              ttcaatatga agtatctttt tttcagttgt tttgttgaca gccataagaa gtttcttttg   4920
              taaagaaact tgacctccat tttgttgcca aaatgtcctg acgtttttta gcaaactctt   4980
              gtgttcaaaa tagggaccaa cttgatcata aatagcttgg gcaatggttg atttaccaat   5040
                                                    730

<removed-date>
              ccctcccatc ccccatatcc ctattagaag aggagagttt gattgtttca atagttgaat   5100
              cacatcttgc acaccagatt ttatgctcac tggacagaaa gcacgggaga agtctttcca   5160
              gtggcgtagc acattagtaa cacattcgac tacgtcgtca atatatatac tactgttcct   5220
              gtcttcgaga tcactttgtc ccgtatatat ggtagctttg ctgattgatg ccacccaagt   5280
              catgaactta tcttcctctt taaaggtttt cttcatcaag attttatcca cgcaatcatg   5340
<removed-apn>
              caaagtctct cctccaaaca tacctctttc ccaacttccg aacgagagat caacaccatc   5400
              atagaacaca ggtagaacca taagatcatc tttggttcgg caacactcag ttattttttt   5460
              aaattcatga agacacgacc ttgaattgaa atagtctctt gaaaatacaa ttacaaaaac   5520
              tttgcaatct cttataacat tgagcacaga ggttggtttt tctcgatctc catagccatc   5580
              cctctcattc tcccagaaaa catcaactcc agcttttcta ctaagagcat tatagatact   5640
              gaaaacaaaa gaatgcaggt ctttgtcttg gtcgcagaaa ctcaagtaca catcgtacct   5700
              cgcctcttct ctctcacgct gagatttgtc tcttcccttc accttcacaa ttttctctcg   5760
              ccacccatca ccaccacgat gcaaacatcg ctcaacctca acgcctcttt tggatttctt   5820
              cacagtgtca caaggagtgt ccaaatactg attagcatct ggagggcaag ggttggcttc   5880
              aatgtcaggc tcatacgcac tatcagtgtc ttcatccccc caaaactttc tcaaaacctt   5940
              gccatctttc aaacatgcag caatcttgtt tttagggcca acagtgagtt gcgccttcct   6000
              cttgtcttgg cctagaattt catcatttat agttataggt tgcaatgtga tggcatcatc   6060
              aacaaaggga actgtaatga gggatgcctt cttcccatta acaggaccca aaaaagggtt   6120
              acatgtactc aaatcaacaa ggttagattt catatttgtc atgttaccag tactctctaa   6180
              gattgtgtta tgagtaaatt cctccttcct tagtaaattc tctgccccat tttgattttt   6240
              gtcaatgtac atatccaata gaatggggtt agattcttca tcactgattt tagcatcccc   6300
              tataacctgc tcagcatcat tttcaagcaa ttcaaaagaa ttttgaagtg tcaagtcaat   6360
              tgaatttctt tgattaggaa cctgaacctg aacctgaggt gcattgtgaa gagaagaatc   6420
              atgacactcc ttgttgtcac aggtattaaa ttgggtgaca acttgtgtac ccatctcgct   6480
              atggtgggta tttgtaccca t                                             6501
              <210>   654
                                                    731

              <211>   3954
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 654
              aaaggttcga cgatcgctgt tctctgctct acgacacggt gcatttgcgt cgttactatt     60
              ggatttggat ttctgtaact tacgattcgc aaacgaagga tagatagaat gcaatttctg    120
              tgagattgaa acacgtttta caatccaatt ctttattttg ttctcaatcc caagacgtgt    180
<removed-apn>
              ccgctgcctc catgagagta tctgggtaag gacgttacct ttttccggca agcatcgcac    240
              accatcgccc caaaagaggt ttgaaccgtt ccttcactaa atggctgaaa tacttgggtc    300
              attcctctct tccttgttag catcaaaggt ggataggata tccgttcaag actttaaaga    360
              tttctttaag ggcaacggta ttgatgagag gcatctccaa gacttaagac tgcttttatt    420
              atccgtcgct actgtgctca atgatgcgga ggagaagcaa tttattgaac catgggtgaa    480
              agagtggact gataaagtta aggatgttgc atatgatgcc gatgacttaa tggatgagct    540
              agtcaccaag gaaatgtatt caagggattt tgcttcgtct ctcaatccat ttgctgaacg    600
              accacaatct agagttctag agattcttga gaggttaaga tccttagtag agctcaaaga    660
              cattctcatt attaaggaag gtagtgcaag taaattaccc tcatttactt cagaaacaac    720
              ttctttggta gatgaacgtc gagtgtacgg tagaaatgtt gataaggaga aaattatcga    780
              gtttttgtta tccaacaact cccaagatgt ggaagtgcct gtagttgcta ttgttgggat    840
              ggcaggagtt ggcaagacca ctcttgctca gatattatac aatgattcac gagttatgga    900
              ccattttcag tcaagatcgt gggcatccgt ttcaggaaat tcgaaaatgc aggaaataac    960
              taaacaagtt cttgattcat tcactttgtg tcaatctgat gtcgtggact tcaatggtct   1020
              ccaaattcgg ctaaaaaaag aattaacagg gaaaaggttt ttacttgttt tggatgggtt   1080
              cgagaatgag aattatcttg attgggatat ccttcaaatg ccttttgttt cagaaaataa   1140
              tggaagtaga ataattgtta ccacacgtaa taaaagggtt gccacagcaa tccgtgctaa   1200
              tctaactcat ttccccccgt tcctatctca agaggcttca tgggagttat tctcaagtca   1260
              tgcattcaag tctcaaaact caaatgaacg aagtcgtgtt ttgacagaaa ttggtaaaaa   1320
              aatcgttcaa aggtgtggtg gtctccccct agccacaatt acactaggga gtctcttaaa   1380
              ttcaaaagag gacagtgagg agtgggaaaa tgtttgtacc agtaaattat gggatttatc   1440
                                                    732

              aagagggggg aacaacatat tttctgcatt aatttcaagc tacatacgcc tgcctccata   1500
<removed-date>
              tctcaagcgg tgcttttcat tttgtgccat ctttccgaaa ggccataaaa tagaaaaagg   1560
              gaacttgata tatttatgga tggctgaagg tcttttgcca cgatcaacaa tgggaaagag   1620
              agcagaagat ataggagaag aatgttttga ggagttggtg acgaagacgt tctttcacca   1680
              cacatcgaat gattttttaa tgcataacat tatgcatgag ttagcagaat gtgttgcagg   1740
              taaattttgt tacaagttga cggatagtga tccaagcaca attggagtga gtagagtgcg   1800
<removed-apn>
              ccgtatctca tattttcaag gaatatacga tgaccctgaa cattttgcta tgtacgctgg   1860
              tttcgagaag ttgaggacct tcatgccttt taaattctac cccgttgttc cttcgttggg   1920
              tgaaatttcc acttcagttt caattctatt aaaaaaacca aagcctctgc gtgtcttctc   1980
              tttgtctgaa tatccgatta ccttattgcc tagttcaatt ggtcatttat tgcatttgcg   2040
              gtatttggat ctttcttgga ctccaattac ttctctacct gattctatct gcaatctgta   2100
              taacttagaa gcattattgc tggtgggttg tgctgatctt actttgttac caacaaaaac   2160
              atccaagctt atcaacctac gacaattgga tattagtggc agtggtataa aaaagatgcc   2220
              tacaaatctt ggcaagttaa agtctcttca atcgttgcct cgttttgtcg ttaacaatga   2280
              tgggggatca aatgttggtg aattggggga gatgttggaa cttcgtggct cactttccat   2340
              tgtgaacttg gaaaatgttc tgcttaaaga agaagcatcc aatgctgggt tgaagcgtaa   2400
              aaaatatctt catgaggtcg aattcaagtg gacaactcca acacacattt ccaaattggc   2460
              tagggagcaa ttcaagttct actatgatgt ctctataact tctgttacaa ggttgcaaaa   2520
              ggtgggtccg gaattttatg ggaatggatt tgaggcattt agttccttaa gaatcatcaa   2580
              gtttaaggac atgctcaatt gggaagaatg gtcagtcaat aatcaaagtg gaagtgaggg   2640
              gttcactttg cttcaagagc tttacataga aaattgtcct aaactgattg gtaagttacc   2700
              cggcaacctt ccttccttgg ataagttagt gatcacttca tgccaaactt taagtgatac   2760
              catgccatgt gtcccaagat taagagaatt gaagatcagc ggttgtgaag catttgtttc   2820
              cttatccgag caaatgatga aatgcaatga ttgtcttcaa acaatggcca tcagtaactg   2880
              cccatctttg gtcagcatcc ctatggattg cgtctcaggg acgcttaaat ctcttaaagt   2940
              atctgattgt cagaaattac aactagaaga gtctcactcc tatcctgtcc ttgagagttt   3000
              aatcttaaga agttgcgatt ctctcgtatc ttttcaattg gctttatttc caaagcttga   3060
                                                    733

<removed-date>
              agatctttgc atagaagatt gtagcagtct ccagaccatt ttatctactg caaacaatct   3120
              tccatttctt caaaacttga acttgaaaaa ttgctcaaaa ctggctccgt tttctgaggg   3180
              agagttttct acaatgacat cacttaattc tcttcatctt gagagtcttc ctacactcac   3240
              ttcactaaag ggcatcggaa tcgaacactt aacctctctt aaaaagctgg agatagagga   3300
              ttgtggtaac cttgcctctc taccaatagt cgactccctt ttccatctaa ctgtcaaagg   3360
<removed-apn>
              atgcccgtta ttgaaatcgc attttgaaag ggtcaccgga gaatactcgg acatgttggt   3420
              gaggtgtttg gcagtaaagc aaggaggctc tgaaattgct cgtgttaaac tggaaagtgt   3480
              tgaatcttac tggattgcga ccgcagtgag tgcattgcct tgcatttcct ggttaggagg   3540
              cacaggacat gttcgatttc tctttgtttt ggttgctgtt aggtgcagtt tggacgacaa   3600
              gaacagatgt ttcttcaagg gtggtgtcat gaatgtgcct ttcttgtgta caaccatgga   3660
              gaataagttg gtgattgatg gcagggcttc tttaacaaga tctgggattg gactatggac   3720
              aacagcaaga ttctcattca gcccttgcag gaacatatca ttctgagctt tataaaattc   3780
              attatagagt cgctttggga cccgagaaat gggatgccgc tgcagtttca aacaggcact   3840
              acctagggaa aaatgctcct taaggtcttg ccaggccaaa taacgcttat tgttatatac   3900
              ggtgagattg agtggcttat ccaagaaatt agaaaagtat tgcatctttt ccat         3954
              <210>   655
              <211>   4911
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 655
              atggcgacta ttgtgggaga agcacttctt gcagcttctt tggaagtgtt gatggaaaag     60
              attgtttctg gtgagttcgt tgatttattt cggagcacca agcttgacgt tgcacttttg    120
              gaaaagctga agataacaat gttgagtctt caagctgtac ttcatgatgc tgaggagaaa    180
              cagatcacca accctgctgt caagcaatgg ctggaaatgc tgcatgatgc tgtctttgaa    240
              gctgacgatt tatttgacga aatcaacacg gaggcattgc ggtcaaaagt tgaagctgag    300
              tatgaaaccc gaactgctac tgctcagaat cttggattga aagaaagggg ttccagtagt    360
              gtttggcata tatctcctac aagttctgtt gtgggtgatg aatcttctat ttgtggtaga    420
              gatgatgaca aaaagaaact gaaagagttt ctgctgtcag aggatagtag tgatggtcga    480
                                                    734

<removed-date>
              agtaaaatag gagtgatttc cattgtaggt atgggagggc tagggaaaac aacattagct    540
              aaaatccttt acaatgattc caatgtgaag cggaaatttg aggcgagagg atgggcacat    600
              gtctcaaaag attttgatgt ttgtactatc actaaaaccc ttcttgaatc tgttacttct    660
              gaaaaaacca cgactaatga tttgaacggt ttgcaagttc aattgcagca aagtttgcga    720
              gacaaaaagt ttttgctagt attggatgat atatggtatg gaagatatgt tggttggaat    780
<removed-apn>
              aatctgaatg acatctttaa tgttggggaa atggggagta agatcattat cacaacacga    840
              gatgaaagag ttgcattacc aatgcaaacc tttctttctg tccaccgttt aagatctttg    900
              gaaaaggaag attgttggtc tttacttgcc agacatgcat ttgtaacaag taactaccaa    960
              caacgatcca atctagaaaa aattggtaga gaaattgcca aaaaatgtga tgggttacca   1020
              ttagctgcaa tagcacttgg aggttttctt cgcaccaaat tgtcacaaga ttattggaat   1080
              gatgttttaa aaagtagtat ttgggaattg acagatgatg aggtgcaacc agctctgcta   1140
              ttgagctatc gtcatcttcc tgctcctata aaaggatgct ttgcttattg ttcaattttt   1200
              ccgaagaact caatcataga gaaaaaaatg gtagttcaat tgtggattgc agaaggctta   1260
              gtacctaagc ccaaaattga gaaaagttgg gaaaaagaag ccgaagaata ctttgatgaa   1320
              ctagtgtcga gatctttgtt acgtcaaaat tcgactggtg atgaggaaat gggctttgaa   1380
              atgcatgacc tcattaatga tttggcaatg atgacacagt tacacgtact gtctttgtca   1440
              aactacaaga atatcactga gtttcccaat tctattggaa atttgatata cctgcgatac   1500
              ttaaatctct ctcacactga gattagaatg ttgcccgctg aaacatgcaa gctttacaat   1560
              ctgcagacct tgttgctgtc agactgcaac agactgactg aattgccgaa agacatggca   1620
              aagttaatga atctacgtca ccttgatatc agaggcactc gattgaagga aatgcctgtg   1680
              caaatatcca gactagaaaa tctccaaact ttgtcggact ttgttgtagg tattcaggac   1740
              gatggattga agatttcaga tttgggaaaa cattcccatc tacgggaaaa ccttaccatc   1800
              tcacaacttc aaaatgtaac tgattcatcc catgcttctc aagcaaactt agtgatgaaa   1860
              aaacaaattg atgagttggt acttcaatgg tctggcacta gtccatcaaa ttcacaaata   1920
              caaagtggtg tacttgaaca attgcagcca tcgacaaatt tgaagagtct caccatcaat   1980
              ggctatggtg gaaacaactt tccaaattgg ttgggtagtt ctttatttgg caacatgatg   2040
                                                    735

              aaatcaataa agaggattgg taccgagttc acgggaagta tttctcattc gtttcaacca   2100
<removed-date>
              ttttccttct tggagacact agagtttgat acaatgctag agtgggaaga ttggaagttg   2160
              attggaggta caactgcaga gtttcctcgt ctaaaacgtc tgtcactacg acaatgtcca   2220
              aaactcaaag gaaacttacc ccttggacaa ttacagaatc ttgaagagat cattcttgaa   2280
              gggatgaaat cattaaagac acttgatact gggttttatg gaagtagcag ttctcgtttg   2340
              tttcaaccat ttcccttctt gaagactttg agctttacga atatgcaaga gtgggaggaa   2400
<removed-apn>
              tggaaactga ttggaggtgc atctatcgag tttcctagtc ttacacgctt gttactatgt   2460
              aattgtccga aactcaaagg aaatatacca ggaaaccttc ctagtcttac aagtttgtca   2520
              cttaaatatt gtcccaatct caaacagatg tcgcccaaca actttccttc ccttgttgaa   2580
              cttgagttag aggactgttc tctactgatg gaggcaaggc attcatcaga tgtgttcaac   2640
              caattgatga ttttcctcaa tgctcttcga aatatttcct taaggaatat tccatctcta   2700
              acgtccttcc cgagaaacgg tctgcccaaa accatacagt cgcttaaaat ctggaagtgt   2760
              gagaatctag agttccttcc ttacgaatcc tttcacaatt acaaatcact tgagcatttg   2820
              gaaatatccg atagttgtaa ttctatgaca tcgtttaccg tatgcgctct ccctgtcctt   2880
              agaagtctat gtatttacgg cagtaagaac ctgaaatcga tattaattgc agaagatgtg   2940
              tcgcaacaga aactcttgct tcttagaacc atcaaaatag agcattgcga tgaactggag   3000
              tcattttccc ttggtggatt tcccattcct aacctcattc atttatctgt ttgtaattgt   3060
              aagaagcttt attcgctacc aagatcaata aatatcctag ctagtcttga agaaatgaaa   3120
              attcacgacc ttccaaatct gcaatcgttt tccatacatg attttcctat cagcttacgg   3180
              gaactgagtg ttggcaatgt tggaggggtt ttgtggaata caacttggga acgtcttact   3240
              tctcttttag agttgctaat ttggggtgat gacattgtga atgtgctgat gaaaacggaa   3300
              gttccattgc tacctgcttc tctcgtctct ttaaagatct ctttacttga agacataaaa   3360
              tgcttggatg ggaagtggct tcaacatctc acctctctcc aacattttga tattattgat   3420
              gctcccaagc tcaagtcgtt gccaaaaaag gggaagttgc cttcctccct taaagtgttg   3480
              aatatcaaaa agtgtccgtt gttgaaagca agttggcaga agaagcgagg gaaagagtgg   3540
              cgtaagattg ctcacattcc atcggaattt gttggtttca taactctaat ttctagctgt   3600
              atttcaatgg ctccgcctat ttgttcttgg tcgtttctgt cgtcacctga gacggcgccg   3660
                                                    736

<removed-date>
              ccgggacaaa agtcattcac ccaagcggtg ttcgctgctg tggaggacag tttgccttcg   3720
              cttcctccta aggttatcgt cggagtcacc gttcgtatca gaatcactca acgcgagtat   3780
              gaagccgaac tctctgtcaa cgaaattcct gaagcagaaa ttggaaagta tgtggccaaa   3840
              tttgaaacct tgggccatca ctcccgcttg gcagaggtct gggcgttggg tgctgttcag   3900
              ctgaagcctg ggctcctgcg tttcttttgc tggtctaaag acttcgatcc tcacaatcaa   3960
<removed-apn>
              acacaatctc acgctcaatt gtgggtaaga cttctgaatc ttccccaaga acattggaga   4020
              aagatcactt tatttgaaat tgcatcagga attggtaccc ctctaactat agatgaagca   4080
              acacaatccc gtctttttgg tcactacgct cgtattcttg ttgatgtgga tatgtctgat   4140
              acacttttta attctgttgt ggttgagagg gaaggttatg ctttcccgca atactcaata   4200
              gagctaacaa aggagcgaat tgagggagtc cacgtggagc acatcgagat atctgggttg   4260
              ccgatgttga acactgatca tgaggtggat ggcacgtatc cgacggaagc ggaagtgttt   4320
              tgtcagaagg ttctagaagc taattcatat ctctttgctt atcctgatta caactactcc   4380
              atcactcgta ttgtatcttt ggcaccattg aagaatgcat tagattgggg atcaagacca   4440
              tcaaatgtgt gggcagggaa agctgctgca gctgtaagtg ctgttggtga agcactcctt   4500
              gcagcttctt ttgaggtgtt gttggaaaag attgtttctg gtgactttgt ggacttcttt   4560
              cggagcacca aactcgatct ttcactcttg aaaaagcaga agataacact gctgagtctt   4620
              caagctgtac ttcatgatgc tgaggagaaa caaatcacca atcctgctgt taaagaatgg   4680
              ctggatatgc tgcaagatgc tgtctatgaa gctgacaatt tgtttgacga aatcaacact   4740
              gaggcattgc ggtgcaaagt gaaagccgag tttaaaagca aaaatgctac tgctaagaaa   4800
              cttggattaa aagaaggtat ttctaccggt gtttggcatg ggactcctac aagttctgta   4860
              gtagatgatt cttctattta tggtagaggg ttacattgtg agatttttta g            4911
              <210>   656
              <211>   690
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (650)..(650)
                                                    737

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <400> 656
              cacttgcttc cgctagccca tgatcatttg cttccactct tgaaggaagc attcaatatg    60
              attagggttg tcccaaaaga aattgcagaa ttgaaagagg aacttgaaag cattgaagac   120
              ttcaagatcg cacagttgtc tccattgttg gaatgggagg actgggaaaa accactctag   180
              ccagaaaagt ttttgacaac caaaaggtag ttaagaactt tgattgttat gtatatggat   240
<removed-apn>
              cacggtatct cgaccataca acatagaaaa agtgttgagg gacattttgc tggagattta   300
              caaacaacga aggaaagatc ctcctcagag tctccatcaa atggatcgaa agccattagt   360
              tgatgaagtg agaaacaact tgcaaggaaa aaggtacgtt gtagtgtttg ataatgtata   420
              ggagtcacat ttttggcaag atatttgaat ttgctatgat tgataacaaa aatggttgta   480
              agatattaat cacaacaaga aacaaggatg ttacagatga ttgtaagaaa tctttcggta   540
              aagtgcatga gctggaacgt ttatctgaaa acaatctttg gatttgttta aaaagaaggc   600
              gttccgtgac ttggacggat tttgtccaaa aaatcttttt tattatcttn cgaattattg   660
              aaaatgcaaa ggatacctct cgcattgtag                                    690
              <210>   657
              <211>   639
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 657
              ggcacgagga agaagtgaaa ggtatggctt ccaaatccaa ccttctattg aacaaggatc    60
              aagccacttt agaggaagcc aaaaggcgaa atggcatgac cctcgaatgg ctgctttata   120
              tattgatgaa tctgaaattg taggctttca agaacccaaa aatagattga ttggattgtt   180
              ggtggatgga agagaagagc gaactgtcat ctctgtggta ggaatgggag gacaaggaaa   240
              atccactctt gccaaaaagg ttttcgacag caaagaggtc atgggacact tcgaatatcg   300
              tgtatgggtc acagtgtcac aatcatacga tatagagggg ttgctgagat acatgttgaa   360
              ggagatttac caacaaaaag gagacgaccc ttctcaagat atctctgaaa tggatctagg   420
              gtcattgatt tctaagttga gaaaccactt gcaacaaaag aggtatgttt ttgtatttga   480
              tgatgtatgg accatagatt tttggaatga aatagagcat gttgtgattg ataataaaaa   540
              tgggagtaag atattgatta caacaagaag tatggatgtt gctatttatt gtaaaaaatc   600
                                                    738

<removed-date>
              ttcttttatt gaggtgcatg aactacaacc tttaactga                           639
              <210>   658
              <211>   2868
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 658
              atggcagaaa ctgcagtatc gtttgtcctg ggggaagtgt tccagttcct aaaagaagaa     60
<removed-apn>
              acaaatcttc tgagaagtgt acacagagat ttttcagaca tcaaagatga acttgagagc    120
              attcaagtct tcctcaaaga tgcagacaga agggctgcgg atgaagcaga cactaacgat    180
              ggaataagaa cttgggtgaa gcagctgaga gaagcatcat ttcgcattga agatgtcatt    240
              gatgaatacc ttcggctaat gcatagggcc aatcctccta gatgcggatc tttagtcggc    300
              aagattgcaa ggcaaatcaa aactttgatt ccccgtcatc atatagcatc tgaaattcag    360
              gacattaaat tatcaattcg tggaatcaag gaaagaagtg agaggtataa ctttcaaatt    420
              tcacacgaac aaggaacttc aagcagcatt agcataggag agagagaaaa tggaaaatgg    480
              catgatcctc gactgtcttc tctttttatt gaagaaacag aagttgttgg tattgaagtc    540
              ccaaaagaag aactgtctgg ttggttattg gatggtgaag ctgagcgcac ggtgatatcc    600
              gtggtaggaa tgggaggcct aggaaaaacc actcttgcca agctagtttt tgaaagcaaa    660
              aaggtatcag cacactttga ttgtcgtgct tgcgtcacag tttctcaatc ttacactgtg    720
              agaggtttgt tgataaacat gatggagcaa ttctgtcgga gtactaaaga ctctcttctg    780
              cagatgttac acaaaatgga tgaccagtca ctaattatag aagtgaggca atacctgcaa    840
              cataagaggt atttgatatt ctttgatgac gtatggcaag aagattttgc ggaccaggtt    900
              caatttgcca tgccaaataa caataaaggt agtaggatta tcatcaccac tagaatgatg    960
              tatgttgcag attttttcaa aaaatccttt ctaactcata ttcacaacct gcaacttttg   1020
              cctccaaaca aagcatggga acttttctgc aagagagtat ttagatatga gcttggtgga   1080
              cattgtccat cagaacttga ggctgtgtca aaagaaattg ttcaaaagtg caggcagcta   1140
              cctctagcaa ttgtagctat tggtggttta ctttcaacaa aatctaaaac aatgattgaa   1200
              tggcaaaagg tgagtgaaaa tctgagtctg gaattaggac gtaatgccca tttaacgtgt   1260
              ctagtaaaga ttctatcact tagttatgat ggacttcctt attacttgaa accatgcatt   1320
                                                    739

<removed-date>
              ttgtattttg gtttataccc agaggactat gcaattaatc ataggagatt aactcgacaa   1380
              tggatagctg aagggtttgt aaaattggaa gagagaagaa ctccagagca agttgcagaa   1440
              gagtacttgt ctgaattgat tcagagaagt ttggttcagg tctcaaatgt tggctttgaa   1500
              ggaaaagttc aaacatgtca agtccatgat ttaatgcggg aattgatcat tagaaaaatg   1560
              aaggatttaa atttcggtca ttgcatgcat gaagatagtg aatcagttgc acttggaaga   1620
<removed-apn>
              actagacgcc tatctatagc cactaatccc aacaatgtgt tcaggagcac taataattta   1680
              caatttcggg ctatttatgt gtttgaagaa gatggatcat tggagcattt catgggtaaa   1740
              gtttgttcgc agtcaagaat tttgaaggtc cttgacattc aagggacgtc gttgaatcat   1800
              atccctaaaa atttggggaa tctttttcac ttgcggtaca ttaacctaag gaatacaaat   1860
              gtaaaggctc ttcctaaatc tattggtgag ttacataact tagagacatt ggatttaaga   1920
              gaaacactag tgcatgagat acctagtgaa ataaacaagc tgacaaagtt acggcatctg   1980
              cttgcttttc atcgcaacta tgaacaaaaa tattctgctt tgggctctac aactggcgtg   2040
              ctgattgaaa aaggtattaa aaacatgatt tccctaaaaa acctttatta tgtggaggta   2100
              gatcatgggg gagtagatct cattgaagag atgaaaatgc taaggcagtt aaggaagtta   2160
              ggtttaaagc atgtaagaag ggaacatggg aatgccataa gtgctgcagt acaagagatg   2220
              caacaccttg aatcacttaa tatcactgca atagaagagg atgaaattat tgacttaaac   2280
              tttgcgtcaa ccccaccaaa acttcaacgg ctccatttga aagctagact agagaagttt   2340
              cctgattgga ttccaaaatt tgagtgtctt gttcagattt gtctggcttt atccaagctg   2400
              aaagatgatc cgttgcagtc actgaaaaat ttgccaaatc ttctgaagct caatttgttg   2460
              gagaatgcct ttgatggtga aattttgcat tttcaaaatg gaggatttca aatattgaaa   2520
              gaactgattc tcagtcactt gaatagacca aattctatcc ttatagagaa aggagctttg   2580
              ctctctcttg aaaatcttaa attggaaagg atccccaaac taaaggatgt gccttctggc   2640
              atcaaacact tggataagct caaagtcatt gacttagttg atatgccaga tgaatttgtt   2700
              aagagcattg atccagacgg aggacaagac cattggatta taaaccatgt tcctattgtg   2760
              ttcattcgtc aatggtttgg cccaaaatac tatgattatg aggttcgcac tattaactca   2820
              tccaccaaag aagtcctgag agatgagaat gctaaggtgt ctagctag                2868
                                                    740

<removed-date>
              <210>   659
              <211>   1656
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 659
              atggcaactg ttgtgggaga agcacttctt tcagcttctg tgaaactatt gttgcaaaag     60
              atggtttcta gtgaattcat tgacttcttt tggagcatga agcttgacgt tgcactgttg    120
<removed-apn>
              gaaaagctga agataacact gctgagtctt caagctgtac tgaatgatgc tgaggagaaa    180
              cagatcacta atcctgctgt caaggagtgg ttgaatatgc tgcaagatgc tgtctttgaa    240
              gcagaagatt tgtttgacga aatcaacact gagtcattgc ggtgtaaagt ggaagctgag    300
              tatgaaaccc aatctgctaa ggtactcaaa aaactctctt ctcgtttcaa aaggtttaat    360
              agaaagatga attctaaatt gcaaaagtta cttgaaagat tagaacattt gagaaaccag    420
              aatcttggtt taaaagaagg tgtttccaac agtgtttggc atggaactcc tacaagttct    480
              gttgtggggg atgaatctgc tatttatggc agagatgatg acaaaaagaa actgaaagag    540
              tttcttcttg cagaggatgt tagtgattgt gggcgtaaaa taggagtgat ttccattgtg    600
              gggatgggag ggctaggaaa aacaacacta gctaaaatcc tttacaatga ccatgatgtg    660
              aagcagaaat ttgaggtaag agggtgggca catatctcaa aggattttga tgttgtcatc    720
              gtcactaaaa ccattcttga atccgtcact tcaaaaagaa atgacactga tgacctgaat    780
              attctacaag tgaaattgca acaatgttta agcaatacaa agtttttgct tgtactggat    840
              gacatatggt atggaaacta tgttgactgc tggaataatt tggccgacat ctttagtgtt    900
              ggggaaatag ggactgcaat ggcaatagga ggtcttcttc gcaccaaatt atcacaagat    960
              tactggaacg atgtattaaa aagtaatata tgggaattga caactgatga gttgcaacca   1020
              tctctgatat tgagctatcg ttatcttcct gctcctttaa aaagatgctt tgcttactgt   1080
              tcaatttttc cgaagaactc aattttagag aaaaatatgg tcgttcagtt gtggattgca   1140
              gaaggtttag tacctcagcc tcaaagtgag aaaagttggg aaaaagcagc cgaagaatac   1200
              tttgatgaac tagtgtcgag gtgtctgata catcaaaggt ccggtgatga tctggtcgta   1260
              aactttgaga tgcatgacct tgtcaatgat ttggctatga cagtttcatc tccatattgt   1320
              attaagttgg atgaacagaa gccaaatgaa aggaccttat tgctgtcatt ttcctatatt   1380
                                                    741

              ctcactgaat taccgaaaga cttggggaaa ttagtgaatc tacgccacct tgacatcaga   1440
<removed-date>
              ggcactcgac tgaaggaaat tcctgtgcaa atatccaaac tagaaaacct ccaaaccttg   1500
              tcgggatttc ttgtcaatgt tcatgacgtt ggattggaga ttgcagatat gggacagaaa   1560
              ggagtagaaa aagaagaaag actcgtcaac acaagtcaaa agagggagaa gagaagaaaa   1620
              gcacaggaag tatcaactgt gaatttcggt gtgtag                             1656
<removed-apn>
              <210>   660
              <211>   3555
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 660
              atgggggctc atgccctgaa actccccacg gatgaaaact tgcaaaaacg tgagtgcacc     60
              ttggtctcca tttgtggttt atgtttcaaa caacctgaat cttccgctca tttattcctc    120
              acttgtgatt tcgcggttgc tgtgtggaag tgcattggtt tgaagctcaa ccgtgttgtt    180
              cctctgacat cggttttggc tattttagag tgtgttcatg tggtggaatc ttccgtgatt    240
              ttagagtttg ctgctaagca taattggaat cggttgtggc ttgaatgtga ttcgactagt    300
              gtggtgcatg ctttcaagaa cccagacgtt gttcctattc gtctccgaaa caggtggcat    360
              aattgttttc aacatggtat gatggctcat ttgtctgcaa tcttgcaagt actgttggat    420
              aggatagctc atcctgattt tatcgacttc tttcgaggaa accatcttga tgagacactt    480
              ctagacaagt tgaagatgct tttgctatct gtcactatag tgcttaatga tgctgaggag    540
              aagcagtttt ttgatccatt cgtgaaggaa tgggttgata agcttaagaa tgctgcctat    600
              gatgctgatg atgtcttgga tgagattgcc accaaagcca tacaagacaa gatggatcct    660
              aggttcaaca caaccataca tcaggtaaaa gattatgctt cctctctcaa tcccttttct    720
              aaacgagttc aatctaaaat tggtaggata gttgagaggt tgaaatctat attagagcat    780
              aaaaatcttc ttggtcttaa ggaaggaggt gtaggtaaac cactctcgtt aggttcagag    840
              acaacttctt tggtggatga acatcgtgtg tacggtagac atggtgataa ggagaagatt    900
              atagacttct tgttggctgg agactccaat ggagagtggg tgccggtagt tgcgattgtt    960
              ggaacgggag gggtaggaaa gactactctt gctcaagttt tgtacaatga tgaacgtgtg   1020
              aggaaccatt ttcaatctag atcatgggcc tcggtgtcag agacttcaaa tgtgaatgaa   1080
                                                    742

              ataaccagaa aagcttttga gtctttcact ttgatgtatt ctaatatctc agacttgaat   1140
<removed-date>
              atactccaaa tcaaacttaa ggatagactg gccggacaaa ggtttctact tgttctggat   1200
              gggttttgga atgagaactt tcttgactgg gatatcttcc aaagaccctt tctatcagga   1260
              aactatggta gcagaatcat tgtcacaacg cgtagtcaaa gttttgcaac attgatcggt   1320
              gctgatttaa atcattccct ctcgcattta tctcatgaag atacttggaa gttattcgct   1380
              agtcatgcat tcaaatcagt gaacccgacc gagcatccca tgttggctca aattggccaa   1440
<removed-apn>
              aaaatagtaa aaaagtgcaa tggtctccct ctagccgcaa aagcactagg gagtctccta   1500
              cgtacaaaag atgttgggga gtgggaaggt atatgttata gtaggatatg ggaattacca   1560
              actgataagt gtagcattct tcctgcctta agattgagct acagtcatct accttctcat   1620
              ttaaagcgat gttttactta ttgttccata tttccaaaag gatatgaaat aaaaaagtgg   1680
              aacttgatct atttatggat ggctgaaggt atcctaccac aacaaagaac ggataagaga   1740
              atggaagatg taagagaaga atgctttgaa gtgttactat ctagatcgtt cttttatcaa   1800
              tcaacctacc atgcatcaca ttatatgatg catgacctta tccatgatgt agcacaattt   1860
              gttgcaggtg aattctgtta caacttagat gataacaatc caagaaaaat cacgactatt   1920
              gttcgccatt tatcttattt acaaggtata tatgatgatc cagaaaagtt tgagatcttt   1980
              tctgaattta agcagcttag aaccttcata ccattcaaat tctcatactt tgtttactcc   2040
              tcttcaatta ctagcatggt ttcaattttg ttaccaaaat tgaaacgctt gcgtgtgctc   2100
              tccttgtctc attatccaat tacgaatttg tcagattcaa ttggagtttt gatgcatatg   2160
              cggtatttgg atctttctta cacaggaatt gagtgtttgc ctgattcagt gagcactttg   2220
              tataacttgg agacgttgtt gttatccggt tgtcgttgtc tcactatatt accagaaaac   2280
              atgtccaacc tcatcaactt gcgccaactt gatattagtg gaagcaccgt tacatcaatg   2340
              cctccaaaat ttggtaaatt gaagtctctt caagttttga ccaattttac agtaggcaat   2400
              gcaaggggat cgaaaattgg tgagctaggg aagctttcga aactccacgg aacactttca   2460
              attgggagcc tacaaaatgt aattgatgca atagaagcct ctcatgtcca gttgaagagt   2520
              aagaaatgtc ttcatgaact agaattcaag tggtcaacta caactcatga tgaagagagt   2580
              gaaactaatg tactcgacat gcttgagcca catgaaaatg taaagagact tcttatccag   2640
              aattttggcg gcaaaaaatt gccaaattgg ttagggaact ctccattttc tagcatggtg   2700
                                                    743

<removed-date>
              tttctacaac taactagttg tgaaaattgc aagtcactgc catcacttgg acaattgtcc   2760
              tgcctcgaag aactttgtat atcaaagatg aaaagtttac agaaggttgg tctagaattc   2820
              tatgggaatg taattgagcc attcaaatca ttgaaaatta tgaaatttga ggacatgccc   2880
              agttgggaag aatggtcaac ccatagattt gaagagaatg aggagttccc ttcactccta   2940
              gaacttcaca tagagagatg tccaaaattc accaaaaagc tacctgacca cctcccttcc   3000
<removed-apn>
              ttagataaat taatgatcac tggatgccaa gctctaacaa gtccaatgcc atgggttcca   3060
              agactgagag aattagtgct gaccggttgt gacgcgttag tgtcattatc tgagaaaatg   3120
              atgcagggaa ataaatgtct tcaaatcatt gccataaaca attgctcatc tcttgtcaca   3180
              atctctatga atggtctacc aagagggttg catgctccaa aacttgagtc tctttccatc   3240
              atcaaatgtg ttgatttctc atctgagact gcatggtgtc ttcagacaat gacatctcta   3300
              tcttctcttc acatcagtgg acttcctagt ctcacttcac tagagaatac aggagttcag   3360
              ttcctaacat ctctcaaaag tttgaagatt aaagcttgtt ttaaccttgg atctcttcct   3420
              ttagacacac tagttaactc cctttctcat cttactatca gagcatgtcc attgttaaaa   3480
              ctgctatgta aaaaagacac gggggaatac tggagtatgg tctctcgcat acccttcaga   3540
              atcattgaag actag                                                    3555
              <210>   661
              <211>   1045
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 661
              tggtaatagt tcattttacc caccattagt atcaaatggc tcgagagaaa ttgtactggg     60
              aagtatatga aacttcccca aacattacag acccagaaat ttatcataaa ggacacacca    120
              acttcaatca tcatcatttg cttccactag cccgtgatca cttgcttcca ctcttgaagg    180
              aagcattcaa catgattagg ggtgtcccaa aagaaattgc agaattgaaa gatgaacttg    240
              aaagaattga agtcttcatc aacgatgcgg atagaagggc tgatgatgta gaagacaaga    300
              aaatcaaaga catgatcaag cagctgatag aagcatcttt ccacatggaa gatgtcattg    360
              atgattatat cttccatgag gaacaacatg ctcctgatcc tggatgtgct gctggagccg    420
              ttgacttggt gaaaactaag attcttcgtc tccaaattgc ttacaagatt cagaacatca    480
                                                    744

<removed-date>
              aatcccgaat aagtgaaata aatgatacaa gaactgaaaa agatcatggc ttctatatcc    540
              aatcttcatc ggataaagca tcaactagtt ctgcaacaaa cagaaacgcc tcactatttc    600
              agaaccttcg agacgctcca ctttacatgg ttgaagctga tgttgtagga tttgataagc    660
              caagagacga attgattgat cttttggtag cgggaagagc agaccggaca attgtctcca   720
              tctttggaat gggaggacaa ggaaaaacca ctctagcgaa gaaagttttt gacaacccaa   780
<removed-apn>
              aggtcgttaa acactttgat tgtcgtgtat ggatcacggt gtctcgacca tacaatacag   840
              aaaaattgtt gagggaaatt ttgctcgata tttacaaaca acaaggggaa gatcctcctc   900
              agagtctcca tcagatggat cgaaagccat tagttgatga agtgagaaac tacttgcaag    960
              gaaaaaggtg atggttatca gtggatttga gattcgaaat tcatcaagtg gactattata   1020
              tcagcattgc ttctttctgt acctg                                         1045
              <210>   662
              <211>   610
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 662
              aagaattaaa tatggagtgg agttacaaat tcaacaccaa tggaagagaa tcagatgtct     60
              ttgaggctct tcaaccaaat agcagcttga agaggcttat catctcacac tacaaaggta   120
              ataggtttgc aaattggatg aggggttgtg atttacccaa cttagtttca attagactaa   180
              atctctgtgc tttatgttcc gagttgccac cacttggaca actcccttgt ctcaaagaga   240
              tttcaatttc aggctgtgat aaaataagga tcatagggaa agaattttat ggcaataatt    300
              ccacaaatgt tccattcaga tcccttgaaa ttctgcattt tgattcgatg tcggaatggg    360
              aggaatggtc acatcttgaa gggtttcctt tgcttaaaga gctttctata aaaaaatgtc    420
              ccaagttgaa aagggctctg cctcaacacc ttccttcttt acagaaactg gagattaaag    480
              attgcaagaa gttggaagca ttaattccga agtgtgataa tatgatagag ttagatataa   540
              agagatgtga tagaattttg gtaaatgaat tgccgacaaa tttgaaaagt ttattccttt   600
              gtgataatca                                                          610
              <210>   663
              <211>   1167
                                                    745

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 663
              tgtgaggaaa aaagaatgtt atcttgtctt acacatgtgc tttttgttta ggtttactta     60
              tgtgatgatg gtttgacatt accaataatc tttttcaaaa ttccatacac caatatatag    120
              tgattgaaaa gattgttgaa gagataataa atagattggg ttaccggttt tcaagtcttc    180
              caaaagattt agttgggatt gattctctta tagaagaatt agaaaaagtg tttacttttg    240
<removed-apn>
              gaatcaactg atattataca ggttgtagga atttatggaa tgggaggaat aggaaagacg    300
              actctagcta ctgctcttta tgacagaatc tctcatcaat ttgatgcatg ctgcttcatc    360
              gatgatataa gcaaagttta tagaaatgaa ggtcgattgg tgctcaaaag caagcactac    420
              atcaaactct tagcaaacag caccttcaga tatgcaatct ttacaacaaa aactaatttg    480
              atacgactca agctaggtca tataagagcc cttctagttc ttgataatgt tgatcaagtt    540
              gaacagcagg agaaattagc tgtgagtagt gaatgtttag gtgctgggag tagaattgtt    600
              ataacttcta gagatgttca tatcttgaaa gagtacgaag ttgatgaaat cgtcaattaa    660
              ttttgtcaaa aagctttcca aggtggtaaa attaaaagta actatgagga gttgacatgt    720
              catattaaat tatgttgatg gcctaccacc ggcaattaaa gtattgggct cattttgtgt    780
              ggtcgaaata tctctgaatg gacaagtgca ttggctagat tgagagaaaa tccaaataaa   840
              gatattatgg atgtgctgcg attaagtttt gaaggactag aggaatcgga aaatgtgata    900
              tttcttgata ttgtttgttt atttaacggg catcacgagc aatttgttaa caatgttctt    960
              aattgttgtg gactccaccc tgttattgga ttaaaagttc tcattcagaa atcacttgtt   1020
              agcatttctg acaaaaaaaa gaacgttgaa gccatagttt tgaagaagca atatccaagc   1080
              gaaatagaaa cattggcgac agaaacattg tcaaatatgg atcatcttag attacttatg   1140
              ttcaacatta tccgatgcaa ggactga                                       1167
              <210>   664
              <211>   762
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 664
              gcttcttcaa ttctttctat atatcccaga tcaaacaacc ttagcccctt agacctttgt     60
                                                    746

              ctttgctttt tccaagaaga gaaaaaagag aaaaaagaca agactaaaat atacctacaa   120
<removed-date>
              agagagttgc accaagaaac agagatgggt agaccacctt gttgtgataa aacaggggtg   180
              aagaaaggac catggactcc tgaagaagat attatgctag tctcttttgt tcaagaacat   240
              ggtccaggga attggaggac tgttcccact catacagggc ttcggagatg tagcaaaagc   300
              tgcagactaa ggtggactaa ctacctcaga ccaggaatca agagaggtag cttcactgat   360
              caagaagaga agatgattat ccagcttcag gctcttttag gcaacaaatg ggcagccata   420
<removed-apn>
              gcttcatatc tcccagagag aacagataac gacattaaaa attactggaa tactcattta   480
              aagaagaaac tgaagaagct tgaaacaagt ggtttatact caaatgatgg acattgttta   540
              tcaacatata attcaacttc cagaggccaa tgggaaagga cacttcaagc tgatattaac   600
              acagccaaac aagcttttac aaatgcactg tcactcgata aatcaagccc aattcctgac   660
              tatacaatta ctgatattgg gatgttaccc atacattaaa caagagcaaa aatgtctact   720
              actacttacg catcaaatgc ttgaaacata gccaaatact cc                      762
              <210>   665
              <211>   768
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 665
              atgagaggta tggatattaa ggttcagaaa ggtgggtctg caaaggaaaa tgagacaggg    60
              gtaagaaaag gtccttggac gttagaagag gacaccattc tggttgatta cattacaata   120
              cacggtgaag gtttgaggag aagtggtaaa agttgtagat taaggtggtt aaactacttg   180
              cgtcccgatt tacgtcgtgg aaatatcaca cttcaagaac agatattgat tcttgacctc   240
              cactctcgct ggggcaatag gtggtcgaaa attgcacaac atctaccagg tagaacggac   300
              aatgaaataa aaaactattg gagaacaaga gtgatcaaac aagcaaagca actcaaatgt   360
              gatgtaaaca gcaaacagtt cagagatgta ttgcgtcacg tttggatgcc ccgattactc   420
              gaacaaattc aacccgcacc acaattcccc gacacgaata atccaaacgg atcacatatc   480
              cttcttcacc aaaacacatt gcaaagttca gtttcaggaa tcagtggtat ttcctcggac   540
              tcttcatcag tagaattcca agttgcttca aattcggacc aaaatgattc ttcggagctt   600
              ttgggccatg aaggttcaaa actatggtca agtttcaata accagcaggt ttcagaacag   660
                                                    747

              gagaagagcg gtgcttgtga tggtgactcg ttgtggaacg atgagaacat gtggtttttg    720
<removed-date>
              caacaacttt atgaagatgt tgaaataaaa tacaatttac ttgcgtga                 768
              <210>   666
              <211>   1204
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 666
<removed-apn>
              ctctcaaaaa tattgcttgc ttacctcctc aaactaatat caaagcaaac tctcacaaac     60
              ttctcaaatc aaaagcttat cttttgatat atcatcactt tgtgttcaaa catatacata    120
              tccaaagtag ggtgatcaaa ttttcaatat ttcatggaag tggaaggaag tgtaataagc    180
              aactcaaaca gcaccatgct ccaaagtgat gatgagttgg atcttcgacg agggccatgg    240
              accgtcgatg aagatcttgc tctcatcaat tacattgcaa atcatggtga aggtcgatgg    300
              aatactcttg ctcgttccgc tggactcaag cgaactggca agagttgtag attgagatgg    360
              ttgaattatc ttcgtccaga tgttcgtcgt ggcaacatca cacttgaaga acaacttctt    420
              attcttgaac ttcatagtcg ttggggaaac cgatggtcta aaattgctca atacttaccg    480
              ggaagaacag acaacgagat caagaattat tggagaaccc gtgtccaaaa acatgccaaa    540
              caactcaaat gtgacgtaaa cagcaagcaa tttaaagatg ctatgcgata cctttggatg    600
              gccaaggcta gtggagcgca tccaagctgc cgcatccacc tccgccaccc tagccaccgc    660
              cactaataat ggtttaccaa gtggtacaac gacggtcacc accaacaata caccatacaa    720
              cataaacaac aattttgatg tccatagtga cgcgaacatg ttaactccaa caattatgaa    780
              caccaacagt ttatgtggtt cacatgttgc acaaagttat accccggaaa atagtagcaa    840
              tggcgccgca gcagcatcat cggattcatt tgggacacaa gtttcgccta tctcggaatt    900
              gactcaagat tactacaatg tcccagttgg tagtaacaac aataataacc ctaattctga    960
              ttattaccaa caagctcaac aatttgggtt ttttgattgc ataactagcc catctggatt   1020
              gttccctcaa atggatttca attccatgga accaaacact ccttggattc aaggggacac   1080
              atctgacaat ttctggaatg ttgaaaacat gttgctcttt caacatccca atgacaacat   1140
              gtgaaagtaa ggaaaaggag ttataatgaa atatatatta cagatgataa aataatagaa   1200
              gtag                                                                1204
                                                    748

<removed-date>
              <210>   667
              <211>   1252
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 667
              taaatcaaaa tcttacacgt ttcttcgttt ctcatatata tttcatactg tttgttcttc     60
              ctttcacaaa actaaatcac ttttaatttc agtaacaatt attgagagct acacatacat    120
<removed-apn>
              gagaggtatg gatattaaag ttcagaaagg tgggtctgca aaggaaaatg agacaggggt    180
              aagaaaaggt ccttggacgt tagaagagga caccattctg gttgattaca ttacaataca    240
              cggtgaaggt cactggaata cccttgcatc ttctgcaggt ttgaggagaa gtggtaaaag    300
              ttgtagatta aggtggttaa actacttgcg tcccgattta cgtcgtggaa atatcacact    360
              tcaagaacag atattgattc ttgacctcca ctctcgctgg ggcaataggt ggtcgaaaat    420
              tgcacaacat ctaccaggta gaacggacaa tgaaataaaa aactattgga gaacaagagt    480
              gatcaaacaa gcaaagcaac tcaaatgtga tgtaaacagc aaacagttca gagatgtatt    540
              gcgtcacgtt tggatgcccc gattactcga acaaattcaa cccgcaccac aattccccga    600
              cacgaataat ccaaacggat cacatatcct tcttcaccaa aacacattgc aaagttcagt    660
              ttcaggaatc agtggtattt cctcggactc ttcatcagta gaattccaag ttgcttcaaa    720
              ttcggaccaa aatgattctt cggagctttt gggccatgaa ggttcaaaac tatggtcaag    780
              tttcaataac cagcaggttt cagaacagga gaagagcggt gcttgtgatg gtgactcgtt    840
              gtggaacgat gagaacatgt ggtttttgca acaactttat gaagatgttg aaataaaata    900
              caatttactt gcgtgacgct ttgtgggaat aatttaattc acagtagtgt gaaatattga    960
              aaaaaaatgg tatacggcac taagtagatc aataggtata tttgtcgcat taggggatga   1020
              gtttttccta gacgtgttgc tacaaataca taaatattgc acgcaccaag ttttttttct   1080
              tgtgcaatta tgatcagttt tactgagaaa gctaacgtgt ctttttaagt tttatattaa   1140
              aaagttgtgt aattattgta ttgataaaaa taacatgttg tattttaaat taaacattcc   1200
              tttagtgaac ctttgaacat gtttatagaa taaaaaaaaa aaactcgagg gc           1252
              <210>   668
              <211>   525
              <212>   DNA
                                                    749

              <213>   Medicago sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 668
              atgggaagag ctccttgttg tgagaaagtg ggtttgaaga agggaagatg gaccgcagag    60
              gaggatgaaa ttttgaccca atatgttaag gcaaatgggg aaggttcttg gaggtcattg   120
              cccaaaaatg caggtttgct tagatgtggt aaaagttgta gattaagatg gattaactat   180
              ttgagagctg atctcaaaag gggaaatatt tcttctgaag aggaaagtat cattatcaag   240
<removed-apn>
              atgcatgctt cttttggcaa caggtggtcc ttgattgcaa gtcacttgcc aggcagaaca   300
              gacaacgaga ttaaaaacta ctggaactca cacttgagta gaaaagttta cagcttccga   360
              ggaacatcaa caacaaatta taataatatc aaagagatag agattccatc agaagaagga   420
              atcatagtgg atacacctcc caaacgtaaa ggtggtagaa ctagtcgatg ggctatgaag   480
              aagaacatac gatatatatc ccaaaaacca tcgaaactca tattc                   525
              <210>   669
              <211>   723
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 669
              atgggtaggt caccatgttg tgatgaaatt ggtgtaaaga aagggccatg gacacaagaa    60
              gaagatgaga agctgattga ttatatcaac aaacatggcc atggaaattg gggaacactt   120
              tcaaaacgtg ctggtttgaa taggcctgat atcaagagag ggaaattcac tgatgaagaa   180
              gaaagagtta tcatcaacct tcattcagtt cttggaaaca aatggtcgaa gattgcagct   240
              catctaccag gacgaacaga taacgagata aaaaattatt ggaacacaaa cataaggaaa   300
              aagcttctca agatgggaat tgatcctgaa actcacaagc caagaactga ttacaatcac   360
              ctcatgagtc tttcaaactt acttggcatt ggtggtgaag aatatgctat gaaccctagt   420
              ttatactctt atggacaaag tgagtcttca aagcaggata tttcaaaagg tgaatcaagt   480
              ttacaagatc ttgattatag caaaatgaga agcatttcat gtgtaaatca agaagaaaat   540
              ctacttcctg ctttggttgc ttcctctcct agaattggaa tcttcaatca aatcgaaaat   600
              gaccgcaaca aagctcaaat gtccatcgat cactcacctt caaatgcaat ctttgatgat   660
              tgggagaagt tccttgacga tgaatcaagt ggtggttcct actggaaaga gcttttagag   720
              taa                                                                 723
                                                    750

<removed-date>
              <210>   670
              <211>   501
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 670
              gtttgtgatt tgaaaatgag tagggctcta gggttgaaga aaggaccatg gacgccaaaa    60
              gaagacaaga agcttatagc atatgttact caacatggcc atagaaactg gcattctttg   120
<removed-apn>
              ccctctagag cagttcttag aagatgtgga aagagttgca gactgaggtg gattaactac   180
              atgattccag atataaaacg aggaaacttc agctcagaag aagatcacaa tattattcag   240
              cttcatgcac ttctcgggaa caaatggtcc acaatagcag ctctcctgcc aaggagaaca   300
              gataatgaaa taaagaatca ttggaacatt aacatcaaga aaagactcat cagaatgggg   360
              atagatccca ccactcacaa accaaaatcc aacaacaaca acgataatga taatactgct   420
              atcaaacacg tgtctcaatg ggagcatgtt agattggaag ctgaagcaag agttgtaaaa   480
              gagaagaaga gaaaaagaga g                                             501
              <210>   671
              <211>   1020
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 671
              atgggtcacc attcatgctg taatcaacag aaggttaaga gaggcctttg gtcacctgaa    60
              gaagatgaga aactcattag atacattact actcatggtt atggttgctg gagtgaagtt   120
              cctgagaaag ctgggcttca aaggtgtggt aagagttgta ggttgagatg gataaattat   180
              ttaaggcctg atattagaag aggaaggttt acacctgagg aggagaagtt aattataagc   240
              cttcatgggg ttgttggtaa cagatgggct cacattgcaa gtcacttgcc tggtagaaca   300
              gacaatgaaa taaaaaacta ttggaattca tggatcaaaa agaaaattag aaagtcatct   360
              tcttctgctc ctaatttatc aacaccaact attgatcatc atcatcctca gttgatcaat   420
              tatagttcca ttaatcaact agataattac tttaccaacc aagaaaatgt aacaacaaaa   480
              gaaaccttat tttcatcaac atgtccttta tttatgtttg acacaagttc actgcatgaa   540
              acaacagcaa cagacaccaa tgtaataaga ccagaagtac tattccatca tgattctgtg   600
                                                    751

              agtttgagtt ctgacacatg gaacttgaat caccatgatc atcatcaaca tcatcaagtt    660
<removed-date>
              cagacacttc ctcctcatcc agctgcaata gcttttacaa caattcatga tactagtaat    720
              tataatcttc caccattgat agagaataat gtggaaaaca gcatggtgcc aattgatcaa    780
              gtgcaatctt gtaatatgga tgaggaagga ggagagttat taacattgga gtcattgcaa    840
              ttgcaaagac aagaagagtt gaatgaatgg gtggaaactc aacaacaatg tcctagcttt    900
              attttcagct gggagagtgt tgaaggacaa attggaggtg aagaacaagt actagtacca    960
<removed-apn>
              aactcatcac atatgggaac acctaattca ctttctcctt ttccttcttc actattatga   1020
              <210>   672
              <211>   682
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (669)..(669)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 672
              gagatcataa gaaagtgacc cttgattgag tgatagaatc aagttgaggg caaacctaca     60
              agtataaata agcatcaacc actagaccaa aagatcattg ccacataaat tggaagacaa    120
              acaactttat ccaacacaca cacaaacttt gaaacatttg attctacatg tattggcgtg    180
              gagtgatggc aggccaaatt ggtcatggta tcatggagga agaggtttgg aggaaagggc    240
              catggactgc tgaagaggat aggttgttga ttgactatgt tagactgcat ggtgaaggaa    300
              gatggaactc tgttgctcgg cttacaggat tgaaaaggaa tggaaagagt tgcagattga    360
              ggtgggtgaa ttatctaaga ccagatctca aaaggggtca aataacacca caagaagaaa    420
              gcataatatt agagcttcat gctaggtggg gaaacaggtg gtcaacaatt gcaagaagtt    480
              taccaggaag aacagacaat gaaataaaga attactggag gactcatttc aagaaaaaag    540
              caaaaaatcc ctttgatgct gccgaaaagg cgaaaaaccg attcctgaga aagcagttat    600
              ttcaccagca gcagcaacag caacaattgc aacagcagca gcagcaacaa caactgcaat    660
              tcaacttana catgaaaggt gt                                             682
              <210>   673
                                                    752

              <211>   1077
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 673
              atgggaagag caccttgttg tgaaaagaat aatggcctca aaagaggacc atggacacaa     60
              gaggaagacc aaaaacttat agattatatt caaaaacatg gttatggcaa ctggagatta    120
              ctcccaaaga atgctggatt acaaagatgt ggaaagagtt gtcgtctacg ttggacaaac    180
<removed-apn>
              tatctccgac cggatataaa gagaggacga ttctcttttg aagaagaaga aaccataatt    240
              cagctgcata gcatacttgg caacaagtgg tcttcaattg cttctaggct accaggaaga    300
              acagacaatg aaatcaagaa ttattggaac actcacatta ggaaaagact cttaagaatg   360
              ggaattgatc ctgtgacaca taatccacgt tttgatcttt tggacctatc ttctatccta    420
              aattcatctc tctatgcctc tacctcatca tcacaaatga acatccaaag gctaattggt    480
              acacaatcaa tagtgaaccc tgagattcta aagttggctt catcactctt ctcttctcaa    540
              aatggacaag agaatcacca aattgatcac aaacaacaaa ttagctcaca catggatcaa    600
              gaagcatgca ccatgttgtt gaatccacct tttgataata attcaatgtc tttcattcaa    660
              acacacttgg agaatatata ctcatcattt ttacctgaat ttggcttcca acaacatcat   720
              gaaaatgttc aattaaatta tttgcattgc aatggaattg cttcaagtaa tgtaacagag   780
              gattttgttc atcaattacc atgctataac tacttaagtt ctgattatca tgcaaatgat   840
              ttaaatgtgg accctcacat atcagaaact tcaacctttc attgcaataa caacaaccag    900
              aattttaatt tcgcttcagt tctatctaca ccttcatcaa gtcccacaca gttgaattca    960
              aattctgcga atatgaatga aagcagtagt actgaagatg agacagagag ctatgttagc   1020
              aataacatgt ttgaatttca tatctcagat atcttaggtg tgaatgagtt catgtaa      1077
              <210>   674
              <211>   426
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 674
              atggcaccca gaaaagatgg acctacaaag gaaacaatga atagaggagc atggacccaa     60
              gaggaagatc aaaagctagc acaatgcatc caaattcatg gtgccaagaa atggaaaact   120
              gttgcaaaca attcaggttt gaataggtgt ggaaagagtt gcaggctaag atggttgaac    180
                                                    753

<removed-date>
              tatcttagac ccaatatcaa gagagggaac atttcagatg aagaagagga tttgattatt    240
              aggcttcaca aacttcttgg aaacaggtgg tctttgatag cgggaagact tccagggcga    300
              acagacaatg aaattaagaa ctattggaat tctcatttgt gcaaaaaagc cagtcacata    360
              gaggaaaaac cagaaaactt ccactgcaca agaaactata gcccaagaca atgttgttgg    420
              ggataa                                                               426
<removed-apn>
              <210>    675
              <211>    1077
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Medicago sativa
              <400> 675
              gttttgtctt ggaacattaa ttcattgtgc aatattatta tgggtaggtc accatgttgt     60
              gatgaaattg gtgtaaagaa agggccatgg acacaagaag aagatgagaa gctgattgat    120
              tatatcaaca aacatggcca tggaaattgg ggaacacttt caaaacgtgc tggtttgaat    180
              aggtgtggga agagttgtag gttaaggtgg acaaattatt tgaggcctga tatcaagaga    240
              gggaaattca ctgatgaaga agaaagagtt atcatcaacc ttcattcagt tcttggaaac    300
              aaatggtcga agattgcagc tcatctacca ggacgaacag ataacgagat aaaaaattat    360
              tggaacacaa acataaggaa aaagcttctc aagatgggaa ttgatcctga aactcacaag    420
              ccaagaactg attacaatca cctcatgagt ctttcaaact tacttggcat gtcaaatata    480
              ggcaatactt ttagcaacaa ccctcttggt ttacaaccag atattaccca cctagccaaa    540
              atgcaattgt tgcaaaatat gttgcaaatt atgaacacaa ataattcatt tggtaacatg    600
              ggaaattatc cttataaccc cttagggaat attaacccta gctttaatcc attcaatttg    660
              tttttgaatg gaacaaacac aattcaaact aatgagccat taggtttgag tggtggtgaa    720
              gaatatgcta tgaaccctag tttatactct tatggacaaa gtgagtcttc aaagcaggat    780
              atttcaaaag gtgaatcaag tttacaagat cttgattata gcaaaatgag aagcatttca    840
              tgtgtaaatc aagaagaaaa tctacttcct gctttggttg cttcctctcc tagaattgga    900
              atcttcaatc aaatcgaaaa tgaccgcaac aaagctcaaa tgtccatcga tcactcacct    960
              tcaaatgcaa tctttgatga ttgggagaag ttccttgacg atgaatcaag tggtggttcc   1020
              tactggaaag agcttttaga cttgacatcc acttctgcgt cacaaatttc gtggtag      1077
                                                    754

<removed-date>
              <210>   676
              <211>   793
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 676
              atggttagaa gtcctaagga ggttaataaa ggtgcttggt ctcgtgaaga agatgatatc    60
              ctctccaaat atgttgtcat tcatggagaa ggaaaatggc aaaaggttgc ccaaaatgca   120
<removed-apn>
              ggtttaaagc ggtgtggaaa aagttgtaga caaagatggt tgaattatct caaaccaggt   180
              ataaagagag gccatatctc taccgacgaa gaagacatga tcataagact tcatcgtctt   240
              cttggtaaca gatggtcttt gatagctaag agactaccag gacgaacaga caatgaaatc   300
              aagaactact ggaatactaa tctgtcaaag aagttacaaa aacagccaac atcatcatca   360
              tcattgccat caccatcttc tgtttcactt cgacacaatc atggcaaatg tggacatgta   420
              gcaccagaag ctccaaagcc taggagactg aaggctgttc atcaatacaa aattttggaa   480
              aagaatagtg gaagtgagta tgatcaagga agtgatgaaa cttctattgc tgattttttc   540
              attgactttg atcatcaaga tcaattgatg gttggtgatg atgagtctaa ttcaaagatt   600
              ccacaaatgg aagatcacaa ggtgagttca acaaatagta ctcatagttc atcatcacct   660
              tctgatcatt gtcatctttt agcagagaaa tttgaccctc aagagatcct tttggatgtg   720
              gagcttaaga agatggcttc ctttcttgga cttgaaatga ttgaagtgat ttattccatg   780
              aggggaccaa gag                                                      793
              <210>   677
              <211>   621
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 677
              atggaattta agcacattcc tcccagccct ttagattctg aacctaattg ccatgtgttt    60
              catcatgcat ttggttatga ttttgtcaac aacgactata aagtgattcg ccaaggaaca   120
              gttgttgata aaactggtta tatatgggag atatatagtc taagaaacaa ctcttggaga   180
              aaacttgatg tcgatatgca aaagtcgcct atgtgtgaaa accaattgta catagatgga   240
              ctctcacact ggttgtgtta tggtgaaaca cataatgaaa cacatttatt gtcatttgat   300
                                                    755

              tggagcaatg aggttttcct taccacaccc ataccttcag acatggatga taatagattt   360
<removed-date>
              gattgtgaat ttggtgtaaa gaaatcatgg attaagatct tcattttagg gcccttacct   420
              tatcttgagt atcctattgg agccggaaag aagggtgata tgttgttcag aaaaaaagac   480
              gacgacaact acggtgaact agtttggttt gatttaaata cccaaatgat tgaagatctt   540
              ggcattacaa cagagagatt ttcttgtaag atagtaatac ataaagaaag cattattcca   600
              cttgaaggag caaatattta a                                             621
<removed-apn>
              <210>   678
              <211>   720
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 678
              atgatggatc aaaaatctga attctatggg aaaaggagag ttgtattgtg gaatccaact    60
              accaacgaat tcaggctcct tcctttgcct gagaaaaatc ctgcatggaa acttttcgcc   120
              gatcattatc aaattggtta tgatcatatt aaagatgatt ataagatgat tcggtgcaca   180
              cgttattctc caaaaatcgt tcctatctat catgtgccat ctgaacactt gtgggagatg   240
              tatagcctaa acagtaactc ttggaagaaa attgatgctg atgtgccaca ttcttactgt   300
              agcattgaac acgcatactt gaatggagtg tgtcattggt tggataaaac tgaaacagat   360
              gtctatttgg tgtcgtttga cttctgcaag gaatctttta ttacaacacc cataccctct   420
              tacgtatatg atagtttgga ttttcatttg gtccgaagac gcttgatggt attgaatgga   480
              tctattgctt ttatggtaca tgatactgag gcttctacat ttcacatttc aattttgggt   540
              gagctcggtg taaaggaatc atggacgaag ctattcgttg ttggaccctt accttgcctt   600
              ggccattttg ttggagcagg gaagaagggc aatatactcc tcaggaaaaa agacagtgaa   660
              ctagcctggt ttgatttaat taccgggatg attggtgtta caacagagag gttttattaa   720
              <210>   679
              <211>   2243
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 679
              cactttatag ttcatttcat atcatatgat atctttcctc cttattgagt atggctatcg    60
              aaatggcaat gaccaccatg tcccacacac acaatcgcat aacaacacat cctcaactat   120
                                                    756

<removed-date>
              taacaacact ttcatcttcc acaacacttt ctcaccttaa acaaatccat gcacaaatcc    180
              tccactccaa cacaaccccc gaaaacacca acaccctcct ttcaaaactc gctctttcta    240
              tttgcaccct ctcttcttcc tcctcaagcc tccactacgc tctctccgtt ttctcccaaa    300
              tcccaaaccc acatacccat ttctccaatc aactccttcg tcatctctct cgcagttcct    360
              tccctgaaaa gaccattttt ctatatcata accttagagc tattaacgct ttcgctcttg    420
<removed-apn>
              accgctttag tttcccttca ttgttgaaag ctgtttctaa agtttctgct tttaatcatg    480
              gcttggagat tcatggtctt gcttcaaagc ttggattcgt tgacgaccct tttattcaaa    540
              ccgggttaat tgcaatgtac gcgtcgtgcc gccgcataat ggatgcacgg ttactgtttg    600
              ataaaatgtg tcacccggat gctgttgctt ggaatatgat aattgatggg tactgccaga    660
              atggtcatta tgatgatgct ttaaggctct ttgaagatat gaggagctct gatatgaaac    720
              ctgattctgt tatcctttgt actgtgcttt ctgcttgtgg ccatgctgga aatttaagct    780
              atggcagaac aattcacgag tttgttaagg ataatggtta tgctattgac tcacatttac    840
              agactgctct cattaacatg tatgcaaatt gtggtgcaat ggatttggct aggaaaatat    900
              atgacggact ctcatcgaaa catttgatag tttcaactgc aatgctttct ggttatgcaa    960
              aacttggaat ggttaaggat gctcgtttca tatttgacca aatgattgaa agggacttgg   1020
              tgtgttggag tgccatgata tctggttatg ctgaaagtga tcagcctcaa gaggctctta   1080
              aattgttcga tgaaatgcta cagaagagat cagtgcctga tcagatcaca atgttgagtg   1140
              tcatttctgc ttgttctcat gttggcgcac ttgctcaagc aaattggatt catacctatg   1200
              tagatagaag tggttttgga agagctctat ctgttaacaa tgcactgatt gatatgtatg   1260
              ccaaatgtgg gaacttggtc aaagcaagag aggtatttga gaatatgcct agaaaaaatg   1320
              tgatatcttg gtccagtatg atcaatgcat ttgcaatgca tgggaatgca gatagtgcta   1380
              taaaactttt ccgtaggatg aaagaagtaa atattgaacc caatggtgtt acatttatag   1440
              gcgtccttta tgcttgcggt catgcgggtt tagttgagga aggtgagaaa ttattttcat   1500
              ccatgattaa tgagcatgga atctctccga cccgtgagca ctatggttgc atggttgacc   1560
              tgtattgtcg agccaatttc ttgagaaaag ctattgagct tatcgagaca atgccttttg   1620
              cgccaaatgt tatcatttgg ggatccctta tgtctgcttg tcaagttcac ggggaggctg   1680
                                                    757

              agttagggga atttgctgcc aaacggcttc ttgagttaga gcctgatcat gatggagccc   1740
<removed-date>
              ttgtggtttt gtcaaacata tatgccaaag aaaaaaggtg gaatgatgtt gggctgatca   1800
              ggaaatcaat gagttataaa ggtatctcaa aggagaaggc gtctagcagg attgaaataa   1860
              acaatcaggt gcatatgttt atgatggctg atagatatca taaacagtca gatgagatat   1920
              atgagaagtt agatgaggta gtcagtaaat tgaagttggt cggctacaaa cctagtactt   1980
              caggcatttt gattgattta gaagaggaag ataaaaaaga attggttcta tggcatagtg   2040
<removed-apn>
              aaaagttagc agtttgctat gggctaatta gtaggaggaa tgaatcctgc attcgcattg   2100
              ttaaaaatct tagaatatgt gaggattgtc attcctttat gaagttggtc tcgaaggtgt   2160
              atcaaataga gattgttgta agagatagga ctaggtttca ccattgtagt ggtggtattt   2220
              gttcttgtag agactactgg tga                                           2243
              <210>   680
              <211>   1521
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago sativa
              <400> 680
              atgggtgccc ctatatgtaa ttctttacta gctgcacttg ctggttgtaa tattgataat     60
              gcacgtaagg tgtttgatga aatgattgtt aggggtgtac gttttagtac gttgggtttt    120
              ggtgtttttg tttggtgggt ttgtaaggag ggtgatatgg ggaaagtgtt gggtttagtg    180
              gatgaggttg gcgaatgtgg ttttgagatt aatggttcag ttgtggcggt tttgattgtt    240
              cacggtttgt gtgaggttgg gaaggtggat gaggcaatgg tgatgttggg tgagttgagg    300
              gagagagggt ggaagcctga ttttatggcg tattgggttg ttgctaatga gtttaggaag    360
              atggggaatg tggttgttga gattaaggtt ttgaagatga agaggaaatt aggtgtggct    420
              cctagaagtg gggattataa agggtttata tttgaattgg tctcggagaa gcgaattttg    480
              gaagcgaaga tgactgggga ggttattgtt ggtggtaatt ttgttgttga ggatgatgtt    540
              tttaatgtgt tgattgaatc tgtttcggac attgatcctg ttggggcgat cgtgtttttt    600
              aattatgttg ttgagaaaga gaggtttttg agtgtttcga gtttgaatag cttgagtagg    660
              aatttgtgta gggtgggtaa ggtggatgaa ttgttggagg tgtttcgtgt tttggattgt    720
              cgaaattact tcaaggatgt cgagggttac aatgtgatgg tgtcgtggtt gtgcgaagct    780
                                                    758

              gggagagtga aagaaggcta tgctgttctt caggagatga agaagaaagg gttgaatcct    840
<removed-date>
              gatgtctcgt cttataatta tgtgatggaa gcgtgttgta aggaggattt actgcgccct    900
              gcgaggaagc tctgggatga gatgtttgcg agtggatgtt gtgggaactt gaaaacatat    960
              aatgttttga ttcacaagtt tttggaggag gggctaattg aagaggctcg gacgttgttt   1020
              aatcgcatgg tggacaaggg agttgaacct gatagtgcga gttacacttt tctcttacaa   1080
              gggttctgcc gagaagataa acttgaagaa gcttttgagc tctatagcag gtctgtcaga   1140
<removed-apn>
              caggatatca ccattgcaag agacattttg ggctcattta tattgtcact ctgcaagaaa   1200
              ggacatatga cagctgcttc caaattactc tgcagtctca gtcatgatat aggacgccca   1260
              gaatcgcacg tggctttgtt gaaatgtttg gcagatgcaa gagagattca aactgctatt   1320
              gagcatttga ggtgggttcg gcacaagtca ccttcaatgc taccagatat atgtaccgga   1380
              cttttagctt ccatttctgt tgctaaatgc ccggagccga tattgcagtt tcttcaaaga   1440
              atgcaaggac aacaaccaac taagcctttt ccaactgagt gtaaaattgt gatcaacgat   1500
              ggaaatatct ttgcaggttg a                                             1521
              <210>   681
              <211>   1550
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 681
              gggttacaac cgccgccgca gcctttttcc caatcggcgc tagttttcga tccgccgccg     60
              tcggccggag cgaagccaag cccgcgcgac caggtggctg ctgctgtgta acgacgctag    120
              ctagcttagc tgcggtacgt ttacacatag gtccgtccgt gtgcggctgc caccatggaa    180
              ggaaacggct gcggcggaag cggggcgaca ccacgtggtg tcgttgggat gcactgggct    240
              cccgtcgtca cctcgccgcc tagcccgcag ccgccgttcc tcccgccggc gccatgcagg    300
              cccgacgtcc agatgcaaca gcaaggcggg ctgacctgcc tcaagctcgg gaagcggccg    360
              tgcttctggg gtggcgacgg cgccggccag gtggcgcagg ggagcggcgg cggcggaggc    420
              ggaggcggtg gtggttccgc ggatcagggg aagaggaagg agaaggcggc gacggcggtg    480
              ccggtggtgc cccgttgcca ggtggagggg tgcgacatta cgctccaggg agtcaaggag    540
              taccaccggc ggcacaaggt gtgcgaggtg cacgccaagg ccccgagggt cgtcgtgcac    600
                                                    759

              ggcaccgagc agcgcttctg ccagcaatgc agccggttcc acgtgctcgc ggagtttgac    660
<removed-date>
              gacgccaaga agagctgccg gcggcggctg gccgggcaca acgagaggcg gcggaggagc    720
              aacgccagcg aggccatggc caggggctct gcgcacccac acggtatgcc ggtgctggga    780
              cacggtttcc cgccgtacgg cctgccgacg tcgtcggctg gtgctctctc tcttctgtca    840
              tcggctagag ccaccggccc atggctgatg ccgacgcccg acatctccgc ccgctcaagc    900
              gcggcgctcg acgagctcat cgccgagaac cgcgcggccc tcctctcgtg gcaattcttc    960
<removed-apn>
              tccgaccgac agccgccacc agctggccgt ccaacgggcc gcagcccggg ctccgaaacg   1020
              gccggtggct ggcacgcgca cctgcaggcg cggccgccac cgcccggcgc cggagggcag   1080
              cacgagaatc agtcggggca cgtgacgctc gacctcatgc aggccaccac cgcggcagga   1140
              ggcagcggcg cgccgttccg gcccgtgcca gcgaggcccc ccaaggaggg cggcgacgcc   1200
              ggctgcacct ccgacgcgtg gacgccgtcg cccatggagg gcgcccgcgt ggtctgagtg   1260
              tccgacctgc cagccgcgac gtcgccgcgc gtgcaccacg gtccctagct cccgtgtcag   1320
              ctgggcgtgg gaagcgatcg atcagtggtg ggcgcgtgcg cacggctgga gctctgtccc   1380
              gacgccgcgc gcagccgtgc aatcaacttg agttcgttgg acaatagtgt ctcgtctcgt   1440
              agcaatctat cccgatgtag cagtactggt gcagtggtgg tggtggtgcc actagctagc   1500
              aatgttctat tttttcgctc taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa              1550
              <210>   682
              <211>   1541
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 682
              agctgtctga gagaagtttt ggcagggggc cacctaaatg tccaggcggc ggtgccggcg     60
              tgctcggtgg aggggtgcgc cgccgacctg tccaagtgcg tccgcgacta ccaccggcgg    120
              cacaaggtgt gcgaggcgca ctccaagacg gccgtcgtca ccgtcgccgg ccagcagcag    180
              cgcttctgcc aacagtgcag caggtttcat ttgctcgggg agttcgatga ggagaagagg    240
              agctgcagga agcggctcga cgggcacaac aagcggcgtc ggaagccgca gcctgatcct    300
              ctcaaccccg gcaacctttt cgccaatcac cacggagcgg caagattcac ctcgtacccg    360
              cagatcttct cgacggcggc gtccatgtcg ccgcaggaga cgaagtggcc ggcgaacgtg    420
                                                    760

              gtcaagacgg aggccgccga cgtgttccaa gagccgtact accacgccct ccacctcaac    480
<removed-date>
              ggcgccggcg cctccgcggc cgtctccatc ttccaccacg gcggcaacaa ggcgaggaag    540
              caccacttcc ctttcctgac ggccgaccac ggcggcggcg ccgccgcggc gtcgccgttg    600
              ttcgggtgcc agccgttcac catcacgcct tcctcggaga gcaggagcag cagcagcagc    660
              cggcacagca acggcaagat gttcgcccac gacgggggtc tggacaactg tgctctctct    720
              cttctgtcag acaaccccac acccacggcg cagatcacca tcccacagcc tctcttcgcc    780
<removed-apn>
              ggcggcgggc agtacggcgg cggcggcggc ggcgacgtgt cgctcaccgg cctgtcctac    840
              gtcagaatgg ccggcaagga cacgtccatc ttggcaaaat ctgccactac cactgctact    900
              actgctacta ctcctactac cacaagtgca cagctgcaat accatggcta ctaccaccac    960
              catgtcagcg ccgatcaggg tagctccgat gctgcaatcc aggctcttcc tttctcatcg   1020
              tggtagtgga gattccgggt tccgatttcg atctcagcga ggccctgttc ttgagctgaa   1080
              ttcctgatag atcagatgct agggagatgg taatgttgtt caacaaaata tgtcagtgat   1140
              aatagttgta ttatcttggt gatactgaaa aatattcacc acgatatgca cattttccaa   1200
              ctttgcctgg tatttccagt ttatgggaaa tacccccaag ccagcttatg attcacaatt   1260
              gcattattag aactagtgct attatttttg gagggttatt gacttgtact gtagtggtac   1320
              agcttttgtt gtgtgtacat ttggctatcc acttgattgg tgtaggggct agttcagcag   1380
              gaactagaca taagttaact gtacttgaat agtcaaatta gcctcaaaag ctggaggatt   1440
              actgattaaa actaatcgtg tggctctgct tgtttttcac atgctgtaca tcaacagaga   1500
              cccttgttgg aagacaggga ctaaattaag ggttttggac c                       1541
              <210>   683
              <211>   1341
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 683
              atggagatgg ccagtggagg aggcgccgcc gccgccgccg gcggcggagt aggcggcagc     60
              ggcggcggtg gtggtggagg ggacgagcac cgccagctgc acggtctcaa gttcggcaag    120
              aagatctact tcgaggacgc cgccgcggca gcaggcggcg gcggcactgg cagtggcagt    180
              ggcagcgcga gcgccgcgcc gccgtcctcg tcttccaagg cggcgggtgg tggacgcggc    240
                                                    761

              ggagggggca agaacaaggg gaagggcgtg gccgcggcgg cgccaccgcc gccgccgccg    300
<removed-date>
              ccgccgcggt gccaggtgga ggggtgcggc gcggatctga gcgggatcaa gaactactac    360
              tgccgccaca aggtttttaa ggtttatgag cacggccacc acattagatg cactgtcaag    420
              tgcttagcaa tggccacgga ttggaaaaac atacaacttc aattcctacg tttttcctat    480
              tcctatgttt ttcctatcct gcgtttcaaa ggggccctta aggatgaagg gaagttccac    540
              ctgctgcctg aatttgacca aggaaaacgc agctgccgca gacgccttgc aggtcataat    600
<removed-apn>
              gagcgccgga ggaggccgca aacccctttg gcatcacgct acggtcgact agctgcatct    660
              gttggtgaag agcatcgcag gttcagaagc tttacgttgg atttctccta cccaagggtt    720
              ccaagcagcg taaggaatgc atggccagca attcaaccag gcgatcggat ctccggtggt    780
              atccagtggc acaggaacgt agctcctcat ggtcactcta gtgcagtggc gggatatggt    840
              gccaacacat acagcggcca aggtagctct tcttcagggc caccggtgtt cgctggccca    900
              aatctccctc caggtggatg tctcgcaggg gtcggtgccg ccaccgactc gagctgtgct    960
              ctctctcttc tgtcaaccca gccatgggat actactaccc acagtgccgc tgccagccac   1020
              aaccaggctg cagccatgtc cactaccacc agctttgatg gcaatcctgt ggcaccctcc   1080
              gccatggcgg gtagctacat ggcaccaagc ccctggacag gttctcgggg ccatgagggt   1140
              ggtggtcgga gcgtggcgca ccagctacca catgaagtct cacttgatga ggtgcaccct   1200
              ggtcctagcc atcatgccca cttctccggt gagcttgagc ttgctctgca ggggaacggt   1260
              ccagccccag caccacgcat cgatcctggg tccggcagca ccttcgacca aaccagcaac   1320
              acgatggatt ggtctctgta g                                             1341
              <210>   684
              <211>   1730
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 684
              ctgcaggaat tcggccagga cagctcaagc ttacgcggga gctaagctga gctacagcga     60
              gcggcggcgg cggccatgga gtgggatctc aagatgccgc cggcggcgag ctgggagcta    120
              gccgacgagc tggagaacag cggcggcggg ggtgtaccgg cggcggtatc gtcgtcatcg    180
              gctgcggttg gtggcggcgt caatgcgggg ggtggtggca ggcaggagtg ctcggtcgac    240
                                                    762

              ctcaagctcg gcgggttggg ggagttcggc ggcggcggcg cgcagccgcg ggtcgccgtg    300
<removed-date>
              gcgggcgagc cggccaaggg gaaggggcca gcggccgccg ccacgggagc agcagcagca    360
              gcgtcgtcgg cgccggcgaa gcggccgcgc ggtgcggcgg cggcggggca gcagcagtgc    420
              ccgtcgtgcg cggtggacgg gtgcaaggag gacctgagca agtgccgcga ctaccatcgc    480
              cggcacaagg tgtgcgaggc ccactccaag acccccctcg tcgtcgtctc cggccgcgag    540
              atgcgcttct gccagcagtg cagcaggttt cacttgcttc aggagtttga tgaggccaag    600
<removed-apn>
              cgcagctgta gaaagcgact agatgggcac aaccgtcgcc gcaggaagcc acagccagat    660
              cccatgaact ctgcaagtta tcttgcaagc caacaagggg caagattctc accgttcgcg    720
              acgccgagac cggaggcaag ctggacaggg atgagcacga gggagagaga gacatactac    780
              acgcaccacc aaatccctct tggcatcagc agcaggcagg cagcatttcg ttggctccac    840
              ctctgacggc ggccgccgct tccctttcct ccaggaaggc gagatcagct tcggcaacgg    900
              cgccggcgcc ggcggcgtgc caatggatca ggcagcagct gctgctgctg cttcagtgtg    960
              ccaggcactt ctgaagacgg tagctcctcc tcctcctcct catggcggcg gcggcagcgg   1020
              cggcggcaag atgttctccg atggtgggtt gacacaagtg ctcgactccg attgtgctct   1080
              ctctcttctg tcagctccgg cgaactccac ggccatcgac gtcggcggtg gccgggtggt   1140
              cgtccagccg accgagcaca tccccattgc gcagcctctc atctctggcc ttcagttcgg   1200
              cggcggcggc ggcagctcag cctggttcgc ggcgcggccg catcatcagg cggccaccgg   1260
              cgccgccgcc accgcccgtc gtcgtctcga cggccggttt ctcctgcccg gtggtggaga   1320
              gcgagcagct gaacacagtc ctgagctcca atgacaatga gatgaactac aatgggatgt   1380
              ttcacgtcgg cggcgaaggc tcatcggatg gcacgtcgtc gtctctgccg ttctcatggc   1440
              agtagttttt tcagtaactg tatgttgctg ccttagtttc agtagagttg gttcttcatt   1500
              tcttttcagt gatcaaatta ttgtttctgt ttcttttctg ccatggtaag ttcctttttt   1560
              ttttcttctt cttgccttca tttgagttaa ttacagcatt gatttgtgtg aacaaaattc   1620
              atcataaatc agttcctcgc gagatcattg gtctcaacat gatggtgcca agtgagaact   1680
              gcagtattgt gcagttttca gttttgagtc taagttgtat aaacttgcag              1730
              <210>   685
              <211>   1544
                                                    763

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 685
              gaatgacttc ttcttcctcc tcctctccac agtccacact gttcatctcc tcctcccctc     60
              cctcccaatt cgattcccaa atcccaaaat tgaccaccca aatccgcgcc aatccatgga    120
              ttggatgcct cctccgaagc ccacctcgcc gcgctcccct cccctcctct gggactgggc    180
              cgacgccgcc gtgccgggct cctcctccgg cgaggtatcc gccgccgccg ccgccgccgc    240
<removed-apn>
              ggctcatccg ggaaggcggc ggaaggagaa gcgaggcagg gcggaggaag gaggaggtgg    300
              tggtggggag gtgaggtgcc aggtggaagg gtgcggggtg gagctcgtcg gcgtcaagga    360
              ctaccaccgg aagcaccgcg tgtgcgaggc ccactccaag ttcccccgcg tcgtcgtcgc    420
              cggccaggag cgccgcttct gccagcagtg cagccggttc catgcgctct cggagtttga    480
              tcagaagaag aggagctgca ggagacgcct gtatgaccac aacgctcgtc ggcggaagcc    540
              ccagaccgac gtgttctcct atgcatcggc aaggccgccg tcgtcattat tatttgatga    600
              taaccgacaa ataagttttg tctggaacaa agctccactc agccatgtaa ggcctttcgc    660
              aatttctcca tgggaaagct catctgaagt tgggacaact gatggacata tttatttgga    720
              taaatctcac atatccaaat ctctcccagc atttaacacc gacatagatg agctcttacc    780
              aatgaaagac ttctctgcag ccactatttg gatgttcttc ggtgtccttt ttatccgaac    840
              tgcgcaggag agctgcatgt catttcatta aggagaaaac aatgtacata ttttgatgga    900
              agaatgacca ttattccatt ttgcaggtcc ggacgcatct ttaactgctt caaaatttga    960
              tggagcaccg gatcttcagc gtgctctctc tcttctgtca tctagttctt gtggattacc   1020
              tgatcctgta cagcaagcat ctcgcgtcat ccaattcaca ggcgccagcc aaaacaaccg   1080
              ggaacttcct ccacttaatg gagggaattc tgcttcagca tcatgtgcca atgtacaaac   1140
              tatagcacaa ccggctcagc tggttcgttt taccatgaat gctagcagca atgcttgtca   1200
              gtccaatttc ttcggtttaa accagataaa ctaaaggcct ggactgagag cccgtcgtcg   1260
              atttcgacca atatccacca aggtggcctt gagaagatac aagaattgct tctatcaact   1320
              atcagagtgc aaacaatgtc acagttaatg ttgtcatcat aaataccggt attggtctcc   1380
              cctgaactaa aatcgaacgg agtgatggct tgcttgtgtt ttcgataatc gttatgcagt   1440
              tctaattttt tttctattgt tttctgccaa tgtaccgatt ttcaaactgt gggtcttgtc   1500
                                                    764

<removed-date>
              atttatactt gtacaaccta atgtcaaaat gtcatgtatc tttg                    1544
              <210>   686
              <211>   2047
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 686
              gaatggcacc aatgatcaaa tcaagcaaag caccactgct gctgcaaaga acaccagata     60
<removed-apn>
              gatcaaactc tctctctctc tggtgttgct gttagttggt agttttggta ctacttggta    120
              ctctgggaag aagaaagaga ttattatagc agaaaagcag caccatggca tagctccagg    180
              cagcaaaacc aggtagaata caacggggat aacgattctc tctcagctaa aggagatttg    240
              gaaagggttt aaatagcggg tggttgtgcc ccgggctgca ggaattcggc acgaggggtt    300
              gatgctgtcg tcttttaggt cggggaaaca agtgggatag gatctctctc aagtcgaggt    360
              tgtgctatgc atggtcatgc tgattgaggg caagatttgc agggagagga aggatccact    420
              gtgtttcttt tctgggagaa aggaaagttg agatttgcaa tatatacaag tgtgagcagc    480
              agcagttgag atccttaatt cagccatggc ttcttttggg atgaactgga atcagaagag    540
              ccctgtgttt tgggactggg aaaatccagc gcctttcggt ccgaatacaa tggaaaatcc    600
              caagagcata cctcaccctg aaccaagagg tgtagttgtc gcggccgcaa atcatggatc    660
              caccaattca tccggtggca cgttcacttc tagctcggag ctagccaatg gttcatcgaa    720
              gagctccttg tcagcgtcgt tcgattcctc atccaagctg gggaacagct tagagttcag    780
              gtttgcttct gtcaaagggc atggcaagaa catgtgcaag gatggcgagg ccggtagagt    840
              tgaagactcg ggcacttctc cagctgtggc agttagccat ggtgagccgg taataggact    900
              caagttaggg aagagaactt actttgaaaa tgtttgtgga gggcagaatg tcaagagctc    960
              ctctgcagct tcaggtgtga cttgtccatc tactgtggtc aagaagatga aggtgtctca   1020
              gcagagcaca caaagctcat actgccaagt tgaaggctgc aaagtcgatc tgtcctccgc   1080
              aagagaatac catcgcaagc acaaagtttg tgaagctcat tctaaggcac caaaggttat   1140
              tgtttctggt ctggagcgcc gtttttgcca acagtgtagt cggtttcatg gtttagctga   1200
              atttgaccag aaaaagaaaa gttgccgcag gcgtctatct gatcataatg cacgaagaag   1260
              gaaaccgcaa caagaggcaa tttcatttgg ttcatcaagg ctcgccacga tgttttacga   1320
                                                    765

<removed-date>
              tgcaaggcag cagacagata tttactttgg ccaatctcct tttggccaag tgagaagcaa   1380
              tgcaatttct tcatgtgaca acctgggagg cttcaaattt acagaagcaa aactcccctg   1440
              gatgaagcca atgaaaacta taggccttga ggatctgaat ttctctaccc tgcagatgcc   1500
              aggcaatgtt gtgtcgcata cggtgcatca tcatgatttt gatgggctca taccattcaa   1560
              gggaaacacc ccgaaggtcc tcaaccaagc ttgctttatg gacaagctag aaccacaaat   1620
<removed-apn>
              tgtttctcaa aaaaacaaaa acaaaaacag agaggctaga tccaccaatt atctgttaca   1680
              agctttttgg acttcctgcc ttggtgtgga tccagcctgt gccgtcgtgt cctccaactc   1740
              gaatggagcc ccggatcttc ggcgtgctct ctctcttctg tcaagcgatt cctggggccc   1800
              ggccgacgtt caggccggct cccaggtgca tcccggtgga gtgatgccgc ccctcgccgt   1860
              tgccgccgcc accgtcaccg ccccgacgaa ccctgtcagt gtgatgcatg ctctgcaccc   1920
              gtccaccgga ggaggaggat tctggcaaga cggcgacgac ccgcctccgc tcgatcatgc   1980
              ctcgcaggct caggcgttca tgcatcctgg caatggcagc agctccggct atggccatct   2040
              gcactga                                                             2047
              <210>     687
              <211>     981
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400> 687
              atggattgga tgcctcctcc gaagcccacc tcgccgcgct cccctcccct cctctgggac     60
              tgggccgacg ccgccgtgcc gggctcctcc tccggcgagg tatccgccgc cgccgccgcc    120
              gccgcggctc atccgggaag gcggcggaag gagaagcgag gcagggcgga ggaaggagga    180
              ggtggtggtg gggaggtgag gtgccaggtg gaagggtgcg gggtggagct cgtcggcgtc    240
              aaggactacc accggaagca ccgcgtgtgc gaggcccact ccaagttccc ccgcgtcgtc    300
              gtcgccggcc aggagcgccg cttctgccag cagtgcagcc ggttccatgc gctctcggag    360
              tttgatcaga agaagaggag ctgcaggaga cgcctgtatg accacaacgc tcgtcggcgg    420
              aagccccaga ccgacgtgtt ctcctatgca tcggcaaggc cgccgtcgtc attattattt    480
              gatgataacc gacaaataag ttttgtctgg aacaaagctc cactcagcca tgtaaggcct    540
              ttcgcaattt ctccatggga aagctcatct gaagttggga caactgatgg acatatttat    600
                                                    766

<removed-date>
              ttggataaat ctcacatatc caaatctctc ccagcattta acaccgacat agatgagctc   660
              ttaccaatga aaggtccgga cgcatcttta actgcttcaa aatttgatgg agcaccggat   720
              cttcagcgtg ctctctctct tctgtcatct agttcttgtg gattacctga tcctgtacag   780
              caagcatctc gcgtcatcca attcacaggc gccagccaaa acaaccggga acttcctcca   840
              cttaatggag ggaattctgc ttcagcatca tgtgccaatg tacaaactat agcacaaccg   900
<removed-apn>
              gctcagctgg ttcgttttac catgaatgct agcagcaatg cttgtcagtc caatttcttc   960
              ggtttaaacc agataaacta a                                             981
              <210>   688
              <211>   1496
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 688
              gattctataa cccccacacc ctcgccctcc tccacccgcg tcgtctcctc cctccccaag    60
              tctcctcctc ctcctccgac tccgatccac ccccgggatc ccgcccatgg agtgcaaccc   120
              cgtctcctcc tccaccacct cctcctccct gctctgggac tgggacgcca ccgcctccgc   180
              cgagccgccg ccgccgcccg ggaagcgcgg cgggagggat tcgtcgtcgg cgtcggcgtc   240
              ggcgaagcgt gggaggtcgg cggcagcagc gggggatgcg gcggcggtgg cggcggaggc   300
              gccgcggtgc caggtggagg gctgcgggct ggagctggga ggctacaagg agtactaccg   360
              caagcaccgc gtctgcgagc cccacaccaa gtgcctccgc gtcgtcgtcg ccggccagga   420
              ccgccgcttc tgccagcagt gcagcaggtt ccacgcgcct tcggagtttg atcaggagaa   480
              acggagctgc cggagacgac tttctgatca taatgcccgt cgacggaaac cacagacaga   540
              tgtgtttgct tttggctctg gaacactacc gcgatcactg tttgatgata ggcagcaaat   600
              aagtttcgca tgggataata acgctccact taaccatgca aacaccactt caagttcctc   660
              gtggacatct gacttacagc tctcccaagt gatggacata agcaaaaggt cacgaaaagc   720
              tggggcagac agtgcaaata tccgtttgtc aaatgctttg ccaactcttt gtcatgacac   780
              aaatgagctc ttgccaataa aaggtgcaga tgcatctgaa actgcttcaa aactagatgg   840
              agcactagat gttcagcgtg ctctctctct tctgtcagct agttcaaggg gtttgactga   900
              ccccggacac caaacatctt ctatcatcca atttacgaat tcgaaccaaa acagcacatt   960
                                                    767

<removed-date>
              gcccagtgta ccaagcgaag gaaactctaa tgtacccttt tgggttgatg gacaacatca   1020
              agcggtagag cctcaggtgt ttcagttcac aatggacacc ggtaacactg tgtttccgga   1080
              tctagagcgg atcaaacctt cctacgagtc ttcaatgttt ggtctgaacc agatacattg   1140
              aagcctgcaa tgatcaccag cacggtcgct gctagtatgg atgaataagc acacgtcctg   1200
              gactatccaa gatcgtccaa gacttgcccc aatctgccga gtgtcaatgc tatatccgtg   1260
<removed-apn>
              tgtttattta ccttcccata attcagataa accttgtgaa cgccaacatc taagtatcaa   1320
              gcgttcacaa agtgtgctag tttcaacctt atttctgtca aaatgtaatt gctgttgtgc   1380
              aattctttgt tcttcgtgtt gtacaaatta ttcattgttc ttggcgttgt acaatctact   1440
              gcctaaccat ttgtcagaat attagctctt tcgggaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa       1496
              <210>   689
              <211>   2720
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 689
              ggttcttctt tcttagggtt gctgctgctg ctgcttttga ggagtggagt agttgaggcc     60
              atagtagtag tagaagtaga agtaaactgg tatagtcact actcactaca ctaccagttg    120
              gtgtttgttc tgagcattat tggagtgtca gggaagggca tgtgcttttg ttggttgctg    180
              taggaggagg cagccatcca ctgggcctca ctctcctctt gttgctgcct cctcctcttg    240
              ttactgttca gtctcaggct ctcaggctca caggtggggt tttgggagat actagttagg    300
              agggaaaggt tgccatcttg tgtgtgttgg atctttgtag aatacaacgg ggataacgat    360
              tctctctcag ctaaaggagg tgagattctt ggtttcacat caagtattat tgttctttct    420
              tttacttcct tcaaaatagt ttctttgctt tttatttcat atatggtttg gtttatttat    480
              gctccccaac aagcaactgg ttcatgtgcg gcacgaggga acaaataatg cagctctgat    540
              tgacttgggg tagtggctgt ggtgatagat tggaaagggt ttaaatagcg ggtggttgtg    600
              gtgatgaatg ggggccagcc ttgatggggt tgatgctgtc gtcttttagg tcggggaaac    660
              aagtgggata ggatctctct caagtcgagg tgagtgagaa ctcagccaag aacaacaatg    720
              gagtctctgt tgctttagtt ctgccagcca attggtttca actttcaacg ctgctacttg    780
              ttattcatca cctcctcgga tcggtttgat ttatgctcaa ggttgtgcta tgcatggtca    840
                                                    768

<removed-date>
              tgctgattga gggcaagatt tgcagggaga ggaaggatcc actgtgtttc ttttctggga    900
              gaaaggaaag ttgagatttg caatatatac aagtgtgagc agcagcagtt gagatcctta    960
              attcagccat ggcttctttt gggatgaact ggaatcagaa gagccctgtg ttttgggact   1020
              gggaaaatcc agcgcctttc ggtccgaata caatggaaaa tcccaagagc atacctcacc   1080
              ctgaaccaag aggtgtagtt gtcgcggccg caaatcatgg atccaccaat tcatccggtg   1140
<removed-apn>
              gcacgttcac ttctagctcg gagctagcca atggttcatc gaagagctcc ttgtcagcgt   1200
              cgttcgattc ctcatccaag ctggggaaca gcttagagtt caggtttgct tctgtcaaag   1260
              ggcatggcaa gaacatgtgc aaggatggcg aggccggtag agttgaagac tcgggcactt   1320
              ctccagctgt ggcagttagc catggtgagc cggtaatagg actcaagtta gggaagagaa   1380
              cttactttga aaatgtttgt ggagggcaga atgtcaagag ctcctctgca gcttcaggtg   1440
              tgacttgtcc atctactgtg gtcaagaaga tgaaggtgtc tcagcagagc acacaaagct   1500
              catactgcca agttgaaggc tgcaaagtcg atctgtcctc cgcaagagaa taccatcgca   1560
              agcacaaagt ttgtgaagct cattctaagg caccaaaggt tattgtttct ggtctggagc   1620
              gccgtttttg ccaacagtgt agtcggtttc atggtttagc tgaatttgac cagaaaaaga   1680
              aaagttgccg caggcgtcta tctgatcata atgcacgaag aaggaaaccg caacaagagg   1740
              caatttcatt tggttcatca aggctcgcca cgatgtttta cgatgcaagg cagcagacag   1800
              atatttactt tggccaatct ccttttggcc aagtgagaag caatgcaatt tcttcatgtg   1860
              acaacctggg aggcttcaaa tttacagaag caaaactccc ctggatgaag ccaatgaaaa   1920
              ctataggcct tgaggatctg aatttctcta ccctgcagat gccaggcaat gttgtgtcgc   1980
              atacggtgca tcatcatgat tttgatgggc tcataccatt caagggaaac accccgaagg   2040
              tcctcaacca aggtgtggat ccagcctgtg ccgtcgtgtc ctccaactcg aatggagccc   2100
              cggatcttcg gcgtgctctc tctcttctgt caagcgattc ctggggcccg gccgacgttc   2160
              aggccggctc ccaggtgcat cccggtggag tgatgccgcc cctcgccgtt gccgccgcca   2220
              ccgtcaccgc cccgacgaac cctgtcagtg tgatgcatgc tctgcacccg tccaccggag   2280
              gaggaggatt ctggcaagac ggcgacgacc cgcctccgct cgatcatgcc tcgcaggctc   2340
              aggcgttcat gcatcctggc aatggcagca gctccggcta tggccatctg cactgattct   2400
                                                    769

              gctgcatcta tttggaacgg gttgatgact ggttactccg ttcatgatct taccctgtca   2460
<removed-date>
              gtgatggact ctgaataatt tgggggcgaa ttgtcctgca accccaggat ttattatttc   2520
              tatttttgaa accaaaccac caggatattt gccattggat gagaagtgtt catgatcatg   2580
              aaatgatctg ttttgttcca cagaatctga catatctact actcgtcttg ggaatgagct   2640
              gagatcgatt cgtgtgttgt tcattcagga aactattcta aattcttttg gggataaaaa   2700
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                               2720
<removed-apn>
              <210>   690
              <211>   1640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 690
              gttgccgcac atatactcgt gctcgcgctc acgccgccgc ccccgaaact ccccgctccg     60
              ccattgccgg gggaggcgat ctcccatctc catctcccat ctcgcctcag cgaactcccc    120
              ttcacatcgc gtctcttccg tcgcagagag tggcggccgg tgaccatttc cggtgggagg    180
              gcggaggttt tgtcccggct ccggcgacac tccacactcc gacagcccac cgctccgtca    240
              ccctgcattt ttggtcagga tgcacgagag cgacagcagt cctgattctg acaggacaca    300
              ctggtatatg agcaatagcg atgacgagtc atttgttgat aaagataaag attgcagaag    360
              gagcaccgta gccctgctgt tgaagaaagg tccatggaca tcttgggagg actccatctt    420
              agagaagtac atcaagaagc atggtgaaag gaactggaag cttgtgcaga agaacactgg    480
              cctcttgagg tgtggcaaga gttgccgtct tcggtggatg aaccatctga ggcctaacct    540
              aaagaagggg gctttcagca aggaagaaga gaataaaatt attaatcttc atcgcaaaat    600
              ggggaataag tggtctcgga tggctgctga tttgccaggg cgtactgata atgaaataaa    660
              gaactactgg aacactcgaa taaagaaatg caagaacaat cgttcgcctt tgtatcctgc    720
              taatgtatgc aacgatgctt tgaatgaaga tcaacatgag tctgctgacc ccaacgttag    780
              ggagaagctg accaataatc atctagaaga tactactagt atgtattctg cacccccagg    840
              ttttcaggat gcttccatca gtaatatact tgataggaga cttgcatcaa aagattatga    900
              ctccatagaa gatcaaagaa accaaataga agttgtagca aaatatgaga ttccacttcc    960
              tgtgttgaaa acaacgaaca atgacatatt tccatcagcc tctatctttg ccaaccatgg   1020
                                                    770

              tatttcaaat ggcaatctct ctgctttgtc cacaactgat gctttgcaga tggagctccc   1080
<removed-date>
              tttaatccaa tttgatccaa acaaccagtt cgtttactca agggcttatg cgatgcacct   1140
              aacaaacttt gctttattaa atgatcaatc agaagaatta ctaaatgata ctgatgtatt   1200
              gaactatgtg gtgatgaaag aagagctttc tggagggagt ttgagtccta ctattaatat   1260
              gccatgtgaa gcacataact ccatggctgc ctctaatgag ctggtagtgc cacaatatga   1320
              aggagatgct ccacctcttc aagatgattt cacatcatat ttctatttga atgatactaa   1380
<removed-apn>
              tctatccata ttcgaagaca caaatgaatt gtttttggaa aacaagttgg atactaaagg   1440
              taactgacgc cagattgtca tgagttgctg ctctcttgga taaactcatc atgaaaccaa   1500
              gaattttatt ccatgaagct cgtgaacgag ccagtcgttg ctatctctct tattaggatt   1560
              tccagtttgg atattgccgt actcctttac ttttcttcat gtcgaaatta ccatgcgtgc   1620
              tatgttgaat ttcatctgct                                               1640
              <210>   691
              <211>   4958
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 691
              ggaaaaatgg ggtgcccatg cggccctgcc caatagcgtt gctgtacctt tcagctttat     60
              aatctcgccc ctcgcgagag agactccccc catcctgcag actcgcccca ctctcttgct    120
              cagctcctcc tcttcatcca gtcctcaaaa ctctctctga tctctctctc ttgctgaaaa    180
              ttctccgcac actccggtgg gcttaagcgg tggcggcgtc tcgcctgggt gggcgagatc    240
              cctctcttgc tcgtccgcaa ggtcgctccc cctgcgagtc caatctactg acgagctggg    300
              aggagcaaag gagggggcaa ttggagctcc gctcggttcc aattcagccc caattttgag    360
              ccccccggct gcggggttcg gccagttgag acgccatgta tcgggtgaag agcgagagcg    420
              actgcgagat gatccatcag gagcagatgg actcgccggt ggccgacgac ggcagcagcg    480
              gggggtcgcc gcaccgcggc ggcgggcccc cgctgaagaa ggggccatgg acgtcggcgg    540
              aggacgccat cctggtggac tacgtgaaga agcacggcga ggggaactgg aacgcggtgc    600
              agaagaacac cgggctgttc cggtgcggca agagctgccg cctccggtgg gcgaaccacc    660
              tgaggcccaa cctcaagaag ggggccttca ccgccgagga ggagaggctc atcatccagc    720
                                                    771

              tccactccaa gatggggaac aagtgggctc ggatggccgc tcatttgcca gggcgcactg    780
<removed-date>
              ataatgaaat aaagaattac tggaatactc gaataaagag atgccagcga gctggcctac    840
              ccatctatcc taccagcgta tgcaatcaat cctcaaatga agatcagcag tgctccagtg    900
              attttgactg tggcgagaat ttgtcaaacg atcttctgaa tgcaaatggt ctttacctac    960
              cagattttac ctgtgacaat ttcattgcta attcagaggc tttaccttat gcaccacatc   1020
              tttcagccgt ttctataagc aatctccttg gccagagctt tgcatcaaaa agctgtagct   1080
<removed-apn>
              tcatggatca ggtaaaccag acagggatgc taaaacagtc tgatggtgtg cttcctggat   1140
              tgagcgatac catcaacggt gtgatttcct cggtggatca attctcaaat gactctgaga   1200
              agctcaagca ggctgtgggt tttgactatc tccatgaagc caactctacc agcaagatta   1260
              ttgcaccttt cgggggtgca cttaatggca gccatgcctt tttaaatggc aatttctctg   1320
              cttctaggcc cacaagtggt cctttgaaga tggagctccc ttcactccaa gatactgaat   1380
              ctgatccaaa cagctggctc aagtacactg tagctcctgc gttgcagcct actgagttag   1440
              ttgatcccta cctgcagtct ccagcagcaa ccccttcagt gaaatcagag tgcgcgtcgc   1500
              caaggaatag tggccttttg gaagagttga ttcatgaagc tcagacccta agatccggga   1560
              agaaccaaca gacatctgtg ataagttcta gttcttctgt cggtacgcca tgtaatacta   1620
              cggttcttag cccagagttt gatatgtgtc aggaatactg ggaagaacaa catcctggtc   1680
              cattcctcaa tgactgtgct cctttcagtg gcaattcatt cactgaatcc acccctcctg   1740
              ttagcgctgc atcgcctgac atctttcagc tctccaaagt ttccccagca caaagcactt   1800
              caatgggatc tggagagcaa gtaatggggc ctaaatatga acctggggac acttcacctc   1860
              atcctgaaaa cttcaggcca gatgcattgt tttctgggaa tacagctgat ccatcagttt   1920
              tcaacaatgc catagcaatg cttctgggca atgacttgag tatcgattgc agacctgttc   1980
              ttggcgacgg tatcatgttc aattcttcct cgtggagcaa catgccacac gcctgtgaaa   2040
              tcctgcaaac ctgtgtcacc agcggcagcg atgacgcaag gatcggccag gtgtcaggcc   2100
              atacagagat aggagttgtg atactgcaac aggctgagag ttcttctcct gatgcttcca   2160
              tgactgacat tgcacctatt cttgatgaga ttgacccgct cttgggtgca agctctactc   2220
              atcctgatac aattccaaag gatgattcgg acactgattc acatgtttcc tcacaggatc   2280
              atcaaactga tgatgatagt aatgatgaaa ctgacaataa tgatgctaaa gagaatggtg   2340
                                                    772

<removed-date>
              aggaaaagaa taaagaacaa ggaaaggaag ctgcatttat ttggacagca gatgatgaaa   2400
              aaaatctgat ggatcttgga tattctgaga tggaaagaaa ccgcaggttg gagcttttga   2460
              tggccagacg aagatccagg aagaacataa ggtttgaaat cgacaatgac ttgataggta   2520
              ttgataataa tgatggtggg aggggtgttg acgacttgtc tcgcttccat gtacaagtac   2580
              cacatatttc agttccaagg aggaatccgt ttgatcttcc ttatgattca gaagaagcgg   2640
<removed-apn>
              caattcctgg ctcagcaccc tcagttctgc atacaaggaa aaacccattc gatcttcctc   2700
              ttgatcagtc caatgatggt gatgtttctg cagataataa tgaggaccac aaggacctcg   2760
              atgaaaaaga tttgcccaat gagcatgggt ctccagctct gcagagacag gatagcgacc   2820
              ttgcggatgt tggaagtgaa tgctcggatg gcatcaactc cgtggatgtt gaattagaca   2880
              acagtgacat tgatgatcgt gagattgctc tacaacactt tgtctttgaa agatcacagg   2940
              aaagagaagc atatctttcc tcaacaaaag gaaagggtcc tgaagatgat tacctgctca   3000
              gttcagttgg gaactccaag acacttcatc cagtagctga cctgtttagc tgggaagatg   3060
              gaaatggtga aagcagcctt ggtgttaact cttcccataa catgtcagtt gaattctcgg   3120
              actgggtttc atcccccaag ccaattgcag agcatgattc aggaccagag aaccttcagg   3180
              agtttcttaa tactgaagtt gcatcaagtt caaagacaat tgttctaggc gcaagaaatc   3240
              cagctgaaaa taatggaaat gttgattcca tatcctattc aaacaatgaa atgccttcag   3300
              ataacttggg tcatgggtcc atggagttcc catctgaatt ttgtaatgaa tcactgccag   3360
              taatatctag ggacttgcac cctatccctg aagagagggt tgtcgagaac ttcaatgtgc   3420
              aagaaaagca tgaagcagta atatttaccg attcagatgc tgccttgact gggtttcatg   3480
              taattgagga gcactttgaa gttggatgtg atgtaagccc gagttctgaa gttgttccgt   3540
              catgccttca agcaagtgat tccatccaat ctcgattagt tgagaataaa gaggtatcaa   3600
              atccattcat ttccatcgct tctgaaacca acaaggtgga tatgattgat ttgaaggaag   3660
              aaacagctgc aggatatcca cttgattctg atgatgatgc tgataaaatc tatcctgagc   3720
              ccatggagga caatgtaatt gatgaaagtt tcctatcaga actggatgcg gtaggagatt   3780
              tccgggtaga agcaacaaga tcggaccagc agatgcctga tgttgactcc catattgata   3840
              ataacacttc caatggtgtt gcagagagct ccttgattag ccctcagatt tcaagtaaca   3900
                                                    773

              tattttcaaa tatgaaatat gccagtatgc tcgaacatga ggagaattct ccattggttg   3960
<removed-date>
              atgacctaaa tggcaccggt cctgaatttg gttggtcatt aggagcatct tatgatgacc   4020
              ctgagcagac tgtctacaat ccgaggcgac ggattcttgg agcaagtcgt tttgaagaaa   4080
              ctaacacaga gatgaagcca ctatttgatg agacagaagc atcttttgtc aatgcaccaa   4140
              tagaagcaaa cttggtagtt ggaccaagta aagtggatgt tgctaatgag tctgagttaa   4200
              ctaaaactga tacaaacatg atcgttcttg atgccaattc tctggaggat atagagacgg   4260
<removed-apn>
              cctttaaaca agcaagcaat ggcgttgttg agtccaccgt ggacaatgaa accccacagg   4320
              tttctggtgt tgatattgac ccagaatcca tagagagttc tgaacaattg gatgtcattg   4380
              atgcaaaatc cgtcgacgac atatatgctg ctttgaagga gcacacaact gctgctatga   4440
              acagttcctt cgaagaaaac gaagacaagc atggatgcgg tgatactgta aaattcacca   4500
              tgcatgatga gcttccagaa ggaacacata ttgaaggtaa cacagttgga gatggtaaag   4560
              agcctgaacc aatggggatt acaagcagca tggatgtcat tgatgcaaaa tccatcgatg   4620
              acatatatgc tgctttgaag aagcagtcaa gtgctgctgc gaatagttcc ttcgaacaaa   4680
              acgaaggcaa gaacggatgt ggtgatactg taacattcac cacgcacgat gagcttccgg   4740
              aaggaacaca cattgaagat agggataata cagttgaaga tggtaaagag cctgaaccga   4800
              ttgggactac aagcagcatg gacactattg aggtgaaaac aattgatgac atagacgcag   4860
              tgttcaagaa gctctctgat ggcggtacca agagtgctgc ccaggcagtg gattgcgaga   4920
              atacttgtga agcaagtgat gaaagtgaac agcactga                           4958
              <210>   692
              <211>   1077
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 692
              atgcagcgag agtgcatcgt gtcgggaccg atcgacgggt cgatctctgc gacgggcgac     60
              ggcgcgcgtc gaggcgttgg cggcatgcgc ggtcatcgct cacgcgtccg cggggatggt    120
              ggcctgcgga tgcacaggag cggcagcgat cctgattctg acaaggcgca ctggtatatg    180
              agcaatagcg atgacgagtc atttgttgat aaagataaag attgcagaag gggcaccgta    240
              gccccgctgc tgaagaaagg cccatggaca tcatgggaga actccatctt agagaagtac    300
                                                    774

              attaagaagc atggtgaaag gaattggaag cttgtgcaga agaacactgg cctcttgagt    360
<removed-date>
              ttttgcatca caaggcgtac tgataatgaa ataaagaact actggaacac tcgaataaag    420
              aaatgcaaga acaatcgttg gcttttatat cctgctaatg tatgcaacga tgctttgaat    480
              gaagatcaat atgggtctgt tgaccccagt gttagggaga agctaaccaa taatcaacta    540
              gaagatacta ctagtatgta ttctgcaccc cagttttcat atgcttccat cagtaatata    600
              cttgatagga gacttgcatc aaaagattat gactccatag aagatcaaag aaaccgaata    660
<removed-apn>
              gaagttgcag cagaatatga gatttcactt cctgtgttga aaacaaccaa caatgacata   720
              tttccatcag cctctatctt tgccaaccat ggcatttcaa atggcaatct ctctgctttg    780
              tccacaactg atgctttgca gatggagctc cctttaatcc aatttgatcc aaacaaccag    840
              ttcatttact caagggatta tgcgacgcac ctaacaaact tagctttatt aaatgatcaa    900
              gcagaagaat tactaaatca tattgatgta ttgaactatg tggtgatgaa aaaagagctt    960
              tctggaggga gtttgagtcc cactattaat atgccatgta aagcaacggc atattcttca   1020
              gaactccctt tatgcaaggg atatcgggaa caagatcttg atttttacac acaatag      1077
              <210>   693
              <211>   1855
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 693
              atggaagaga tgatcaagcc ggcaccggca ccggcgtcgt cggaggagga gaaggaggtg     60
              gtggctactg ctgctactgg agaaaggagg catgaggagg cgacggccgg gagagaggag    120
              caggaagagg aggaggagga ggaggaggcg ccggtggtgc tgaagaaggg gccgtggacc    180
              acggcggagg acgccgtgct ggtgcagcac gtccggcagc acggcgaggg gaactggaac    240
              gcggtgcagc ggatgaccgg gctgctccgc tgcggcaaga gctgccgcct ccggtggacc    300
              aaccacctcc gccccaacct caagaagggt tccttctccc ccgacgagga gctcctcatc    360
              gcgcagctcc acgcccagct cggcaacaag tgggcgcgca tggcctccca tctgccgggg    420
              aggacggaca acgagatcaa gaactactgg aacacgagga ccaagcggcg ccagcgcgcc    480
              ggcctgccgg tgtacccgcc ggatgtgcag ctccacctcg ccttcgccaa gcgctgccgc   540
              tacgacgact tctcctcgcc gctgtcgtcg ccgcagcaat ccgcggggag caatgtcctc    600
                                                    775

              tctatggacg cagccgatgc cgccggcgcc gcctcgtccg ggtacaccag cgcgcgcccg    660
<removed-date>
              ccgccgctcg acctcgccgg ccagcttgcc atggggagcc ggccggttca gctcctcgcc    720
              gcgacgccgt tctccgcgcc ttcgtccccg tggggtaagc cgttcgctcg gaacgcgcag    780
              ttcttccagt tcccgcactc gtcgcccgtg tcgccgacga cgccgaccgg gccggtgcag    840
              gtgcacccgg tcacgccgga gctctcgttg ggctacggcc ttcacgccgg cgaccgggcc    900
              agactcccgc ctgtctcgcc gtccccgggt gccagagccg agctcccttc aagccaattg    960
<removed-apn>
              cgcccgtcga tggcgcctac cacagccgcc gccgccgcca ccggcggctt ggtcggcgga   1020
              gcgctgcagg atcacccaaa cgcggcgagc ctcgaggcca tgctgcagga gctgcacgac   1080
              gccatcaaga tcgaaccgcc ggcgccgccg gaaaacagag gaacggaaga agaaggcggc   1140
              ggcggcggcg gcaatctgcg cggcttcctt catgagcaaa tttttgacaa attgatgccc   1200
              atcaagtctg aagatttttg catcgtgggg ttgcattctg tactaatttc acttcaattt   1260
              ccaggtgacg gcaaaccgga ggtagagctc aaggacgaca tcgagacact cttcgacctt   1320
              atcataccgg cgacgttccc ggcggcggcg ccggagcccg ccgccgccgc gacggccgcc   1380
              tccgccgcgc ccaaccactc cagctccgtc tcgcagcaca gcagcgacga ccaggaccac   1440
              tccaacggcg ccgacgtcct cgacctgccc atcctcaccg gcggcggagg cggctcgtcg   1500
              gagcaggacg actggagcct cgacggcgcc gcctgccagt gggacaacat ctccggcggc   1560
              atctgctgac atgaatttcg atgatcaacg cctgcgtctt gaaaccttct gtgatcccca   1620
              gagaccgctc acagaagagc tctttttttt gtttcccttt tgcgaacatt tttcttggcc   1680
              ttcttttttt tttcaatgta cctggggtta attaggttgt atcgatcgtg actgagccaa   1740
              gtgccaatct tcgatgcccc ccgtgaggct tttaacttcg ttttttttta attaccaatg   1800
              actcggtctg agctgatcca tccaagtttt tatctagtat ctctggtaaa aaaaa        1855
              <210>   694
              <211>   2410
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 694
              atgccgcgcg ccgccgcgcc gcacggcggt ctttgcctct gccgtctccg tctccgatcc     60
              cgtcgcgcgc gcgtcgtgtt gaagttgcag cagccagcaa tgcagcctga ctcgactgat    120
                                                    776

              cgcctcgcgg gccggcacgc agggtgcagc gagcgagcgg ccgacatttt atgtaagctt    180
<removed-date>
              catcggacaa aacaaatgat cgttttcagg aagttcacca ctaaatctaa gaaacactca    240
              atgcagtcct gtaaaccaag gttacacagg tggatcgtgc tcaatccgaa tggcaaaccc    300
              tcaccatata ctcttacttt ccaatttcct tcgcgaacac cgacgcttgc acgcacacct    360
              cgtgaagccc gttgcaaaga tttcacccac acggtatcca tccaccgtat gccatctcgt    420
              atccaacttc gtcacgagtc tactactcta cttcgctctc cgccgccgcc gccgccgccg    480
<removed-apn>
              ccgccgccca cctcgtctcg acgccggatg aggatggagg gttcgtcgcc gatggaggag    540
              gaggaggagg cggcgaggct ggcgggctcg cagggggagt cgccggcgat gctgcacccg    600
              aacggagacg gagacggcga cggcggcgat gatgagggtg acgccagcgg cggcgaagag    660
              gagcagggcg gtgtggctag ggcgggggtt cgtcgccgcg gcggcggcgg ccgtgtgcgc    720
              gtgcgtggca ggattccgct gaagaagggg ccgtggacgc ccgacgagga caagcggctg    780
              cgggagtacg tggaggcgca cggcgagggg aactggaacc gggtgcagag gaacgcgggg    840
              ctgaaccgct gcggcaagag ctgccgcctc cgctgggcga accacctcaa gcccgacctc    900
              aagaaggggc ccttcagcaa ggaagaggag gagatgatca tcaagctcca tttatggctg    960
              gggaacaagt gggctaagat ggcaaactct ttgccaggcc gcacagataa tgaaatcaag   1020
              aacttctgga acactagatg taagagaatt cagagaactg gtgaacctct atatccgaag   1080
              gagtttaatc attttaagtt gacagatctg gaagtgatga actgtgaaag ccctgatgaa   1140
              tcacgtgcca agaaacgaac aaatgaggtt ttacagggaa atggtcaaag ttacaaagag   1200
              gtttttttcg ataatttaga ctatagtaga ccagaaaatt atattcggcc aaattgtgtg   1260
              actccaaatt ctcttccagt tgatgccaca agtccatttg gtagtgccat tgccacacaa   1320
              gatcagtcag taccttttgg tagtgccatt gtcagtggac atccaattct tgatggcaac   1380
              ttctctactt ctgggaccat acagaggccc atgaatgtag agctcccttc actccaatat   1440
              cccaactatg actttaacaa taataatgca tggtcatatc acgacccctt aggacatcct   1500
              attgaccagg ttgactttgg ctccctgaga tcagaatatc tctctccaaa caacaatggt   1560
              ctgctggatg cattggttca tggaggacat ggacaagggg aacttgcaaa ttcccaagga   1620
              tcttttgatg cttgttttcc tcgtgttcaa tgcaatcaag tgattcaatc gaatgctttc   1680
              tctctgagtt cttcctttcc aatcattggt gatgatctcc tcgagaacag ttgtcatgct   1740
                                                    777

<removed-date>
              tttgttggca tcaacaataa tgcaagcagc ctattccttg acagccaacc tccacccttg   1800
              gtggacccta ctttctggag gcacgatgta tcactagaac cgaatttgcc agtttattgc   1860
              cagtttaacg aagaattgcc gccctcaaat gagcagtttg ccaaagatgc agatgacgct   1920
              ttcggtcatg ggggtctttc tgatgagacc aatctagctg ctgcaggtca aggcgatgaa   1980
              catgaccttg aggacccctg ggcgagcatg cccggtgcct gtgacatacc tgattttcca   2040
<removed-apn>
              agtgaatgac ttgcatagag tttgtgcgtg ttattgattt tgatctcaac cagtgagaga   2100
              accaagaaga tcctttttgc aataaccatg cctttcaaga tcgtccaata agtttgtggc   2160
              tgcgtatgct attactatct taccgtggag ttgtgtgcta tatgctttgc tccccgagga   2220
              aatgtggccc ttgaactgaa tgttgccatt gtttgtgtcg gctacttatt cgattcatta   2280
              atgttacatt gtttgctaga atatgctgaa attgtatatt cgattcattg gttttgatta   2340
              atcaaagact attgtcgtca tgtggcaatt ggtacaactt gaagggaagt gaatgctcta   2400
              attgcttggg                                                          2410
              <210>   695
              <211>   1955
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (772)..(774)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (782)..(782)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (793)..(793)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 695
              ttggtctttc tcctcctcgc cagggaaagg cccccccgcc gccgccgtcg tcgttccagc     60
              tatagctttc cccgccggcg gtggcgatcg atcgatcctc tcctcgtcgg ttgattaggg    120
              tcaagaattc ttccctctcc cagcttggtt gaatttcttg gtttgatcaa ggggaggaat    180
                                                    778

<removed-date>
              taattgagag gtgaattagt tcgccggagt ttgtttctct ctctctctcc tcttctctga    240
              gctgagaggg ggaggagaga atcaagtgac gagttatagt atggcgagga gcggcggcgg    300
              caatggtggg ggagaaggtg gcggcggcgg cggcaatggc ggtggcgggg gagggttgaa    360
              gaaggggccg tggacgcagg cggaggacaa gctgctggtg gaccacgtgc ggcggcacgg    420
              cgaggggaac tggaacgccg tgcggcggga gaccgggctg cagcgctgcg gcaagagctg    480
<removed-apn>
              ccgcctccgg tgggccaacc acctccgccc cgacctccgc aaggggccct tctcccccga    540
              cgaggagcgc ctcatcctcc gcctccatgg cctcctcggc aacaagtggg ctcgcatctc    600
              ctcctacctg catgggagga cggacaacga gatcaagaac tactggaaca cgcggctcaa    660
              gcggcgggtg cgcgccggct tgacgccgta cccgccggag atcgagaggg agatcgcgca    720
              cctccgcgcg cagaatctca acctgtccgc cgaaggcggc ggcggcggcg gnnntatgct    780
              gnctttcgcg ttncttcttt acccgagcat cccgttcgcc ttgcagcagg cgccggtggt    840
              ggcgccgtcg ccgtcggcgt cgcaggcgaa ttcgccgccg ctgatcaacc agaattaccc    900
              gctcctgaac cagatgcagg ggctgcagct tctccacctc gccaaccacc agcaggcgcc    960
              gccgccgcag cagcagcagc agcagcagcc ggcgttccac caccaccacg acggcggcgg   1020
              cggcggcggg ttcgtctcgt cggggctccc gccgctgccg aacagaccgc gcgagctccc   1080
              ttcgaaccaa ttcgagacgg cgacgagcgg cggcggcggc ggctgcgacg cgctgctcga   1140
              gtcgctgctg ctcggcgacg accacctcct gccgcggccc aaccccgcca tgctcagggt   1200
              gggctccatg cccgagctga tgtaccgcga gcctagctca agccacgtgc tccatggcgg   1260
              cggcggcggc ggaggcgcca gcgacagtga cgtcacctcg cagtatcctc cgggagaaga   1320
              ggacccgcat tatggcggga gatgggactt catcttcgag gacgtgaaac ccaagaggaa   1380
              ggcggcgagc gcggtggagg agatctccgg catgttcggc atcgccccgg gctccatccc   1440
              gggggaatgg ttcaaccccg gcggcgtcgg cagcgccgcc gccgccgccg gcgggtcgtc   1500
              ggctccgtct ccggggccgt cgtccgtcgt caccaccgac gacgacttca ccctcgagat   1560
              gcagcagatc atgtcgtcgc tgccgctgct tcaacctgaa gagcatcata actggaacgc   1620
              ataaagcttt ggaacagcaa gatgagagat gatttggtag tgagagagag agagagactg   1680
              taaatcggtt ctgatgagca gtgagaaaaa atgttggttc ttgttttttg ttgtttgtac   1740
                                                    779

              tgggccttat tgtcggatct gtcacgcgct ctgccttttg aattgcaaac tgtttttcgt   1800
<removed-date>
              tattgctatc aagtaattaa aagggtttct cgtagttgat agtccttgtc taaatcagtg   1860
              aagagattca agaaaattca gctgatatat tggaaatcca ctccagcaac tgtggagtat   1920
              gttccttgtc caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                              1955
              <210>   696
              <211>   2160
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 696
              atgtcggtga cgagagatcg gacaaagagc ccaggcgggc acccgactag cccggaagag     60
              atgataactt tcgtggattc cgcggcgaag gagcgggagc gggagagtga caagtgcttg    120
              gacccgcagc tgtggcacgc ctgcgccggc ggcatggtcc agatgccgcc ggtgagctcc    180
              aaggtgtact acttcccgca aggccacgcc gagcacgcgc aggggcatgg ccccgtcgag    240
              ttcccgggcg ggcgcgtccc ggcgctcgtg ctctgccgcg tcgcgggcgt caggttcatg    300
              gccgatccgg acaccgacga ggtgttcgcc aagatccgcc tcgtccccgt ccgcgccaac    360
              gagcagggct acgccggtga cgccgacgac ggcattggcg ccgccgcggc cgcggcggcg    420
              caggaggaga agcccgcgtc gttcgccaag acgctcacgc agtccgacgc caacaacggc    480
              ggggggttct ccgtgccgcg ctactgcgcc gagaccatct tcccgcgtct cgactactcc    540
              gccgatcccc ccgtccagac cgtcctcgcc aaggacgtcc atggcgtggt ctggaagttc    600
              cgccacatct accgcggcac gccgaggcgc cacctcctca ccacggggtg gagcaccttc    660
              gtgaaccaga agaagctcgt cgccggcgac tccatcgtgt tcatgcgcac cgagaacggg    720
              gatctctgcg tcggcatccg ccgcgccaag aaagggggcg tgggaggccc ggagttcctg    780
              ccgccgccgc cgccgccgcc gccgacacct gccgccggcg gcaattacgg cgggttctcc    840
              atgttcctga ggggcgacga cgacggcaac aagatggcgg cggcggccag gggcaaggtc    900
              agagcccgtg tccggccaga ggaggtcgtc gaggcggcca atctcgccgt gagcgggcaa    960
              ccattcgagg tcgtctacta cccgagggcg agcacgccgg agttctgcgt gaaggccggg   1020
              gcggtcagag cggcgatgcg gacgcagtgg ttcgccggca tgaggttcaa gatggcattc   1080
              gagacggagg actcatcaag gatcagctgg ttcatgggca ctgtatcggc cgtgcaggtt   1140
                                                       780

              gctgacccca ttagatggcc taattcacca tggaggcttc ttcaggtttc atgggatgaa   1200
<removed-date>
              ccggacttgt tacagaatgt gaagagggtg agcccatggt tggttgagct tgtgtcaaac   1260
              atgccggcca tccaccttgc tccattctcg cctccacgga agaagctttg cgtgccgttg   1320
              taccccgagc ttcccatcga cggccaattt ccgacaccga tgttccatgg aaacccgctc   1380
              gcccgtgggg ttggtcctat gtgctatttc ccggatggca ctcctgcagg catacaggga   1440
              gccaggcatg ctcaatttgg tatatcttta tcagatctcc accttaacaa actgcagtcg   1500
<removed-apn>
              agtctatcgc cccacggcct tcaccagctt gatcacggca tgcagccgag gatcgccgct   1560
              ggtctaatta tcggtcatcc ggctgctcgg gatgatatct catgcttgtt gaccattggt   1620
              agcccccaga acaacaagaa atcagatggc aagaaggcgc cagcccagct gatgcttttc   1680
              ggaaaaccca tactcacaga gcagcagata tccttgggtg atgctgcttc ggtggatgtt   1740
              aagaagagct cttctgatgg taatgctgaa aatacggtga ataagagtaa ctccgatgtt   1800
              tcaagcccga gaagtaatca gaatggcacc acagataatt tgtcatgtgg aggagttcca   1860
              ttgtgccaag acaacaaggt acttgatgtt gggctggaaa cagggcactg caaggtattc   1920
              atgcagtcgg aggatgtcgg gcgcacactt gatctctctg ttgttggttc atatgaggaa   1980
              ttataccggc ggcttgctga catgttcggc atcgagaaag ctgagctgat gagtcatgtt   2040
              ttctaccgtg atgcggctgg ggcactcaag cacactggag atgaaccttt cagcgagttc   2100
              acgaagacgg cgcgtaggct gaatatacta acagatacaa gcggcgataa cttagcgagg   2160
              <210>   697
              <211>   2187
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 697
              atggtgatta gtaggacatt ggtggtaagg ggttttgatg aactttggga gacgattcgg     60
              ccggttttgg tttcatcaga tggtccagct tccatgagca aaaatggact gttgcttgtt    120
              gtttcggagg agttttggat tggcaaggtt tggtgggtga gcggtgatcg catttggggg    180
              ttggagatga aggaggtggg ggaggtggag gaggtgaggt gcttggaccc gcagctatgg    240
              cacgcgtgcg cgggcgggat ggtgcagatg ccggcgccgc gttcccgggt gtactacttc    300
              gcgcagggcc acgccgagca cgccgacggc ggaggcgggg cggcggcggc ggccgcggag    360
                                                    781

              ctggggccgc gcgcgctccc gccgctcgtg ctctgccgcg tcgaaggggt ccagttcctg    420
<removed-date>
              gccgatcggg actccgacga ggtgtacgcc aagatccgcc tcgcgccggt cgcccccggg    480
              gaggccgagt tccgggagcc cgacgagctc tgcccgctcg gcgccgccgg cgacgcggcg    540
              gagccgtcgc cggagaagcc gacctcgttc gccaagacgc tcacgcagtc cgacgccaac    600
              aacggcggcg gcttctcggt gccccgctac tgcgccgaga ccatcttccc caagctggac    660
              tacagggccg acccgccggt gcagacggtg ctcgccaagg acgtccacgg cgtggtctgg    720
<removed-apn>
              aagttccgcc acatctaccg cggcacgccg cgccggcatt tgctcaccac cgggtggagc    780
              acgttcgtga accagaagaa gctcgtcgcg ggggactcga tcgtgttcct gcgcaccagg    840
              cacggggagc tctgcgtcgg gatacggcgg gcgaagcgga tggcgtgcgg ggggatggag    900
              tgcatgtcgg ggtggaacgc gccgggctat ggcggcggcg gcttctcggc gttcttaaag    960
              gaggaggaga gtaagctgat gaagggccat ggtggtggtg ggtacatgaa gggcaagggg   1020
              aaggtgagga tggccgatgt cgtggaggcc gctagcctcg cgtcgagcgg gcagccgttc   1080
              gaggtggcgt actacccgag ggctagcacc ccggattttg tcgtgaaggc tgcgtcggtg   1140
              caggccgcaa tgaggatcca gtggtgctcc gggatgaggt tcaagatggc ttttgagaca   1200
              gaggattcat caaggattag ctggtttatg gggacaatat cttctgttca ggttgctgat   1260
              cccaacagat ggccgaattc gccgtggaga cttcttcagg tgacatggga tgaaccggac   1320
              ctgttgcaga atgtgaaatg tgtcagccca tggcttgtgg agcttgtgtc aagtattcca   1380
              ccaatccatt taggaccatt ttcgtcacct cgaaagaagt tgcgggttcc cccacatcct   1440
              gacttcccat ttgagggtca tcttctgaac ccaattttcc atgggaaccc acttggtcct   1500
              agcaacagcc cactatgctg ttacccggac accgctcctg caggcataca gggagccagg   1560
              catgctcaat ttggtttacc actaacagac caccagctta acaagctgca ccttggtctg   1620
              ttacatagcg gcagttttaa cagacttgat gctattactc caccttcccg gatatcaaag   1680
              ggctttgtgg tcagtagtgc accagcccat gacaatatct cttgtttgtt gtcaatcagt   1740
              acaccacagg tcgcagagaa atctgatgac agaaagacga caccccatat aatgctgttt   1800
              ggaaaggcta tatttactga gcagcagata acttcaagcg gatcaacaga gacactctcc   1860
              cctggagtta ctggaaatag ctcacctaat ggcaatgcgc acaagacagg aaatgcatct   1920
              gatggttctg gttcatcaat ttgcattggt ttctcatctc aaggtcacga ggcttctgac   1980
                                                    782

<removed-date>
              cttggtttag aagctggtca ctgcaaggta tttatggaat cggaggacgt tggtcgcacc   2040
              attgatttgt ctgtctttgg gtcatacgaa gaactgtatg gtcggctggc tgacatgttc   2100
              ggaatcgaga aagaagaaat cataaaccat cttcatttcc gtgacgcagc tggtgtagtc   2160
              aagcatccgg gtgaggtacc attcagg                                       2187
              <210>   698
<removed-apn>
              <211>   2088
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 698
              atggagctcg cggggccgac ggaaggcgac ggcggcgggt ccgtggactc ccagctgtgg     60
              gcggcgtgcg cggggagcat gtcgtcggtg ccgcccgtgg gcgcggcggt gtactacttc    120
              ccgcagggcc acgcggagca ggcgagcgcg gccgtggacc tgtcgtccgc gcgcgtcccg    180
              ccgctcgtgc cgtgccgggt tgtcgccgtg cggttcatgg ccgacgcgga gagcgacgag    240
              gtcttcgcca agatacgcct cgtcccgcta cgccccggcg acgcggtggt ggacgtgggc    300
              gaggcggccg cggccgaggc gcggcgggag gaggagaata gtaggccgag gccgacgtcg    360
              ttcgccaaga cgctgacgca gtccgacgcg aacaacggcg gggggttctc cgtgccgcgg    420
              ttctgcgccg agaccatctt cccggagctg gactacagca gcgagccgcc cgtgcagtcc    480
              gtctgcgcca aggacgtgca cggtgtggag tggacgttcc ggcacatcta ccggggcacc    540
              ccgcgccggc acctgctcac cacggggtgg agtcccttcg tcaacaagaa gcagctcacg    600
              gccggcgact ccatcgtgtt catgcgtgac gagggcggga acatccacgt cgggctccgc    660
              cgcgctaaac gcgggttctg cagcatcggc ggcgacgacg agagcctctc ctcgattccc    720
              gggtgggacc agtacagggg cttgatgcgg cgcaatgcga ccgcgaccgc gaccggtggg    780
              agaaccccgc ccaaggggaa ggtcccgccg gagaacgtgc tcacggcggc gacgagggcc    840
              accaccgggc agccgttcga ggtgctgtac tacccgcggg cgagcacgcc cgagttctgc    900
              gtgagggcgg ccgcggtcag gacggccatg gccgtgcagt ggtgccccgg catgcggttc    960
              aagatggcgt tcgagacaga ggactcgtcg cggatcagct ggttcatggg cactgtcgcc   1020
              ggcgtccagg cctccgaccc cgtccgttgg ccgcagtcgc catggcgtct ccttcaggtg   1080
              acctgggacg agccggagct cctacagaac gtaaagcgcg tgtgcccgtg gctggtggag   1140
                                                    783

<removed-date>
              ctcgtgtcga gcatgcccaa cctccacctg ccatccttct cgccgccgcg caagaagccg   1200
              cgcaacccgc cttacgcgga gctccccctc gagggccaga tcttcaccgg cccggtgttc   1260
              ccgcccaatc caatggcgca cgaccaccac caccaccatg gtttcccttt cctccccttc   1320
              ccggacagta gtgctcaacc tgcaggcata cagggagcca ggcatgcgca gttcgcttca   1380
              ccgttcccgg agttccacat cggcaacctg cagccgaatc tgatgctcta cgccggcatc   1440
<removed-apn>
              cgcctcccgc ccgccgatcg cgccgccccc gctcctcgcc cgccgagaat catcatcagc   1500
              accgacctga cgattggcag cccgggtaaa cccgacgacg ccgcgtgctc tccctcatcc   1560
              ggcggcaaga agatcgacga caccaagccg cgggggtttc tcctctttgg acaggcaatt   1620
              ctaaccgagg agcagatcaa gaacggcaac tccgatggtc gtccggcctc gccgaactgg   1680
              gacgccgaga aggcgcctaa cacctcggaa ggctccgact ccggcgtcac ccagggcagc   1740
              cccaccaaga acaccacgcc gtcgtggagc ctaccgtatt ttggaggcaa caacatcagc   1800
              cgcgcatccg agtacgagct gaatcccggg cagtgcaagg tgttcgtcga gtcggaaacc   1860
              gtcggccgga gcctcgatct ctcggcgctg agctcgttcg aggagctgta cgcctgcctg   1920
              tctgatatgt tcagcattgg cagcgatgaa ctgaggagcc atctggtgta ccgcagcccc   1980
              gccggcgaag tcaagcacgc cggcgacgag ccattctgcg cgttcgtgaa atcggcgcgt   2040
              aagcttagga tactgacaga tgctggcagt gacaacctgg gagattag                2088
              <210>   699
              <211>   3224
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 699
              gagtgggtag taggagaagt acttgcttaa gctcctcttc ttgccctgga ctcctcttct     60
              cctctctttc tctctccttt cccctctctc tctctctcta tttagttctt ttgcccccat    120
              gtcagctgca gtctggggga atctgaggct gctgctcacc tgagagactg aaaggaggca    180
              gaagcagcag cagcatcagc atcagcagca gagcagatag ctgagctgca gagggggagg    240
              agagaagata gtagtggtag tagtagctga gctgtgtcaa gattgccctt caaattcatc    300
              atcttttgct cttgtgagaa aaggtgagta gtggtttctg ggttgcgtct ccctttttct    360
              gcaagatttc tgagccaaaa ttctctcttt tgctcgcttt gttccctttt ctttcttttc    420
                                                    784

<removed-date>
              tttttttccc ttcttcctcc tttctgctct gctggttggt tggttctttc tcctccccca    480
              gcctttttca gctatgagct ctgattgatg atgacgatga tggcggctgt gcagctgaaa    540
              agcttcttca ccttgtggta gtggtaaaag ctgtgggaaa tttcatccat aaagatcgcc    600
              gtggcgctcg aattccgctg aattttgttt gtgctcgagc tgatcggtgg aggtgaaaga    660
              tttttgcgtc gaagagatga taactttcgt ggattccgcg gcgaaggagc gggagcggga    720
<removed-apn>
              gagtgacaag tgcttggacc cgcagctgtg gcacgcctgc gccggcggca tggtccagat    780
              gccgccggtg agctccaagg tgtactactt cccgcaaggc cacgccgagc acgcgcaggg    840
              gcatggcccc gtcgagttcc cgggcgggcg cgtcccggcg ctcgtgctct gccgcgtcgc    900
              gggcgtcagg ttcatggccg atccggacac cgacgaggtg ttcgccaaga tccgcctcgt    960
              ccccgtccgc gccaacgagc agggctacgc cggtgacgcc gacgacggca ttggcgccgc   1020
              cgcggccgcg gcggcgcagg aggagaagcc cgcgtcgttc gccaagacgc tcacgcagtc   1080
              cgacgccaac aacggcgggg ggttctccgt gccgcgctac tgcgccgaga ccatcttccc   1140
              gcgtctcgac tactccgccg atccccccgt ccagaccgtc ctcgccaagg acgtccatgg   1200
              cgtggtctgg aagttccgcc acatctaccg cggcacgccg aggcgccacc tcctcaccac   1260
              ggggtggagc accttcgtga accagaagaa gctcgtcgcc ggcgactcca tcgtgttcat   1320
              gcgcaccgag aacggggatc tctgcgtcgg catccgccgc gccaagaaag ggggcgtggg   1380
              aggcccggag ttcctgccgc cgccgccgcc gccgccgccg acacctgccg ccggcggcaa   1440
              ttacggcggg ttctccatgt tcctgagggg cgacgacgac ggcaacaaga tggcggcggc   1500
              ggccaggggc aaggtcagag cccgtgtccg gccagaggag gtcgtcgagg cggccaatct   1560
              cgccgtgagc gggcaaccat tcgaggtcgt ctactacccg agggcgagca cgccggagtt   1620
              ctgcgtgaag gccggggcgg tcagagcggc gatgcggacg cagtggttcg ccggcatgag   1680
              gttcaagatg gcattcgaga cggaggactc atcaaggatc agctggttca tgggcactgt   1740
              atcggccgtg caggttgctg accccattag atggcctaat tcaccatgga ggcttcttca   1800
              ggtttcatgg gatgaaccgg acttgttaca gaatgtgaag agggtgagcc catggttggt   1860
              tgagcttgtg tcaaacatgc cggccatcca ccttgctcca ttctcgcctc cacggaagaa   1920
              gctttgcgtg ccgttgtacc ccgagcttcc catcgacggc caatttccga caccgatgtt   1980
                                                    785

              ccatggaaac ccgctcgccc gtggggttgg tcctatgtgc tatttcccgg atggcactcc   2040
<removed-date>
              tgcaggcata cagggagcca ggcatgctca atttggtata tctttatcag atctccacct   2100
              taacaaactg cagtcgagtc tatcgcccca cggctttcac cagcttgatc acggcatgca   2160
              gccgaggatc gccgctggtc taattatcgg tcatccggct gctcgggatg atatctcatg   2220
              cttgttgacc attggtagcc cccagaacaa caagaaatca gatggcaaga aggcgccagc   2280
              ccagctgatg cttttcggaa aacccatact cacagagcag cagatatcct tgggtgatgc   2340
<removed-apn>
              tgcttcggtg gatgttaaga agagctcttc tgatggtaat gctgaaaata cggtgaataa   2400
              gagtaactcc gatgtttcaa gcccgagaag taatcagaat ggcaccacag ataatttgtc   2460
              atgtggagga gttccattgt gccaagacaa caaggtactt gatgttgggc tggaaacagg   2520
              gcactgcaag gtattcatgc agtcggagga tgtcgggcgc acacttgatc tctctgttgt   2580
              tggttcatat gaggaattat accgccggct tgctgacatg ttcagcatcg agaaagctga   2640
              gctgatgagt catgttttct accgtgatgc ggctggggca ctcaagcaca ctggagatga   2700
              acctttcagc gagttcacga agacggcgcg taggctgaat atactaacag atacaagcgg   2760
              cgataactta gcgaggtagg gtaaattaaa gctattctca attgtacagc tggtggagca   2820
              cggtggcaat tttgaaggca aaaattgccg gtttcctagt actggtgcaa tttcaaggag   2880
              gcaattcagt tttctttaat tagagctccc agaatgggat tgactgtaat ccggtaccat   2940
              atttatcggc agatttacca gactggatct atcctactgt catgtaaacc gatcatattg   3000
              catttgatcg ttggtgtgta ctcggccatg aaccgttact aaacgaatgc gattacggga   3060
              atttttgcgc gcaaatgcgt tgaattgtct gaaaaaaaaa actacatctg catgctctgt   3120
              ttgtagtact tcatcatacc aaagaatcga agaagtggag tcagaatggc ccaaaatttg   3180
              tgtgtgtcac tgaatttgga attgaaattt tgcagattgt acta                    3224
              <210>   700
              <211>   2125
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 700
              gaatttgggc acgggggaga ctaaattctc ggagaaggaa ggtgtccata attaagcgat     60
              cgattcgagt ccccttccct tcctccctaa accctaacca aacccccacc actctctttc    120
                                                    786

              cgcgcgccgc gtgcgacgat ggcgcgcccg ccagccgcca ccgctccgcc tcctcctccg    180
<removed-date>
              ccgccgccgc caccgccacc gccaccgatc gaccgcctcg tctggctcgc ctgcgccgcc    240
              ccgctgtccc gcatccccgt cgtcggcacc caggtctcct acttcccaga gggccacgcc    300
              gagcagtgtc ccgcccctct cccggatccg ctcccctccg cccaccgatt cttcctctgc    360
              accatcaccg ccgtcgacct ctccgccgac accaccaccg gcgagcccta cgccaccatc    420
              tccctcctcc ctcttcgcca cgacgccccc gcccccgccc ccgcccccgc ccccgccgcc    480
<removed-apn>
              gccgaattag cagaagcaga atcacaggag ttccgctact acgccaagca gctgacgcag    540
              agcgacgcca acaacggcgg cggcttctcc gtgccaaggt tgtgcgccga tcacatcttc    600
              ccggcgctca acctggatga tgacccgccc gtccagagcc tcaccatggg ggacctgcag    660
              ggcgactcgt gggaattccg ccacatctac cgcggcacgc cgcgccggca cctgctgacg    720
              accgggtgga gcaagttcgt gaacgccaag cagctggtgg ccggggacac ggtggtgttc    780
              atgtggtgcg gggccccggc ccccgagagg aagctgttgg tcggggtgcg acgcgcggcc    840
              aggtactcgg gcgagtcggc gtgcaacgcg cgggggcggg tgcagcccca ggaggtgatg    900
              gaggcggtcc gactggcggc ggagcaggcg gcgttcaggg tgacctacta cccgcggcat    960
              ggggcggggg agttcgtggt gccgcgggtg gaggtggata agggattgac tactccgtgg   1020
              aggtgcggga tgcaggtgcg cgcccaggtg atggaggccg aggacacccg ccgcctcgct   1080
              tggctcaatg gcaccctcac taacctccgc caccaacaaa tctggcgcac tctcgaggtt   1140
              gaatgggatg cctccgccgc gtcatcttcc atgaaaaaca gatttgttaa tccttggcag   1200
              gtccagcctg ttgatttccc tcctcttccc atggggctaa agatttctaa caacaatatt   1260
              agtgcacctg tgtgcaatgg ggattcactg ctggtgccac cgatactaat gcacccgcaa   1320
              cctcaacctc ccgctgacat tcagggagcc aggcataaca atggccatgc ctatgcagat   1380
              ataccctctt catcaacacc atcaatggtg aggactcagc agctgttccc aagggatctt   1440
              cagattttag ttccccacac cgacattgtc actcctcaaa atggatcacc gcccgacaac   1500
              cccgtaaaca cgcctctttc tgcatctgac ggaatgaaga ccatacagct gtttggcgtc   1560
              acaataacat cacctgtgca aggagacacc aatggcgctt tcgcttcagc acaagtgaat   1620
              caggttccag agggtgtaga tgatgaaact gctaccgaag aagcttctga cacaagccta   1680
              cctgactctc ttaccaatgg ccacaatcaa gatggtgcta ggctttgaag gaatatccca   1740
                                                    787

<removed-date>
              ttaaacgttt ccaagatatg gctggaccag atttgtttct aacattttgg tctgttctgt   1800
              ttcaccctcc ggcagtttga cgggatgtgg tgttcttatg catgcattta atctggagtt   1860
              taggctggca actatgccgc atggtccagt taagtttgga gtaatctgga gaaacgttca   1920
              tttctttgtt agaattgtta tagagcagca ctgctctgtt ttattttcct tgaattttca   1980
              cacctgcact ttgtttgctt gttgtttgtt tacctgtatt gatctgataa acatctttaa   2040
<removed-apn>
              tttcctgggg aaccgttgaa ctctgctttg ctgttgcggc tagcttttcc aattggtatg   2100
              gcataaggat ttggcacttc caagc                                         2125
              <210>   701
              <211>   2352
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 701
              atgatcacgt tcgcggacct ggcggagccg gcgcccggcg ccgagcggtg cgtcgaccgg     60
              cagctgtggc tggcgtgcgc ggggggcatg tgcaccgtgc cgccggtggg cgccgccgtg    120
              tactacttcc cgcaggggca cgccgagcac gcgctcggcc tcgccgcgcc ggagctctcc    180
              gcggcgcgcg tcccggcgct cgtgccctgc cgcgtcgcgt ccgtgcggta catggccgac    240
              ccggacaccg acgaggtgtt cgccaggatc cgcctcgtgc cgctccgcgc cgcggaggat    300
              ggggacgtcg aggaggatgg cgccgcggca ggcgaggagc acgagaagcc ggcgtcgttc    360
              gccaagacgc tgacgcagtc ggatgccaac aacggcgggg ggttctcggt gcccaggtac    420
              tgcgccgaga ccatcttccc gcgcctggac tacgccgccg acccgcccgt gcagaccgtc    480
              gtcgccaagg acgtccatgg agtcgcctgg aacttccgcc acatctacag gggcacgccg    540
              cgccggcacc tgctcaccac ggggtggagc acgttcgtga accagaagaa gctcgtggcc    600
              ggcgactcca tcgtgttcct ccgcggcgac ggaggggacc tgcacgtcgg catccggcgc    660
              gccaagcgcg ggttttgcgg cggcggaggc ggagccgagg aggcctccct gcccgggtgg    720
              gaccagtacg gcggcctgat gcgaggcaat gcgagcccgt gcgcggccgc caaggggcgg    780
              ggcaaggtgc gcgcggagga cctcgtcgag gcggcgaggc tggcgaacgg cgggcagccg    840
              ttcgaggtcg tgtactaccc gcgcgccagc acgccggagt tctgcgtgcg cgcggcggcg    900
              gtccgcgcgg cgatgcgggt gcagtggtgc cccgggatgc ggttcaagat ggcgttcgag    960
                                                    788

<removed-date>
              accgaggact cctcccggat cagctggttc atgggcaccg tcgccagcgt ccaggtcgcc   1020
              gaccccatcc gttggccgca gtcgccgtgg cggcttctcc aggtgacctg ggacgaaccg   1080
              gacctcctcc agaacgtgaa gcgggtgagc ccatggttgg tcgagctggt gtcgagcatg   1140
              ccggccatca acctctcgtc tttctcgccg ccgcgcaaga agccccggat tctggcgtac   1200
              ccggagttcc ccttcgaggg gcagctcctc aacccggcgt tcccgccaaa cccgctggca   1260
<removed-apn>
              cacggccacc accattacca tcacaaccac ccgtccttct tcccgttccc cgacgttagt   1320
              gctcctgcag gcatacaggg agccaggcat gcgcaatttg gtccatcttt atcagatctc   1380
              caccttaccc acctgcagtc gagcctcatg tacccggggc tccgccgccc cgatcatgtc   1440
              ggtccaacat ccatcccgcc accaagaatc agcactgacc tgacaatggg cagctcgccg   1500
              ccggcgcgcg ctctgtccat gggcgccaag aagcccgacg acgccaagcc gccggggcta   1560
              atgctgttcg ggcagaggat actgaccgag cgccagatga gccttagcgg caccacctcg   1620
              ccggcggcca ccgggaacag ctctctcaac tggaacaccg agaaaggtgc ctcggagggc   1680
              tcgggctccg gcgtcatcca gaacagcccc accgacaaca cgtcgtcgga gaggctccag   1740
              tggttcaggg agaacagcac cgtctccgag ctcgggctgg agcccgggca gtgcaaggtg   1800
              ttcatcgagt ccgacacggt cggccgcaac ctcgacctct cgtcgctggc ctcgttcgag   1860
              cagctctacg gccggctgtc cgagatgttc tgcatcgaca gcgcggagct gaggagccgt   1920
              gtgctctacc gtggcgccac cggcgaagtg aggcacgccg gcgacgagcc attcagtaga   1980
              gatttcaaca agaaagctca atctgcacag gtatcctact gttctcctgt atccttcttc   2040
              atcatcatca acaacgatca gctgcgtgta cttgttgatt cccgtgtact acgatgcaaa   2100
              aatcctgtga ccactcatca gaggcttgaa tgccgcggcc ccttggccca agggacaagc   2160
              gcatgcagca tgcagacgca gacgcagcgc tgcgccattt ctgacctctc cggtggcctg   2220
              acctccaggc tccagcctcc aggcgaggca atccctcttg gttctcttgc cttggcagca   2280
              agctcgctta cccatgatga tgagatttgt gatctgcatc gtgctgcgta tccctggcta   2340
              gtagagagct ag                                                       2352
              <210>   702
              <211>   1315
              <212>   DNA
                                                    789

              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 702
              gccaggtggt tcagtggaat attcttgcaa gcttcagctc ccttgtaatg ccccgttcga     60
              aaaacttgag ggtcctatat gcagttcaat acgactggca cagcaggctg tttgtttggc    120
              tgcttgtaag aagctgcatg agatgggtgc cttcacagat acgctcttac ctgacagagg    180
              aagcggggaa ggggaaaaaa ctgagcagaa tgatggaatt gaaccaccga cccacgcgtc    240
<removed-apn>
              cggccataga gagttttatc ctgaaggtgt tgctgatatt ctacggggag aatggatttt    300
              atctggcaga gatggctacc aaaactctca atttattaag ttatatatgt attctgtgaa    360
              ctgtgtaaac gttgggactt ctaaggaccc tttcgttaca caactttcaa attttgcaat    420
              tatttttggc aatgagccgg atgcagaggt tttatcgacg acgatggatc tctttgttgc    480
              aaggacaatg ataacaaagg catctctcgt attccgtgga cgaattgaaa ttacagaaag    540
              tcagctggtg ttgctgaaga gctttcatgt taggctcatg agcatagtac ttgatgttga    600
              tgttgatccc tcaactacac cttgggatcc cgcaaaagca tacctctttg tccctgtagg    660
              agctgagaag tgtacagatc ctttaagaga gattgattgg actttggtta actacattgt    720
              taacactgat gcctggaaca atccacttca gagggcacgc ccagatgtct atctaggcac    780
              caatgaacga acacttggtg gggataggag ggaatacggg tttgggaaat tgcgccatgg    840
              gactgctttt ggacaaaagg cccatcctac ttatggtatt aggggagcta ttgctgaatt    900
              tgacattgtg aaagcatctg gattagttcc tgctcgtgat agaggacatt ttagtgatta    960
              tcagaaccaa ggcaagttgt tcatggcaga ttcatgttgg aatgctaaag atcttgctgg   1020
              aatggttgtc actgctgccc actcagggaa gaggttttat gtggactgca tttgctataa   1080
              catgaatgca gaaaattcat tccctaggaa agaaggctac ctggggccat tggagtatag   1140
              ttcatatgct gattactaca agcagaagta cggtgtggag ttaatctata ggaaacagcc   1200
              tcttatacgg gcccgtggtg tttcatattg caagaatctt ctttctccta gatttgagca   1260
              ttctgacgct agagaaggtg acttctctga gaaccttgac aaaccatact acgtg        1315
              <210>   703
              <211>   1468
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
                                                    790

              <400> 703
<removed-date>
              atacaacgat ttcctcttgt caccctgaat ctacttctgc tgcaaaagca ataagcaagg     60
              agcagttagc caggtaaagc tctagctagc tagcttaggc agcaatggag cagcatcagg    120
              gccaggcagg catggacttg ccccctggct tccgcttcca cccgaccgac gaggagctga    180
              tcacgcacta cctcgccaag aaggtcgccg acgcccgctt cgccgccctc gccgtcgccg    240
              aggccgacct caacaagtgc gagccctggg acctgccatc tctggcgaag atgggggaga    300
<removed-apn>
              aggagtggta cttcttctgc ctcaaggaca ggaagtaccc gacggggctg aggacgaaca    360
              gggcgacgga gtccgggtac tggaaggcca cggggaagga caaggacatc ttcagacgga    420
              aggccctcgt cggcatgaag aagacgctcg ttttctacac ggggcgcgct cccaaggggg    480
              agaagtctgg ctgggtcatg cacgagtacc gcctccacgg caagctccac gccgccgccc    540
              tcggcttcct ccacggcaag cccgcgtcgt ccaagaacga gtgggtgttg tgcagggtgt    600
              tcaagaagag cctcgtggag gtgggcgcgg cgggagggaa gaaggcggcc gtggtgacga    660
              tggagatggc gaggggaggg tcgacgtcgt cgtccgtggc ggacgagatc gccatgtcgt    720
              ccgtcgtcct ccctccgctg atggacatgt ccggagccgg cgccggcgcc gtcgacccgg    780
              cgacgacggc gcacgtgacc tgcttctcca acgcgctgga gggccagttc tttaacccga    840
              cggcagtaca cgggcacggc ggcggcgact cctcgccgtt catggcgagc ttcacgcagt    900
              acgggcagct gcaccacggc gtgagcctgg tgcaactcct ggagagctgc aacggctacg    960
              gcggcctcgt cgacatggca gcgtccggca gccagctgca gccggcggcg tgcggcggcg   1020
              agcgggagag gcttagcgcg tcgcaggaca ccggcctcac ctccgacgtg aacccggaga   1080
              tctcgtcatc ctccggccaa aaattcgacc acgaggccgc gctatggggc tactaaggtt   1140
              tgatatgatc agcgccgtgt acgttaatcg cgggcgatta gcgaagtagc gattactgta   1200
              aataaaacca tgagatcgcg atcgaggcat ctaccaaggt tcgcttaatt tgcttgtacc   1260
              tataggtgta gattatttgg tgatttggga gatgtaatta gcattgtttg tttgtaattc   1320
              gtatcagaat gatcgatgca gtattgtttg gagggttagt taagcaattg gccactcctc   1380
              agttgccagt taattagtta gttagctctt tctaaaaagc tagcagagac taatagctaa   1440
              cttctctaaa agtttgacct gctgtgtg                                      1468
              <210>   704
                                                    791

              <211>   1491
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 704
              ctggcacgcg aaccaagaaa agtctctctc tcctctcctc tcttcttcat caacacacac     60
              tggttgacca accagctagc tgatcgagtt cgttgtttac catcctatta ataccccttc    120
              ctctctctct tctcccctcc tgaatttctc tcttggtaga ggtagaattg atctcctttc    180
<removed-apn>
              ttgttcttct tcgagttctt cttaattgga gttcttggag cagcatcggt agtcgtcgtc    240
              ttcgtcgatc cagcatctca aggaattcga ggaggagggg gtgggcatga gcgggatgaa    300
              ttcgctgagc atggtggagg cgaggctgcc gccggggttc aggttccacc cgcgagacga    360
              cgagctcgtg ctggactacc tggaaaggaa gctcctcgac ggcggcgtgg gcggcgccgc    420
              ggcggcggcg gcggcggtca ccatctacgg ctgcccggtg atggtcgacg tcgatctcaa    480
              caagtgcgag ccatgggacc ttcctgagat cgcttgcgtt ggtggcaagg agtggtactt    540
              ctatagcctt agggatagga agtatgcaac tggccaacga acaaatagag caaccgaatc    600
              gggctactgg aaggccacag gaaaagatcg cccaataagc cggaaaggat tgctcgtcgg    660
              tatgcgaaaa accctggtgt tctacaaagg tagagcccct aaggggaaga agaccgagtg    720
              ggtcatgcat gaattccgca aagaaggaca aggggatccg atgaagttgc ctctcaagga    780
              ggactgggtc ttgtgtagag tcttctacaa gagtaggaca accattgcca agctgccaac    840
              ggagggtagc tacaacaata ttgacagtgt ggccacaact tcactgcctc ccctcactga    900
              caactacatt gcatttgatc agcctggttc aatgcaaaac ctagagggtt atgagcaagt    960
              gccctgcttc tccaataatc cctctcaaca gccatcgtcg tcgatgaatg ttccgttgac   1020
              atcggccatg gttgatcaag agcaaaacaa tatgggtagg gcgatcaagg atgtgctgag   1080
              ccaattcacc aagtttgaag gcaatgtgaa gagggaggcc cttcaaagta atttttccca   1140
              ggatggattt gattacttgg ctgagagtgg cttcacacaa atgtggaact cactcagttg   1200
              atttaatttc gaaggagata tatattgatt gttgcgaatt gaggaggaaa ctcttaaagt   1260
              gtgcttatgt gctattgcat gtaattgtga tatagacgta tagtaccatt ctagttcaca   1320
              ttatttgcaa aaaaaaaggg gtgatcaaaa gagatattat catcatcaat gatgtaaata   1380
              cattatttgt gtactagggt gtgataaaaa aaattagtgc atgatgctaa aattaatggt   1440
                                                    792

              atatatcaat agagctagaa tcttctttta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa g            1491
<removed-date>
              <210>   705
              <211>   686
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 705
              gccgagctcg ccattagctt gctattctct cttcttcttc ttcttcttct tcttcttctt     60
<removed-apn>
              cttcttcttc ttggtgtgat tgaggtggag gaggagatga gtttcatagg catggtggag   120
              gcgagaatgc cgccggggtt caggttccac ccgagggacg acgagctggt gctggactac   180
              ctcctgcaca agctcgccgc cggcggccgg ggaggagggg tgtacggcca cactgcattc   240
              attactaatc cctatctacc aagtaacaac acaaacatca tcaatatcaa tatcaatatc   300
              aatatcaata tcaatatcaa gatcaagatc attattgggg gttccacatc tgtgacaggc    360
              cactctcctg tccccaatct ggggagagct ccagctttgc agtgttgctg ttgtgcagta    420
              ccctgatggc cttcttctct gcagaggtgt ccatggccag caggtcccca aagctgatgg    480
              agcccttcat tggcaatgcc ggcaggccgg aaaagcagga cacttgctcg tagctcccga   540
              ccatcgatgg cgtcgtcgtc ggtgcgctat ccaaggcgat gtaggcatcc atgaggggcg   600
              ggagccaagg cgtggcaggc aagtctagct cattgggcag tgtgacggcc tcttcaaatg   660
              atgggcttgg aattgtttgt ctggtc                                        686
              <210>   706
              <211>   1395
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 706
              tgtgttaata ttctgggtcc tttgcttaat ggttggtgtt ggctccttct gatgaatttc     60
              ccccttaacc acttcatcac ttctctcgtc gatctagtct aaaaggttta gtagatgcga    120
              ttagccaggc agcagcagca ggtggtggtg gctgcgacga tggagcatga cgtgcaccac    180
              caccggcaga tgatgcagca gcagcagcag caggagatgg acctgccgcc gggcttccgg   240
              ttccacccca ccgacgagga gctcatcacg cactacctcc tccgcaaggc cgccgacccc   300
              gccgggttcg ccgcgcgcgc cgtcggagag gccgacctca acaagtgcga gccatgggac   360
              ctgccatcga gggcgacgat gggggagaag gagtggtact tcttctgcgt gaaggaccgg   420
                                                    793

<removed-date>
              aagtacccga cggggctgag gacgaacagg gcgacggagt ccgggtactg gaaggcgacg    480
              gggaaggacc gggagatctt cagggggaag gccctcgtcg gcatgaagaa gacgctcgtc    540
              ttctacaccg ggagggcccc ccgcggcggc aagaccggat gggtcatgca cgagtaccgc    600
              atccacggca agcacgccgc cgccaattcc aagcaggatc aggagtgggt gctgtgcagg    660
              gtgttcaaga agagcctcga gctggcgccg gcggcggcgg cggcggtcgg caggagaggc    720
<removed-apn>
              gcgggcgcgg ggacggacgt tgggccgtcg tcgatgccca tggcggacga cgtcgtcggc    780
              ctcgccccgt gcgcgctccc gccgctgatg gacgtgtctg gcggcggcgg tggcgccggc    840
              acaacctcgc tgtcagcgac cgcgggcgcg gcggcggcgc cgccgccagc gcacgtgacc    900
              tgcttctcca acgcgctgga gggccagttc ctggacacac cgtacctcct ccccgccgcc    960
              gatcccgcgg atcacctcgc catgtcctcc gcctcgccgt tcttggaggc cctgcagatg   1020
              cagtacgtcc aggacgccgc cgccgccgga ggagcgggca tggtgcacga gctgctcatg   1080
              ggcggcggct ggtattgcaa caagggcgag agggagaggc tgagcggcgc ctcgcaggac   1140
              accggcctca cgtcgtcgga ggtgaacccc ggcgagatct cgtcgtcgtc gcggcagcaa   1200
              cgcatggatc atcacgacgc gtccctctgg gcctattgaa atattcattc atcatcattg   1260
              aaaattgcat tagccattat tattagtact gttggcacga ttattgattg tgttgtaata   1320
              ttggtatgtt gatataatta attagtacgc caaagagaca aatcacaaga gaaaaaaaaa   1380
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                                                    1395
              <210>   707
              <211>   1538
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 707
              gacaatttgc aacacacaca cacacatgac acaagcacac acacccctat tcatacacat     60
              actccatatg tagccctttc ttggtttctc tctctagcag ctactaccct tcaatttcct    120
              taattctctc tcttcttgtt cttcttcttc ctccatatag ctagctagag agagagagag    180
              agagagagag aggaggtgat caaggggggg aggttgatcg atgtcgatga tgagcttctt    240
              gagcatggtg gaggcggagc tgccgccggg gttcaggttc cacccgaggg acgacgagct    300
              catctgcgac tacctggcgc ccaaggtcgc cggcaaggtc ggcttctccg gccgccgccc    360
                                                    794

<removed-date>
              gcccatggtc gacgtcgacc tcaacaaggt cgagccatgg gacctccccg aggtggcgtc    420
              ggtgggcgga aaggagtggt acttcttcag cctgagggac cgaaaatacg cgacggggca    480
              gcgtacgaac cgagccacgg tttcggggta ctggaaggcc acggggaagg acagggtggt    540
              ggcacgaaga ggggcacttg tggggatgag gaagacactg gtgttctacc aggggagggc    600
              acccaaggga aggaagacag agtgggtgat gcatgagtac aggatggagg gtgtgcatga    660
<removed-apn>
              tcaacaagct tccagcttct cctccaagga agactgggtc ctgtgcagag tcatctgcaa    720
              gaggaaatca ggagggggtg caacctccaa gtcaagaagc ctcaccacca ccaccaccac    780
              cattgtccat gacacatcca caccaacctc ctcaccacca ttgccacccc tcatggacac    840
              caccctagct cagctccagg cctccatgaa cacctcctcc tcctccgcca tcgccgccgt    900
              cgccgcactt gagcaagtgc cctgcttctc cagcttcagc aacagcattg ccagtaacaa    960
              caacaacagc aacagtgcta ctgtcaatgc acagcaatgc tacctgccaa ttgtcacagg   1020
              tagcaacaac aatggcatga gctacctgga tcatggcctg cctgaatttg gcagcttctt   1080
              ggacacccag agctgtgaca agaagatgct caaggcagtg ctgagccagc tcaactccat   1140
              tgggggtgag gtgttgccag gcctgcctcc tccatctgaa atggctgctg ctgtcagctc   1200
              ttcttggatg aatcacttct agggaaaaat attattcaga caatataaga atagctagct   1260
              agctagtagt tgatcttcag tgtgtatgat gaattgatga tttgatatgg tatacatact   1320
              tatttgtgtg atggtacaat atttatgtgt gagtattaat agagcatgcc atagtttttc   1380
              tgtaaggcat aggaaaattc aggactaaaa ctatgtaatg attgctaaag tgtgtatact   1440
              cagaaatcag aagtagaggt ttgcgttgtc gaaaaatttt cggaacaatg attttctgtc   1500
              gtcctgcttg tgcatatcta tatggagtag tatacaaa                           1538
              <210>   708
              <211>   1673
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 708
              gatttttccg atatacaacg atttcctctt gtcaccctga atctacttct gctgcaaaag     60
              caataagcaa ggagcagtta gccaggtaaa gctctagcta gctagcttag gcagcaatgg    120
              agcagcatca gggccaggca ggcatggact tgccccctgg cttccgcttc cacccgaccg    180
                                                    795

<removed-date>
              acgaggagct gatcacgcac tacctcgcca agaaggtcgc cgacgcccgc ttcgccgccc    240
              tcgccgtcgc cgaggccgac ctcaacaagt gcgagccctg ggacctgcca tctctggcga    300
              agatggggga gaaggagtgg tacttcttct gcctcaagga caggaagtac ccgacggggc    360
              tgaggacgaa cagggcgacg gagtccgggt actggaaggc cacggggaag gacaaggaca    420
              tcttcagacg gaaggccctc gtcggcatga agaagacgct cgttttctac acggggcgcg    480
<removed-apn>
              ctcccaaggg ggagaagtct ggctgggtca tgcacgagta ccgcctccac ggcaagctcc    540
              acgccgccgc cctcggcttc ctccacggca agcccgcgtc gtccaaggta cacgaacgca    600
              cgtacgccgc gtgcgtgtgt ttggttgtga ccagtttgat cgatcgatcg atcgatcgat    660
              tgagcaggcc ggactgacac gccgtgggtt tttcttgttg gtgcgtagaa cgagtgggtg    720
              ttgtgcaggg tgttcaagaa gagcctcgtg gaggtgggcg cggcgggagg gaagaaggcg    780
              gccgtggtga cgatggagat ggcgagggga gggtcgacgt cgtcgtccgt ggcggacgag    840
              atcgccatgt cgtccgtcgt cctccctccg ctgatggaca tgtccggagc cggcgccggc    900
              gccgtcgacc cggcgacgac ggcgcacgtg acctgcttct ccaacgcgct ggagggccag    960
              ttctttaacc cgacggcagt acacgggcac ggcggcggcg actcctcgcc gttcatggcg   1020
              agcttcacgc agtacgggca gctgcaccac ggcgtgagcc tggtgcaact cctggagagc   1080
              tgcaacggct acggcggcct cgtcgacatg gcagcgtccg gcagccagct gcagccggcg   1140
              gcgtgcggcg gcgagcggga gaggcttagc gcgtcgcagg acaccggcct cacctccgac   1200
              gtgaacccgg agatctcgtc atcctccggc caaaaattcg accacgaggc cgcgctatgg   1260
              ggctactaag gtttgatatg atcagcgccg tgtacgttaa tcgcgggcga ttagcgaagt   1320
              agcgattact gtaaataaaa ccatgagatc gcgatcgagg catctaccaa ggttcgctta   1380
              atttgcttgt acctataggt gtagattatt tggtgatttg ggagatgtaa ttagcattgt   1440
              ttgtttgtaa ttcgtatcag aatgatcgat gcagtattgt ttggagggtt agttaagcaa   1500
              ttggccactc ctcagttgcc agttaattag ttagagttgc ttaatttagc tctttctaaa   1560
              aagctagcag agactaatag ctaactgtga tctcatcctg aacctaaaag tttgacctgc   1620
              tgtgtgatat agtagctggt accatcagct atagctaatc tagcatttaa agc          1673
              <210>   709
                                                    796

              <211>   3138
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 709
              aggcttcccc tgtccaccac tattaaacca acccccaccc cttctctctc ctgctctacc     60
              gtccttccct tcttctctct cgctaccttt cccttcccac ctcctcctcc tcctcctcac    120
              caccaccacg cgcctccgct cgcaagaagc acctccgacc gccatggcgc gcgcgggagc    180
<removed-apn>
              tggcggcagt ctctccctgg aggcatgacg cggcggcgcc cgtggccgtg gctcctgttg    240
              ctactactgc gaccaactac tgcgctcggt cggcggtggt ggtggccctg gtcgtcgtcg    300
              tagcgcgtcg gcggaggcgg gagaagaagg agaagggtcg acggggatgg cggcggcgat    360
              ggtggcggcg gtgcatggag tggggaggca ggacaggtcg tcgcctggcg gcggaggggc    420
              gccgcaagtg gacacgggca agtacgtgcg ctacaccccg gagcaggtgg aggcgctgga    480
              gcgggtctac ggcgagtgcc ccaagcccag ctcgctccgc cgccagcagc tcatccgcga    540
              gtgccccata ctcagcaaca tcgagcccaa gcagatcaag gtctggttcc agaaccgcag    600
              gtgccgcgag aagcagcgca aggaggcatc tcgcctgcaa actgtgaacc ggaagctgaa    660
              tgcgatgaac aagctgttga tggaggagaa tgacaggctg cagaagcagg tgtcccgcct    720
              cgtttacgag aacggctaca tgcggactca actgcacaat ccttctgcag ccaccacaga    780
              tacaagctgt gagtctgtgg tgacaagtgg tcaacaccac caacagcaaa acccagcagc    840
              cacgcgtccg caaagggacg cgaacaaccc agctggtctt ctcgctattg ctgaggagac    900
              cttggcagag ttcatgtcga aggcgacagg aactgctgtc gaatgggtgc aaatggttgg    960
              gatgaagcct ggtccggatt ccattggaat catcgctgtt tcgcacaatt gcagtggcgt   1020
              agcagcacga gcttgcggcc ttgtgagcct tgagcccaca aaggttgcgg agatccttaa   1080
              ggatcgccca tcttggtatc gcgattgccg gtgtgtcgat atcatccatg ttatccctac   1140
              gggtaacggc ggaaccattg agctaatcta catgcagact tatgcaccga caactttggc   1200
              ggcaccacgc gacttctgga ctctccgtta cactagtggt cttgaggatg gaagtcttgt   1260
              gatctgtgaa aggtcattga ctcagtccac tggtggccca tctgggccta acactccgaa   1320
              ttttatcaga gccgaggtac ttcccagtgg ttatctgatt cgaccatgtg agggaggtgg   1380
              ctccatgatt tacattgttg atcatgttga tttggatgct tggagtgtgc ctgaggttct   1440
                                                    797

              tcgaccgctc tatgaatctc caaagatcct tgcacagaag atgaccattg cagcattgcg   1500
<removed-date>
              acacattagg caaattgcac atgagtcaag cggtgaaatc ccctacggtg ctggtcgcca   1560
              gcctgctgtt ttgaggacct tcagtcaaag gctcagcaga ggtttcaatg atgctgttag   1620
              tggattccca gatgatggct ggtctttgtt gagcagtgat ggtgctgagg atgttacaat   1680
              tgcttttaac tcgtctccaa acaagcttgt tggatcccat gtcagctcct accctctgtt   1740
              ttctactgtt ggaggtggca tcttgtgtgc aaaggcatca atgctacttc agaatgtacc   1800
<removed-apn>
              tcctgctctc ctagtgcgat ttttgaggga gcaccgctct gaatgggctg atcctggtgt   1860
              tgatgcttat tctgctgctg cgttgagggc tagtccatat gcagttcctg gtctgcgagc   1920
              tggtggtttt atgggcagtc aggttatatt gccacttgcg cacaccttag agcatgaaga   1980
              gttcctggag gtcattaggc ttgagggaca cagcctctgc catgatgagg tcgttctatc   2040
              aagagatatg taccttctgc agctgtgcag cggtgtagat gaaaatgctg cgggtgcatg   2100
              tgcccagctt gtctttgcac ccattgacga atcttttgct gatgatgcac cactgctacc   2160
              ctcaggcttc cgtgtgatac cactggatgg caagacggat gcaccatctg cgacacgcac   2220
              acttgacctg gcatctactc ttgaggttgg atcgggtggg actacacggg cttctagtga   2280
              cacctcgagc acctgcaaca caagatcggt cctgaccata gctttccaat tctcatatga   2340
              aaaccacctt cgtgaaagcg tagcggcaat ggccaggcag tatgtccgga ccgtggtggc   2400
              atcagtgcag agagtggcca tggcaatagc tccttcacgt cttggtggac agattgaaac   2460
              aaagaaccct ccaggatctc ctgaggccca tacgcttgca aggtggattg ggaggagcta   2520
              ccgattccac actggagcgg atctccttcg cacagactca caaagcacgg attcttcctt   2580
              gaaagcaatg tggcaacact ctgattcaat catgtgctgc tccctgaagg ctgctcctgt   2640
              gttcaccttc gccaaccaag ccggcctcga catgctggag acgacgctga ttgctctcca   2700
              ggacatctcg ctcgagaaga tcctcgatga tgatggccgg aaggcactat gtacagagtt   2760
              ccccaagatc atgcagcagg gtttcgccta cctcccgggc ggcgtgtgcg tgtcgagcat   2820
              ggggcggccg gtgtcgtacg agcaggcggt ggcgtggaag gtcctgagcg acgacgacac   2880
              gccgcactgc ctcgccttca tgttcgtcaa ctggtcattc gtctgagaac caccctagta   2940
              gaatcgatcc cccctcttgt ttgtctgtcc taaagacctt atgtagtatt gcttttgtgt   3000
              atcatcacca tgaacatgtc aagaacctcc ccagtttcta tcatcatgaa cttccgtttg   3060
                                                    798

<removed-date>
              aatctagtac tgctaaatga tctatatggt atctttatct gtgagagatt ttgccccgga   3120
              aagtttgtca cggaagga                                                 3138
              <210>   710
              <211>   2751
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 710
              atgaggcttt cgtcgtcgtc cggcagcgtc ctcccggctc aggcggcgtc gccggaagct     60
              gtagaagaac aaaaatgcct gaattcggag ctctggcatg cgtgtgccgg tccccttgtt    120
              tcgttgcctg cagtgggtag ccgagtggtt tatttcccac agggtcacag cgaacaggta    180
              gctgcatcaa caaataaaga aatggagtct cagatcccca attatcctaa cttgcctcca    240
              caacttattt gccaacttca caatgtgacg atgcatgcag atgcagaaac agatgaggtt    300
              tacgctcaga tgacgctaca accacttagc ccgcaagagc tcaaggaccc atatctacca    360
              gctgaattag gttctgccaa caaacagcca acgaattatt tttgcaaaac attaacggca    420
              agtgacacaa gtacgcatgg cggattctct gttccccgtc gagcagctga gaaagtgttc    480
              cctccgctgg attttactca gcagcctcca gcacaggagt taattgcaaa agatcttcat    540
              ggcaatgagt ggaagtttcg tcatatcttt cgtggtcagc caaagcgaca ccttctaact    600
              acaggctgga gcgtctttgt aagtgcaaag agacttgtcg ccggggattc tgtcctattt    660
              atctggaatg acaacaacca gcttcttctg ggaattcgtc gagctaaccg cccacaaact    720
              gttatgccat cttcagtcct atctagtgat agcatgcata ttggtcttct tgctgcggct    780
              gctcatgctg cttcaacaaa tagccggttt acaatttttt ataacccaag agcaagccct    840
              tcagagtttg ttatcccact ttctaaatat gttaaggctg tatatcatac ccgtatatct    900
              gtgggcatgc gtttcaggat gctttttgag acagaagagt caagtgtacg gagatacatg    960
              ggcacgataa caggaattag tgatcttgat gctgctcgtt ggccaaactc acattggcgt   1020
              tctgtaaagg ttggctggga tgaatcaact gccggagaga ggcagccaag ggtgtcgctt   1080
              tgggagattg agcccttgac aactttccca atgtacccat ctccttttcc actcagactg   1140
              aagcgtccat ggccaacagg cttgccttca ttacatggtg gtaaggatga cgacttgact   1200
              tcttctctca tgtggctccg agacagcgca aatcctggtt tccaatcatt gaatttcggg   1260
                                                    799

<removed-date>
              ggtctcggta tgaatccttg gatgcagcca aggtttgatg cttccttact tggtctgcaa   1320
              cctgacatgt atcaaacgat agctgcgact gctttccagg acccaacaaa gcaggtctct   1380
              cccacgatat tgcagttcca gcagccgcag aacataggtg gcagagctaa tacacttctg   1440
              ccaagtcaga ttttgcagca agtgcagcct cagtttcagc agcagcaata cctccaaaac   1500
              atcaacgaga ccacaatcca agggcatgct cagtctgagt tccttcagca gcagctccaa   1560
<removed-apn>
              cgctgccagt cgtttactga gcagaagcca cagctgcaaa cccagcaaca acagcaagaa   1620
              tcacagcaac aacagcagca gcaatcgcag tgtatgcaag tcccacaaca tcagcaaatg   1680
              caacagcaga agaacatgac caactatcag tctgtaccta atgcattgtc accgttttct   1740
              caactctcct ctccttctca gtcttcacct atgacactgc aaacagtatt accattctcc   1800
              cagccacaga gctatccaga cacgagtatg agctcattgt caccatccaa cacatccacc   1860
              atgcataatg cattgaggcc attttcatcg gaagcacctt cgcacctaag catgccaaga   1920
              ccgactgcag tacctgtccc tgacccatgg tcatcgaagc gagttgcagt ggagtctttg   1980
              cttccctctc gtcctcaggt tacatcgcag atggagcagt tggactcaac agcacctagt   2040
              ataccacaaa gctctgcgtt ggcgccgctt cctggaagag gatgcttggt ggatcaagat   2100
              gggaactctg atcctcaaaa ccatctgtta tttggcgtta acatagattc acagtcactt   2160
              ctaatgcaag gtggcatccc aagcctccag ggtgagaatg attcgacggc aattccttat   2220
              tccacctcca atttcctgag cccgtcgcag aatgatttcc ccttggatca aacactaagt   2280
              agtgcagact gcttagatga atcaggatat gtgccgtgtt cacagaattc tgatcaagtg   2340
              attaatcgac cacctgcgac ctttgtgaag gtttacaaat cgggaaccta tggaaggtca   2400
              cttgatatca ctagatttag tagctatcat gaacttcgta gagaactagg gcgcctattt   2460
              ggccttgagg gccagttgga aaaccctttg agatcaggct ggcagcttgt attcgtcgac   2520
              cgagaggatg atgtcctcct cgttggcgac gacccttggc aggaattcgt gaatagcgtc   2580
              tcctgcataa agatactttc accacaggag gtgcagcaga tgggcaagcc ctttgagctt   2640
              ttgagctcgg ctcccggaaa gaggctaggt agcagctgtg atgactatgt gagcaggcag   2700
              gaatcaagaa gcctgagcac aggaattgca tctgtcggct cagttgaatt c            2751
              <210>   711
                                                    800

              <211>   3363
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 711
              gcttcagaca ctgtgcggga gctcacgcta ctgtacggcc ccctgcgctg cgccccccct     60
              cgtcgcgcac acgcacaaac gcactcgaac tactcgaacc acgcgaaccc ctctctttct    120
              ctctctctct ctctctcgct taaatgccac aaacctaatc atttccaccc ctcttgcgct    180
<removed-apn>
              ctctctctct ctctccaacc ccaccctttc tccccaccat ggtggcgatc tccgagctcg    240
              ggtgagcgga agagaaagaa tgcggccgat ttgaggaggg ggatggggtt ttcgggtgga    300
              tttgtgaggg gatagattaa gagtttgtgc ttctctggtt tggtcggagg aggaggagat    360
              gagctcgtcg tcggcggcca gcatcgggcc gccgcagccg ccgccgcccc ccgcgccgcc    420
              cgaggaaggt gggtggctag agaagaagtg cctcaactcg gagctatggc acgcctgcgc    480
              cggcccgctc gtctgcctcc ccaccgtcgg cacgcgcgtc gtctacttcc cgcaaggcca    540
              cagcgagcag gtggcggcgt cgacgaacaa ggaggtggag ggtcacatcc cgaactaccc    600
              caacctgccg gcgcagctga tctgccagct ccacgatgtc acaatgcatg cggatgtgga    660
              gactgacgag gtgtacgcgc agatgacgct ccagccactg aacccacagg agcagaacga    720
              tgcgtacctt cccgcggaga tggggataat gagcaagcag ccgacgaatt acttctgcaa    780
              gacattgacg gcgagcgaca ccagcacgca cggggggttc tccgtgcccc gccgtgctgc    840
              tgagcgcgtc ttccctcctt tggatttcac acagcagcct ccagcccagg agctaattgc    900
              acgggatatt catgacatcg agtggaagtt caggcacatc tttcgaggcc aacccaaacg    960
              acacctgcta accactggct ggagcgtttt tgtcagtgct aagagacttg ttgctggaga   1020
              ttctgtgctt ttcatatgga acgagaaaaa ccagctttta cttggaataa gacgtgccag   1080
              tcggccacag actgtgatgc cttcctctgt tctttcaagc gatagcatgc acataggtct   1140
              ccttgcagca gcagctcatg ctgctgctac aaacagccgt ttcactattt tctacaaccc   1200
              ccgggcaagt ccatcagaat ttgtcatacc actgtcaaaa tacatcaagg ctgtttttca   1260
              cacccggata tcggttggga tgcggttcag gatgttgttt gagactgagg aatcaagcgt   1320
              tcgcaggtat atggggacta taactgaagt tagtgatgca gacccagtcc gttggcctag   1380
              ttcctattgg agatctgtga aggttggttg ggatgaatca actgcagggg aaagaccacc   1440
                                                    801

              aagagtttct ttatgggaaa ttgaaccatt gacaaccttt ccaatgtatc catctctgtt   1500
<removed-date>
              cccactgaga gttaagcatc cttggtattc aggagttgct tccctgcatg atgacagcaa   1560
              tgctttaatg tggctgagag gagttgctgg tgagggaggt tttcagtctc tgaactttca   1620
              gtcacctggt attggctcct ggggacaaca gaggctccat ccatccttac tgagcagcga   1680
              tcacgatcag taccaagcag tagttgctgc tgctgctgct tcccaatctg gtggttactt   1740
              aaaacagcaa ttcttgcacc ttcagcaacc tatgcagtcc cctcaagaac actgcaacct   1800
<removed-apn>
              caacccatta ttgcagcaac aaattctgca gcaagcaagc cagcaacaga taattaatcc   1860
              tgatgcccaa aatatccaaa cgatgttgag cccaagtgct atacaacagc aactccagca   1920
              actacagcaa atgcagcaag ttcagaatga tcagaagcag aagattcaac cagatcaaag   1980
              ctaccaagtt cctacaagtg cagttctccc aagtccaaca tcattaccga gtcatttgcg   2040
              agaaaaattt ggcttctctg atcctaatgc gaattcttca agcttcatca cctctagcag   2100
              tagtgataac atgttggatt cgagcttcct tcagggaagt tcgaaagctg tggacttatc   2160
              tcgatttaat cagcctgtag ctagtgagca gcagcagcag cagcaacagg catggaagca   2220
              gaagtttatg ggttcacagt cagtgtcttt tgggggctcg gttttgcata actcacccac   2280
              aagcaaagat ggttctgttg aaaacaaaat tggtcgtgat gtgcaaaacc agtccctttt   2340
              tagtccacaa gttgactctt catccctcct gtacaacatg gttcctaatc tgacttcgaa   2400
              tgtttcggat ggcaacttat caacgatccc ttctggatca acttatctgc agaatgcaat   2460
              gtatggttgc ttggacgact cttctggttt attgcaaaat acaggagaga acgatccagc   2520
              aaccagaaca tttgtgaagg tttacaagtc aggttcggtt gggaggtcgt tggacataac   2580
              ccggttctct aattatgctg aacttcgaga agaactgggt cagatgttcg gcattaaggg   2640
              tcaattggac gaccctgata gatcaggctg gcagcttgta ttcgtcgaca gggagaatga   2700
              tgtgcttctc cttggagacg acccttggga gtcctttgtg aatagtgtat ggtacatcaa   2760
              gatactttca cctgaggatg tgcataagat gggaaagcaa ggaaatgatc cacggtatct   2820
              gtcctgaagt gagagaacat ggtgccattt ctgggcttcc aggaggattc tgcagtgcat   2880
              ggtggcactc ttgctctcga caatgcacgt cgtcagaagt cccaaatttg tatcttgcat   2940
              gtacgccgta catgtttcca gaactctctg ttacctattc ggtgcaggcc accggaacca   3000
              cgaaacctga tattttgtag gttccactta ggaatcagta tcggtttaac tcttatccta   3060
                                                    802

<removed-date>
              gatgatttgt aactcgcacg gcagtccact gttttcatgt ttcatcgagt cttcctagac   3120
              attaaactta gttgatattg tatcaggatt tatgtgtatt gagattcctc tacatgcttt   3180
              caaccaaaaa aaactgcaat aatcgaagcg cacgaggatt gtttcaattc gtgttgtagg   3240
              atctggattt tcaccgattg tccggttatg tcagtttcga gaggagctgt caatctgaag   3300
              ttttttctgt agtgcctaat attttgcttt tattattaat gctaatcata tactgttgtg   3360
<removed-apn>
              atg                                                                 3363
              <210>   712
              <211>   3279
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 712
              atgatgagaa agaaaaaaac tgaaccccgt aatgctgggg aaagttctgg aactcaacaa     60
              gccactggag ctcctggacg gggtccttca cagcgacctg agagagctca acagcatgga    120
              ggtggtggtt ggcaacctgc caatcctcaa tatgctcaac aagctggtcg tggtggtgga    180
              caacaccagg gacgtggtgg acgttaccag ggtcgtggag ggccaacatc acatcaacca    240
              ggtggtggtc cggttgaata tcaagcacat gagtactatg gccgtggtgt ccaacggcaa    300
              ggaggaatgc cacaacacag gagtggcagt ggtggacatg gagttcctgc cagtccatca    360
              agaacagttc ccgagctgca ccaagcctca caagaccagt accaagctac ggtggttgca    420
              ccatcaccat caagaactgg cccatcttcg ctgcctgttg aggccagcag cgaagaagtc    480
              caacatcagt ttcaggaact tgccatccag ggtcaaagcc ccactagcca ggccattcaa    540
              ccagcaccac catcgagcaa atcagtgaga tttccaatgc gccctggcaa gggtacattt    600
              ggtgataggt gcatcgtgaa agccaaccat ttctttgctg aattgcctga caaagacctt    660
              caccagtatg atgtgtctat aactcctgag gttccttcac gtggtgtcaa tcgtgctgtc    720
              attggagaaa ttgtaacaca atataggcag tctcatttgg gtggccgtct tccagtctat    780
              gatggaagga agagcttata cacagctggt ccattaccat ttacttctag gacctttgac    840
              gttattctgc aggatgagga agagagcctt gctgttgggc aaggtgcaca gaggcgtgag    900
              agaccattta aggtcgtgat caaatttgct gcacgcgctg atctccacca tttagccatg    960
              tttttagctg gaaggcaagc ggatgctcct caagaagctc ttcaagttct tgacattgtt   1020
                                                    803

<removed-date>
              ctacgtgaat tgcctactgc aaggtactct ccagttgcaa ggtcatttta ttcgcctaac   1080
              ttaggaaggc gccaacaact tggcgagggc ctggaaagtt ggcgtggttt ttaccaaagc   1140
              atacgaccca cgcagatggg actttctctg aatattgata tgtcatcgac agcattcatt   1200
              gagcctctac ctgtgattga ctttgttgca cagcttttga acagagacat ctcagttaga   1260
              ccattatctg atgctgatcg tgtgaagatc aagaaggccc taaggggtgt aaaggttgag   1320
<removed-apn>
              gtcacacata gaggcaatat gcgcaggaag tatcgcattt ctggccttac ctcgcaagca   1380
              acacgagagt tgtcttttcc cattgataat catggtactg tgaagacggt ggtgcaatac   1440
              ttccaggaga catatggatt taacattaag cacacaactt tgccttgctt gcaagtgggc   1500
              aatcaacaaa ggccaaatta tctaccaatg gaggtctgta agattgtgga gggacagcgt   1560
              tactcaaaaa gactaaatga gaagcagata actgctcttc ttaaagtgac ctgccagcgc   1620
              cctcaagagc gtgagctgga cattttgcag actgtgcatc acaatgcata ccatcaggat   1680
              ccatatgcac aggagtttgg cataaggatc gatgagcgac ttgcatctgt tgaagctcgt   1740
              gttctaccac ccccctggct taagtaccac gatagtggca gagagaagga tgtcttgcca   1800
              agaattggcc aatggaatat gatgaataag aaaatggtca atggtggtag agttaacaac   1860
              tggacatgca tcaatttttc tcgtcatgtc caagataatg ctgctaggag tttctgtcgc   1920
              gagcttgcta ttatgtgcca aatatctggg atggacttct caattgatcc tgtggttcct   1980
              ctagtgactg caagacctga acatgtggaa agagcgctca aggcacgcta tcaagaggcc   2040
              atgaatatac tgaaaccaca gggcggggag cttgacctgc tgattgcaat attgcctgac   2100
              aataatggtt ctctttatgg cgatctcaaa aggatatgtg agactgatct tggattggtc   2160
              tcgcaatgct gtcttacgaa gcatgttttt aagatgagca aacagtattt agcaaacgtt   2220
              gcccttaaaa tcaatgttaa ggtgggagga agaaatacag tacttgttga tgctttgaca   2280
              aggaggattc cccttgtgag tgataggcca acgatcattt ttggtgctga tgttacacat   2340
              ccccatcctg gagaagattc tagcccttcc attgcagctg ttgttgcttc tcaagactgg   2400
              cctgaggtca ccaaatatgc cggattagtg agtgcacagg cccatcgtca ggaattgata   2460
              caggatcttt ttaaagtatg gaaagatcct caaagaggaa ctgtaagtgg tggaatgatc   2520
              agagagcttc tcatttcttt caagagggca actggacaga aaccccagag gattatattt   2580
                                                    804

              tacagggatg gtgtcagtga aggacagttt tatcaggttc tgttttatga gcttgatgcc   2640
<removed-date>
              attagaaaga agcgtcatca cacaaggctg tttgctaata accacaagga ccagcgcact   2700
              gttgacagaa gtggaaatat actaccaggc accgtggttg attcaaagat atgccatcct   2760
              actgagtttg atttctacct gtgtagccat gcgggcattc agggaacaag tcgccctgca   2820
              cattatcatg ttctgtggga tgagaacaag ttcactgctg atggtttgca aactctgaca   2880
              aacaacttgt gctacaccta tgcaaggtgc acccgttccg tatcaatcgt tcctcctgca   2940
<removed-apn>
              tattatgccc atctcgcggc atttcgagct cgattttaca tggagccgga tacttcagat   3000
              agtgggtcga tggcgagcgg tgcccatacc cgtggcggtg gcccccttcc tggtgcacgc   3060
              agcactaagc ctgctgggaa tgttgctgac aagctgatct cagctactgc ggttcctttc   3120
              cacttgttgg atgcgcacct tgattcgcaa ggattattag ccttttgtct cggacaaaat   3180
              tattgcttag ttggctcctg gtacatagaa tctagatttg cattaagcag tttagcccac   3240
              ttttgctcaa ataatgtcaa ggttgaaata gttgtttga                          3279
              <210>   713
              <211>   2185
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 713
              caaaagcagc agtggcagca gccaccactt tgcacaaaag aagcaaagta aatggatggc     60
              catcgccgtt gaggaagggt tggtggccat ctagagagag agagagaaac tagagagaga    120
              gaggggtgag cagctgagct ctgcatctat atacagcact gcatctctct ctatttctct    180
              ctctatatat atctctatct acagtggatt ttctctctcc tctctctctc ttgccgttgc    240
              tgttcgatac tgttgttgtc ctctcgtggc cattattaga tggcctcctg ctgctgaaat    300
              gtgagtgaga gctttgcttt gcttgcttgc tggctggctg gctggctagc tgggggttgg    360
              cttcccctca tcctcgtgca tcatccactg tgctcggctc agctgtctgc cctgttcttg    420
              ctttggtggt tggacggtta gcatcttcct cctcaagctg agatccttct tgacgccatt    480
              ggaggggtcg ctgtcgcctg cgtccttgag cctccctgct tttctttttc tctctctctc    540
              tcctcggcga gggagacgac gacgacggtg gcggcggcga tgctgagctt caagcagagc    600
              cacgaggggt tcggccatgt cgccgccgct ggagctggac cgcagcagca gcagcagccg    660
                                                    805

              tggtgggcgg ggtcgcagct gctgtacggg gaggcgtcgc cggaggaggc ggcgctgcgc    720
<removed-date>
              gacggcggcc agttccaggt cgtgcccgga ggccgcgccg cgctggatcc ggcggcgccg    780
              gagccggaga agacggcggt gccggcgatg cccaagagag gaggaggagg ggctcctgag    840
              gtgctgaaat tctcggtgtt ttcaggtaat ttggagccgg gagatacagg agagaagaac    900
              agagagcact ctgccactat tgcaatgcaa tcgccgttgc cagaatacaa cggccatttc    960
              gagcttggtc ttggtcaatc catggtctct cccaattatc cttgtattga ccaatgctat   1020
<removed-apn>
              ggtcttatga ccacctacgc gatgaaatca atgagtggcg ggcgaatgct actgccgctg   1080
              aacgcgccag ccgatgcgcc gatctatgtc aacgcgaagc agtacgaagg catcctccgc   1140
              cgtcgccgtg cccgcgccaa ggcccagagg gagaacaggc tggtcaaagg caggaagccc   1200
              tacctccacg agtcgcgcca ccgccacgcc atgcgccggg ccagaggctc cggcggccgc   1260
              ttcctcaaca ccaagaaaga agccaccgcc gccggatgcg gcggcagcag caagacgccc   1320
              ctcgcgtccc tcgtcagccc cgccgacgta gcccatcgtc caggctccgg cggccgcgcg   1380
              tccagcctct ccggctccga cgtgtcgtcg ccgggaggcg tcatgtacga ccaccaccgc   1440
              cacgacgacg ccgacgcggc ggaccactac aacagcatcg accaccacct ccgcacgccg   1500
              ttcttcaccc cgctcccgat catcatggac agcggcggcg gcggcggcga ccacgcctca   1560
              cactccgccg ccgccgtcgc cgcccccttc aggtgggcga cggcggccgg cgacggctgc   1620
              tgcgagctcc tcaaggcgtg acagccttga ggcggggatc tccaggcgtg cccagagctg   1680
              ctgctgatcg atcaccatca gctttggctg cctgtaggca aatcattctt ggctctttac   1740
              ttgcattggg gttcttgcaa gcaactctcc tcgtcaccta ccaaaactgt ccctgaaact   1800
              tctctagtgc tggggtctcg atcagggatg atgatgtgat ggaggagagg cttacccata   1860
              tgcctgtaaa ttatggttag tgttctgatt aagcaactag tagtacttgg taattactgg   1920
              ctatgaatta gtagtatgga ctctggtgtc aggttgctct ttgtctgaat aaactggagt   1980
              cgtttgaagc tttgcaacag ctgtgagtga aactatgtgc ttgcttgctt gcttgttgtt   2040
              ggagtgatta agctggagtt ttgtctggtt tgggtgtgtg agaccagtga gatactgtga   2100
              ctgtcgatat caatgttgat gaatgattta tgaccttgtt tatgctaaaa aaatagtgag   2160
              ctagtagagt gtatatgatt tggtg                                         2185
                                                    806

              <210>   714
<removed-date>
              <211>   1796
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 714
              tccccgggct gcaggaatcg gcacgaggag gatttctact tcttatcctg gaggtgtact     60
              gtctagatag attaatccat catgaagtgg acatagtatt gttgttaatg atattgtaga    120
              ggccgtacaa tagttctttg atttatttta tgcttcgatc attttcaact gttcatccag    180
<removed-apn>
              ctgagtttgg atgtttgtac aacctaatcc ctaatcattg tatgtggata ctatacaaac    240
              cgaattcaag gtactaattt atctagtaac ttggctttct ttatgtgcca ctgtcagtct    300
              gacctgaaaa ttttctgaac ttcaaaatag gacagaaaat gtttgtggat cttgagtaat    360
              gccttctaat aatgataatg ctgttgcaag aaatggagaa tcatcctgtc caatgcatgg    420
              ccaagaccaa ctatgatttt cttgccagga ataactatcc aatgaaacag ttagttcaga    480
              ggaactctga tggtgactcg tcaccaacaa agtctgggga gtctcaccaa gaagcatctg    540
              cagtaagtga cagcagtctc aacggacaac acacctcacc acaatcagtg tttgtcccct    600
              cagatattaa caacaatgat agttgtgggg agcgggacca tggcactaag tcggtattgt    660
              ctttggggaa cacagaagct gcctttcctc cttcaaagtt cgattacaac cagccttttg    720
              catgtgtttc ttatccatat ggtactgatc catattatgg tggagtatta acaggataca    780
              cttcacatgc atttgttcat cctcaaatta ctggtgctgc aaactctagg atgccattgc    840
              ctgttgatcc ttctgtagaa gagcccatat ttgtcaatgc aaagcaatac aatgcgatcc    900
              ttagaagaag gcaaacgcgt gcaaaattgg aggcccaaaa taaggcggtg aaaggtcgga    960
              agccttacct ccatgaatct cgacatcatc atgctatgaa gcgagcccgt ggatcaggtg   1020
              gtcggttcct taccaaaaag gagctgctgg aacagcagca gcagcagcag cagcagaagc   1080
              caccaccggc atcagctcag tctccaacag gtagagccag aacgagcggc ggtgccgttg   1140
              tccttggcaa gaacctgtgc ccagagaaca gcacatcctg ctcgccatcg acaccgacag   1200
              gctccgagat ctccagcatc tcatttgggg gcggcatgct ggctcaccaa gagcacatca   1260
              gcttcgcatc cgctgatcgc caccccacaa tgaaccagaa ccaccgtgtc cccgtcatga   1320
              ggtgaaaacc tcgggatcgc gggacacggg cggttctggt ttaccctcac tggcgcactc   1380
              cggtgtgccc gtggcaattc atccttggct tatgaagtat ctacctgata atagtctgct   1440
                                                    807

<removed-date>
              gtcagtttat atgcaatgca acctctgtca gataaactct tatagtttgt tttattgtaa   1500
              gctatgactg aacgaactgt cgagcagatg gctaatttgt atgttgtggg tacagaaatc   1560
              ctgaagcttt tgatgtacct aattgccttt tgcttatact cttggtgtat acccattacc   1620
              aagttgcctt aaaaaccctc caattatgta atcagtcatg gttttataga accttgccac   1680
              atgtaatcaa tcacctgttt ttgtaaattg atctataaac gctataggct gctgtgttat   1740
<removed-apn>
              ctgcatttac ttctgtagtt agtatttttg tttgtctggt aaaaaaaaaa aaaaac       1796
              <210>   715
              <211>   1470
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 715
              ggaggataga gcacagtcct ctcctcttcc ccgtgctccc catttctgct tcttttccca     60
              caaatttctc tctctatctc agaaaggatt cgggagactt gaagagagga gctcgaagcg    120
              ggacaggaga gagaggctaa ttatagaagt acacgaagaa aaatggtgcc tggaccaaag    180
              tgagaccatc tcataatgct aatgcttttg cgacaaatgg aagatcatcg agcccatact    240
              acgcccaact atgatttttt ctctggagat tatcagatga agcagttagg tcataagatg    300
              tatgatcaag attccccgtc aagcgattct ggacagtcac accaagaaga atctgccatg    360
              aatgatagca gtccaaatga gcgacatacc tcaacacaat ctgacaatga tgatggtcat    420
              cagatgccag atcaggacaa aacaaagtca gtatcatcgt tggggaatcc aggagctttg    480
              cctccaaagc tcaactatag ccaatccttt gcttgtattc cttatacagc tgatgcatac    540
              tatggtgggg tcttgactgg atattcttca catgcaattg ttcatcccca gcaaaatggt    600
              acagctaact cccgggtgcc gttgcctgtt gagcctgcag cagaagagcc aatatttgta    660
              aacgcaaagc agtaccatgc aattcttagg aggagacaga tacgagctaa attggaggcc    720
              caaaataagt tggtgaaagg tcggaagcca tacctccatg aatctcggca tcgccatgcc    780
              atgaagcgag ctcgtggatc tggagggcgc ttcctcaaca caaagcagct cgaggagcag    840
              aagcagcaac aggaggagga ggccgcatcc ggtggcgcga gctctggcaa taggacatgc    900
              cttcagaatg gcaccggtag cgcgccttca gcttcctctc cctctgaaat cgcgagcgtc   960
              tcaaccagca gagaattcct tggtaaccat gagcagagcc acttcccctc agctggcttc   1020
                                                    808

<removed-date>
              cttcccacaa tgagcttcag agcgcagaat ggcggagatg ggaagctggt cgcgaacgcc   1080
              attcaccagc gcgtttccat gatgaggtga ggtgaagagg ggtgaagtgg gttcagctca   1140
              gcaccatcac tttggctctc tccctgctgg tggcaattca tccttggctt atgaaaatac   1200
              cttatgggaa aaaaaaaagt agtttcatcc tcaaatggac caaacatgtg tggctccatt   1260
              ttaagttttc ctgtaactaa aagcactgca atgatcaact gactgttggt tctgtttgtg   1320
<removed-apn>
              gatgcttata tctgtacttg ctgtatctaa tactgaactc taagttgaaa ccctgaaact   1380
              gatggtcccc gtgaatattg tagcttgcat tttatctgat ttttagttcc taaaaaaaaa   1440
              aaaaaaaaac tcgagactag ttctctctct                                    1470
              <210>   716
              <211>   2694
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 716
              gaggacgaga ccgagagcgc acaaggcttt cttctctcca tcttcgctgt tccacagtcc     60
              acacccacgc acacaagcaa gcggcctcat ctgttttatt gtttttcttg atccccttcc    120
              ctccatatct ctctcgcgcc gatcgagagg ggggcgggcg gcgggcggcg gcgcgcggcg    180
              ggagcatgcg cgagtaggtt ggtagatgag ggcggcaccc ttcagtgccg acgggaacgg    240
              ggcggcggag ctcgcgggga gcatagcggc gctgctttgg ccggaggaca agggcggcgg    300
              cggcgggggc ggcggggggt cgttgctggt ggagccgagg tcggtgctgg actgcagggg    360
              gagcccgagc ccgcccaact ccacatcgac gctgtcttcg tcccatggta gcggcgcggc    420
              ggattctata tctaccggcg tggcggcggt ttcggagagc agcgcagccg cccgccgaag    480
              ccaccagatg ggcggccccc ggcgaacacg gcggcggcgg tggcggtgag ctgccgccca    540
              taccgggggc cctggatgtg ggcttcgtcg cggaggagag ctgggacgcc atgctcggcg    600
              acgccgcggc ggcggcaggc caggagcaga catttttgaa ctggatcatg gctgcccccg    660
              gcgacatgga accccaggcg ccggggctct cgcagcagca gctcctcgcc aatgccgccg    720
              ggttcgggtt cccgctgcag catcaccccg gtggcgtctc ctcgccagcc gccctcgcct    780
              ccgacctgtc gtcctccggc gggaggtcgc tcacaagcag cagcggcagc aatagcaagg    840
              ccacctccgc tttcggcctc ctgtcgcccg aagcggcgct ccagccgccg ccggcgacta    900
                                                    809

<removed-date>
              ctgcgccttt ccacaacggc gctgacatga agccccctct ccttggcttg ccatcaccca    960
              cactactcct caaccagcat cagccgacgc cggcctccac cttgttcatg ccgttcccct   1020
              ccttctccga ccatccccgg gcgcaggaat tcggcacgag ggcgaagcgc caccactccg   1080
              tgcccgacaa tctcttcctc ctccacaacc agccccagcc accgccgccg gcgcccgcgc   1140
              aatgcctccc gtttccaacg ctacatagcg cggtaccctt ccagctccag ccttcgatgc   1200
<removed-apn>
              agcatccgcg caacgcgatg aagtcaaccg cggcggcggc ggcggcgcag cagcaacacc   1260
              tcctggacga gcttgcagcg gcggcgaagg caaccgaagt cggcaactcc ataggcgcgc   1320
              gagagatatt ggcgcggctc aatcagcagc ttcccccaat tgggaagcct ttcctccgct   1380
              ccgcctccta cctaaaggac gccctcctcc tcgcgctcgc cgacggccac cacgccgcca   1440
              cccgtctcac gtctccgctc gacgtcgccc tgaagctcac cgcttacaaa tccttctccg   1500
              acctctcccc cgtgctccag tttgccaact tcacggtaac tcaggcgctt ctggatgaga   1560
              tcgccagcac aaccgcgtct tgtatccgcg tcattgattt cgacctcggt gtcggcggcc   1620
              agtgggcttc gttcttgcag gagcttgctc accgctgtgg ctctggcggt gtgtccttgc   1680
              cgatgttgaa gctcacagcc ttcgtctcag ccgcctccca ccacccgctt gagctgcatc   1740
              ttactcagga taacctctca cagtttgctg ctgatcttgg tattccattt gagttcaatg   1800
              ctattaatct cgacgcattt gatcctatgg aactcattgc tcctacagct gatgaggttg   1860
              ttgcagtaag cctcccagtt ggttgctcag cacgcactcc actcccagct atgcttcagt   1920
              tggtgaaaca gcttgctcct aagattgtgg ttgctattga ctatggcagt gatcggagcg   1980
              acctcccatt ttcccaacac ttcttgaatt gcttacagtc ttgtctatgt cttcttgaat   2040
              cacttgatgc tgctggcact gatgcggatg ctgtcagtaa gatcgagagg tttctgattc   2100
              agcccagagt ggaggatgca gttcttgggc ggcgtagagc tgacaaagcg atcgcttggc   2160
              ggacagtgct aacatcagca gggtttgcac ctcaaccact cagcaacctt gcggaggcac   2220
              aggctgactg cctcttgaag cgggtgcagg tccgaggctt ccatgtggag aagcgtggag   2280
              caggccttgc actctattgg cagcgtggcg agcttgtatc cgtctcagca tggcgatgct   2340
              gatcacacct gcctcgacca tcatgattcc tacaccattt gcaggcatgt ttaactccag   2400
              taatatgaat tttgtcttgc aatttaaaca ttgcaaagaa attattatca tggttgttgc   2460
                                                    810

              acactctgtt gtttattagg taggcctaat ggatttggca atcttggtat gagtgtctct   2520
<removed-date>
              gtagtgtgtg accagtggct atggcctcta gggtcttacc actatgttgt tgctctccgc   2580
              tcaattggcc acttcatgtt cttggaaaca tttcgttgtg aatagataag ataatttggc   2640
              aaaaagaatg tccttatgac aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaga aaag         2694
              <210>   717
              <211>   2052
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 717
              atggccgccg cgcctgcgcc gaagctgcct ccgttcccgg cgggcgggtt cgtccccgcc     60
              ctgaagccga aggcggaggc ggcgaacgac gaggccgccg ctgcggtcga acagctagcc    120
              gaggcggcga agctggccga ggccggcgac gccttcggcg cccgcgagat attggcgcgg    180
              ctcaattacc ggctccccgc cgcccccacg gccgggacgc cactgctccg ctcagccttc    240
              tacttcaagg aggctctgcg cctaacgctc tcccccaccg gcgacgcccc agcgccatcg    300
              gcgtcgacgc cgtacgacgt ggtcgtcaag ctcggcgcct acaaggcctt ctcggaggtg    360
              tccccggtgc tccagttcgc gcacctcacc tgcgtccagg cggtgctcga cgagctcggc    420
              ggcgccggat gcatccacgt gctggacttc gacatcggca tgggcgagca gtgggcgtcg    480
              ctgatgcagg agctcgcgca gctccgcccg gccgccgcgc tcaaggtgac cgcattggtg    540
              tccccggcgt cgcaccaccc gctcgagctg cagctcatcc acgagaacct ctccggcttc    600
              gccgccgagc tcggcgtctt cttccacttc accgtcttca acatcgacac cctggacccc    660
              gccgagctcc tcgccaacgc caccgcgggc gacgccgtgg ccgtgcacct ccccgtcggc    720
              cccgcccacg ccgccgcgac gccggccgtg ctccgcctcg tgaagcgcct cggcgccaag    780
              gtggtggtct ccgtcgaccg cggctgcgac cgctccgacc tccccttcgc ggcgcacctc    840
              ttccactcct tccactccgc cgtctacctc ctcgagtcca tcgacgccgt gggcacggac    900
              ccggacaccg cgtccaagat cgagcggtac ctcatccacc ccgccatcga gcagtgcgtc    960
              gtggccagcc accgcgccgc ctccgccatg gacaaggcgc cgccgccgcc gtggcgcgcg   1020
              gcgttcgcgg cggcggggtt cgcgccggtg caggcgacga cgttcgcgga gtcgcaggcg   1080
              gagtcgctgc tgagcaagct tggctctgct tctgcttctg cttgtgcaga tgcagagtgc   1140
                                                    811

              catgtcgcaa tggtgttgta ctgccctctt atcaaagaaa gagagagaaa acgatggaat   1200
<removed-date>
              gtacacctgg ttattgtatt agttgaacta aacacacccc aagctgaaaa gaaccaaagg   1260
              gaagtaggag gatatggggg agagaaaaat aaaatcctgt cagaatataa tctgctgcct   1320
              ctgcctgtgc tggagatgca aaggaagggg ggcaatcatg gtgtaaagcg tccatgcttt   1380
              actgaaatgg cggcaaagca tcttagggta aggacaggca catcaagaac agcagcagca   1440
              acattggatg ggtacaccac tttaacctgg gactcagctc cagaatggcc atggcaccgc   1500
<removed-apn>
              atgcacaaac cggataggtt gagatgggct cactggagag tcactggaga gccacagtgt   1560
              gcagcaggag cagtagcaat aggtcaggca agtggccaca ctggagtacg ggacactgca   1620
              ggagcaaact ggcaagagac ctgcatagta gttacagaga tggatgttaa gcttgctgat   1680
              aaattcagaa aaaagtggta ccacagttca aaacttcaaa aaagaaggtg cactgttggt   1740
              ttaattaagc aggacttgaa agttcaaaac cagggagggg aatcagaagc cagtagacac   1800
              aaaggcctcc agatctcatt cagacaggtt cagatttcat tgcggaagcc aaataggaaa   1860
              tgcaagcata gtggccagac tgtaaagttg atcaatgaga attgctatta cctctccact   1920
              aaaagaaaca acttaaagat aaaagaggtc aactacatat gctatattta tgctgaagaa   1980
              ttgcatccac tcaaagtcat gttcagaaat acacaagcaa agatatgcca aatagatgtc   2040
              caaaaatcct ag                                                       2052
              <210>   718
              <211>   4239
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 718
              atggaggagg tggagaagaa acgggaggag agcgagaagc gtcgggagct gtcggaagag     60
              aagagccgat ctgagttttt ggctctcaag gtggcggtgg aatcccgaat gccggtggtg    120
              gagaagcgcg tggatgattt gcacgtttcg gtggtgggac tccaagatca agtcgacaaa    180
              ctccagtcct tggtgcagca gccacctcgt ccttcccctt cttctccggg ttcgcccgat    240
              ggtatgcaaa ctccgcccca atttacttcg ctcccctctg ctctggaaca gtctgcgttt    300
              gcctctgctc ttttgggtgc ttcgggaatt gggggtaatg ttccacctat gtcttgcccg    360
              caattcaatg gtgatagacc tcagctctgg aagagtaatt gcgaggagta ctttgaggtt    420
                                                    812

              tatggtgttc atcctaagaa ttgggtgcgt gtggctggac tgaattttac tggcaacgct    480
<removed-date>
              gctttttggt tacaatcggt gcgttccaaa ctggtcgggg ttacttggca agagttctct    540
              gatcaagttt gtcttcgttt cactaaggat aggcaggagg tcttgattcg gcagtggttt    600
              cacattgttc aggattcttc agtttctgat tatgtggaga aattcgatgg tattatgcat    660
              cagttgttgg cttatgatag ttctttgtct ctgaattatt ttgttaccaa gttcgtggaa    720
              ggactgagga aagacattag atctggagtt ttgatgcaga aacctcaaga tttggataca    780
<removed-apn>
              gcgtgttcgt tggctttttt gcaagaggaa atactagaag gaagtcaccc tgctgtgtac    840
              aggaaacctg agccgatttt gttgtctaaa aattttgctc gccaacctgc acctgtttct    900
              cctatgtcca accatcctca aggttctgtg ttggaggata ggaaacagtc tgaattctcg    960
              cagtctcgct ctgataagtt ttctgccttg aaatcctaca agcgtgctaa aggcctttgt   1020
              ttcacgtgtg gtgagtgttg gagcagagag cataagtgtg gctcctcggt tcagttacat   1080
              gttgttcagg aactcttagc tgcgttgcag gacgatcagt taaaccatga gtccgtcgat   1140
              actgtatctg aacctgctga accagttttg atggctattt cttatcaggc tgttactggt   1200
              actgaatcct tgacttcttt tcggttaaat ggctgggtac aggggtatga attactcatg   1260
              ttagtcgatt ctggtagttc tcattccttc attgatatta ctgtggcaca aaaacttcag   1320
              ggtatccaat gtttacaaca tgctgcttca gttaaagttg ctgatggtgg tgtgatatca   1380
              tgctctcagt atattcctgg ttgtgactgg tggactcagg gtcaaatttt taaaactgac   1440
              tttaaggaag tttccactgc caagttaggt cacattcctc ctgaaattca atctcttctt   1500
              actgaatttt ctgccctatt tgatgatcct caaggcctgc cacctaagag agcttgtgac   1560
              cattccattc cactgaaatc acatgctaaa cctgtcttcc tcagacctta tcgtcataac   1620
              cctgcacgga aagatgaaat agagaagcag gttaaggaaa tgttgttgtc aggggtcatt   1680
              caacccagca atagtgcatt ttcttcccca gcattgttag ttaagaagaa ggatggtacc   1740
              tggcgcttgt gcattgatta tagacagttg aactccatca ctatgaaggg taaatttcct   1800
              atgcctgtta tagatgaact attggatgaa ttgtctggat ccaaagtttt ttccaagctg   1860
              gaccttaggg ctggttatca ccagatcaga ttggtggagg gtgaggagca caaaactact   1920
              tttcaaactc actctggaca ttatgaatat cgtgttatgt cttttggcct tactggagct   1980
              cctgcaacat ttcaaggcgc catgaatgat actttggctc ctgtgttaag gaagtttgct   2040
                                                    813

<removed-date>
              cttgtgtttt ttgatgatat acttgtatac agccctgatt tagtttctca tgtccaccat   2100
              cttcgacaag ttctgcagtt gttgactgag catcagtgga aagttaaatt gtctaaatgt   2160
              tcttttgctc aacatcaatt gtcatattta ggtcatatta tcagtgatca aagagtcact   2220
              actgatcctg ctaagattga ggaagtggtt aattgggcag ttccaaaatt tgtcaaaaag   2280
              ctcaggggat ttttgggttt ggcaggttat tataggaagt ttgtcaagca atttgggatc   2340
<removed-apn>
              ctttgcaggc ctttgaccaa cctgttaaag aaggatgttc cttttgtctg gtctgtggag   2400
              gctgatcagg ctttcaaggc tcttaagcaa gctttagtat ctgctcctgt gttatctctt   2460
              cctgattttt ctttgccttt cactattgag actgatgcta gtgatgaagg tattggtgct   2520
              gtgttatctc agtgtggtca tccgattgca tttcttagta aggccttggg ggttaaaact   2580
              aagggtcttt ccacctatga aaaggagtat ttagctattt tattagctgt ggaccattgg   2640
              agatcttacc tgcagcagca agagtttgtc attttaactg atcaccatag tttaatgcac   2700
              ttgaatgaac aaaggctgca caccccttgg caacacaaag cttttactaa gttgttgggc   2760
              cttcagttta agatttgcta caggaaggga tccagtaatg ctgcagctaa tgcactttct   2820
              aggaaatatc ctgaagagtt atctgaacta catgtggttt ccagttgcag tcctgtatgg   2880
              cttcaggagg tttctgatgg ttatcttcaa gatgtctttt ctgctcaact tttgactgac   2940
              ttgactctta atgctgagtc tcggcccaat ttctctttgt gtaatggtgt ccttcgcttt   3000
              aaaggcagag tctggataga taacaatcca tctgtgcagg ataagattat ctctgcgttg   3060
              cacagtagtc ctttgggggg gcactctggt tttcctgtta cttatagtaa aatcaagtct   3120
              ctttttgctt ggcccaagat gaagaaacag attcatactg ctgtcaaaac atgtggtatt   3180
              tgcatgcagg ccaaaccaga tcactctaaa taccctggtc ttcttcaacc ccttcctgtc   3240
              cctgatggtg catggcagat tatcaccatg gactttattg aaggtttgcc taagtccggt   3300
              caattcaact gtattttagt ggtggttgac aagttttcca agtactctca tttctttcca   3360
              ttgtcccatc ctttttctgc tattgatgtg gctcaatctt ttatggtcaa tgtttacaag   3420
              ttacatgggt tacctaagtt catcatttca gaccgcgaca agattttaac tagccacttt   3480
              tgggagcagt tgtttttgag aaccggcaca caattgcaac taagcaccgc ttatcacctc   3540
              cagacagatg aacaaactga gcgtgtgaac caatgtttgg aaatatatct gcgatgtttt   3600
                                                    814

              gttcatgctg ttcctcataa atggagttct tggttgtatt tagcagaatt ttggtttaac   3660
<removed-date>
              acttcttacc attctgccat tcttcagtct ccatttgaag ctctctatgg ctatcctcct   3720
              ggtcattttg gtataaggga tgatgcctgc tcagtacctg atttgcatga gtggttaaat   3780
              gaacgtaagg tgatgactca gttactgaaa caacacctaa atcgtgccca gcaacaaatg   3840
              aagctgtatg cagataaaaa gtgcagtttc agagaatttt ctaatgtaga ttgggtctac   3900
              ttgaaattgc aaccttatat tcagtcctct gtggcaaaaa gagcaaatca taaactatca   3960
<removed-apn>
              ttccgttatt ttggtccttt tcaagtttta tatcgggtgg gcaaggtggc ttataagttg   4020
              tctctttctg cagagagctc cattcaccct gtttttcatg tttcacagct taagcatgct   4080
              gttgggttca ggcattctgt tcaaccgtgt ttgcctgcat gttctgacct taaagttcct   4140
              gtggctgtct tggcttctcg tcagatcagg aaaggtaact ctgtgaaagc tcaagtttta   4200
              attcggtggt ctggagatgt tacaggacag gaaacttga                          4239
              <210>   719
              <211>   3255
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 719
              atgatgtacc gggagacctt cgccgacgag gtcggacaca tcaggaagtc gttcgagatg     60
              ctcgagggag ctaatgtcca gcaagttatt cctgaagctg ctggaggcta tgctcaagac    120
              cgggaacagg atgaacgttg ggacctcctg cggcggcgcc atggcgttca agctcgaagc    180
              gctgctcaaa ttcacctatg tcgagggcac cgacgggaag ccacgctgct ccacttcgta    240
              gtgcaggaga tgaccctgtc gagcgccgcc gaggcggcgg acattgccgc ggggctcgcc    300
              gccgagctca ccaatgtcag gaagacggcg accgtggacc tggacgtgct taccacctcg    360
              gtgtccggcc cgtcgcacgg cctgtcccaa atcaaggagc tgattgggag tgacctgtcc    420
              ggctatgaga ggaaccagtg cttcgcgcgt ggccttcatg tgactacact gttcacatta    480
              tttgcctttc cgctgttgaa gttagacttt ggatctgaat ctatacggaa gagtggtaga    540
              tccagtgaac cacctctttc tcctgaggaa gaggctaagt tcgaggcatc ggattgtctg    600
              ttccgtggag cattgatcag tgtactcgct gacaatatag tggacgtgta catgcacatg    660
              ccttctggga aggacatgtg ggatgcactt gaggccaagt tcggagtttc taacgccggc    720
                                                    815

              agtgagctgt atgtcatgga gcagttctat gactacaaga tgttgccgga caagtttgtg    780
<removed-date>
              gcgggtggca ttattgccaa attgccacct tcttggtcgg actttgccac ttctctaaag    840
              cacaagagac aagagttcag tgtttctgat ctcattggct ctttgggtgt tgaggagaag    900
              gcgagggcaa cggacatccg ggaaaaaaag gttgagggag gttctagtgc caatatggta    960
              cagaaaaaga accctcatgc atcctacaac aacaagaaag tcaagcctga tgtcaaaccc   1020
              aaggctgcaa ccaactttaa gaagaaaggc aagggaaaag caaagggaga ctgctttgtg   1080
<removed-apn>
              tgtggcaagt ctgggcattg ggccaaggac tgtcctgagc gcaaagacag gaagtctgcc   1140
              aacatggtca ttggcgaggg cggaggaaca tcggggtacg gtaaaatatt acctacagtt   1200
              ctctctgttt ttcactcacc tgattggtgg gtggacactg gtgctaatat tcatgtcggg   1260
              agaggttcct ccatgttgat gggaaacggg tcgcttgcgg ctgttcatgg tattggtacg   1320
              gtcgatcaga agtttacttc gggaaagacc gtgcagctga agaacgtgca gcatgtccct   1380
              tcaataaaga agaatcttgt tagcggctct ctactttgta gagaaggttt tagacttgtg   1440
              tttgagtcca ataaatgtgt cgtatctaaa tatgggactt ttgttagaaa aggttatgac   1500
              agcggaggct tgttccgctt ttctttgaat gacatgtgta ataatcataa tgttgtgaac   1560
              catattagcg agaatgatga gtctaatgtg tggcattcgc gactctgtca tgtgaatttc   1620
              agttgtatga cgcgcttagc taacatgagt ttaattccaa aattcacttt gatcaaaggt   1680
              tccaagtgcc atacttgtgt tcaatcgaaa caacctcgca agcctcacaa ggcatctgag   1740
              gcgaggaatt tggcacctct agaacttgtt cattccgatt tgtgcgaaat gaacggcgtg   1800
              ttgactaaag ggggaaagaa atatttcatg acactgatag atgattacac tagattttgt   1860
              tatgtgtata tattgaaaag aaaggatgaa gcattgcatt actttaaaat ctataaagct   1920
              gaggtagaaa accaacttga aaggaaaatc aaacggttga ggtctgatag aggtgaggag   1980
              tatttttcta atgagtttgc atccttttgc gaagagtttg gaattattta tgagaggatg   2040
              cctccctatt caccccaatc aaatggggtg gccgaaagaa agaaccgtac tctaactgag   2100
              atggtgaatg ccatgttaga gactgcgggg ctttccaagg aatggtgggg tgaggcagtt   2160
              ttgactgcgt gtcatgtcct gaataaaatt tcaatgaagc ataaggaagt aacaccattc   2220
              gaggaatggg aaaggaagaa attaaatctc tcatacctac gaacatgggg ctgtttggcc   2280
              aagcactttg caccgataga acacaatgat caaacgcctg agaaaaatcc tgaggaggac   2340
                                                    816

<removed-date>
              aacattgtag acactcacaa gagtaagaga caaagggttg caaaatcctt tggagatgac   2400
              tacattgtat accttgtgga tgacacccca agaaccatag aagagacata ttcatctcct   2460
              gacgctgact actggaagga aataatggat gttaagacag ctttcttaaa cggagagctg   2520
              gaggaggaga tctatatgga tcaaccagac ggccttaatg tgattgagga ggtcaaggac   2580
              tatctgtaca agagttttga aatgaaggat ttgggagagg ctaatgttat tcttaacatc   2640
<removed-apn>
              aaactacaaa gaggagatga gggtgggatt acacttgtgc aatctcacta tgtggacaag   2700
              gttttgagtc gctttggata tagtgactgt aagccagctc ctactccttg tgatcctagc   2760
              gtgctattaa ggaaaaaccg aagaatagta agggatcaac tgagatactc tcaaatcatt   2820
              ggttcattga tgtacttggc tagtgcaacg aggcctgaca tctcatttgc tgtaagcaag   2880
              ctgagccggt ttgtctcaaa tccgggagat gatcattggc aggctctgga aagagtaatg   2940
              cgctatctaa agggcactat gagctatgga attcactata ccgggtattc aaaagtacta   3000
              gaagggtata ttgactcaaa ctggatatct gatgctgatg agataaaagt cacaagtgga   3060
              tatgtgttca cacttggagg tggtgttgtt tcctggaagt cttgcaagca gaccatctta   3120
              acaaggtcaa caatggaagc agaacttaca gcactagata ctgcgacagt tgaggccgag   3180
              tggcttcgtg aactcctgat ggatttgccg gtggttgaaa aaccagtgcg cgccagctat   3240
              cctaatgaac tatga                                                    3255
              <210>   720
              <211>   2767
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 720
              gataggtgtc catagcaagc agagcaggag cagagccaac tgcacaaggc aaggcagggg     60
              gcctctcctc gctgttctac tgctgctata ctctggcatc gcgtcgcgcg cgcaagcaaa    120
              agggtagttc ctcaatcaaa cgctccaaga gaaatcaccc cgccacgcca cgccgcgccg    180
              ggctgggctg ctgctcccag atctcgccga gcggggcgct cgattatgtg ggattaggta    240
              gatgagggcg gcgctgttcg gtgccgagag gagcggggta gtggaccacg gcggcggcga    300
              taaggaggag ctgttttggc cggcggggaa gggggggctg gtggtggtgg agccgaggtc    360
              ggtgctggac tgcacgcgca gcccgagccc gccgtattcc acgtcgacgc tgtcgtcgtc    420
                                                    817

<removed-date>
              cctgggcggc ggctcggcgg actcgaccgg tgtggcggcg gtttcggaga gcagcaccgc    480
              cgccgccgga gccaccaaat ggggagcccc aggcgagcat ggtggcggcg ggaaggagga    540
              gtggggcggc gggtgcgagt tgcccccgat acctggagca ctggatgtgg ggctcgtcgg    600
              gggcgagggc tgggacgcca cggccacgct cggcaacgca gccgggccgg accagtcgtt    660
              cttgaactgg atcattgggg ccgccggcga cctggagcag cctggtccgc cgcttccagt    720
<removed-apn>
              gctccagcag ccgcttattg acaatgcggg gttcgggatc cccggccgtg gacaccatgg    780
              gcttctctct gggatcaccc cctcagcggc gtcgcctccg acctctcggc cctccggtgc    840
              gcacactgcc accggggggt ggcggcaagg cctcattagg gttcggtctc ttctcgccgg    900
              aggccacctc cctcgagcag ccgccgcctt cgatgctgtt tcacgaaggt atcgacacga    960
              agccccctct tctgggtgcg cagccgcaat ttctcctgaa ccactaccaa ccccagccac   1020
              ccaaccccgc cgcagccttg ttcatgcctc tcccgccctt ccccgagcac aatcaccagt   1080
              cgccgcatct ccagccaccg ctcaaacgcc accacgccat tccagatgac ctctacctcg   1140
              cccgtaacca gcagcagtca tccgcggtgg cgccaggtct cgcctattca ccaccgctac   1200
              atggcccggc tccgttccag ctccatcctt cgccgccacc gattcgcggg gcgatgaagt   1260
              cgacggcggc ggaggcggcg cagcagcagc tgctggacga gttggcagcg gcggcaaagg   1320
              caaccgaggc tggcaattcc gttggcgcgc gagagatatt ggcgcggctc aatcaacagc   1380
              ttccccaact tgggaagccc ttcctccgct ccgcctccta cctcaaggag gccctcctcc   1440
              tcgcactcgc cgacagccac catggctcct ccggcgtcac ctcgccgctc gacgttgccc   1500
              tcaagcttgc agcatacaag tctttctctg acctgtcacc tgtgctccag ttcactaact   1560
              ttaccgcaac acaggcgctt cttgatgaga ttggtggcat ggcaacttcc tgcatccatg   1620
              tcattgactt tgatctcggt gttggtggtc agtgggcttc cttcttgcag gagcttgccc   1680
              accgccgggg agctggaggt atggccttgc cgttgttgaa gctcacggct ttcatgtcga   1740
              ctgcttctca ccatccactg gagctgcacc ttacccagga taacctctct cagtttgccg   1800
              cagagctcag aattcctttc gaattcaatg ccgtcagtct tgatgcattc aatcctgcgg   1860
              aactcatttc ttcctctggt gatgaagttg ttgctgttag cctccctgtt ggctgctctg   1920
              ctcgtgcacc accgctgcca gcgattcttc ggttggtgaa acagctttgt cctaaggttg   1980
                                                    818

              tcgtggctat tgatcatgga ggtgatcgtg cagaccttcc attctcgcag catttcctga   2040
<removed-date>
              attgtttcca gtcctgtgtg ttcctccttg actcgcttga tgctgctggt attgatgctg   2100
              attctgcctg caagatcgag aggttcctaa ttcaaccaag agttgaggat gcagtgattg   2160
              ggcggcacaa ggcgcagaaa gctatagcat ggaggagcgt ttttgcagca actgggttta   2220
              agcccgttca gctcagcaac ctcgccgagg cgcaggcaga ctgcctcctg aagcgggtgc   2280
              aggtccgagg attccatgtg gagaaacgcg gagctgctct tacgctctac tggcagcgtg   2340
<removed-apn>
              gggagcttgt atccatatca tcttggcggt gctgatcagc cataagcttc actccaccaa   2400
              ggttccacca ccgtttgcaa gcatcgacca ctccagtaat gtccatttat tcttgcaatt   2460
              aaatgttgca aatgaaattg ttgtcttgag ctgttgaact cttcatattg cttttcgttg   2520
              cagcttatta gctagcctag tggatttagg aatattggtg tcagtctcta tagctaatga   2580
              tgttgcttta ggttgttgcc atgctctgct caattagcca tgatcatctc attggaaaca   2640
              ctgcttatga gtagagacta gagggtaatt taacctatca aatggttgtg tggtacagaa   2700
              ttaatattat actgctgttg ctctgtaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2760
              aaaaaaa                                                             2767
              <210>     721
              <211>     2117
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Oryza sativa
              <400> 721
              atgcaggacg cgctgctggg gcggcgctgc cagcggcggg caggagccgg gagccagcgg     60
              cggtgggaca gcgggcgggc gaggatcgga tcccctttgc gagctcgcga cttcgagacg    120
              gcggcgggca gcggagacgg cggcgagcgg cggagacgag ggcgtggcgc ggcggccctc    180
              gagcggtgga gatgttggga gtggcagcag cccgattccc tagctgctgc cgcttccgcc    240
              ctagatgagc tcgacgtgtc gagcaagacg ttgttgggct tgacgtcgcc gtgcacgacc    300
              ggcggcttga cgacggagtg gaggatagga gtactctaca tgctgcctat gatcaatatt    360
              gccctcatgt cctcctcctc ttgccatccc cacaacccca ccaccctgcc gctgccggag    420
              ccggacagca gcaagtcgcc ggagcccacc tccgtgctct acaaccgcag cagcccgagc    480
              acctccctcg gctcctgctc ctccaaacca ccggaggacc ctcctccccc catcgccgcc    540
                                                    819

              gacgacgact gcgactggga cgccgtcgtc gacatgcaca tgcacatgct cgcccccgcc    600
<removed-date>
              cccgcccccg actcctcctt cctccgctgg atcatggata ccggctatgc cgacgccgac    660
              acctttcccg accacccctc cttcgactcc gacctgctcc aactccccat gcccatgccc    720
              tctgaccatc ctcctcagcc gctcgtcgac gacctcctcg acgccgcacg cctcctcgac    780
              gccggggact ccacttccgc tagggagata ttggcgcggc tcaatcatcg cctcccctct    840
              cttccgtcgc ctccgggcca tgcccaccct ccgctcctcc gcgccgccgc cctcctccgg    900
<removed-apn>
              gacgcgctcc tcccgcccac cgccctcccc gtctcctcta ctcccctcga cgtcccgctc    960
              aagctcgccg cgcacaaggc cctggcggac gcctccccga ccgtgcagtt caccaccttc   1020
              acatccacgc aggccttcct cgacgcgctc ggctccgcgc gccgcctcca cctcctcgac   1080
              ttcgacgtcg gcttcggtgc ccattggccg cctctcatgc aggagctcgc gcaccactgg   1140
              cgccgcgctg ctgggccgcc gccgaacctc aaggtgaccg cattggtgtc gccggggtcc   1200
              agccacccac tcgagctcca cctcaccaac gagagcctca cgcgcttcgc cgccgagctc   1260
              ggcatcccgt tcgagttcac cgccctcgtg ttcgaccccc tcagcagcgc gtccccgccc   1320
              ttgggactct cggccgcgcc cgacgaagcg gtggccgtcc atctcacggc cggctccggg   1380
              gccttctcgc cggcgcccgc gcacctccgt gtcgtgaagg agctccgccc cgccgttgtg   1440
              gtgtgcgtcg accacgggtg cgagcgcggc gccctcaacc tcctgcagtc ttgcgcggcg   1500
              ctgctggagt ctctggacgc ggcgggcgcg tcgccggacg tggtgtccaa ggtggagcag   1560
              ttcgtcctgc ggccacgggt ggagcgcctc gcggtcggcg gcggcgacaa gctgcctccg   1620
              ccgttgcagt ccatgttggc gtccgcgggg tttgcggcgc tgcaggtgag caatgcggcg   1680
              gaggcgcagg cggaatgcct gctgaggcgc acggccagcc atgggttcca tgtggagaag   1740
              cggcaggcgg cgctggcgct gtggtggcag cggtcggagc tcgtctcggt gtcagcgtgg   1800
              cgatgctagc tgcctctgcc tggtacactt gtactacaaa tgtttggtgt tcattgatct   1860
              tgaatatttt cagctttggg taaattgatc aaaccaaagc tgcttgtgat atgttagcac   1920
              tagtagtagt aattgggtaa ttatttcttg cctgggagaa ttcatgctcc atggcatgct   1980
              tgtacaattt gtatggcaat gacaaaattg ggagtgctca agagtgcaag cccccaacct   2040
              tgtgattcaa cagataaaaa aaaaaaaact ttcttttgtg cacatctctg atctaatata   2100
              cagagtagtt ctctttt                                                  2117
                                                    820

<removed-date>
              <210>   722
              <211>   1081
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (185)..(185)
<removed-apn>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (291)..(291)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (298)..(298)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (327)..(327)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (330)..(330)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (333)..(333)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (401)..(401)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (460)..(460)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (495)..(495)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                           821

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (927)..(927)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1014)..(1014)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1039)..(1039)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1053)..(1053)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 722
              acttcttmga cgcsgkacgc ttcttmgacg ccggggartc carttccgtt agggagatat    60
              tggsgcggct caatcatcgc rtcccrtrtc ttccgtcgcc gccgggccat gcccaccrtc   120
              cgttcttccg cgccgccgcc ttcttccggg acgsgttctt cccgcccacc gccttcccgg   180
              trtcntttac tcccctcgac gtcccgctca agctcgccgc gcacaaggcc rtggcggacg   240
              ccwcccsgca ccgtgcayww kaccaccttc acatccacgc aggccttcct ngacgcgntc   300
              ggctccgcgc gccgcctcca cctcctngan ttngacgtcg gcttcggtgc ccattggccg   360
              cctctcatgc aggagctcgc gcaccactgg cgccgcgctg ntgggccgcc gccgaacctc   420
              aaggtgaccg cattggtgtc gccggggtcc agccacccan tcgagctcca cctcaccaac   480
              gagagcctca cgcgnttcgc cgccgagctc ggcatcccgt tcgagttcac cgccctcgtg   540
              ttcgaccccc tcagcagcgc gtccccgccc ttgggactct cggccgcgcc cgacgaagcg   600
              gtggccgtcc atctcacggc cggctccggg gccttctcgc cggcgcccgc gcacctccgt   660
              gtcgtgaagg agctccgccc cgccgttgtg gtgtgcgtcg accacgggtg cgagcgcggc   720
              gccctcaacc tcctgcggtc ttgcgcggcg ctgctggagt ctctggacgc ggcgggcgcg   780
              tcgccggacg tggtgtccaa ggtggaycag ttcgtcctgc ggccacgggt ggaycgcctc   840
              gcggtggggg tcggcggcgg tccaccgttg cagtccatgt tggcgtccgc ggggtttgcg   900
              gcgctgcagg tgaacaatgc ggcggangcg caggcggaat gcctactgag gcgcacggcc   960
                                                    822

              ayccatgggt tccatgtgga ayaacggccg gcggcgctgg cgctgtggtg gcancggtcg   1020
<removed-date>
              gaactcgtct cggtgtcanc gtggcgatgc tanctgcctc tgcctggtac acttgtacta   1080
              c                                                                   1081
              <210>   723
              <211>   2580
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 723
              acacccctcc ccccctcctc tcctctcctc tcctctcctc ctcacaaaca taaacacaaa     60
              cacatcaaga gcaagaacaa caagagagag agaaatcaaa ctccaccacc caccacgaca    120
              tcgagctcgc aagcaagaac aagattgcaa gaagaagaag ttgttgttgg tcgaggcgag    180
              gaggaggagg aggaagaagg agtttgtgtg ttggtgttat gaggtgttgg attagatgag    240
              aggaatgccc tttggtggga gcgcgcgaga ggggcacgcg gggacactgc tgcaacacca    300
              cctcatacac ggcgttggcc tcgccgcggc cggcaagctc gtctcctcct cctccgccgc    360
              cgccgccgcc gccggagcag gtgggttctg ggagccaagg tcggtgctcg accaccgcca    420
              cagcccgagc cccagcccgc ctacctcggc ttccacgctg tcgtcgcctc tcgccgacgt    480
              ggcggccctc gccggcgcca acgccaagaa cgtctccgtc tccccgccgc cgccgggatg    540
              gggaacggga ggaggaggtg gtggggggga ggaggtggtg gcggcgaagg aggagtgggt    600
              gcaccagctc acgccgcttg atatggggct cggcgccggc gaagggtggg atgccgccgg    660
              gaacgtgctg ggtcatggac cgccggtgct cgagctcgac catggcggcg gcgcggcgcg    720
              ctgcgcccgc cgcgttcggg ccgttcgcgc cgccgcccgc ggcaaggaca cgaagcccgt    780
              ggtgccgttc gcggcggggc accccccgcc gaacttcctc ctccaacacc accaccacca    840
              cccgcagccg cacgcggcgt tcttcggcgc ccaccacccg tcgttcgacg cggcgccgcc    900
              gccttccaag cggcaccacc cgatggccgc cgcgcctgcg ccgaagctgc ctccgttccc    960
              ggcgggcggg ttcgtccccg ccctgaagcc gaaggcggag gcggcgaacg acgaggccgc   1020
              cgctgcggtc gaacagctag ccgaggcggc gaagctggcc gaggccggcg acgccttcgg   1080
              cgcccgcgag atattggcgc ggctcaatta ccggctcccc gccgccccca cggccgggac   1140
              gccactgctc cgctcagcct tctacttcaa ggaggctctg cgcctaacgc tctcccccac   1200
                                                    823

              cggcgacgcc ccagcgccat cggcgtcgac gccgtacgac gtggtcgtca agctcggcgc   1260
<removed-date>
              ctacaaggcc ttctcggagg tgtccccggt gctccagttc gcgcacctca cctgcgtcca   1320
              ggcggtgctc gacgagctcg gcggcgccgg atgcatccac gtgctggact tcgacatcgg   1380
              catgggcgag cagtgggcgt cgctgatgca ggagctcgcg cagctccgcc cggccgccgc   1440
              gctcaaggtg accgcattgg tgtccccggc gtcgcaccac ccgctcgagc tgcagctcat   1500
              ccacgagaac ctctccggct tcgccgccga gctcggcgtc ttcttccact tcaccgtctt   1560
<removed-apn>
              caacatcgac accctggacc ccgccgagct cctcgccaac gccaccgcgg gcgacgccgt   1620
              ggccgtgcac ctccccgtcg gccccgccca cgccgccgcg acgccggccg tgctccgcct   1680
              cgtgaagcgc ctcggcgcca aggtggtggt ctccgtcgac cgcggctgcg accgctccga   1740
              cctccccttc gcggcgcacc tcttccactc cttccactcc gccgtctacc tcctcgagtc   1800
              catcgacgcc gtgggcacgg acccggacac cgcgtccaag atcgagcggt acctcatcca   1860
              ccccgccatc gagcagtgcg tcgtggccag ccaccgcgcc gcctccgcca tggacaaggc   1920
              gccgccgccg ccgtggcgcg cggcgttcgc ggcggcgggg ttcgcgccgg tgcaggcgac   1980
              gacgttcgcg gagtcgcagg cggagtcgct gctgagcaag gtgcacgtca gggggttccg   2040
              cgtcgagaag cgcgccggct cgctctgcct ctactggcag cgcggcgagc tcgtgtccgt   2100
              ctcggcgtgg aggtgctaga aagccctcgc cgccgtcgcc gtctccggcg agcggcgcag   2160
              ccgtggagcc gacgtatcaa ggagccgcgg attttagtta gggactaatg atcctgctac   2220
              ttcttcctct ccaagtgaaa gtcaagtgtt tttttaccct ttttgtgtaa ctttttttta   2280
              ctcctttttt cttcttcttc tttgtgttgc tgtaatgatc tcagctgagc tgatcagtga   2340
              gctgagtgtc ctaagattgt cgtgtcacct tgcagcttgg ctctgcttct gcttctgctt   2400
              gtgcagatgc agagtgccat gtcgcaatgg tgttgtactg gtacagtagc tggcgcattc   2460
              tacttcacca tcatccatcc atccatcccc ctgtgttact actcgattcc ccgtgaaaat   2520
              caatggctat ggcatttgaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2580
              <210>   724
              <211>   1449
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400>   724
                                                    824

              atgcgcagca gcagcagcaa ggccacaccc acaacctccc ctgcttttcg cgtcctctgc     60
<removed-date>
              tctcctccta gtgccaagag tccaagaccc aacaaggggg aggacggagg aggcgaggca    120
              gaggcatctc accgaagggg gaagggcgac gccatgtggg acctcaatga ctcgccggcg    180
              gccgaggccg cgccgccgcc gctgtcgccg tccgccgacg actccggcgc ctcctcgtcc    240
              tcggccgccg ccgtcgtcga gatacccgac gacgccgacg acgactcggc cgctgtggtt    300
              gtcgtcacgc gccagttctt ccctccggcc gtcccgggcg gcggcggcga ccccgccccc    360
<removed-apn>
              gggaacgcgc gcgccgggtg gctccgcctg gccggagccg ccccgccggt cgctgcaacg    420
              gggccggcgg cgtcggcggc ggtgtccaag aagagccggc gcgggccgcg gtcgcgcagc    480
              tcgcagtacc gcggcgtcac gttctaccgc cgcaccgggc gatgggaatc gcacatatgg    540
              gattgtggca agcaggtcta tttgggcgga tttgacactg ctcatgcggc ggctcgggcg    600
              tacgatcggg cggcgatcaa gttccgcggc gtggaggccg acatcaattt cagcttggag    660
              gattacgagg atgacctgaa gcagatgagc aacctgacca aggaggagtt cgtccacgtg    720
              ctccggcggc agagcacggg gttcccccgg ggaagctcca agtacagggg cgtgacgctc    780
              cacaagtgcg ggagatggga ggctcggatg ggccaattcc tcggcaagaa gtacgtctac    840
              ttggggctgt tcgacaccga ggaggaagct gccagggcgt acgaccgcgc tgccatcaag    900
              tgcaatggca aggatgcggt gacgaacttc gatccaagca tttacgccgg ggagttcgag    960
              ccgccggcag cggccacggg tgatgccgcc gagcacaacc tggacctctc gcttgggagc   1020
              tcggcgggct ccaagagggg caacgttgac ggtggcgggg acgacgagat caccggcggc   1080
              ggtggcggtg gcgcgggctc cgaccagcgc gtccctatgg cgttcgacct tgactggcaa   1140
              acggcggcgg cgaggagcac caaagctaag ttcttgagca atggtgatcc ggggacagcg   1200
              ggaggcctgt cactgacgat cggcgcaggc atggccgggc actggcctcc ccagcagcag   1260
              caggggtggg gcaacgccgg cggcatgagc tggccgcacc cgccgcaccc gccgccgccg   1320
              ccgaccaacg ccgcggccgc cgcaaccgct acagcagctg cagcatcatc acgattccct   1380
              ccctacattg cgacgcaagc ctcaacctgg ctgcagaaga acgggttcca ttccctgacc   1440
              cggcccacc                                                           1449
              <210>   725
              <211>   2235
                                                    825

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 725
              tgacgtccca tccatccctc cccccccttt tccctcctcc tccacctcca ctgccatggc     60
              cgcctccgcc gctcctctct cccgcgtggt agccgccgcc ggttgccgcc gctaggggag    120
              cgcgacgggg gaacggtagg ggcgacccag ctcgctctgt cgccccgcgg ctggtggggg    180
              tgcgcgcggg ggagagcggt tggttagtat ggtgctggat ctcaatgtgg agtcgccggg    240
<removed-apn>
              tgggtcggcg gcgacgtcga gctcgtccac gccgccgccg ccgcccgacg gtggcggcgg    300
              ggggtacttc cggttcgacc tggctcggcg ggagccccga cgaggacggg tgctcctcgc    360
              ctgtcatgac gcgccagctc ttcccttcgc cgtctgcggt ggtggcgctg gcgggggacg    420
              ggtcgtcgac gccaccgctg acgatgccga tgccggcggc ggctggggag gggccgtggc    480
              cgcgccgcgc ggcggatctc ggggtggcgc agagccagag gtcccccgcc ggcgggaaga    540
              agagccgccg cggcccgagg tctcggagct cccagtacag gggcgtcacc ttctacagga    600
              ggaccgggcg atgggagtcg cacatctggg actgcgggaa gcaggtgtac ctgggtggtt    660
              tcgatacagc tcatgccgca gcgagggcct atgatcgcgc ggcgatcaag ttcagaggcc    720
              tcgacgcgga tatcaacttt aatctgaatg actatgagga cgacttgaag cagatgcgca    780
              attggaccaa ggaggagttt gtgcacatac ttcggcgcca aagcacagga tttgcaaggg    840
              ggagctcaaa gtaccggggt gtgacactgc acaagtgtgg ccggtgggaa gctcggatgg    900
              gccagctgct cggcaagaag tacatctatc taggattgtt tgacagtgaa attgaggctg    960
              caagagcata tgaccgggca gctatccgct tcaatggaag ggaagctgtt actaattttg   1020
              atcctagttc ttatgatgga gatgttctac ctgaaaccga caatgaagtg gttgatggag   1080
              acatcattga cttaaatctg agaatttcac agcctaacgt tcatgagctg aaaagtgatg   1140
              gtaccctaac tgggttccag ttgaattgtg attctcctga agcttcaagt tctgttgtta   1200
              ctcagccaat aagtcctcag tggcctgtgc ttcctcaggg cacatcgatg tcccagcatc   1260
              cacatttata tgcatctcct tgtccgggct tctttgtgaa cctcagggaa gtacctatgg   1320
              agaaaagacc tgagttgggt ccccagtcgt tccctacttc gtggtcatgg caaatgcagg   1380
              gctccccttt gccattactc cctactgcag catcatcagg attctctacg ggcaccgtcg   1440
              ccgacgccgc ccgctcgcct tcctcccgcc cccatccatt tcccggccac caccagttct   1500
                                                    826

<removed-date>
              acttcccccc gaccgcctga ctgccaccta ttctggtgga ggcgacacct caccgtgcat   1560
              ccaccgccgc ttgctgataa cattcgtcgt ttgtccagag agggaccttc tccatatgat   1620
              atccctctct atgttccacc tggttatgat cagaattctc acgctcatga ttcttttatc   1680
              ttcatttttg agtgcgaaac cacgaatcgt gaccgtgcta ccaggtaaac acccttgtac   1740
              ctctttgact ctacaataaa attaatgtaa gatattctgg ctaaaagtga ttggccctcc   1800
<removed-apn>
              ctactgtatt tttacagagt tgtaatttga acagtgggca ctaaagctgg ggcccactcg   1860
              caccagtgtc tagtggagcg aagctttgcc cttttcttgc tatccagcaa ctattcctcc   1920
              gcctgcctcc attgctgaca gtggagatag cttcccagtg gtcactgttc cactgtactc   1980
              tgtcatagtt tctgatcacc cctattgtgc cttgtctctt tcacctcctc cctcacttgt   2040
              gctgcctctg gccactagag tggcgccctg cactgttgcc atgcatggct gccacttcga   2100
              gagtggagat gggggttggc ctttgggtga tttctgtgtc ccatcttttg gctcaatgtc   2160
              gttttgggac tggtgcatgt actggcaata ggtgagatga gatatgaaat gtcctctgct   2220
              gctttttcta aaaac                                                    2235
              <210>   726
              <211>   1260
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 726
              atggcgacca ccacctggtg ctgtggttgc tgctgctcct gcctcgccac cgctcgaagc     60
              cgctcctcgg tgctaaactc cggggacgcc ggaggcggcg gtggcggtgg cggtggcgga    120
              ggattattcc ggttcgacct cctcgcgagc agccccgacg acgacgagtg ctccggggag    180
              cagcatcagt tgccggccgc ctcggggatc gtgacgcgtc agctcctccc gcctccgcct    240
              cccgcggcgc cgtcgccggc gccggcgtgg cagccgccgc gccgcgcggc ggaggatgcc    300
              gccctcgcgc agcggccggt ggtcgcgaag aagacgcggc gcgggccgag gtcgcggagc    360
              tcgcagtaca ggggcgtcac cttctacagg aggaccggcc gctgggagtc gcacatatgg    420
              gcttacgatc gcgctgcgat caagttccgg ggactggagg ctgacatcaa cttcaacctg    480
              agcgactacg aggacgatct gaagcagatg aggaactgga ccaaggagga gttcgtgcac    540
              atactccggc gacagagcac gggattcgcg agggggagct ccaagttccg cggcgtcacg    600
                                                    827

<removed-date>
              ctgcacaagt gcggccgctg ggaggcacgc atgggccaac ttcttggcaa gaagtacata    660
              taccttgggc tctttgacac cgaagttgaa gctgcaagag catatgacag ggcagctatt    720
              cgcttcaatg ggagggaagc tgttaccaac ttcgagcctg catcctacaa tgtggatgct    780
              ttaccagacg ccggaaatga ggcaattgtt gatggcgatc ttgatttgga tttgcggatt    840
              tcgcaaccta atgcgcgtga ctccaaaagc gatgtcgcca caactggcct ccagttaact    900
<removed-apn>
              tgtgattccc ctgaatcttc aaatattaca gtccaccagc caatgggctc gtctccccaa    960
              tggactgtgc atcaccaaag cacaccactg ccccctcagc atcaacgttt gtacccatct   1020
              cattgtcttg gcttcctccc gaacctacag gagaggccaa tggacagaag gcctgagctg   1080
              ggtcccatgc cgttcccaac acaggcttgg caaatgcagg ccccttctca cttgccattg   1140
              ctccacgctg cagcatcatc aggattctct gccggcgccg gcgccggcgt cgccgccgcc   1200
              acccgccggc agccgccgtt cccggcggat caccccttct acttcccgcc aaccgcctga   1260
              <210>   727
              <211>   1290
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 727
              atggagctcg ccggcagcaa caacaagcgg gggagggtga gggggcccaa cgacgacgac     60
              gacgacgccg gggagccgga cgccaagcgc catcaccacc agctgctgtt gccgtggccg    120
              cagcagcagc agcagcagca tccggcgtcg cggatctacc gggtgtcgcg ggcctccggc    180
              gggaaggacc gccacagcaa ggtgtacacg gccaagggca tccgcgaccg ccgcgtccgc    240
              ctctccgtct ccaccgccat ccagttctac gacctccagg atcgtctcgg gtatgaccag    300
              ccgagcaagg ccatcgagtg gctcattaag gccgccgccg ccgccatcga caagctccct    360
              tcgcttgata ccgcttcctt ccccaccaac cccgcctcct ccgccgtgca gcagcagctc    420
              accaagtccg gatgcagtag cacgtcggag accagcaagg gctccgtcct ctccctctcc    480
              cgctccgaga gccgcgtcaa ggccagggag cgcgccaggg agcggagcag cgcggccgcc    540
              gccgcggcat ccaaggacgc cggggacgac gccgccaccc ccaccgcgcc caccgccgcg    600
              cccgcctcct cgcaggcggc ttccttcacc gagctactca ccgggatggc cgcagccaac    660
              gcctcacccg ctgaccacaa gcagcagcag gcgtggcagc cgatgaccgt cgccgcggcc    720
                                                    828

<removed-date>
              accgccgact acatcggctt cgccgccgcc gccgcgccgc atacgcagcc gcggaaatcc    780
              gccgcgggcc atcactccgc gatgccgcac accttcgcat cacccgctcc ccacctcgcc    840
              aacatcaccc ccatcgccat ggcgcccgcg cagcacttca ccctcacacc cgccgccgcc    900
              gagcaccacg cggagatgac gcactactcg ttcgaccact tcatgcccgt ccacgcggca    960
              gcagcggcgg cggcggcggc ctccaccccg gccggcggcg actacaacct caacttctcc   1020
<removed-apn>
              atgtcctcgg gtcttgtggg tgtccacagt agggggaccc ttcagtccaa ttcgcagtct   1080
              cacctctcca gccatcacca ccaccatcac cagcaacagc agcagcagca gcagctgcag   1140
              aggctgtctg ctccgctgga tgcgcccaac attccgttcc tcttcagccc ggccgccgcg   1200
              cccaccgccg cggacaccca gttcgccgcc gcattgcagc tctgggacgg gttccggcac   1260
              gccgacatca aggagaaggg caagcactga                                    1290
              <210>   728
              <211>   2074
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 728
              cccgggctgc aggaattcgg cacgaggaaa agagaggccg gccgggcggc tgcactgggc     60
              gccgctatag ctattaagct gctgcgactg tgtgtgtgcg tgcttgctct gcccatggag    120
              ctgtggggtt cccatggcca ctgtatcttt tttccctctc atcaggatgg cgagctgagc    180
              tgagctgagc tgagcttggc aaaccccatg caggaataga atttagcttc ttgttttaat    240
              tttcgctctt ctcctttccg gttaactgtg ggtgagaggg agctcaagct ggaggaagac    300
              aagaaccagt tgtccaaggg cttagaccct tggacgagca accctaccgc cagcgcgagc    360
              accttgcact acctgctcca ggagaaggag agggcgcagc aagcgcatga gcagcttcag    420
              atctaccagc agcagcaggg attcggcagc ttcctgcaac accggatcag gcagccggcg    480
              agccgggggc cgggaggtgg aggcggcggc ggcgatggcg gcggcagcag cggcgagtcg    540
              acgcccgtcg aagcgctggc cactgcattc ggggcaggcc gcatcgtgcg gtccgcggcc    600
              gggcgcaagg accggcacag caaggtgtgc acggcgcgcg ggctgcggga ccggcgcgtc    660
              cgcctcgccg cgcacaccgc catccggttc tacgacgtgc aggaccgcct cggctacgac    720
              cggcccagca aggccgtcga ctggctcatg cgcaacgcca aggccgccat cgacgagctc    780
                                                    829

<removed-date>
              cccgaccgcg ccgaggcccc gccgccgccc gccgcggcgt cgacggagca gcccgaggcc    840
              accgagcagg cgacctcgac gtcctacggg ttcggcaaca ctaccggcgg caccatgacc    900
              agcgccgcgt cggccgctgc tggctccttc cttccacatt cgctgggggc agatcgagtc    960
              tccgacagcg tcaagtccct gttcccctcc tcgtccacag ccagcggcgc cgcctccgcc   1020
              ggacacgacg agtacagggg atccccgccg gacctcctgt cgcgcacgac aagcaaccag   1080
<removed-apn>
              cagccgcagg agctgtgcct caccctacag tcgaaccagc accagatctt cagccatgtc   1140
              tcgtcgaacc accacggtat gatctcgagt gcaggcgttc caggttggcc cgaccacagc   1200
              cagagaatgc aggcatggca tgccccggag aacagcacag gagacggccg cggcggcggc   1260
              aatggcgacg gctacatgtt cgccatgccg tcgcggcaag ggctggacca gagccagctc   1320
              ttctcgcatg gggaacccct tcagtccagc ggtcgcgggt gggcgtcagc ccgcgcatgg   1380
              ctagaccccc tcgcagtcgc agccatccac caccagccgt cgacaatggc tgccggacag   1440
              gtcggcttcg gccatctcgt tggcggcgcc ggtggcggcg gcgggtttat ggggtttctc   1500
              gcgccggcgg cgcagcggct tgagggcgag gaggagcacg gaagtgaggt gatcaggtga   1560
              tgagaagaga ctgaagaatt gatgcatggc gcgcatgcag gaggtgtgtg ctttctatta   1620
              attaacacac ttcactgatc tgcttaaggg tacgtgtatg tcatttcatg taggattttg   1680
              gctgatgaaa tttccctcat tattatctgc tgtcttcatg catgtgtaac caaggcttaa   1740
              ttaattatta agagtacgtt cccttggaac taggcagctg ttgctgttgc attagttgct   1800
              attgctgttt tcccctttat tctcggcatg gacaagatgt gatgatgaag agatgatatg   1860
              gtctatgatc ttgatggctt ttcccccctt tggatcttgt aatgtttctt atatctgatt   1920
              attctgaaga agattccggc ctttagccaa ttcgaaggtt gtcctagatc ctgattccat   1980
              aaaggcgcca attttttttt gcaataatat atcggcaata tgggaggtac aggaggatga   2040
              aagcagtaaa agggattcag attaagaaaa aaaa                               2074
              <210>   729
              <211>   1896
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 729
              atgcgcttaa ttccttatcc atggagacta ggttatggga tccggcgagg tggatggacg     60
                                                      830

<removed-date>
              cgcattggag cagcaacagt agcggcgggg aagaaggcgg cgggggatct ggatccgagg    120
              caccaccacc accgggtcac ccacggcggc gacggcggcg gcgtaggagg aggaggaagc    180
              gggggacagg aggaggcaga tgagcagcag cagcagcagc acgaccacca ccggcttctc    240
              cagctccacc accaccaggg tgtgcagcag gaccaagaac cgccgcctgt tcccgtcttc    300
              cacctccagc cggcgtccgt gaggcagctg tcgggctcct ccgccgagta tgcccttctc    360
<removed-apn>
              tcgcccatgg gcgacgccgg cggccactcc caccaccacc aacacggctt ccagcctcag    420
              ctcctctcct tcggtggcgt cggccaccac caccacctgc atcagttcac ggcgcagcca    480
              cagccccccg ccgcgtccca cactcggggt cgtggaggtg gaggtgagat tgtccccgcg    540
              acgacaactc cacggtcgag gggcggaggc ggcggcggcg gcggggagat cgtggcggtg    600
              cagggcgggc acattgtgcg gtcgacaggg cggaaggacc ggcacagcaa ggtctgcacg    660
              gcgcgcgggc cgcgcgaccg ccgcgtgcgg ctgtcggcgc acaccgccat ccagttctac    720
              gacgtgcagg accggctggg ctacgaccgc ccgagcaagg cggtggactg gctcatcaag    780
              aacgccaagg acgccatcga caagctcgac gtgctgccgg cgtggcagcc cactgccggc    840
              ggcgcaggcg cgggcaatgc cgccgcgccg ccgtcctcct cgacccaccc cgactccgcc    900
              gagaactccg acgaccaggc gcaggccatc accgtcgcgc acaccgcctt cgacttcgcc    960
              ggcgggggca gcggcgggac cagcttcctc ccgccgtcgc tcgactcgga cgccatagcc   1020
              gacacgatca agtccttctt ccccatgggt ggcaccgcag gcggggaggc atcgtcgtcc   1080
              accacggcgg cgcagtcgtc ggccatgggt ttccagagct acacgcctga cctcctgtcc   1140
              cgcaccggca gccagagcca ggagctccgg ctgtcgctgc agtccttacc agaccccatg   1200
              ttccaccacc agcaacatcg ccatggcggc ggcggcggcg gcggcaatgg caccacgcag   1260
              caggcgctct tctccggcgc cgccaattac tcgttcggcg gcggagccat gtgggccacc   1320
              gagcagcagg cgcagaacca gcgcatgctg ccgtggaacg tgcccgaccc cggcggcggc   1380
              ggcggcgccg cctacctgtt caacgtgtcg cagcaagcgg cgcatatgca ggcggcggct   1440
              gcggcgctgg gtggccacca gagccagttc ttcttccaga ggggacccct tcagtccagt   1500
              aaccagccct ccgagcgagg atggccggag accgtcgaag ccgacaacca gatgagccac   1560
              caccaaggag ggctgagccc ctccgtgtcg gcggccatcg gttttgccgc tcccggcatc   1620
                                                    831

              ggcttctccg gcttccgcct ccccgcgagg atacagggcg acgaggagca caacggcggc   1680
<removed-date>
              ggcggcggca atggcgacaa gccgccgccg ccgtcgaatt gtcgattgca ttcgggagga   1740
              gcaaagtttg gaggtagcac aagtgcacta ctactgatgc tactacatat cggttggttg   1800
              gttggttggt tttccatcga tctcttctgc tgctgcgcat gtcattggtt tttgtttcaa   1860
              gaattcactc ggagcttctt agaattaggc ttgtga                             1896
<removed-apn>
              <210>   730
              <211>   2351
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 730
              gaggagaaga ggaggcttca ccttcccaac caaacccaac ctcgagcaca agcggagcag     60
              atgccgccgc cgccgccgcc gcgcgcgccg cgccgcgccg ccgggtagct cagcgcaaaa    120
              aagccacagc cgcccgcccg cccgatccgt tgcagcatgg ggcgcggcgg ctcgcgcgcg    180
              gcgtgcgccg ccgcggcgcc gccgtggcac tcgctcccgg acgaggtctg ggagcacgcc    240
              ttctccttcc tccccgccgc cgcggacagg ggcgccgcgg cgggggcgtg cagctcgtgg    300
              ctccgcgccg agcgccggtc gcgccgccgc ctcgccgtcg ccaactgcta cgccgccgcg    360
              ccgcgggacg ccgtcgagcg gttcccgtcc gtgcgcgccg ccgaggtcaa gggcaagccc    420
              cacttcgccg acttcggcct cgtccccccc gcctggggcg ccgccgcggc gccgtggatc    480
              gccgccgccg ccgacgggtg gccgctgctc gaggagctca gcttcaagcg catggtcgtc    540
              accgacgagt gcctcgagat gatcgccgcg tccttcagga acttccaggt gctccgcctc    600
              gtctcctgcg acggcttcag caccgcgggc ctcgccgcca ttgctgccgg ttgcagagta    660
              ggcagacacc taagagaact tgacctgcaa gagaacgaga ttgaggattg ttctattcat    720
              tggctcagcc tcttcccgga atcgttcact tctctagtaa ctctaaactt ttcatgctta    780
              gagggggagg tcaatatcac tgtacttgaa cggttagtga ccagatgtca caacctgaag    840
              actcttaagc tcaacaatgc tatccccctt gacaagcttg ctagcctcct tcataaggct    900
              cctcagctag ttgaactcgg aactggcaaa ttctctgctg attaccattc cgatctgttt    960
              gcaaagctgg aggcggcgtt tggaggttgt aaaagcttga gaaggctttc tggggcttgg   1020
              gatgctgttc cagattatct gccagcattc tattgtgtat gtgaaggcct cacatcactt   1080
                                                    832

              aatctgagtt atgctactgt gcgaggtcct gagctcatca aattcattag tagatgcaga   1140
<removed-date>
              aatttgcaac aattatgggt gatggacctc attgaggatc atggtttagc tgttgtggca   1200
              tcatcttgca ataaacttca agagttgcgg gtcttccctt ctgacccttt tggtgcagga   1260
              ttcttgactg aaagaggtct tgttgatgtc tctgcaagtt gtccaatgtt ggagtcagtg   1320
              ctctacttct gcagacggat gacaaatgag gcacttatta ccattgcaaa gaaccgtccc   1380
              aacttcactt gcttccgcct atgcatcctt gagccacaca ctccagacta catcacacgg   1440
<removed-apn>
              gagcctcttg atgcaggttt cagcgccatt gtggagtcat gcaggggcct taggcgtctc   1500
              tctatctcag gccttctcac agatcttgtg tttaaatcca ttggggcaca tgctgatcgt   1560
              cttgagatgc tttcaatcgc cttcgctggg aacagcgact tgggcctgca ttacatcctc   1620
              tcaggctgca agagcctgaa gaaactggag atcagggact gcccatttgg tgataagcca   1680
              ttgctggcga acgcagcaaa gctggagaca atgcgatccc tttggatgtc gtcgtgcttg   1740
              ttgaccctgg gcgcatgccg acagcttgca cgcaagatgc cccgccttag tgtggagatc   1800
              atgaacgatc ctggaaggtc atgccccttg gattcgcttc cggatgaaac acctgttgag   1860
              aaactgtacg tctaccggac gatcgcaggt ccaaggtccg acacaccagc ctgcgtccag   1920
              attgtgtagg gggcagtatg tgcggtatcg gtatgcgggt gttatggagg tatttatttt   1980
              caatctcgat tagtaccttc aaacaccttc ctcgcataac atagaattgt ttccttccaa   2040
              gtagaaaggc tgatggttgg atagacttgt catgatctct actcggctac aaaactgttg   2100
              caggtgtaga atgaaaattc acagcctttt tcaggtgtta ataactgtag gaggagactg   2160
              gatgaattac agaaaactac tagatagcat catgagaaaa cttcggtttg ttttcttagc   2220
              gtgtttagca ctttgtatgt ataaaaatat ggcatccatt tgtactgtac tagtggaaaa   2280
              tttgtatctg gagctgagct ttgtcacttc tacttttttg acctaaatta tgaattgttg   2340
              ttgcttcagc a                                                        2351
              <210>   731
              <211>   2427
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                    833

              <222>   (2372)..(2372)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 731
              gatgttcacc ccgcccccat gccccgcaat cccatccagg ttcatccgcc tcccgtcttc     60
              ttttttttta attcatccgc aagcactgcg aacttgcgaa gggcgcgggt acaagaaaag    120
              aagagaaaaa taaaaaggag ccggattata agtaggtagt ggtggtggtg gaggaggagg    180
              agagcaaatc gaggtagcca tggcgatgca ggccgccttc gccgcctcga tgttcccgca    240
<removed-apn>
              gctggcgcag cggaggggaa gcgatcgcgc ggtggtggtg gcgccgccgg cgccggcgcc    300
              ggtgagggtg gcgatgagga gcggtggggc ggcggcggcg gcggcgagag gggtgaggtg    360
              cagggcgagc ctgatcgagc ccgacggggg gaggctggtg gagctggtgg tgccggagga    420
              gggagggcgg cgggaggcgg cgcggcggga ggcggcggcg ctggcgcacc gggtgaggct    480
              ggggcgggtg gagacggagt ggctgcacgt gctgagcgaa gggtgggcga gcccgctgcg    540
              agggttcatg cgcgaggccg agttcctcca agcacttcat ttcaacgcca tccgcggcgg    600
              agacggggcc atggtcaaca tgtccgtgcc catcgtcctc cccctcggtg acgcccagcg    660
              ccgcgccatc gaggcgtccg gcgcccgccg cgtcgcgctc gtcgacgccg ccgaccgccc    720
              cctcgccgtc ctcagcgaca ttgagatcta caagcataac aaagaagaaa ggattgcacg    780
              gacatgggga acaactgcac ctgggctgcc ttatgttgat gaggcgatta caaatgctgg    840
              tgattggtta attggtggtg acttggaggt tatagaacca atcaagtaca atgatggtct    900
              tgatcagtat cgcttgtctc cagcccagct gcgtgaagag tttgccagac gcaatgctga    960
              tgcggtattc gcgtttcagc ttcgcaatcc tgtacacaat ggacatgctt tgctcatgac   1020
              tgatacacgc aaacgccttc ttgagatggg ttacaaaaat cctgttcttc tgcttcatcc   1080
              attgggagga ttcacaaaag cagatgatgt gcctcttagt tggagaatga agcagcatga   1140
              aaaggttctt gaggaaggtg tcctcaaccc agaatcaact gtcgttgcaa tcttcccctc   1200
              tccaatgcat tatgcagggc caactgaagt gcaatggcat gctaaggctc gtataaatgc   1260
              tggtgcaaac ttctacatag ttggaagaga tcctgctggt atgggccacc caactgaaaa   1320
              gagggacctg tatgatgctg atcatgggaa aaaggtgttg agcatggctc ctgggcttga   1380
              gaagctcaat atccttcctt tcaaggtggc tgcatatgac acaaagcaaa agaaaatgga   1440
              ctttttcgat ccatcaagga aagatgattt cctgttcatc tctggcacaa agatgcgtac   1500
                                                    834

<removed-date>
              tcttgccaag aaccgccaga gcccccctga cggattcatg tgcccgggtg gctggaaggt   1560
              ccttgttgaa tactacgaca gcttgacgcc atcagcggac agcagcaaac tgcgcgaggc   1620
              ggttgcggcc tagaaagctg aaactacctc aaataagcaa gaacattgca tcttgcaact   1680
              gtaaaatggt tctttcagag agagaaccaa tggtatatgt gtatactact ggtcgcaagg   1740
              cctaaacatt tgggtttgat tggaagcgca ttctggtgtg atttgtatgg tgccctatca   1800
<removed-apn>
              tctggtaatg ctacattgga agctcatcat gttgttggtg ttaataagga tgagcctttg   1860
              tgtgctctgc tagatatgta catatacaat gtggtggtat ttatatagtg cttggtgtgt   1920
              ttgctattat agaaaaaaaa aaaaaatctt caaaaaatcg agcgcaaccc cccccttttc   1980
              ccccccctgg ggggtaaaaa taccaaaaaa aaggcccccc acccccgaat tgcccccctt   2040
              cccccccaac aacgttttgg ccccaccccc cccggaaaag gggggaaaaa aaggggggga   2100
              acaaccgcgc ccccccccgt ggagaaaagg cggggcgccc ccgccacatt ttaaaataaa   2160
              cccccgcgcg ggcggggagg ggggggggtg tgggggggtg gtgccaacag atcacgatga   2220
              tcgcacaaca gtctcactgc caggccatta gcagtgttca ggctattgtg cagcagctac   2280
              ggctacaaca gtttgctagc gtctacttcg atcagagtca agctcaagcc caagctatgt   2340
              tggccctaaa catgccgtca atatgcggga antacccaaa cttcaacacc tgttcctgta   2400
              gcattcccac cgtcggtggt atctggt                                       2427
              <210>   732
              <211>   3128
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 732
              ccacgcgtcc gcaccagaat aatttttatg cattcataca agttgctttt ctagaagcaa     60
              aggtgaaagg tccaagtttc agtgagatga gaatggacca gttaagttac tctaagcaaa    120
              catgatgtgc cctttattca caacatttaa caattgttac ttgagcagtt ttgcccttag    180
              cctaaatacc aaatcatgaa taaacattca taaaaaggaa tttgggcccg cttattgttc    240
              tgcaaatgca ctgctagagg tttatagcat ggatatctat ccaaagtctt gagtgtaaag    300
              ttcatataac aaaccccaag taattaactg caggactact ggaaagtaca agaggagaac    360
              aaaccaggga ttggatcatt cgtttctgtc agaaaaaaaa aaactttgca aagcagtcac    420
                                                    835

<removed-date>
              gatcattagg ctagtagaag cacacttgca tagccaaaga aaactcatca ttatcaattc    480
              aattatcgga atgaaaggag cttcattttt gcaaactgaa tatgacctta gaacagcagg    540
              cacatgccct ttaggatgtg ttgccttcac tcttcaatag gtggcagcat aaaccatagc    600
              actataaatg gcaccttgta tggccacctt agaggaatca aattcacctg aagcacctaa    660
              ggttcacatg gacttgccat cctcacagct caccaatctt ggaggcaccg atacattgtg    720
<removed-apn>
              atggaatttc agccatttcc tcagggagtt cacccaaaca cttcagaacc agccatggag    780
              cccatggcaa gtgagtcatc tgtgcccata gggacagctt ttgcagactt gctgctgcaa    840
              gggccagagc acccaagcct gtggaatgat ctcaccggca tgttcaggaa ggcattccgt    900
              tggcaaggtg cagacaagcg cttcacactg tctgtgtatg tgatgtctgt tctacagggt    960
              ctgtttccaa tacttgactg gtggaaaacc tacaatctga aattctttcg aagtgacctc   1020
              atggctggcc taactcttgc aagccttagc attccacaga gcattggata tgcaactctg   1080
              gcaaaactgg atcctcagta tggtctttat acaagtgttg tgccacctct tgtatatgct   1140
              gtgacggggt cctctaggga gatagccatt ggaccagttg ccattgtgtc attattgctt   1200
              tcatcaatga ttcagaagat agttgaccca tctgttgatc cagcgttcta ccgaaaaatg   1260
              gtctttaccg tgacattcct tactggtgtc tttcagtttg catttggtct gttcagactg   1320
              ggatttcttg tggattttct atcacatgct gctatcgtcg ggttcatggg aggagctgct   1380
              attgtgattg gattacagca gctgaagggg ctgcttggac ttagtcattt tacaaataga   1440
              actgatgtcg tctctgtcac caaggcagtc tgggtttcag ttcacgaaac atggcatccg   1500
              gagaacgtct tcattggatg ttcctttttc atgttcattc ttgccatgag attcattgga   1560
              aggaagtaca agaaactctt ttgggtctct gccattgcac ctgtactatc agttgcacta   1620
              tctactctgt ttgtctatgc gacaagagcg gataagcacg gcgtgaagat tatacaaaaa   1680
              gtgaattcag gtattaatgc aagttctgtc gagcagatag atctcaaagg aggctatgct   1740
              gccgaatgtg caaagattgc tcttgtttgt gctgtgattg ctctgacgga agctgttgct   1800
              gttggccgct ctttttcagc gatcaatgga tatcggttgg acggaaataa ggaaatggta   1860
              gcaatgggct tcatgaatat agcaggatcc ttatcatcat gctatgtagc aacaggttca   1920
              ttctcgcgca cagctgtgaa cttcgctgct gggttgcaaa gacaaccgtt tcaaacatta   1980
                                                    836

              tcatggctgc cactgtgatg gttgccttgg agcttctcac aaagctcctg tactacacac   2040
<removed-date>
              ctgtgtccat ccttgcatca atcattctgt cagctcttcc aggattgatc aatgtgcagg   2100
              aagtccgctt cctgtggaaa gtcgacaaga tggacttcct cacatgcatg ggatcattcc   2160
              ttggtgttct attcggatca gtggagattg gtctttcagt tgcacttctt gtttcctttg   2220
              caaagatcat tatacagtcg atttggcctc aagtagagat tcttgggagg cttcagggca   2280
              cagaaatctt ctgtaacgtc aagcagtatc cagtggttca cgaaacaccg actgtactga   2340
<removed-apn>
              ccgtacgcat tgaaacatca ttcctttgct tcgtcaactc cagttccatc aaagaaaaga   2400
              tcatgggatg ggtaaccgat gagcgcgagg cattttgctc ggtcgttctt gacatgtcaa   2460
              atgtggtaaa catggatact tcaggtcttg tggcgctgga agaactgcac aaggagctgg   2520
              cgtgtctcgg catccagatg gctatagcca agcctggatg gcaggtgatc cacaagatga   2580
              aactggcacg gctcgtcgac ggaatcggag aaggatggtt cttcctcacg gtgggcgaag   2640
              ccgtggaagc ttgcctggca aacaaggcgg gaaacgccct ggaatgctgc tgaatcgaat   2700
              ccaccgtgtg catggtctct ccggtggttg aataaagaga gacactagtg cttcgtggta   2760
              cgctacaaaa ggattgtgtt gtgtgctagt gctgcacgat gatgcagctt cagctgtagt   2820
              gtggtgcttc atggattgtg cgacgtgcaa ctgttggggg aagacgaact gtgtctgtct   2880
              gaacttagta tgccgagttc gtctaaattc cccactatag ctgtaggttt gtgatgtatc   2940
              ggatgcattt gtgaagagca aatgccaggt tttaagtgtt ggaactgatg attgtgtaat   3000
              attattatat taatcgagtt tgtataatta atttgtactc gagtttgtgc gttttggcaa   3060
              aatccgagct actatgctgc aaaattcatt tgtcccaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   3120
              aaaacacc                                                            3128
              <210>   733
              <211>   1188
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 733
              atgatgatga tgagcggtcg cccgagcggc ggcgccggcg gaggtcggta cccgttcacg     60
              gcgtcgcagt ggcaggagct ggagcaccag gcgctcatct acaagtacat ggcgtccggg    120
              actcccatcc cctccgacct catcctcccc ctccgccgca gcttcctcct cgactccgcc    180
                                                    837

              ctcgccacct ccccttccct cgccttccct ccccaacctt cactggggtg gggttgcttt    240
<removed-date>
              ggcatggggt ttgggcggaa ggcggaggac ccggagccag ggcgatgccg gcgtacggac    300
              ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc caaggaggcg tacccggact ccaagtactg cgagaagcac    360
              atgcaccgtg gcaagaaccg ttcaagaaag cctgtggaaa tgtccttggc cacgccgccg    420
              ccgccgtcct cctccgccac ctccgccgcg tcgaactcct ccgccggcgt cgcccccacc    480
              accaccacca cctcctcccc ggcgccctcc tacagccgcc cggcgccgca cgacgcggcg    540
<removed-apn>
              ccgtaccagg cgctctacgg cgggccctac gccgcggcca ccgcgcgcac ccccgccgcc    600
              gcggcgtacc acgcgcaggt gagcccgttc cacctccaca tcgacaccac ccacccgcac    660
              ccgccgccgt cctactactc catggaccac aaggagtacg cgtacgggca cgccaccaag    720
              gaggtgcacg gcgagcacgc cttcttctcc gatggcaccg agagggagca ccaccacgcc    780
              gccgccgggc acggccagtg gcagttcaag cagctcggca tggagcccaa gcagagcacc    840
              acgcctctct tcccgggcgc cggctacggc cacaccgcgg cgtcgccgta cgccattgat    900
              ctttcaaaag aggacgacga tgagaaagag aggcggcaac agcagcagca gcagcagcag    960
              cactgcttcc tcctgggcgc cgacctccgt ctggagaagc cggcgggcca cgaccacgcg   1020
              gcggcggcgc agaaacctct ccgccacttc ttcgacgagt ggccgcatga gaagaacagc   1080
              aagggctcct ggatggggct cgaaggcgag acgcagctgt ccatgtccat ccccatggcc   1140
              gccaacgacc tcccgatcac caccacctcc cgctaccaca atgatgaa                1188
              <210>   734
              <211>   2526
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 734
              ggttggctag tccaggacta gagggtgcag tgcattcaat tgcttgcttc ctcttcctcc     60
              ccccctcctt ccccaaagca gcaaggccag cctgtgtttc ccaaacaccc acagccatca    120
              cctcctcttc ttcctctctg cagtaggggt gctaggctag ggtagctagc tagctaccat    180
              catcatgagc tcaatgccac aagaagccat tgctccccat ccttcctaac cttcctgctg    240
              gttttgcaaa catcccacac acacacaaag cagtgacagt gagtgccaat gctgagctct    300
              tgtggtggcc atggccatgg aaatccaaga agcttgcaag aagaacacca tggcagatgt    360
                                                    838

              ggtgagcagc aaggtggagg aggaggagga gggcaagagc aagagcaaga tgggttcttg    420
<removed-date>
              gtgagagagg caagggcatc cccaccatct ccatcttctt catcatttct tggatccaca    480
              agctcttctt gttctggagg aggaggagga gggcagatgt tgagcttctc ctcccccaat    540
              ggaacagcag ggttgggctt gagctcagga ggaagcatgc agggggtctt ggcaagggtc    600
              agggggccgt tcaccccaac acagtggatg gagctggagc accaggcact gatctacaag    660
              cacattgctt gcaaatgttt ctgtcccttc cagcttgctc ctccccatca ggagaagcct    720
<removed-apn>
              ccatccatgg ggtactacct tttttattca gctcatgtga ttgttattct gttctgcgtc    780
              atatcccctt tctgttgtaa atagctcaag ataggaataa aggaataagt acttagaaaa    840
              tatgaaagaa gaaaatgcag gtcatatggt tgcagttgcc tgttagtttc agatgtataa    900
              aggtgtccca gattggggtt ctgttgtgtt gaggttggta gttatatctt gttgtctttc    960
              ttgggacagg atggctttgt gattaattag tttgtaaagg cagtaatcga agtccctttc   1020
              tggtactaaa agcagtattg gctgcaaatc taggcattat aatgatttga agattgcatt   1080
              gatactagaa atgtactgct tttggatgtt tgcatgatgc tcatgtgcta atatttccag   1140
              ttaccaatgt ggtgcttctt gagtttagat ataaaactct tctcttacat tgggattctg   1200
              attttttttt agttgtgcct ctagtctttt ccacaacaag atctccaaat gtagtcataa   1260
              agtgttctga ttccctttaa ctggcgtcat gtttggtatg tacaaactaa gttcttatgc   1320
              agacctggga ggaatgttgc tgaaatagtg caagaatata tcgttttgag gtggtttata   1380
              tatttctgac atgaaatggg cattctattt tgcaccagga tggggatcat tccctcctgg   1440
              ctgtgctgat gtagaaccca gaagatgccg ccgcacagac ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc   1500
              cagagatgct gttggggatc agaagtattg tgagcgacac ataaaccgtg gtcgccatcg   1560
              ttcaagaaag catgtggaag gccgaaaggc gacactcacc attgcagaac catccacggt   1620
              tattgctgct ggtgtatcat ctcgcggcca cactgtggct cggcagaagc aggtgaaagg   1680
              ctcagctgct actgtctctg atcctttctc gagacaatcc aacaggaaat ttctggagaa   1740
              acagaacgtt gtcgaccaat tgtctcccat ggattcattt gatttctcat ccacacaatc   1800
              ttctccaaac tatgacaatg tagcattgtc accactgaag ttgcaccatg atcatgatga   1860
              atcttacatc gggcatggag caggcagttc atcagaaaaa ggcagtatga tgtacgaaag   1920
              tcggttaaca gtctctaagg aaacacttga tgatggacct ttaggtgaag ttttcaaaag   1980
                                                    839

<removed-date>
              aaagaattgc caatcagctt ctacagaaat cttaactgaa aaatggactg agaaccccaa   2040
              cttacattgc ccatctggaa tcctacaaat ggctactaag ttcaattcaa tttccagcgg   2100
              caacacagta aatagtggtg gcaccgcagt ggagaatctt atcactgata atggatatct   2160
              tactgcaaga atgatgaatc ctcatattgt cccaacactt ctctaaggct gtgtttgaaa   2220
              gttcatgttg gattcgcaaa tgattgaaag tacgtttatg gatggttcta taagttcctg   2280
<removed-apn>
              ttgtttcctt cgttatgtgt tcttgtgttc ctcacctttt tatcttttgg ttgaggttgg   2340
              tatgttgtaa ttttctcctg tgctaccttg taatatgctg aagttaaatg ctcttctaaa   2400
              aatttctgtt gcaatccaag attcaggatt tatgtgtcca attctgaatt ttaatgaatc   2460
              atgcccctta aatgtaaagg gaattgtata tttcattaat ttgacaaaaa cgttgccttc   2520
              tgctcc                                                              2526
              <210>    735
              <211>    1056
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Oryza sativa
              <400> 735
              gacaactcac tgccccccgt cttctttctt cattcctctt cccaccaaga accccaaacc     60
              ttacctccat tgagttcgaa accgaggagc gaggagttac aagccgagtt gtcagaatgg    120
              gtgaggagaa ggaagccgac tcgccgcagc caccgtccaa gctgcctcgc ctctccggcg    180
              ctgacccgaa tgccggagtg gtgaccatgg cagcaccccc gccgccggtg ggtcttgggc    240
              tggggcttgg actcggcggc gacagccgcg gcgagcgtga cgtggaagcg tcggcggcgg    300
              cggcgcacaa ggcgacggcg ctgacgttca tgcagcagca ggagctggag caccaggtgc    360
              tcatctaccg ctacttcgcc gcgggcgcgc ccgtgccggt gcacctcgtg ctccccatct    420
              ggaagagcgt cgcgtcctcc tccttcggcc cgcaccgctt cccttccctg gcagtgatgg    480
              ggttggggaa cctgtgcttc gactaccgga gcagcatgga gccggaccca gggcggtgca    540
              ggcgcacgga cggcaagaag tggcggtgct cgcgcgacgt ggtgccgggg cacaagtact    600
              gcgagcggca cgtccaccgc ggacgcggcc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa gcctccgcgg    660
              ccgccacccc ggcgaacaac ggcggcggcg gtggcatcgt cttctccccc accagcgtcc    720
              tcctcgccca cggcaccgcg cgcgccacct gaccagtgac cagaccggcg cctgtttgtt    780
                                                    840

<removed-date>
              tgtttgtctc ggcgcatggg aaaacccaaa tccgcaggga ttatgtcatg tcctgtaact    840
              ctttttttcc tcgcaacttt tgaagccaaa acaattctac ccgtgttcga tggctgtcga    900
              cgctcggccg acggatctag atcgacagtt attctggcgg aacaggccat ggcatcccca    960
              tagggcatta accggcgggt tacagcgcgg gaacgcgctc catagcgtga accccccagg   1020
              aacaacgcga acccaaagaa agagaccaaa catata                             1056
<removed-apn>
              <210>   736
              <211>   1915
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 736
              ttacaaaacc ccagccaccg agagctctcc cgctccactc gccgcacacc accaccctca     60
              cccctccccc catccgcgtg atctcccgag cagctagagc gcgcgcccgc ggcgcctgta    120
              ctgcgagacc gcttcgctcg cttccggtcg gtgaagaggc ggtcggtcgc agctgaagta    180
              gttgttgcag agatgatgat gatgagcggt cgcccgagcg gcggcgccgg cggaggtcgg    240
              tacccgttca cggcgtcgca gtggcaggag ctggagcacc aggcgctcat ctacaagtac    300
              atggcgtccg ggactcccat cccctccgac ctcatcctcc ccctccgccg cagcttcctc    360
              ctcgactccg ccctcgccac ctccccttcc ctcgccttcc ctccccaacc ttcactgggg    420
              tggggttgct ttggcatggg gtttgggcgg aaggcggagg acccggagcc agggcgatgc    480
              cggcgtacgg acggcaagaa gtggcggtgc tccaaggagg cgtacccgga ctccaagtac    540
              tgcgagaagc acatgcaccg tggcaagaac cgttcaagaa agcctgtgga aatgtccttg    600
              gccacgccgc cgccgccgtc ctcctccgcc acctccgccg cgtcgaactc ctccgccggc    660
              gtcgccccca ccaccaccac cacctcctcc ccggcgccct cctacagccg cccggcgccg    720
              cacgacgcgg cgccgtacca ggcgctctac ggcgggccct acgccgcggc caccgcgcgc    780
              acccccgccg ccgcggcgta ccacgcgcag gtgagcccgt tccacctcca gctcgacacc    840
              acccacccgc acccgccgcc gtcctactac tccatggacc acaaggagta cgcgtacggg    900
              cacgccacca aggaggtgca cggcgagcac gccttcttct ccgatggcac cgagagggag    960
              caccaccacg ccgccgccgg gcacggccag tggcagttca agcagctcgg catggagccc   1020
              aagcagagca ccacgcctct cttcccgggc gccggctacg gccacaccgc ggcgtcgccg   1080
                                                    841

<removed-date>
              tacgccattg atctttcaaa agaggacgac gatgagaaag agaggcggca acagcagcag   1140
              cagcagcagc agcagcactg cttcctcctg ggcgccgacc tccgtctgga gaagccggcg   1200
              ggccacgacc acgcggcggc ggcgcagaaa cctctccgcc acttcttcga cgagtggccg   1260
              catgagaaga acagcaaggg ctcctggatg gggctcgaag gcgagacgca gctgtccatg   1320
              tccatcccca tggccgccaa cgacctcccg atcaccacca cctcccgcta ccacaatgat   1380
<removed-apn>
              gattaatctc ttgaagaagc caagaagtga tcaacacgcg gaagaaatca acagcttctt   1440
              tcacggcgtg cgagctgcat gctgatgctc caggatcgat cgatcgatca ttgcatctcc   1500
              aaactaatca cgcttcgatc tttcaggact tcatcaatga caggccgaaa cctcctacga   1560
              gttctctgat gatattctta tttttttccc acttcttttc gttgagcttt ttgtaatgtt   1620
              gcttcgagtg ttactcctac attttctccg aaatggcctc agaatgatgc ggtcgggctg   1680
              attaattagg ttagactctt cctgaaccaa ctaggaatag attttctgcc tggttcctgt   1740
              cagtccttgt aatatctgca gcagcttgtg agacaagcgt gttcgctttt gtgaacgccc   1800
              tttttcttct ttccgattcc tctgcctgtg atagtactcg ctccgcgaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1860
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa        1915
              <210>   737
              <211>   893
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 737
              ggagggattt tgattagtag gttttgtggc catggaaatc caagaagctt gcaagaagaa     60
              caccatggca gatgtggtga gcagcaaggt ggaggaggag gaggagggca agagcaagag    120
              caagatgggt tcttggtgag agaggcaagg gcatccccac catctccatc ttcttcatca    180
              tttcttggat ccacaagctc ttcttgttct ggaggaggag gaggagggca gatgttgagc    240
              ttctcctccc ccaatggaac agcagcatct ttggcatcag gcctatttgc tcttcttggc    300
              tttagtagtg agtacttcat catttgtgct catcagtttt gcttgtgttg tgatgaaggg    360
              ttgggcttga gctcaggagg aagcatgcag ggggtcttgg caagggtcag ggggccgttc    420
              accccaacac agtggatgga gctggagcac caggcactga tctacaagca cattgctgca    480
              aatgtttctg tcccttccag cttgctcctc cccatcagga gaagcctcca tccatggggt    540
                                                    842

<removed-date>
              actacctttt ttattcagct cacaccagga tggggatcat tccctcctgg ctgtgctgat    600
              gtagaaccca gaagatgccg ccgcacagac ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc cagagatgct    660
              gttggggatc agaagtattg tgagcgacac ataaaccgtg gtcgccatcg ttcaagaaag   720
              catgtggaag gccgaaaggc gacactcacc attgcagaac catccacggt tattgctgct   780
              ggtgtatcat ctcgcggcca cactgtggct cggcagaagc aggtgaaagg ctcagctgct   840
<removed-apn>
              tagtggtcac acagtgtgag gccaccagtg gtttatatca tgcctgaaca acc          893
              <210>   738
              <211>   1559
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 738
              aagctgaaag attttacttg cgtcagctcc ggctaccgtg gtcaatgtgc acaatatttc     60
              atttggtcct cacctcagcc ctgtaggcat gcaggcagca ggccttcagt tactgcatcc    120
              cttcggaatc gttaaatgaa cagtattcaa gcagccgcag gagtatgtgt ccggtgtccc    180
              actgacaccg ataagcagcg acaacgtcga cactcaacat atcccatccc ttccttatcc   240
              caacgacctg cacgctgcat tttcatcact agcatcagtg tattcaaacc tgcagcttac   300
              actgaagagt gaagactgaa ctccacagat atgttggccg agggaaggca agtctacttg   360
              ccgccgccgc cgccgtccaa gcttcctcgt ctctccggca ccgatccaac cgacggcgtg   420
              gtgacgatgg cagcgccgtc gccgctggtt cttgggctgg gtctcggtct gggcggcagc   480
              ggcagcgaca gcagtgggag cgacgcggaa gcgtctgcgg ccaccgtgcg ggaggcgcgg    540
              ccgccgtcgg cgctgacgtt catgcagcgg caggagctgg agcagcaggt gctcatctac    600
              cgctacttcg ccgccggcgc gcctgtgccg gttcacctcg tgctgcccat atggaagagc   660
              atcgccgccg cctcctcgtt cggcccgcaa agctttccct ccctgacggg cctggggagc   720
              ctgtgcttcg actacaggag cagcatggag ccggagccgg ggcggtgccg gcgcacggac   780
              ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc gcgcgacgtg gtgccggggc acaagtattg cgagcggcac   840
              gtccaccgtg gccacggccg ttcaagaaag cctatggaag cctctgcagc agtcgctccc   900
              acatatctcc cggtccggcc ggcactccac accgtcgcca ccctcgccac cagcgcgcca   960
              tcgctgtcgc acctcggttt ctcctccgcc agcaaagtgc tcctcgccca caccaccacc   1020
                                                    843

<removed-date>
              ggcaccacgc gcgctacttg atctcattgt tatctccgag gattatgccg gtgcactgtc   1080
              tgtaaccttt ttctcgtaat cacgcctcgg tttgttccca atgcatcgtc acgcattgct   1140
              agtttgacag tttgctaccg ctgcctctgt gtgtgcctgt gcgtgtggca gccgaggtgt   1200
              ttttgtttgg ttgggtggtg ggaggcgcgc cccggtgcgg tggtgggcgt ggcccccggc   1260
              tacctagtgc tggttcctgc gtgtgcctgt cgaacctgtg gagcgtggtc ggaagtacgg   1320
<removed-apn>
              tacgcactgt ccggtctcat atgccggggc agaggggttc ggtccagtgt ggtgcaggcg   1380
              tgcggattgg gatcacatgc agtggctact gcaacttatg cagtcctaaa gacaccattg   1440
              aattataaat taacgtccta gatctttcct tgatactgtt cacaaataac agtgaaaagt   1500
              tccttcctgt agcaggtact atagcaatta ctgtttaaaa taactgtagc atttgtttc    1559
              <210>   739
              <211>   837
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 739
              atggccgccg gcgcgccggt gccacccgac ctcctcctcc acctccgcca ccgcgccgcc     60
              gccgccgccg ccgccgacgt cgacaccgtc ccctccctcg ccttccctcc ccatcacctg    120
              gggtgggggt gctatggcgc ggcggcggcg cagtacggga ggagggtgga ggacccggag    180
              ccggggcggt gccggcgtac ggacggcaag aagtggcggt gctcgaggga ggcgtacggc    240
              gagtccaagt actgcgagaa gcacatgcac cgcggcaaga accgttcaag aaagcctgtg    300
              gaaatgccgc cccccgccgc cgccgccgtc taccgcccgt ccgcgctctc catctcgccg    360
              ccgccgcacg acgccgacgc gcccagctac ggcgccggcg ccggcgctcc tctccagctc    420
              cacctcgact ccttccacgc ctcgacgtcg ccgccgccgt cctaccacag gtacgcgcac    480
              accagcagcg cgccgctctt cccgtcgtcc gccgccggct acggcggcgg ctggtcgttg    540
              tccaaggagc actgcctcac cctcggcggc gccgccgccg acctgagcct cgacaagccg    600
              gcggatcacc accacgacgc cacgtcggcg acgacggaga agcccctgcg gcgattcttc    660
              gacgagtggc cgcgcagcga cgacgggagg acgccgtggg acggcacgca gctctccatc    720
              tccatcccca ccgccgccgc cgcgtccccc gacctcgcca tcgccggcgc cgcctcgcgc    780
              taccacagca acgctctagt ctacatcagg ttgatgctaa cgccgtactt ctgctag       837
                                                    844

<removed-date>
              <210>   740
              <211>   3451
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 740
              gattaacaag cggcgagcgc tcgagctggg tgcgcgagcg gttggcggcg acggccggcg     60
              gccggcggcg aggtcgagcg aggaggcggg ccggcgaggc gcgcggtact ttgtgcctcg    120
<removed-apn>
              aaacgagtgg gcctttattt tttttttggt tctgtttcgg ctcgtcgcgg atttcgcacg    180
              gtttgcttcg ttcttggtga ttttcttgaa gcgtcgtctt ctccaatcga tcgcttcctg    240
              tagcttctcc acccttcttc tgtggtggat acagatttgt tcttggaagc ggctgggatt    300
              tcggttaacg atgccattgg tttctattct aacatatgct ttctcttgtc tcttgtgtct    360
              cttgtgtgtt cagattgggc ttgttggtgt cggatttgat tgtggtttcg tggctgtgat    420
              gacaatcaaa cctcgtttct cgatgctgag acttgatttg ttcaaggacc agaactgtgc    480
              tgaccttaat ttgtgcgtgt ctgagccacc ccaaacacac catgtccgaa tcgatttctg    540
              cgaaagttag tatgtctgca cgatgccact cgatgctact actagtattt aggtgtcttt    600
              attagctttt tcctcttcta tgtttattgg ctgtttcttg catttgcgtt gttgtagtgt    660
              ggctgtgagg actaactact ttgtttctcg atgctgactt gattcaatca atcaaggacc    720
              aaaaaaattt gatgaccttt gtgcgtgtct gagccactgc aactcagttt tttcagtctt    780
              cgcttgtgtg aagatatcat cttgccttcc gtgttttgag cctgaacgat aaagaagaga    840
              tgtttcttgg tgctgattcg actcatttta ggatggaatt ttgacgaggc tcatgcgtgt    900
              ctgaagtctg aaccattgta aaacttggat gtagttgttg ttttaggtgt ctgaagtctg    960
              aaccattgta aaacttggac gtagttgttg ttttttttcc taaaaaaaga gaactttttt   1020
              ctctcgtttt ttctctgctg tatttgaatt tgttcatttt ttccagctgt tgtacacttg   1080
              tacttcatat tgggatactg aatgttaggt gcgatcaatg tagtagtgct tgcatgtttg   1140
              acaaactcat ggacattaac tcaagttatc taaaacattg agatccttgg aatagttatg   1200
              ctggaactat tgcatggaaa ttttacaact cgctatatgc tagaagcgaa tccccgtagt   1260
              tcattttcct caatcagccc agtagatttc tagctaatgg tatctgataa ggggcaaatt   1320
              gttttttcaa ggatacagct gaattcataa gaactgaaaa tcgcaattag ctggtattac   1380
                                                    845

<removed-date>
              attgcagaag cttgagaaca gaaagaaggg aataacatgc atgggtaacg ccaatactaa   1440
              agctatccca tggtgagctc attaacgact tgatctccat ttcctgaaga ttcacattgc   1500
              atgatcctcg aggttcagta accaaccata tggccttgct tctggtttca tgattgaatc   1560
              gtcaggattt ttggagtttg tcaagatctc acctagaggt ccaccttgag gcatctccca   1620
              agaacttgag atgctatcct cttgcatttg tgccatatta ggtgcatggc agctgacgcg   1680
<removed-apn>
              tgggtcctct ggcgaggaat agaaagttga tggaactgtc atgacattgg aatctttgct   1740
              tttctgaaac tccattttct cgtccttagg caagctgaaa ttctgaagga ctgactgaag   1800
              gcatccacga tcatgcatct tggtgaaagg aatgcttttg ttgttctgct ggttgctgct   1860
              ctcccaaggc ttcaacatgg tatttgaaga aatcgattca ctgtctcctg ctgtattgaa   1920
              cttctccggt ttgttctgtt gcttcaactg agagaacagg gacaatgttg gctgttgatt   1980
              cgttaaattt agcagtgggc cattgttttc ttcagcagct ttgtttcctt tctctttgtt   2040
              cgccattgtc ctgcaaatgt gtacaggtct tcaaattaaa tgattattac tttctattaa   2100
              aactgaaata atctagttgt tttcctttgt gcctgactat attgcagcat ttgtattcca   2160
              ttctttataa gagatttttt tccaccagaa ccacaacgat taccttctat catgaaaatg   2220
              taccagaaaa tcttaaacca tcaataggat atgcaaaaat ggtggaaaaa aatactgtga   2280
              ttcagtctgt agcactaaaa tacttgcacg ttgagaatat taaaccaagt ttaaggatgt   2340
              attaacctgt tcaaactatc tgtccaatag ctgatactgc ctggcttcat ttcattaact   2400
              tttgccttct tgaagctgcc ctgcccgaca gaagatggca atgagccagc acacggtgtc   2460
              tctttcacag tctttctact ttggttttcc acaggctttc ttgaacggtg gcggtttctg   2520
              ttgatgtgcc tctcacaata cttgtggtcg gccatggcct cctttgaaca ccgccatttc   2580
              ttgccatctg ttcgacggca tcttccaggt tctgggtcag agtctgcatt tgggaagcct   2640
              tgatagagag gcctccagcc ctcgtgccga attcctgcag cccgaaaaaa acactgtcca   2700
              tcatgagttg cagagaaata cacagatcaa tggccttaca tacatacatg cacacatgat   2760
              ctttgcttct aacctattgc aagttaataa catggaagtg tgtatgtatg tggtgatgag   2820
              caaggccaga cctgatggca atgtgtgagc agccttggcg aatctgagca tcttctgttc   2880
              atcaagaaag ggggaagggt atgatgcagc agcagcctgg gtgaagctac cagcagcagc   2940
                                                    846

              tctcttgatg aggctcagat caccctcctt ggtggatggc actgtgagtc cttgcaagcc   3000
<removed-date>
              caacacctct ccaagctcca tggcagcagc agagaagtca gcaaacatct tggaaggaca   3060
              ggaggagggg agaggaggaa gaagaagaag aggagggggt gagcattgct ggggacagtc   3120
              acagtgaggc tgaggttgag agtgaggagg gtgtagtgtg tgctttctag taggaggcag   3180
              gaagtgtgtg gtgatatatt atgggatggt ggctctttgg gagactagag gtagggctag   3240
              gtggtggccc ttaaatagca ggagtccttt cattctttta gtggagtaac tttttttgct   3300
<removed-apn>
              gtcatttctt tattttattt ttattttatt gattttttgg gctcaatgtt tctgtgaagt   3360
              gatactgctg ggtactgatg gggaggagta attggttcat aaaaaggtag tagtagcagc   3420
              agcatgttta ttctaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a                                  3451
              <210>   741
              <211>   1689
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 741
              atggcgatgc cgtatgcctc cctgtctccg gcggtggccg accaccgctc gtccccggca     60
              gccgcgaccg cctccctcct ccccttctgc cgctccaccc cgctctccgc gggcggtggt    120
              ggcgtcgcga tgggggagga cgcgccgatg accgcgaggt ggccgccggc ggcggcggcg    180
              aggctgccgc cgttcaccgc ggcgcagtac gaggagctgg agcagcaggc gctcatatac    240
              aagtacctgg tggcaggcgt gcccgtcccg ccggatctcg tgctccccat ccgccgcgga    300
              ctcgactccc tcgccgcccg cttctacaac catcccgccc ttggatatgg tccgtacttc    360
              ggcaagaagc tggacccaga gccagggcgg tgccggcgta cggacggcaa gaaatggcgg    420
              tgctcgaagg aggccgcgcc ggattccaag tactgcgagc gccacatgca ccgcggccgc    480
              aaccgttcaa gaaagcctgt ggaaacgcag ctggtcgccc agtcccaacc gccctcatct    540
              gttgtcggtt ctgcggcggc gccccttgct gctgcctcca atggcagcag cttccaaaac    600
              cactctcttt accctgctat tgccggcagc aatggcgggg gcggggggag gaacatgccc    660
              agctcatttg gctcggcgtt gggttctcag ctgcacatgg ataatgctgc cccttatgca    720
              gctgttggtg gtggaacagg caaagatctc aggtttccag agtgctgcct ctttgccctt    780
              cccatacttt ctggtatcag ttttcagccc cagaagccgg ggacagtctc cataagagat    840
                                                    847

              ttctgctcag gtgaaactgg gtgcttgtgc ctgctggtag ctgatcatgg cttcccttgg    900
<removed-date>
              catttactcc acttctttat tcctccacag aatccagttg tttctgtctc tgctcttcag    960
              gggcagtcaa ttatttggcc cttgcaaaat actgtctctg aagatgtctc accgatcacc   1020
              actatacctg aaacattttc cagtggccag cttaaaccat ggttctatgt tttcttatat   1080
              gaattcatga caagaatact aacttttgga aaaggtacat gcctagcact tgcattcgtg   1140
              tttcctacta attcccaatc actgtatctt ctcaaattca ggtatactgc ttatggcaca   1200
<removed-apn>
              agatctttgg cggatgagca gagtcaactc attactgaag ctatcaacac atctattgaa   1260
              aatccatggc ggctgctgcc atctcagaac tcgccatttc ccctttcaag ctattctcag   1320
              ctgggggcac taagtgacct tggtcagaac acccccagct cactttcaaa ggttcagagg   1380
              cagccacttt cgttctttgg gaacgactat gcggctgtcg attctgtgaa gcaagagaac   1440
              cagacgctgc gtcccttctt tgatgagtgg ccaaagggaa gggattcatg gtcagacctc   1500
              gctgatgaga atgctaatct ttcgtcattc tcaggcaccc aactgtcgat ctccatacca   1560
              atggcatcct ctgacttctc ggcggccagt tctcgatcaa ctaatgcctc tgcttgctat   1620
              gctctcctgt ttgtcgactc aacagtgccg tcaacatcag tgcagcaacg tgaggctcat   1680
              gctttttaa                                                           1689
              <210>   742
              <211>   2181
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 742
              gacaagctga gctagctaag agcgagcttc attaacatac gagacagaga ggtcagtgaa     60
              ggtagcaatg gcggcagcct cctctgttct tcgttgctgc ctcctcgtcg cagcactgat    120
              gacgctgtcc gcaatgggag ctgaagccat cacaaggcag tacctattcg atgtgcaaac    180
              gacgagcgtg acgcggctgt gcagcacgaa gagcatcgtg acggtgaacg ggcagtaccc    240
              gggccccacg ctgttcgccc gcgagggcga ccacgtcgag gtcacggtcg tcaaccactc    300
              cccctacaac atgagcatcc actggcacgg gatccggcag ctgctgagcg ggtgggcgga    360
              cgggccgtcg tacatcacgc agtgcccgat ccagcccggg ggaagctacg tgtacaggtt    420
              caccatcacc gggcagcgtg gcacgctgtg gtggcacgcg cacatctcct ggctgcgcgc    480
                                                    848

              caccgtgcat ggccccatgg tcatcttgcc ccctgccggc gtcgggtacc cgttcccggc    540
<removed-date>
              gccgcatgag gaggtgccca tcatgttcgg cgagtggtgg aacaacgaca cggaggcggt    600
              gatcagccag gcgctccaga ccggcggcgg gcccaacatc tccgacgcct acaccctcaa    660
              cggcctccct ggccccctct acaactgctc agcccaagac acgtttaagc tgaaggtgaa    720
              gcccgggaag acgtacatgc tgaggctcat caacgctgca ctcaacgacg agctcttctt    780
              ctccatcgcc aaccacacgc tcaccgtggt cgacgtcgac gcgctctacg tcaagccctt    840
<removed-apn>
              caccgtcgac acgctcatca tcgcgccggg ccagaccagc aacgtgcttc tcaccgccaa    900
              gccgacgtac ccgggcgcca gctactacat gctggctcgc ccgtacacca ccacgcaggg    960
              caccttcgac aacaccaccg tcgccggcgt cctcgagtac gacgacccct gccccaccac   1020
              cgccgccggc aagatcgtcc ccatcttctc ccctacgctg ccgcagatca acgacaccaa   1080
              cgccgtctcc aacttcaccg ccaagctccg cagcctggcc agcgccgggt acccggcggc   1140
              ggtgccgcag caggtggatc accgcttctt cttcaccgtg gggctcggca cccacccctg   1200
              cgccgtcaac gggacgtgcc agggacccaa cggctcccgg ttcgccgcct ccatcaacaa   1260
              cgtctccttc gtgctcccgg cgacggcgct gctccagtcg cacttcgccg gcaagtccaa   1320
              gggcgtgtac gcctccaact tcccgtacta cccgctgaac ccgttcaact acaccggcac   1380
              gccgccgaac aacaccaacg tgatgaacgg gaccaaggtg ctcgtgctgc cgtacggcgc   1440
              caacgtcgag ctggtgatgc aggacaccag cattcttggc gccgagagcc acccgctgca   1500
              cctgcacggc ttcaattttt tcgtcgtcgg ccagggcttc ggcaactttg accccatcaa   1560
              cgacccggcc aagttcaacc tctacgaccc cgtcgagcgc aacaccgtcg gcgtgcccgc   1620
              cggcggctgg gtcgccatcc gcttccacgc agacaaccca ggcatgtact ctgaaccaca   1680
              tcgattccct tggaggtgca catgagctgg ggactgaaaa tggcgtggct ggtgctggat   1740
              ggcagccgtc ctgaccagaa gctcccgcct ccaccgttgg atctcccaaa atgctaggaa   1800
              taaaactcaa gatcatatca atagtcaaga ttggttgcat ttgcatcgct tcacacagac   1860
              cccacttact gttgtccgat cagatatata ttttgctgct tcggtttctc atcgtcgatc   1920
              gacatgcgtg cttcatttgt tgcttttttt gataaactga ttttctcatg caattgacag   1980
              tgtgtttgtc agctagctcc ggtatttgca tgaagtttca atttctttcg tattttgagg   2040
              aaatttgatt tctttgattg gcagggcttg actcttagga ctgcttactg taactcaaag   2100
                                                    849

<removed-date>
              cgatcgcttg ctttgcatct tgtaatgtat cccagtgtat tttggtgcaa taaaatctag   2160
              ttctggtaca ttgtccggcc g                                             2181
              <210>   743
              <211>   2189
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 743
              tagcctccct ctgcgcagtt tccacgtctg cgtggcacca atcgccgggg acgttctcgg     60
              cctcgtagtc gcgctagggg aacgggtatg ggacaccgtt cgcggggagg atgacgaagg    120
              cgccgtgcac ggtggcgcgc atccacgcga tgtgcgcgtg ccaccacagc gtgccgcgct    180
              gcctcgtcac gtggaagtcg tacacgtagc tcccgccgct gccgatcggg cactgcgtca    240
              cgtacgacgg cccgtccgcc cagccgttcc gccgctgctt cagcccgtgc cagtggatcg    300
              tcatgttgtg cttcacgtgg ttggtcacgt tgacgatgac ccggtctcct tcgcgcgcgt    360
              agatggtcgg ccccgggtag ctcccgttca ccgtcaccat ggctttctcg tggcacaatc    420
              tgctcacgtt gctcatcaca atatcaaatt ggtatctctt gacatcggca tgtgcaccga    480
              gggcgaaaag ggcaagcagt atggcctctg ctgcgtccag tctccctctg ctggtttcgt    540
              ctcttctgct tgcccttttc gccctcggtg cacatgccga tgtcaagaga taccaatttg    600
              atattgtgat gagcaacgtg agcagattgt gccacgagaa agccatggtg acggtgaacg    660
              ggagctaccc ggggccgacc atctacgcgc gcgaaggaga ccgggtcatc gtcaacgtga    720
              ccaaccacgt gaagcacaac atgacgatcc actggcacgg gctgaagcag cggcggaacg    780
              ggtgggcgga cgggccggcg tacgtgacgc agtgcccgat cggcagcggc gggagctacg    840
              tgtacgactt caacgtgacg aggcagcgcg gcacgctgtg gtggcacgcg cacatcgcgt    900
              ggatgcgcgc caccgtgcac ggcgccatcg tcatcctccc cgcggccggc gtcccctacc    960
              cgttccccaa gcccgacgac gaggccgaga tcgtcctcgg cgagtggtgg cacgcggacg   1020
              tggagactgt ggagaggcag ggcagcatgc tcggcatggc gcccaacatg tcggatgcgc   1080
              acaccatcaa cggcaagccc ggcccgctcg tcccgttctg ctccgagaaa catacctacg   1140
              cgttgcaggt gcagagcggc aagacgtacc tcctccggat catcaacgct gcagtcaacg   1200
              acgagctctt cttctcgatc gccggccaca acatgacggt ggtcgagatc gacgcgacct   1260
                                                    850

<removed-date>
              acaccaagcc gttcgccgcg tccaccgtcc agctctcccc ggggcagacc atgaacgtgc   1320
              tcgtcagtgc cgaccagagt cccggccggt acttcatggt cgccaagccc ttcaacgacg   1380
              tgcccatccc cgccgacaac aagacggcca ccgccatcct ccagtacgcc ggcgtcccga   1440
              cctccgtcgt cccggcgctg ccccagacga tgccggccac gaacagcacc ggctccgtgg   1500
              ccgcgttcca cgacaagctg cggagcctca actcgccgcg gtacccggct gacgtgccgc   1560
<removed-apn>
              tcgccgtcga ccggcacctg ctctacacca tcgggctcaa catcgacccg tgcgagacgt   1620
              gcctgaacag gtcgcgcctc gcggcgtcgc tgaacaacat caccttcgtg atgccgcgga   1680
              cggcgctgct gcaggcgcac tactacggcc agaagggcgt gttcgccgcc gacttcccgg   1740
              accgcccgcc ggcgcggttc aactacacgg gcgtgccgct caccgccggc ctcggcacgt   1800
              cgctcggcac gaggctgagc aagatcgcgt acaacgccac cgtggagctg gtgctgcagg   1860
              acaccaacct cctgtccgtc gagtcgcacc cgttccacct ccacggctac aacttcttcg   1920
              tcgtcgggag aggcgtcggc aacttcgacc cggccaagga ccccgccaag tacaacctcg   1980
              tcgacccgcc ggagaggaac accgtcggcg tgcccgccgg aggctggacc gcgatcaggt   2040
              tcagagcaga caacccaggt gtttggttct tgcattgcca ccttgaggtg cacacgagct   2100
              ggggcttaaa aatggcgttt ttagtggagg acgggagcgg tcctgatgag tcggttttgc   2160
              caccgcccaa ggatctgccc aagtgctga                                     2189
              <210>   744
              <211>   1762
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 744
              gatgcactgc actgcactct caccagctct tagttctcct tcccctgccg ctggtcacgc     60
              agcaaacatg gccgtcctgc cggagtcacg ccggctctcc ctgctcctca tggccgcctg    120
              cttcctgctt caggctctca gcgcccacgc catcacccgg cattacaagt tcaatgtggt    180
              catgcggaac atgacacggc tttgctcaac caagcctatc ctcactgtca atggcaagtt    240
              cccggggcca accctgtatg caagagaagg cgataatgtc ctagtcaagg tcgtcaatca    300
              tgtacctcac aatgttacca tccactggca cggggtacgg cagatccgga cagggtggta    360
              cgatgggcca gcttacataa cacagtgccc aatacagcca ggaagcagct ttctctataa    420
                                                    851

<removed-date>
              tttcactata acagggcaac gaggcacact cctctggcat gctcacatca attggctaag    480
              ggctaccgtc catggtgcta tcgtcatcct tccaaagctt ggcgtgccct accccttccc    540
              tgcacctcac aaggaggctg ttatcgtgtt aggagaatgg tggaaagagg acacagaaac    600
              tgtaattaac caggccatgc agctaggagt gggacccaat atttctgatt cacacaccat    660
              caatggtcat cctggtccgc tgtctgagtg tgcttcttca caagatgggt tcaagctcag    720
<removed-apn>
              cgtcgaaaat ggcaaaacat acatgctccg gatcatcaac gctgcactga atgatgacct    780
              atttttcaag gttgctgggc acgaattaac tgtggttgag gttgatgcag tctataccaa    840
              gccatttaag accgataccc tgctcatcac tccaggccag accaccaacg tccttgttag    900
              agctaaccaa ggcgctggcc gttaccttct ctcagtctcc cccttcatgg atgcgcccgt    960
              gcaggttgac aacaaaacag gcaccgctac tttgcactac gccaacacag tctcgtcaag   1020
              catggcatcc ctcactctcg tcaagccacc accacaaaat gccacccata tcgtatcaaa   1080
              atttactgat tcactccata gtctcaattc caaggagtac ccagccaatg tgccacagac   1140
              agtagaccac tcccttctcc ttaccgttgg cgtaggtgtc aatccatgtc caagctgcat   1200
              caatgggaca agggtggtgg gcacaatcaa caacgtgacg ttcatcatgc catcaacccc   1260
              aattcttcaa gcccactatt acaacattcc aggagtgttc acagaagact tcccagcaac   1320
              cccactgcac aagttcaact atacaggaag tggtcccaaa aaccttcaaa ccatgaatgg   1380
              aaccagggtt tacaggctgc catacaatgc ttcagtgcag gttgtactcc aggatacggg   1440
              aatcatatca ccagaaagcc acccaatcca tttacatggc tttaattttt ttgtggttgg   1500
              gaaaggggtc gggaactaca accccaggac ctccccttct acattcaacc tcatcgaccc   1560
              catcgagagg aacaccattg gagttcctac tggtggttgg acggcaatca gatttaggtc   1620
              agacaaccca ggtgtttggt ttatgcattg tcatttcgag gtgcacacat catggggact   1680
              caagatggcc tttgtggtgg ataatggaaa gagacctagt gagactctga ttccaccacc   1740
              caaagatctt ccgcagtgtt aa                                            1762
              <210>   745
              <211>   1968
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
                                                    852

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1964)..(1964)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 745
              gttgctactg aagactccgg ccatggcatc ggcagccatg ctcgtgccgc tcgtgctggt     60
              tctctgcacg gcagcagcaa gcgcggccgt cgtggagcac accttcaagg tgggcggtac    120
<removed-apn>
              gaagatcacc cagctatgca tgaacagtgt gatctacacg gccaaccagc agctgccggg    180
              accgaccata gaggttaccg aaggcgatac actggtcgtc cacgccgtga acgactcacc    240
              gtaccctctg tcactccatt ggcacggtgt ataccagctc cggagtggtt ggaatgacgg    300
              ggccaacaag atcacgcaat gccccatcca gccttctggc aatttcacgt accggttcaa    360
              catcaccggc caggagggga cgctgtggtg gcacgcgcac tcctcgctcc tccgagcaac    420
              catctacggc gcgctcatca taaaacccag gaatgggccg agtgggtacc cgttccctga    480
              accatatgaa gagatcccga tcctactagg tgagtggtgg aacagaaatg tggacgatgt    540
              ggagaatgat gggtacctga ccggcttagg gcctcagatt tcagatgcgc tcaccatcaa    600
              cggcatgcca ggtgaccaga atcgctgcaa aggttccgcc atgtatgaag tggaggtgga    660
              gtacggcaag acttgcctcc tgcgcatcat caacgctgca gtcaatgtgg agctcttctt    720
              caaggtggcc ggccacacct tcaccgtggt cgccgccgac gccagctaca ccaaaccata    780
              cgccacggac gtcatcgtca tcgcgccggg ccagacggtg gacgccctca tgaacaccac    840
              agcatcgccc ggtcggtact acatggcggc acacgtcttc gacagcaaga ccgtcgccgt    900
              gccgttcgac cagtccaccg ccacgggcat cgtgaagtac aagggcgtgc cgaattacgc    960
              cccggcggcc atgccgtccc tgccgcccca cgacgacgtc gtcaccgccg gcagattcta   1020
              ctggtcactc accggcctcg cgcgcccgag cgacccgggc gtgccaacaa ccgtcgacca   1080
              caacatggtg gtgacgttcg ggctggacca ggcgccgtgc gcgcccaacc agacgaagtg   1140
              cagcgggttc gcgctcgtgg cggccatgaa caggaactcg ttccagttcc cggatcagaa   1200
              ggtgtcgcta ctcgaggcgc tctacaaggg ggtaccgggc gtgtactccg aggacttccc   1260
              ggacttcccg ccgccgatgc aggggttcag gaaggcgacg gcggtgaaga aagtgaagta   1320
              caacgacgtg gtggaggtgg tgctgcagag cgagcagtac agtagcacgc tcggcaccga   1380
                                                    853

              gaaccacccg atccacctgc acgggttcga cttctacctg ctggcgcagg ggctcggccg   1440
<removed-date>
              gttcaacctg tcgatgaaga gcaagtacaa cctcgtggac ccgcaggtgc gcaataccgt   1500
              cgccgtgccg gccggcggct gggcggtgat ccggttcatg gcgaacaacc caggtatgtg   1560
              gttcatgcac tgtcacttgg acgcgcacct gccgttgggg ctggccatgg ttttcgaggt   1620
              gctgaacgga ccagccccga atctgctccc tccacctcct gttgaccatc caaaatgcca   1680
              tggatgaacg ccttacagat tatgtgcgta tatacagagt atactcgaca agttcatgat   1740
<removed-apn>
              accaggaatg agattgggta taggggtttt cacctgaaaa agaaagattt gagtgtcgcg   1800
              aggcgtgccc tgtattcaaa ttccatgtgc ttcactgctc gtgtggtcat tcttttctca   1860
              tcctgcttgt ggttaggaca atcatgttcg aagttcgcca ctttttaaga tttcagtact   1920
              gaataaagga tgggcttctg gagccttctc aatttaaaaa aaanaaaa                1968
              <210>   746
              <211>   1141
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 746
              gtctcggcca ccaaacctcc ccgttgttgc aatcgatcaa tgctgctata tataagggac     60
              atgctttccg tcgcgtctcg tcttctcatg gttgcaactc tccaagaatc atctcaagtg    120
              taaacacgta cgcgctgcca accttatttc ccagattatc tgatcagtga ctccatcgca    180
              atggcttctt gcggcgcttc ctgcctgaca attgcggcgc tgctgctagc ggcgtgcgcc    240
              tcctccgccg ccgccaccag ctacaccgtc ggcgacgcgt ccgggtggac gatcggcgtt    300
              gattacacca gctgggccgg ctccaagtcg ttcaaagtcg gagacagcct cgtgttcaag    360
              tacgcgagcg gagcgcacac ggtggtggag gtgagcgcgg cggggtacct ggcgtgcgcg    420
              gcggccaacg cgctcggctc cgacagcagc ggctcgacca ccgtcgccct caagacgccc    480
              ggcaagcact acttcatctg caccatcgcc ggccactgcg ccggcggcat gaagatggag    540
              gtggacgtct ccggctcctc ctcctcctcc agcggcggcg gcggaggtgg aggtggcggt    600
              ggctccaccc cctcctcgcc atcgtcgcca acaccgacca cgccgaatcc gtcgaccccg    660
              acgccgacca cgccgtatcc gtcaaccccg atgccaacca cgccgtatcc ttcgacccca    720
              atgacgacgc ccaccacgcc gtacacgact ccgacgtctc cggcgtgctc tggcggcgcc    780
                                                    854

              ggcgccacgc cggtaacccc ggtgacgccg ggcaccgtcc cgttcatgtc atacaatggc    840
<removed-date>
              gccggcgggc tcggaccggt ggcgctggct accatcggaa tggtttgctt cgtcgtattc    900
              gtgcagcttg gactgttgta gagtagtagc caggatggag gcagtgcaaa gtgatcgtat    960
              atgtagtatt tagatgtacg tacaaaggtc gcgtcgtgta ctgcaatgct aaatgtaatg   1020
              tgttcattgt attcattgtt gtagctgtgg agctgaattg ctacatctca agttacccta   1080
              tttttcagcc ccatcgtgtg gcttataaaa tttttataag cgtgttctca aaaaaaaaaa   1140
<removed-apn>
              a                                                                   1141
              <210>   747
              <211>   899
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 747
              gcacgagggc gagaaccgat agctagctaa ctaatcttcc ccttcgtctc cggggggtga     60
              ttccacgttg gacgaacact agctcaccgg ccgggcatgg ctgtcttctt ccgttctgat    120
              caagctgctc gtcgtcgtcg gctgcgccgc cgtcgtgcct ccgcggcgac gctcaccgtg    180
              ggtggtagct ccgggtgggg gcttgggcag aagtacgata cttgggcaag tggccaaacc    240
              ttcgcggttg gagacaagct cgtgttcagc ttcgtagggg cgcacacggt gacggaggtg    300
              aacaagaacg attacgacaa ctgcgccgtc gcaagcaact cgatcagctc gaccagcacc    360
              agcccagtca ccctcgacct cgccgccgcc ggcatgcact actacatctg caccatcagc    420
              ggccactgcg ccggcggcat gaagctggcc atcaacgtcg gcagcggctc cggctccggc    480
              tccggctccg ggacgccacc cagcaccacc ccaggaagca gcggcacgcc gccggccacc    540
              ccttcttccc cctccaagcc gaccggcggc gcgtccgccg gcctgcaggc cagcgccgcc    600
              gtcgccgccg ccgccggcgt cctcgtcaag ctcgccctct tctgatcggg cccacctgcc    660
              aggatagagg cagtgcatat gattcttgtt tcttgatcat ttcgtctgac ggccggcatg    720
              catgtgtgtg agagatgatg atatggggtt gttgttccgt tccatcgtgt acttagtact    780
              gtaattacga gctgtcatgt gatttgtttt ctcatctcca tggatttgta taattttcct    840
              ctgaatttta tcatctgcat attgatcgga cactctatat cactctatat catcttgca     899
              <210>   748
                                                    855

              <211>   1116
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 748
              gcacgaggat tatctgtggc cttgtgattg gatccaggtt gccgggctcg ccttttccgc     60
              ccctataaaa cgctcctcgc gttccccctg tctccccaca gcgatctctc cgaacgaaca    120
              cacagggtag cgctcgcgta gtcgcgtact ccccggcctg ctcctcacac agacgcgatg    180
<removed-apn>
              gcccagggaa gaggcagtgc agcgcagggg ctcgccctcg gcttgctcct cgtgtgcctc    240
              ctcgtcggct ccgacgtcgc cgccgccgcc acctacaacg tcgactggtc gttcggcgcg    300
              gacagctggt ccaagggcaa gaacttccgc gccggtgacg tccttgtgtt cagctacgac   360
              ccgtccgtgc acaacgtggt ggcggtggac gccggcggct acagcggctg ccgggagtcc    420
              ggcaccaagt acagctccgg gaacgaccgc atcacgctcg gccgcggcac gagctacttc    480
              atctgcagct tctccggcca ctgtggcgca gggatgaaga tggccgtcac cgccagctga    540
              agaggaagcc aacgcagcac aaaagcaggg ccaggctgct gccgctctag cctgtagcta    600
              tacatattta catgtgtcgc ccgaacagca ataataagag gcagcagcca gcaccgcgtc    660
              atcgtgcagg ttttgttgtc atagtgcgtc gcaaacaata tatacagggc tgtgtgtggg    720
              gagatatacg gagagcggca cgcgacgcct cgagcgccgg gcccgaggcg gtggtcggac   780
              gcagacgctg taccgaacga gtgccgctat gcaagatcgc gctcaaacag catacagcac   840
              ccaagcaagc agatatgatg actgtcacag cctccatcgc ccgcccctgg gcatgccgct    900
              gcacagccgg accgtcccgc gcatgcacca tcactcgtgc ccctatcccc gcccattcat    960
              cgttccacac gcgatgggtg ggcccgtcat gcgcgcttcc ccccgccagc gcaccacaca   1020
              cactacgcct cccatagtat acgtgtgagc ggcgaccata gaaagagaca agagtaagaa   1080
              tactcgattc ggactctcgc gccctcgccc acccgt                             1116
              <210>   749
              <211>   2037
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 749
              gatcgccaca cagaaacctt cagggcaaga gctatagcta agctactgtg tcacccgttc     60
              gatcggtgag ccgacgccag cacacgcgcc gcaacgtttg cgcttagccg gcatggcgtc   120
                                                    856

<removed-date>
              gtcctcgtcg tcccggctgc tcttcctcct ctcgtgcagc gtgctcgcgc tgctcgccgg    180
              cgccgaagtg caccatcatg aattcattgt tcaagagacg ccggtgaaga ggctgtgcaa    240
              gacacacaac gtgatcacgg tgaacgggca gctgccgggg ccgacgctgg aggtccggga    300
              gggcgacacc gtggtgatca acgtcgtcaa ccacgcgcag tacaacgtca ccatccattg    360
              gcacggcatc cggcagttca ggacggggtg ggcggacggg ccggagttcg tgacacagtg    420
<removed-apn>
              cccgatcaag ccgggcggca gctacaagta ccggttcacc atcgaggggc aggagggcac    480
              gctgtggtgg cacgcgcaca gctcctggct cagggccacc gtctacggcg cgctcatcat    540
              ccgccccagg gagaacaaga cctacccctt cgagaagccc gcgcgagaag tcccccttat    600
              tctcggggaa tggtgggacg cggacccgat ccaagtcatc agggaggctc agaggaccgg    660
              cgccgcgccg aacatctccg acgcgtacac catcaacggt cagcctggtg atctgtacaa    720
              ctgctccaag gaagagacca cggctgtccc ggtgaagccc ggcgagacgg cgctgctgcg    780
              gttcatcaac gcggcactca accaggagct gttcgtctcg atcgcgcagc acaagatgac    840
              cgtggtcggc gtcgacgcgt cctacaccaa gccgttcacc acctcggtgc tcatgatcgc    900
              gccgggccag accaccgacg tcctcgtcac catggaccag gcgcccaccc ggtactacct    960
              cgccgcgcgc gcctacgact ccgcgcaggg cgtggccttt gacaacacca ccaccacggc   1020
              cgtcatcgag tacgactgcg gctgcgccac cgacttcggc ccctccatcc cgccggcgtt   1080
              cccggtcctc ccggcgttca acgacaccaa caccgccacc gccttcgccg cgggcatcag   1140
              gagcccccac gaggtcaaga tccccggccc cgtcgacgag aacctcttct tcaccgtcgg   1200
              tgtcggcctg ttcaactgcg agcccgggca gcagtgcggt ggcccgaaca acactcgctt   1260
              cacggccagc atgaacaaca tctccttcgt cttcccgcag accacctcgc tcctccacgc   1320
              gcactactac ggcatccccg gcgtgttcac caccgacttc ccggcgtacc cgccggtgca   1380
              gttcgactac acggcgcaga acgtcccccg ctacctgtgg cagcccgtcc cggcgacgaa   1440
              gctgtacaag ctcaagttcg gctccgtggt gcagatcgtc ctgcaggaca ccagcatcgt   1500
              ctcgccggag aaccacccca tccacatcca cggctacgac ttctacatcc tcgccgaggg   1560
              cttcggcaac ttcgacccca agaaggacgc caagaagttc aactacgtcg acccgccaca   1620
              gaggaacacc gtcgcggtgc cgacaaacgg ctgggccgtc atccggttcg tcgccgacaa   1680
                                                    857

              ccctggggtg tggctcatgc attgccatct tgacgtgcac ataacctggg gcctggcaat   1740
<removed-date>
              ggcgttcctg gtggaggatg ggtatggcaa actggagact ctggaggcgc ctcctgttga   1800
              tcttccaatg tgctagtgat cagcattcgg cagatgatga tactgcgtta agaatacaaa   1860
              atcccgttca tgtcgtattc caaattgatg ctttttgggg gtttattttg tgatctccag   1920
              tactaggggt tgatttttca tcttgatttg agctttcccc tgtaaagtta agagttttta   1980
              tgtgatttct atgcattatt ttggaataaa tcctttttgt agcaagtgtt actccaa      2037
<removed-apn>
              <210>   750
              <211>   642
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 750
              atgaggctct gcttcttctc tgccgctgct cttttccttc tctgcttcct cgtcccggcc     60
              gccgtcgccg aggagcgctt ctacgagttc gtggtccagg agacgctagt gaagaggctg    120
              tgcaatacgc agaagatcat cacggtgaac gggcagttcc ccgggccgac gatcgaggtg    180
              tacgacggcg acacggtggc gatcagggcc gtgaacatgg cgaggtacaa cgtgacgctg    240
              cactggcacg gcctccgcca gctgcggaac gggtgggcgg acggcccgga gttcgtgacg    300
              cagtgcccca tccgcccagg cggcagctac acctaccgct tcgccatcca ggggcaggag    360
              ggcaccctgt ggtggcacgc gcacagctcg tggctccgcg ccaccgtcca cggcgccctc    420
              ctcatccgcc ctcgccccgg cgtcccctac cctttcccca agccccactc cgagttcccc    480
              atcatactag cggagtggtg gaggagggac ccgatcgcgg tgctgaggca gtccatgatc    540
              accggcgcgc cgccgaacgt gtccgacgcg atcctcatca atggccagcc gggggatttc    600
              cttgagtgct ccgcccaaga tgcttgcaac gtgacaaaat ga                       642
              <210>   751
              <211>   1104
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 751
              gtgctatacg catcttccct agcttgctaa gctagctagt cttctccttc ctttctcctc     60
              ttcctcctcc tcctcttctt ctcaatcttg ctcagcaaat cttgtcgggg agagagagag    120
              agagatcagc aaggagaaga gggaattaag ctagatcgag gtagtcgtcg atcgatcgat    180
                                                    858

<removed-date>
              tgaagatggg gagagggaag attgccatca agaggatcga caacacgatg aaccggcagg    240
              tgaccttctc gaagcggcgc ggcgggctga tgaagaaggc ccgggagctg gccatcctct    300
              gcgacgccga cgtcggcctc attgtcttct cctgcaccgg ccgcctctac gacttctcca    360
              gctcaagcat gaaatcaata atagagcggt accaggaggc aggagaggag cattgtcggt    420
              tgctgaaccc aatgtcagag gctaagtttt ggcagcggga ggttacaact ttgaggcagc    480
<removed-apn>
              aagtgcaaaa cttacaccac aacaacaggc aacttttggg agaggaaatc tccaacttca    540
              cagttagaga tctgcagctt ctccagaacc aagttgagat gagcctacat tccataagaa    600
              ataaaaagga tcaacttttg gcagaggaga ttctaaaact caatgaaaag gggtctcttg    660
              ttcaaaagga gaacagtgaa cttcgcaaga agttcaacat tgctcatcaa cgcaacatag    720
              aattacacaa gaagcttaac tctggagaaa gcacgtcaag tgagcaagtt accagaagct    780
              caaaggatcc cggagaatcg agtacacccc gtgattcacg tgtgtgtatt gaccttgaat    840
              tgagtcaaaa agaagttgaa gatgaataac acatgatcaa gtgttaaaaa caacatgatg    900
              gccagtaact tttgcagcat cacgcctact acaagcgcaa gaaaagctag ctactactgg    960
              aacaagggat cttaatcatg ttttgaaact taattagtaa tattttaaaa aatcgtacta   1020
              tactaatcat gatgtgtagc gtattgcacc actgaattta ttactgtaat taacatggtg   1080
              agtgttaaaa tattttgtga tatc                                          1104
              <210>   752
              <211>   734
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 752
              ggaaaaggag gaggagatcg aaggggaaga tggggagagg gaagatagag ataaagagga     60
              tcgacaacgc gacgagccga caggtgacat tctcgaagcg gcggagcggg ctgttcaaga    120
              aggcgaggga gctctccatc ctctgcgatg ccgaggtcgg cctcctcgtc ttctccagca    180
              ccagccgtct ctatgacttt gccagctcca gcatgaaatc cataattgag agatacaatg    240
              agacgaaaga agatccccat caaaccatga acgcaagttc tgaggcaaag ctttggcaac    300
              aggaggcagc aagcttgagg cagcaactgc ataacttgca agaatatcat cgacagttgt    360
              tgggacaaca gctttctggt ctggatgtag aagacttgca aaatttggaa agtaagctgg    420
                                                    859

<removed-date>
              agatgagctt aaaaaatatc cgtctgagga aggacaatgt catgatggat caaattcaag   480
              aattaagcag gaagggaagc ctcatacatc aggaaaacat ggaactacac aagaaagtca   540
              gccttgtcca tcaagaaaac atcaatttac agaaaaaggt tgcggtgcct acagcctaga   600
              acaaacttga ctatggagtt tcaagcagtt gggaagcata tgacatgaaa gaagacaata   660
              taacattaca tagcaatata gagcccccaa ggcagggaag caccaaatta cagtggctac   720
<removed-apn>
              ccagtaccta gcac                                                     734
              <210>   753
              <211>   681
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 753
              atggggagag ggaagattgc catcaagagg atcgacaaca cgatgaaccg gcaggtgacc    60
              ttctcgaagc ggcgcggcgg gctgatgaag aaggcccggg agctggccat cctctgcgac   120
              gccgacgtcg gcctcattgt cttctcctgc accggccgcc tctacgactt ctccagctca   180
              agcatgaaat caataataga gcggtaccag gaggcaggag aggagcattg tcggttgctg   240
              aacccaatgt cagaggctaa gttttggcag cgggaggtta caactttgag gcagcaagtg   300
              caaaacttac accacaacaa caggcaactt ttgggagagg aaatctccaa cttcacagtt   360
              agagatctgc agcttctcca gaaccaagtt gagatgagcc tacattccat aagaaataaa   420
              aaggatcaac ttttggcaga ggagattcta aaactcaatg aaaaggggtc tcttgttcaa   480
              aaggagaaca gtgaacttcg caagaagttc aacattgctc atcaacgcaa catagaatta   540
              cacaagaagc ttaactctgg agaaagcacg tcaagtgagc aagttaccag aagctcaaag   600
              gatcccggag aatcgagtac accccgtgat tcacgtgtgt gtattgacct tgaattgagt   660
              caaaaagaag ttgaagatga a                                             681
              <210>   754
              <211>   723
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 754
              atggggaggg ggaagatagt gataaggagg atagacaact cgacgagcag gcaggtgacg    60
                                                    860

              ttctcgaagc gtcggaacgg gcttctgaag aaggcgaagg agctatccat cctctgcgat   120
<removed-date>
              gcggaggtcg gccttgtcgt cttctccagc accggcaggc tctatgagtt ctccagcacc   180
              aacatgaaaa ctgtgataga ccggtatacc aacgcaaagg aggagctact tggcgggaat   240
              gcaacttcag aaattaagat ttggcagagg gaggcagcaa gcttgaggca gcaactgcac   300
              aacttgcaag aaagccacaa gcaactgatg ggtgaggagc tttctggcct aggtgttaga   360
              gacctacaag gtttagagaa taggcttgaa ataagtctac gtaatatcag aatgagaaag   420
<removed-apn>
              gacaatcttt tgaaaagtga aatcgaggag ttacatgtga agggaagcct aattcaccag   480
              gaaaacatcg aactttctag aagcctaaat gtcatgtcgc aacaaaaatt ggaactgtat   540
              aacaagcttc aggcctgtga acagagaggt gccacagatg caaatgaaag ttccagcact   600
              ccatacagct ttcgtatcat acaaaatgct aatatgcctc ctagtcttga attgagccaa   660
              tcacagcaaa gagaagggga gtgcagcaaa acagctgctc cagaactggg acttcatctg   720
              cct                                                                 723
              <210>   755
              <211>   705
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 755
              atggggaggg gcaagatagt gatccggcgg atcgacaact cgacgagccg gcaggtgacg    60
              ttctcgaagc ggcgcaacgg gatcttcaag aaggccaagg agctggccat cctgtgcgac   120
              gccgaggtcg gcctcgtcat cttctccagc accggccgcc tctacgagta tgccagcacc   180
              agcatgaagt cagtgattga tcgatatggg cgagctaagg aggagcagca gcacgtcgca   240
              aaccccaact cggagctgaa gttctggcaa agggaggcag caagcttgag acaacaactg   300
              cacagcttgc aagaaaatca tcggcagttg atggggcaag atctttctgg attgggtgtc   360
              aaggaactgc aaactctaga aaatcagcta gaaatgagca tacgctgcat ccggacaaaa   420
              aaggaccagc tcatgattga tgaaatccac gaactgaatc gaaagggaag tctcatccac   480
              caagaaaaca tggaactgta cagaaaggtc aacctgattc gccaagaaaa tgctgagctg   540
              tacaagaagc tctatgagac aggggcagaa aatgaagcga atcgagattc aacaactcca   600
              tacaactttg cggttatcga ggaagccaac actcctgctc gtcttgaact caatccccca   660
                                                    861

              agccaacaaa atgatgctga gcaaaccaca cctcctaaac taggg                   705
<removed-date>
              <210>   756
              <211>   567
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 756
              atggggagag ggaagataga gataaagagg atcgacaacg cgacgagccg acaggtgaca    60
<removed-apn>
              ttctcgaagc ggcggagcgg gctgttcaag aaggcgaggg agctctccat cctctgcgat   120
              gccgaggtcg gcctcctcgt cttctccagc accagccgtc tctatgactt tgccagctcc   180
              agcatgaaat ccataattga gagatacaat gagacgaaag aagatcccca tcaaaccatg   240
              aacgcaagtt ctgaggcaaa gctttggcaa caggaggcag caagcttgag gcagcaactg   300
              cataacttgc aagaatatca tcgacagttg ttgggacaac agctttctgg tctggatgta   360
              gaagacttgc aaaatttgga aagtaagctg gagatgagct taaaaaatat ccgtctgagg   420
              aaggacaatg tcatgatgga tcaaattcaa gaattaagca ggaagggaag cctcatacat   480
              caggaaaaca tggaactaca caagaaagtc agccttgtcc atcaagaaaa catcaattta   540
              cagaaaaagg ttgcggtgcc tacagcc                                       567
              <210>   757
              <211>   1311
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 757
              atcaaattcc cctataagct ttggcctctt tgcagctttc ttctaccagc tcccagctag    60
              atcccctctt gccttctttg gcacattcgt tcttgctctc tgctgtggat tatttgcctc   120
              cggctccggc caatcggcgg cgtggcgcgg gcagatcgat cgatctcatc ggcggcgggg   180
              attgcctgtt ctagctatag cttgatagct tagctagctt ggtcatttct ggtgagagat   240
              cgatcgagat agcggcgaag aagatgggga gggggaagat tgtgatccgc cggatcgaca   300
              actcgacgag ccggcaggtg acgttctcga agcggaggaa cgggatcttc aagaaggcca   360
              aggagctggc catcctctgc gacgccgagg tcggcctcat gatcttctcc agcaccggcc   420
              gcctctacga gtactccagc accagcatga agtcagttat agatcggtat ggcaagtcca   480
              aggatgagca gcaagccgtc gcaaatccca actcggagct taagttttgg caaagggagg   540
                                                    862

<removed-date>
              cagcaagctt gagacaacaa ctgcacaact tgcaagaaaa tcatcggcag ttgatgggcg    600
              aagatctatc tgggctgaat gttaaggaat tgcaatctct agagaatcag ctggaaataa    660
              gtctacgtag tgtccgtaca aagaaggacc acgtcttgat tgatgaaatt catgaactga    720
              atcggaaggg aagtctagtt caccaagaaa acatggaatt atacaagaag atcagtttaa    780
              ttcgtcaaga aaatgctgag ttatataaga agatctacga gactgaagga ccaagtgaag    840
<removed-apn>
              tcaatcggga ttcaccaact ccttacaatt ttgcagtaat tgaaaaaaca aatgttcctg    900
              tgcaacttgg actcagcaca ctaccacaac atagtgacgc cgaacaatca actgctccta   960
              agctagggtt acagttgaat ccatgaccag aaaaacattg ttttgctaca cccttgtatg   1020
              ctgaagggat actatttgct gtcaagagtt gatactcaga tcaagaaaaa aaaaactatt   1080
              catgccatag tgattgagaa atggacttgt atactggaaa taaatgccac agtggaattg   1140
              agttgtggaa tccaggcaat gagtgtttta tagattcaat ttttccatgt atttttcata   1200
              tattaaccag agcgggcttg tgtaaaaaat ataaccaggc aaggaaaatt agctgtattg   1260
              tgcatatgga gcaaatttca ggcgttacta ccattaaaat catgacatgc t            1311
              <210>   758
              <211>   2204
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 758
              atgagcggga gcggcggagg cggaggagga ggagccggcg gggacggcgc gagggcgctg     60
              gaccagacgc cgacgtgggc cgtggcggcc gtctgcgccg tcatcgtcgc cgcctccatc    120
              ctcctcgagg gcctcctcca ccaccttggc cagtggttca gcaagaggag gaagaaggcg    180
              ctgttcgacg cgctggagaa ggtcaaatcc gagctgatga cgctggggtt catctcgttg    240
              ctgctcagtg tcacggggag gtacatatcg cgcatctgca tcccggtggg agccgcggac    300
              accatgcttc cctgcagcct ccggaggagt tcttcagagc aggaggtgcc cggtggtggt    360
              ggccatggcc ggcgacacct atctggagat ccaaccaatt ttaaatgcgc caaaggtatg    420
              gtgtcgcttg tttcagctga tgggcttcac cagctgcata tcttcgtgtt cttcctggca    480
              gtctttcatg tcgcattcag tgctattaca atgtctctgg gtagagcaaa gacacgtata   540
              tggaaggagt gggagaagga gacttgctcc cttacctacg agttttcata tgacccctca    600
                                                    863

<removed-date>
              aagttcaggc ttactcatca aacgtctttt gtgaggcaac atgcaagctg ttggagcaaa    660
              agtactattc tgctctattt tgtgagcttc tttaggcagt tcttcagatc tgttagaagg    720
              acagactacc tgactttgag gcacggattc attgctgctc atttatctct agggactagg    780
              ttcaattttc ggaaatacat caaaaggtca ctggaggacg attttaagac agttgttggc    840
              attagtgcac ccttatgggc ttctgcgttg gccattatgc tcttcaatgt tcatggatgg    900
<removed-apn>
              cataacttgt tctggttctc tacaatcccc cttgtagtaa ctttagcagt tggaacaaag    960
              ctgcaggcta taattgcaat gatggctgtt gaaattaaag agaggcatac agtaattcaa   1020
              ggaatgccgg tggtgaaact cagtgatgaa catttttggt tcgggaagcc acgtctggtt   1080
              cttcatctta tccatttcgc gtcatttcag aatgcatttg aaattacata cttcttttgg   1140
              atttggtacg aattcgggtt gagatcctgc ttccatgaca actttgagct tatcatcgcc   1200
              agagtctgcc ttggggttgt cgttcaattc atgtgcagct atatcacact tccactctat   1260
              gctctcgtat ctcagatggg ttcacagatg aagagaacga ttttcgacga gcagacggcg   1320
              aaggccctga agaaatggca caaggcagca gtggtgaaga agaagcagca gaaggggtca   1380
              tcccatgagc caggttcaga gacaccgggc acggagacga cgacgacgac ggcgacggca   1440
              acggaggaga gccagcgaga acgcgacgcc gcggccatgc cggtgcgcca cctccaccgc   1500
              tacaagacca tcgcccacgt cggcgcgacg gggacgctgt ccgactcgga ctgctccgac   1560
              acggacacgc cgttcgcgtc gccgacgagg ctcctgatac cgccgacaaa gcagcggagc   1620
              ctcgacgccg ggagggcgga ggtgcgcgtg gacgtcgact cgacgccgac gccgacacca   1680
              ccggagcgcc atgacagctt ctccttcccg aggttgcctg ctcacaattt gcagcagaaa   1740
              tgaccaaatg atcatccatc ctaagttcct aaccatcagt agtagtagta gcagcatcaa   1800
              ctatacatgt aattgaaatt gatggtggtg acaagtgtgt gtagagcagt ggagtctgaa   1860
              acttggtgct gtcccatttg gtccagctcc tactctgtgg gtggagcgga gctgagaaaa   1920
              tgccatttca cgtacttcct ccgtttcaca atgtaagtaa ttgtaacatt tctcacattt   1980
              aaattgatgt taatgaatct atatagatat atatgtctag attcattaac atcaatatga   2040
              atgtgggaaa tactagaatg acttatattg tgaaacggat gaagtataat ttccggtttg   2100
              gcagctgttt ggcagctcca ctctaatact ttatgttatc catgattttg aaagtgtttg   2160
                                                    864

              gtacagagcc acagatataa gaatatccga gcatgagtta tgcc                    2204
<removed-date>
              <210>    759
              <211>    846
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Physcomitrella patens
              <400> 759
              atgggtcgcg gcaaaattga gatcaagaag attgagaata caaccagcag gcaggtgaca     60
<removed-apn>
              ttctccaaga ggcgcggtgg tcttttgaag aaggcgcacg agcttgcggt tctgtgtgat   120
              gccgaggtgg cgctggttat tttctccagc actggaaagc actttgagtt tgccagttca   180
              ggcagcatgc gggacatcat tgagcggtac aggaagagct cggatggtgc agtgaagcgt   240
              ggcaccaata ctgatttact tggtcgggag gtgattaagt taaaacagca agtagaacga   300
              ttggaaagct ctcaaaggca tatgcttggt gaggatcttt cagctttgaa ggtatctgac    360
              cttttggagc tggagcagca gcttgatcag ggtgcttcac gagtgagagc aaggaagaat    420
              caactcattt tagaagagat cgaagacttg cggagaaagg agcatgaact gatgattgca   480
              aacgaggctc ttcgcaagaa gattgcagac gctgaaggtg ctgcggaagc agcagctaga   540
              gctaatttcc cggatgctcg gctagaaagc cccaaaccgt tcgccagcga tttctcacga   600
              gatatgagtg tgagttcgca gctggcagca tcagtctacc ctcatcccaa ccttctacag   660
              gcgcaaagat cacagacgtc attacagctt ggatggctat ctgagcaaca gatccccagc   720
              acggaagaag gttgtgcagg tgaatctagc ttgaaatggg atcatccgca ctttcacatt   780
              cagaatagac tccatgcaaa catatcacca agtgtgagaa cttataagtt acatgtcgat    840
              cgataa                                                               846
              <210>    760
              <211>    649
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 760
              cacggggtgg aggcgggcaa caatcccgcg gagctggcgg cggccgtggg tggcgcctcc     60
              agcagctcct cccgggcggc ggcgaggagc agggtcgcgg cggctgctgg cgcctccggc   120
              tcctccccgg tggcggcggc gaggagcagg ggcgccggcg ccgtggccgc ggcggcgggc   180
              ggcggcggtg gcgtcgggcc gagctgccag gtggagcggt gcaacgccga catgggcgtg   240
                                                    865

<removed-date>
              gagaagcggt acaaccggag gcacaaggtg tgcgacgcgc accgcaaggc gtccgtcgtc   300
              ctcctcgccg gcctccgcca gcgcttctgc cagcaatgca gccggttcca cgagctgtcg   360
              cacttcgacg acaccaagcg gagctgccgc ctgcgcctgg cggggcacaa cgagcggcgc   420
              cggaggaacc cggcggaggc gcacgaccag aacggcggcc ggggcgaccc ggggaaccac   480
              cacctccaca tcagatcaga taaacctatc taagcatgct ctctctcttc tgtcatgcag   540
<removed-apn>
              gatgcaccta gcatcaccga tcgataatcc gatttgtgtc tcagtgccta ccctgtcctg   600
              tgtctgtgtg ttgcgtatgg tacgtgctgc tgctactacg tgctaactt               649
              <210>   761
              <211>   670
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 761
              cgcggccccg ccgcccgaga gcagcagcag caacaagatg ttctccgacg ggctcacccc    60
              cgtgctcgac tcagattgtg ctctctctct tctgtcatcc cccgccaact cctccagcgt   120
              cgacgtgagc cggatggtcg tccagcccgc ggcggagcac atccccatgg cgcagcccct   180
              cgtccccagc agcagcctcc agcaccacca ccagcaccac cagttcggca gctccccggg   240
              cggctggttc gcctgctccc aggccggctc cagcgccgtc tccggcgcgg gcaccggcac   300
              cggcggcttc gcctgccccg ccagcgtgga gagcgagcag ctcaacaccg tcctggtgcc   360
              cagcaacgac gccggccacg agatgaacta ccacggcatc ttccacgtcg gcggcgaggg   420
              atcctccgac gggacgtccc cttcgctccc gttctcgtgg cagtagcttc ttccgtccgg   480
              ttcaagcgac cagtagtgat cggtgttcag ctgtagtgat cctgttcttt ctgtgtttat   540
              ttattattat tattctccct gtcatttgct cgtttcttcg ttttgcatgc ctgatgcatg   600
              cagcctgaaa aaactcgcat aaaattagtg ccgaatttct cctgaaaccg ttctgatatc   660
              ttactgattc                                                          670
              <210>   762
              <211>   1467
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400>   762
                                                    866

              cccatctctt cttctccaca gtccacactg ttcacctcct ctcccctctc ctcctctctt     60
<removed-date>
              cgatccccaa atccggaatt gaccagccca aatcgtcgtc gccccggccg catggagtgg    120
              acggccccga agcccgcctc ctcgccctcc tcgcctcccc ttctctggga ctggggagac    180
              cacgccgcca cgggctcggg ctcctcctcc ggcgacgccc cggcgcggcg cggtgctggg    240
              aaggagcggg aggcgaagcg tgccaggggc gaggacggcg gcgggggagc tgaggtgagg    300
              tgtcaggtcg aggggtgcgg attggacctc accagggtca aggactacca ccggaagcac    360
<removed-apn>
              cgcgtctgcg aggcccacac caagtccccc cgcgtcatcg tcgccggcca ggagcgccgc    420
              ttctgccagc agtgcagccg attccatgcc ctgtcagagt ttgatcagaa gaagaggagc    480
              tgcaggaggc gtctgtctga tcataatgcc cgccgccgga agcctcagcc agatgcattc    540
              acctttgcct ctgcaaggct gccttcgtca ttgtttgatg ataggaggca aataagtttt    600
              gtctggaata aagctcctgt tagtcatgta aggcctttca cttctccatg ggacagttca    660
              tctgacttaa agctccctca tgcaaaggaa acaagagagg tatcaacaaa agttgggaca    720
              attacgggac aagttcattt ggataaatct cacatgtcca atgctattcc aacacttagt    780
              catggcaaag atgagccttg gccaatgaaa ggtccggaca tgtctataac tgcttcaaaa    840
              tttgatggag caccggatct tcagcgtgct ctctctcttc tgtcagttgg cgcttgtgga    900
              ttgcctgatc ctgtacatca aacatcctgc gttatccaat tcactggtgc cagcgagaac    960
              agtggtgacc ttcatttatc acatgggggg aactctggtc cagcttcatg cgctgatgga   1020
              cagcatatag ctgctcagtc tcagtctcag ctggttcgtt ttaccatgga taccagcaac   1080
              aatgtctatg agcccagttt cttcggtgta aaccagataa attaagcgtg aaagatacac   1140
              gccagttgat catttggata aatagccatg aagatggcct gggcttgtgc aggaagttct   1200
              tcaaccaacc accggacata aggatctctc agttaatgtt atctgcatat ttatcagctt   1260
              atgtttaata tgcagttcca acctgtgatt gacccatttt ttctgttgtt ttttttgccc   1320
              cctgtgatgt gacgactctg gaactttcta agtgtgatac tatgtagttt tacactttta   1380
              ttttactgcc ctgatgatga tgatgatgat gatgtcaacg gttggatatc tttaaactgt   1440
              ccttgatgaa tctggacatg ttttttt                                       1467
              <210>   763
              <211>   645
                                                    867

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 763
              ctcagttgcc agggcgtact gacaatgaaa ttaaaaatta ctggaacact cgaataaaga    60
              gatgtcaacg agctagcctt cctatctatc ctgcaagtgt atgcaatcaa tcttcaaatg   120
              aagatcagca agtgtctggt gattataatg gtggcgagaa catatccaat gatcttctat   180
              ccgggaacag cctttatcta ccagatttta ccagtgacaa tttcattgct aatccagagg   240
<removed-apn>
              ctttatcata tgcaccacag ctgtcagctg tttcaataag caatttactc ggccaaagct   300
              ttgcatcaaa aaactgtagc ttcatggatc aggtagacca agcagggatg ctgaaacaat   360
              ctagctgtgt gcttcctgca ttgagcgatg ccattgacgg tgtgctttct tcagttgatc   420
              aattttcaaa tgactctgag aagctcaagc aagctttagg ttttgattat cttaatgaag   480
              ccaatgctag cagcaagagt attgcacctt tcggggttgc acttactggc agccatgcct   540
              ttctaaatgg caacttctct gcttctaggc ccacaaatgg tcctttgaag atggagctcc   600
              cttcactcca agatactgaa tctgatccaa atagctggct caagt                   645
              <210>   764
              <211>   663
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 764
              tgtcggcctt cttgaggatg aggagagtaa gatgatcaag ggtcctggtg ggtacatgag    60
              aggcaggggg aaggtcaaga tcacggatgt tgttgaggcc gcaagccttg cggccagcgg   120
              ccaaccattt gaggtggtgt actacccgag agctagcaca ccggagtttg ttgtcaaggc   180
              agcatcggtg cagaacgcga tgaggaacca gtggtgccct gggatgaggt tcaagatggc   240
              atttgagaca gaggattcat caaggatcag ctggtttatg gggaccatag cttctgctca   300
              ggttgccgac ccaatcagat ggccaaattc accgtggagg cttcttcagg tgacatggga   360
              tgaacctgac ttgctgcaga atgtgaaatg tgtcaatcca tggcttgtgg agattgtatc   420
              aagcattcca cccattcacc tgggaccatt ttctccacct agaaagaagt tgcggatgcc   480
              ccaacatcca gactttccat ttgacggtca gctgttgaat ccaattttcc acggcaaccc   540
              acttggtcca agcaacagcg ctcttcgctg tttctcggac attgctcctg caggcataca   600
                                                    868

              gggagcctgg catgctcaat ttggtttacc cctaacagac caccagctta gcaagctgca    660
<removed-date>
              cct                                                                  663
              <210>   765
              <211>   1416
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 765
<removed-apn>
              tggtagaatc gatccatctt gcagaagcag ctccatatct atccatccag gcctgcagct     60
              gcccggccgg ccgcagggat agcacctagc gcgggcgcgg gaggggagtg cttcttgaga    120
              tcgatcgatc gatcgagctg tgtgtgtgcg cgcgcgcgct gcttgccgcg cgcgacgacg    180
              acgcgatggc catcaactcg ctgagcatgg tggaggccag gctgccgccg gggttcaggt    240
              tccacccgcg ggacgacgag ctcgtgctcg actacctcgc caagaagctc gccggcggcg    300
              ccggagtcgg cggaggcccg ctggtggtga gcatctacgg ctgccccgcc atggtcgacg    360
              tcgatctcaa caagtgcgag ccctgggacc ttcccgaaat cgcgtgcatt ggtggaaaag    420
              agtggtattt ctacagcctt agagatagaa agtatgccac cggccagcgt acaaacagag    480
              caactgattc aggatattgg aaggccacgg ggaaagaccg tccaataagc cggaaagggt    540
              tacttgttgg tatgcgcaaa actcttgtgt tttatcaagg tagagcccca aaggggaaga    600
              agaccgagtg ggttatgcat gaatttcgca tggaagggca aggtgatccc atgaaattac    660
              ctttcaagga ggactgggtc ttgtgtagag ttttctacaa gagtagggca acagttgcaa    720
              agccacccac agagagtagc agcagcttca atattgatgc tgccacaact tcattgcctc    780
              ccctcattga caacaactac aatatttcct ttgatcagcc tggctcatca gtgcaaaacc    840
              tagagggtta tgagcaagtg ccctgcttct ccagtaaccc ctctcagcta tcgtcatcga    900
              taaacgctcc gctgtcgtct gccgccacca tggctgatcc ggagcaacac atggggaagt    960
              caataatcaa ggatgttctc atgagccagt tcagcaggtt cgaagcaggc aacgtcaaga   1020
              gggaggcgcc tcaaagcaat ttttctcagg atgggtttga gtacttagct gagagtggat   1080
              tcacacagat gtggaattct ttcaattaat tgattctata ggaagatgat tattgccatg   1140
              gagggtgata cggatcggaa ttcctcgaca acaaaaggag ggatatatat atagatgaat   1200
              gctaaagagg gcttgggtgt gtgtgccttc tgtgtggtat tgcatgtagc tgtagtaggt   1260
                                                    869

              atatatatac atatagtagt actagtacca tctcagtaca cattcgtcaa aaagaaggag   1320
<removed-date>
              aaatgagaag agatatatat atgttatatg ccttattatg ccatcaatga cgacagatgt   1380
              aaatatatta tttgtgtact atggagaaat tagaag                             1416
              <210>   766
              <211>   1158
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
<removed-apn>
              <400> 766
              gccccgggct gaaactgcag cagatagtag ggtagaagat gagctcgtcg atcagcatga     60
              tggaggcgag aatgcccccg gggttcaggt tccatcccag ggacgacgag ctcgtgctgg    120
              actacctcct cgacaagctc tccggccatg gccatggcgg cggcgcagcc atcgtcgacg    180
              tcgacctcaa caagtgcgag ccatgggacc ttccagaatc tgcgtgcgtc ggtgggaagg    240
              agtggtactt cttcaacctg cgcgaccgca agtacgcgac gggtcagcgc accaaccgcg    300
              ccacgcgctc cggctactgg aaggccaccg gcaaggaccg cgccgtcgtc gccggcggcg    360
              acggcggcga ggatgcggcg gcggtggtgg ggatgcgcaa gacgctggtg ttctaccggg    420
              gccgagcgcc caaggggagg aagacggagt gggtgatgca cgagttccgc ctccatccac    480
              acgccgcgcc gtccctacca gctgcggcaa cgaaggagga ctgggtgcta tgcagggtgt    540
              tctacaagag cagaacaacc accccaaggc cagcatctga cgatgcccag gacggcaccc    600
              catcagctga gccacaactg tctgctgccc tgccgcttgg gccgctggct gacacataca    660
              ctgccttcgg tggtgcccca acggtttttg agcaggtgtc ctgcttctcc ggtctgccag    720
              cactgccgtt caagagacca gtgagccttg gggaccttct ggcgttcgac acctctgaga    780
              aggaatccat cgggacagtg atgagcagtg tctcaaacaa cagtagttca gtactggagc    840
              tgactccaaa ttgcaactgg aaccaggaaa atgacatgtt acagatgtgg aaccccctag    900
              ggatatgaga tagatctgtg ttgtttcgtt gatagtggtt gtgaagtgct gtcccaggtc    960
              tggagtgcta gtactgagtg tacatgcaga ttaaatttga ttagtagtgt gacatacaga   1020
              ttacagatta gattattcat tattggacta atggcttggc gtagtatttg tacataggat   1080
              tgctaatgaa ggaaccgtgt ccttgtatct tgttcagttg ttcatatttc tctgttctca   1140
              aaatatgttt ctaagtgc                                                 1158
                                                    870

<removed-date>
              <210>   767
              <211>   897
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 767
              ctccactctc tcccggaaaa atccatccgt ccataaaacc caaaaagtct catcaggttt    60
              agttgcaaag cagcgatcaa aagcaggcct agacgacggc gatcctcagc tcagtagcca   120
<removed-apn>
              ggcaggagat ggagcacgac gtgcaccacc accaccatca gcagccggag gaggccatgg   180
              agctgccgcc ggggttccga ttccacccca ccgacgagga gctcatcacg cactacctcg   240
              ccaggaaggc cgccgacccc cgcttcgccc cgcgcgccgt cggcgtggcc gacctcaaca   300
              agtgcgagcc atgggacctg ccagctgacg acgccaccgg caccacacgt gacctgcttc   360
              tccaacacgc tggagggcca cttcctgacc ccaccaacct gcctcctccc ctccgccgcc   420
              gccgcctccg ccgcctcgcc gttcctggcg agcatggcgc agtacgacgg cgacgcgggc   480
              gtgggcggca tggtgcacga gctcctgcag gaggccggcg ggtggtacag caagctgggc   540
              gagagggagc ggctgagcgg cggcgcgtcg caggacaccg gcgtcacctc ggaggtgaac   600
              cccgccgaga tctcctcgac gcggcaccac atggatcacg aggcctcctt ttggggcttc   660
              tgatgaactc ccccgtcttt tccgttatcg ttaaaaaaat ggattagaat tagtcactgg   720
              attggaaatg gagattgtat tgtgctattg aatgaatact gttatgtgca aatggggcaa   780
              aaaaaaaaag ttgtgaacaa agcatatatg cttgtgtagt actaaatcga tttggtttta   840
              gaggaactca gcgtgtaatt gttacgtgaa cacttagata atctcgtagc gtatatc      897
              <210>   768
              <211>   1650
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 768
              ctggaatctt ccccttaaaa ctccactctc tcccggaaaa atccatccgt ccataaaacc    60
              caaaaaggtt agcagcctcc ttttctccat ctcccagatc cgcactgtcg ctgatgctac   120
              ctgcgatctc cagctgctgt ttctttatta tgtgttcgat ctccacatgt actgcctgca   180
              tcgatcgata cgattcagcg ctgttgattg ttcaattttg gttcatgtag ctggccacgt   240
              acacaatttg atttgatttt gcctgatttt cttggagtac caaataatct tggtcaggtc   300
                                                    871

<removed-date>
              gtcgttgttt atgctagctg cagacgagtg acgagtacta ctgtttaatt ctctgtgtgt    360
              ttatgcatct cagtctcatc aggtttagtt gcaaagcagc gatcaaaagc aggcctagac    420
              gacggcgatc ctcagctcag tagccaggca ggagatggag cacgacgtgc accaccacca    480
              ccatcagcag ccggaggagg ccatggagct gccgccgggg ttccgattcc accccaccga    540
              cgaggagctc atcacgcact acctcgccag gaaggccgcc gacccccgct tcgccccgcg    600
<removed-apn>
              cgccgtcggc gtggccgacc tcaacaagtg cgagccatgg gacctgccat atcgggcgac    660
              gatgggggag aaggagtggt acttcttctg cgtcaaggac cgcaagtacc cgacggggct    720
              gaggacgaac cgggccaccg agtccggcta ctggaaggcg acgggtaagg acagggagat    780
              cttcaggggc aaggccctcg tcggcttgaa gaagacgctc gtcttctaca cggggagggc    840
              tcccaggggc ggcaagaccg gctgggtcat gcacgagtac cgcctccatg gcaagcacgc    900
              cgccgccgcc gccgccgcca gcagcagcag cagcctcatc ccgtcggtca gagctggcgc    960
              gtcaaaggac gactgggtgc tgtgcagggt gttcaagaag agcatcgagc cgccgtcgtc   1020
              agtggccggc ggcagcaaga ggtcatcatc atcggttgcg tgcatgggga tggaggacgt   1080
              cgtggggccg tccaggtcca tggcggacga cttcgccgcg tccacgctgc ccccgctgat   1140
              ggacgtgtcc ggcggcagcg gcggcaacat gtcactttca gcggcggcgg cggctgcggc   1200
              gtccatcgag ctgacgacgc caccggcacc acacgtgacc tgcttctcca acacgctgga   1260
              gggccacttc ctgaccccac caacctgcct cctcccctcc gccgccgcca ccgcctcgcc   1320
              gttcctggcg agcatggcgc agtacgacgg cgacgcgggc gtgggcggca tggtgcacga   1380
              gctcctgcag gaggccggcg ggtggtacag caagctgggc gagagggagc ggctgagcgg   1440
              cggcgcgtcg caggacaccg gcgtcacctc ggaggtgaac cccgccgaga tctcctcgac   1500
              gcggcaccac atggatcacg aggcctcctt ttggggcttc tgatgaactc ccccgtcttt   1560
              tccgttatcg ttaaaaaaaa ttggataaga attagtcact ggattggaaa tggagattgt   1620
              attgtgctat tgaatgaata ctgttatggc                                    1650
              <210>   769
              <211>   774
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
                                                    872

              <400> 769
<removed-date>
              cttcactcca ctccccactc ccacccacgc gagcacaccc accacctact cctactcccc    60
              atggcaggag cgcgcacggg agccggctgc tgctccacct cctctcctct cctgctgcac   120
              tactaggcgg tgcccgccgg cgacgacgat ggcgatggtc gcgagcaggg agaggcggct   180
              ctccccgccg ggcggcgccg cccagggcgc gccgcaggtg gacgcggcca agtacgtgcg   240
              gtacacgccg gagcaggtgg aggcgctgga gcgcgtctac agcgagtgcc ccaagcccag   300
<removed-apn>
              ctcgctccgc cggcagcagc tcatccgcga ctgccccatc ctcagcaaca tcgagcccaa   360
              gcagatcaag gtctggttcc agaaccgcag atgccgggag aagcagcgca aggagtcttc   420
              tcgtctacaa accgtgaacc ggaagctgag cgcgatgaat aagctgctga tggaggagaa   480
              tgaccggctg cagaagcagg tgtcccgtct cgtctttgac aacgggtata tgaagaatcg   540
              actccacagt ccttctgtag ccaccaccga cacaagctgt gagtctgtgg tgacaagtgg   600
              tcaccacaac caacagcaaa acccagcagt tctgcatcct ccacaaaggg atgcgaacaa   660
              cccagcaggt ctactcgcta ttgctgagga gacattggca gagttcatgt ccaaggcgac   720
              tggaactgct gtcaactggg tgcaaatggt tgggatgaag cctggtccgg attc         774
              <210>   770
              <211>   752
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 770
              ccctcgggag atcgctcgat atcaccagat tcagcagcta ctacgagtta cgtagcgagc    60
              tcgagcggtt atttggtctt gaaggccaat tggaggaccc tgtaagatca ggctggcagc   120
              ttgtattcgt cgaccgggaa aatgatattc ttctcgtcgg cgacgacccg tggcaggagt   180
              ttgtgaatag cgtatggtgc ataaagatcc tctcgccaca agatgtgcag cagatggtcc   240
              gcggcggagg cgaccttctg tctgcacctg gagcgaggat gctgcagagc agtgtctgcg   300
              atgactattc tgcaggccac gacatgcaga acctcaccgg catcattgca cctgtggtgc   360
              ctctggacta ctgagactga gatgaagacc ggaatctgaa gttctgaacc aaaaccagca   420
              attcagcacc ggaggattgc catccacaag tcgtttcagt tcctatgatc ttctctcatg   480
              tcctgttggt cagaaataac ctagtcatta atatagctag atgagatgat cccttgtatc   540
              attatggtaa tggacatgtt gtacgatagc tactgtagct atgtgatagc catagcctaa   600
                                                    873

<removed-date>
              gctctaaatg gcagggaaga attgttctat gaaagtatga atgcaggcac tcactgtaga   660
              ggtgatctag ccctgtagtt ctctatatta tcttatatcg aaaactgatg gttccttgtg   720
              gcgcctaaac tattgaaacc tgtcaccttg tc                                 752
              <210>   771
              <211>   917
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (260)..(260)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 771
              cccacgcgtc cggagctctt cacagaatga tttccccttg aatcaatcac tacatagtgc    60
              gggctgctta gatgagtcag gttatgctcc atgtgcagag aattctgaac aagcaaatca   120
              acagtttgca acctttgtca aggtttacaa atctggaaac gtgtgaaggt tgctggatat   180
              cactagattc agcagctatg atgaacttcg tagtgaggtg gggcgtctat ttggccttga   240
              gggccagttg gaagaccctn tgagatcagg ctggcagctt gtatttgttg acagagagga   300
              catgtccttc tagttggcga tgacccgtgg caggaatttg tgaacagcgt gtcctgtata   360
              aagatacttt caccggagga ggttcagcag atgggcaagc cgggcattca gctcttgagc   420
              tcggctcctt caagaaggct gagcaatggc tgcgacagct atgcgagcat gcaggaatca   480
              agaagcctga gcactgggat ggcgccagtg ggttcggtcg agttctgaag acagggatgc   540
              cccatagccc ttggctttag gattctcctt ctgtatgttt ctgcagcact agctagtttt   600
              gcgacttgga acaaagcaca tagatcaaac gagctctatg ctattccacg tctgatgatg   660
              tcctatggta caggtgccag ccatatctgg aaaattttgt tggtcacctg ctgtcgagta   720
              tccaactgtg gatgcttcgt gctcgtgccc ccagctcgcc ttcttctgcc gtgcctgccc   780
              cctccccgac gtcactattt tacgaacgtt cagccgaaac gaaaccagcg gtcaattccc   840
              gacagccatt tctttccatt tttggaaaat gtatatgtta ctttttattt ttagacagaa   900
              caggaatcat tctattc                                                  917
                                                    874

              <210>   772
<removed-date>
              <211>   712
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 772
              atgatccggc agctagaact tcgttaaggt tacaagtcag gatcagtggg gagatccttg    60
              gacatcaccc ggttctctaa ttatgctgaa cttcgagagg aactgggtca gatgttcggc   120
              atcaagggtc agttggacga ccctgataga tcaggctggc agcttgtatt tgtcgacagg   180
<removed-apn>
              gagaacgatg tgcttctcct tggagacgac ccatgggagt catttgtgaa tagtgtatgg   240
              tacatcaaga tactttcacc ggaggatgtg cataagatgg gaaagccagg aaatgatcca   300
              cgctacctat cttaaattga tacacggagc tctttctggc tcccatgacg aattctgcag   360
              cacactgtag cactgttcat gatggcctgc tctactgtgc tcgcatgttc gcccgtgtca   420
              tctctagcat gtacaccgtg cacgtcttca gaactccccg ttacttgtat ccggtgcagg   480
              ccaccgctct ggactgatat tttgtaggtt ccacttagga atcagtatca gcaactctat   540
              cctagttggt ttgtagcttg cacggcaccc gtccttgtgt cgcgtaaaaa tcttcagact   600
              aaatgcttag ttgaaattgt tgtcgtgatt cgtaagttat ctatgtattt gaggagtcct   660
              cgacatgctt tcgacgatga actgcaataa tttgaatgca ggaggattgt gg           712
              <210>   773
              <211>   806
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 773
              ccattacctc ttgaagtatc cgaggagcct gttttatgta aatgccaagc agtaccatgg    60
              tattttaaga cgacggcagt cacgtgccaa ggctgaactt gagaaaaagg tggtcaaagc   120
              cagaaagcca taccttcatg agtctcgtca tcagcacgcg atgaggaggg caagaggaaa   180
              tgggggacgc ttcctaaaca caaagaaaag tgacaatggt actcccaatg gtagagctga   240
              gcctaagaaa ggagatggta actccgagca tctccatgtc cctcctgact tactacagct   300
              acgacagaac ggggcttgaa gtagcgttct ggctctggca tcctagaaca gcagtttctg   360
              cccacaggca taggcatttg aaaccggact cgtagctcca cagtatgcgc agccatatct   420
              gcggtaacgc tcgttcacct gaatgagctt tgtaccgagg taggcatgca atgcaatctg   480
                                                    875

              ggcgcaggag tccatcaggt gtccaatgcc atatgggtgt atgctgtttc aggcaattca    540
<removed-date>
              ttcttggctt tcacgttcca ccacccatgt gtagcgctag tgtgttgtaa gtgaaactaa   600
              gcttgtgctc tgtattgggc cgttcggcga aactgtgaaa catctgtata attaagatcg   660
              aactctggat taactcggta gtgctttgtc tggtttttct tttagctttt gaactgtaac   720
              acggccacag ctgaactcat gttggctttg ttcgttgctc agcaacgtcg gtcttgtact   780
              cttgtactga gtattcatgt gcttgc                                        806
<removed-apn>
              <210>   774
              <211>   1435
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 774
              gcacgaggga tccagcgccg cccaagagag ggacacctga ggtcctcaaa ttctctgtct     60
              tccaagggaa tttggagtca ggtggtaaag gagagaaaaa cccaaagaat tctaccacga    120
              ttgctctgca gtcaccattc ccagaataca atggtcgttt cgagatcggt cttggtcaat    180
              ctatgatggt cccttccaat tattcttgtg ctgaccagtg ctatggcatg cttacgactt   240
              atggaatgaa atcgatgtct ggtgggagaa tgctgttgcc actaaatgcg ccagccgatg   300
              cacccatcta tgtgaacccg aagcagtacg aaggcatcct ccgtcgtcgc cgtgctcgcg   360
              ctaaggcgga gagcgagaac aggcttgcca aagggctgca gccctatctc catgagtcgc   420
              gccacctcca tgcgatgcgt cgggtgagag gctccggcgg gcgcttcctc aacacgaaga   480
              aagaaggagg gcatggcacg gacgttgatg cgaatggggg cagcaagatg gcagcagcag    540
              caccatcacg cctcaccatg ccccctagct ccgagcctcc acgaccacca gggctcagca    600
              acattagcaa cccgcacttc cactcccaga gtagcgtctc cagcttgtct ggctccgatg   660
              tgtcaaacat ctacggcggc ttggagcagc cccctcgggc gccacccttc ttcaccgtgc   720
              tgccacccat catggacggc gaccatggtg gcgtcaccca catctcttcc ttcaagtggg   780
              cagccagcga cagctgctgc gagctcctca aggcatgaac cgaggaggag gggatggcta   840
              ctcagacaaa cggccttctc cccgatggct ggtagtctgt aggcaaatca ttcttggctg   900
              ttctgcattg gggtgcaacc tccacatcat ctacctacct acccaccccc tgtccctgaa   960
              attccacagt gctttgggtt acaggggtct tgtgtgatga tgtggctccc ccacatgcct   1020
                                                    876

              ttgctgtaac atattgtacc caaaccactg ctacttggta cttctcggta tcattgtctc   1080
<removed-date>
              agtatggatt ctccgttgtc acagtgtttg aataattgag gcgtcagact tcagggttgc   1140
              tccaattctt ggagatgtgt ctgggtctgt gtctgtttga agatggtctg aaactttgtg   1200
              atggcgaaga tgctgtgtta ttgtagtctg aatctgtaag tttgggacca acattctgtt   1260
              attgcagttg acgcatggct tgtattttag gtagcatctg tctgtgctct ggtgataagg   1320
              tgttcgttct gaatatttga gtcaattaaa aaaatcttcg gctaagttac tactggaaca   1380
<removed-apn>
              cagaaagttt aggggttttt ttttgcaata ttttcaatac acagaaagtt tagct        1435
              <210>   775
              <211>   1068
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 775
              agggcggcgg gctgccggaa ggggaacatg ctccctcctc atctcacagt atgaactgaa     60
              aaacaagaat aaagaatttc catgcgatga gacagaatgg cacggtaatg attcaatttg    120
              gtcatcaaat gcctgattac gactccccag ctacccaatc aaccagtgag agccatcaag    180
              aagtgtctgg aatgagcgaa ggaagcctca acgagcataa tgaccattca ggtaatcttg    240
              atggttactc aaagagtgac gaaaacaaga tgatgtcagc tttatccctg ggcaatccag    300
              aaacagctta tgcacatcca aagcctgacc gtactcagtc ctttgctata tcatacccat    360
              atgctgatcc atactatggt ggtgcagtgg cagcttatgg ctctcatgct attatgcacc    420
              ctcagctggt gggcatggtt tcatcctctc gagtgccatt accaattgag ccggccgtac    480
              ctgcacgagt ctcggcatca gcacgcgatg aagagagctc ggggaacagg cgggcggttc    540
              ctgaacacaa agcagcagcc agagtccccc ggcagcggaa gcggcggcgg ctcctcggac    600
              gcgcaacgca tgcccatgaa cggtggtggc ctgttcacga agcacgagca cagcttgcct    660
              cccggcgatc gccaccacta tcacgcgaga ggagggggcg gcgcgtaggg agccagcccc    720
              cccaactggc aactcatcct tggcttatca gcgatttcca ctcggctctt gtctaaactg    780
              aactgaactc ggggtttctg tctctgcaac tgtaactaaa ctaggtgtgt ccgaattggc    840
              gggtcgctct gttgtactag tacctgggac gcgcactaga gagtggaggt gatgcgggtg    900
              cggaaagaat gctgttcttt ggtgacgtaa gctggactta cgttgtgtgt gtgtgtgtgt    960
                                                    877

              gtgagtgtga ctagggcgaa actgccaaac tggcgcctgt ttcatgtaac ctttgctcca   1020
<removed-date>
              ggacgatgtc tggtataata agtagcagta ataaccattt tctctgtc                1068
              <210>   776
              <211>   747
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 776
<removed-apn>
              ctccaagttc agagatccag cactcagacc tgggcaaccc gagcagcgtc tccagcctgt     60
              cgggttcgga ggtgtcaagc acgtacgatc gcgaagacat ggatcactac cacagctttg   120
              atcacctccg cacgcccttc ttcaccccgc tcacgagcat catggacggc gatcatgggg   180
              tcgtcggtaa ccccttcaag tgggcagcag cctctgaagt ctgctgcgac ctcctgaaag   240
              catgactagc ggggttgccg gacagccaaa tgctaggagc tggtgactgc tggcagttcc    300
              cagctccagg gtccgggatt gcccctccca tcgtttggct cccggtaggc aaatcattct    360
              tggctgaagg cattgttgag cgttccactc atgccgccta gttctcctag aaactctgaa    420
              acctagtttc tgggatcctg tggtgagtgg aacattcctt tgcctcaaaa aacaaaacaa    480
              aaaaaaagtt ggttgtacta tcgaccaact tctaaatggt ttcaccttat tagctttcag   540
              aataataaag cctgatactt cggactcgtc tgaagtttca gaggtactgg aattgtgcta   600
              tgtgtgagtc tgttaaagcg tcaagaacta cggatttgtt ggtgatgaat tgtagtgtgc   660
              ttgaagctta tgtggacttg attcgtactt ttgtggtgtg ctgaaaactt aaactcggta   720
              atgtaatgaa actcgggctt ggtttgt                                        747
              <210>   777
              <211>   438
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 777
              gcacgagggc ctcctccacc agtaccagca ccagccgacc cccgccacaa ccttcttcat     60
              gcccatcccc tccttcccca accacaatca gcagtcgcca ctcgttcaac caccgcccaa    120
              acgtcatcaa tccatagggg atgacctcta tctcgcccga aatcggcttc tgtctccgcc    180
              ggcggggcaa ggtcacgcct ttccaccact aaatggtcct gctccgttcc agctccagcc   240
              ttcgccacca ccgccccacg gggcgatgaa gacgacggct gcggaggcag cgcagcagca   300
                                                    878

<removed-date>
              gttgctggac gagcttgcgg cggcggcaaa ggccgctgaa gccggcaatt ccattggcgc    360
              gcgagagata ttggcgcggc tcaatcacca gcttcccccg ctcgggaagc cgttcctccg    420
              ctccgcctcc tacctcaa                                                  438
              <210>   778
              <211>   1104
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 778
              gcacgaggat atcttgggct attcgacagc gaagtagagg ctgcaagggc ttacgataag     60
              gccgcaatca aatgcaatgg tagagaggcc gtgacgaatt tcgagccaag cacatatgat    120
              ggggagctgc tgactgaagt tagcactgaa gttgctgaag ttgatctgaa cttgagcata    180
              tctcaaccgg catctcagag ccccaaaaga gataagagct gcctaggcct gcagctccac    240
              catggatcat ttgagggctc cgaatcgaaa aaaacaaaga ttgatactcc ctctgagctg    300
              tcgggccacc ctcatcggtt ccctcttatg actgagcatc caccggcctg gcctgctcaa    360
              tctcacccct tcttcacaaa tcatgagagt acatcatcga gagaccttaa caggaggcct    420
              gaggggggtg ctcctagctg ggcatggaag gtgacagcag ctcctcctca caccctgcca    480
              ttgccgctgt tctcttcgtc atcgtcatcc gctgcagcat catcaggatt ctccaatacc    540
              gccacgacag ctgccccatc ggcctccctc cggttcgatg caccgccatc gtcgtcatcg    600
              agccatcatc atcgccgctg agaatcaaga agccacactg taaatctgct gggaagctgg    660
              catttttccc ccctctgggc gttgcaactt tttcggtttt gcgccggctg gggtggtttc    720
              ttgtagtgga tcgattggat tcttcataac tgtatttgca cactgtcata ctgcccaagt    780
              gaaaatgctc ctctctttac actacacagt acacacactg ctgctcttgg agctactgtt    840
              gctgctagag attgactaac ttaagcatct gagatacttt gattgatcta tatatacatt    900
              gtgtagagaa tatatcattg ctgaaactat tgacagaagt atatacaggt ttgttccagg    960
              tcactcacca ctagcttggt aatttgtaat ctctgctaca agggttcttt tatagctacg   1020
              tcatgtaatt ctcttaatct taatgaaaca tgggctatat tcccccatcg cggaaaatta   1080
              acagaagtat tatatacagt tttc                                          1104
                                                    879

              <210>   779
<removed-date>
              <211>   935
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 779
              attggaaagt atgcaaaata ccttgagatg ctttctatag catttgctgg agatagtgat    60
              aagggtatga tggacgtgat gaacggatgt aagaatctga ggaagcttga gattagagac   120
              agtccatttg gtgatgttgc actcttggga aatgttgcca agtatgagac aatgcgatcc   180
<removed-apn>
              ctttggatgt catcatgtga tgtcacatta aaggggtgcc aagtccttgc atcgaagatg   240
              ccgatgctca atgtggagat catgaatgaa ctagatggaa gtagtgaaat ggaggagaac   300
              cacacagaca tctctaaagt ggataagtta catgttagtg aaatggagga gaaccacaca   360
              gacctctcta aagtggataa gttatatgtt taccgcacaa ctgctggagc gagggatgat   420
              gcaccaaatt ttgttaaaat cttatagagc tagctgcgac taccctggta tcttcccacc   480
              ctaagatggt cggtggaatc cggcatgcct gggaccgggg caacagtggt aagttcttga   540
              atcgtctccc cctttgcagg gtcaggaaaa gccccactgg tgtgtgccct tatcttggag   600
              caacatggct ggatccatca tcatcctctg taccaccgcc cactctttca gtgtctggtc   660
              atatggccac ccaggccctt tatccccctg tgcattctca ctcgagagga gaggacagaa   720
              ccagatgact ttttctcctt ttttctcgcc atgtaatctg tagtgtacct gtctccattt   780
              gcttgacatt ggcacggtgg cttgtgttgc tcccgctgct gttgtagtgt tttgtttcgc   840
              aaacctgaga attattatcg ggacattccg gggacgatga tttgtttctt gctcctgtga   900
              atgcattgcg tggaataatt tgaggtttat ctgcg                              935
              <210>   780
              <211>   612
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 780
              cgtccggccc aatgctggag tcagtcctct acttctgcag acggatgacc aatgaggccc    60
              ttattaccat tgcaaagaac cggcccaact ttacttgctt ccgcctatgc atcattgagc   120
              ctcacactcc agactacact acacaccagc ctcttgatgc aggttttagt gccattgtgg   180
              aatcatgcaa gggccttagg cggctttctg tttcaggcct tctcacagat agtgtattta   240
                                                       880

              aatccatcgg ggctcatgct gatcgtcttg agatgctctc gattgccttt gctgggaaca   300
<removed-date>
              gtgatttggg cctgcattac atcctatcag gctgcaagag cttgaagaag ctagagatca   360
              gggactgccc atttggtgat aagcccttgc tggcaaatgc tgccaagctg gagacaatgc   420
              gatccctttg gatgtcgacg tgctcactga ccctgggcgc atgccgacag cttgcacgca   480
              agatgccccg ccttagtgtg gaggtcatga atgatcctcg acggggatgc cccttggact   540
              ctttcacaga tgagagccct gtcgagacat tgtatgtcta ccggacaatt gcaggtccaa   600
<removed-apn>
              ggtctgacac ac                                                       612
              <210>   781
              <211>   1855
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 781
              gcacgaggcg aggggaaccc ccgacccgac ccgacccgga acagcagcag gaggagagga    60
              ggagcgcgag ggagagagag agagagacac agaggggcgc tgcgaggagg aggccggcgg   120
              cggcgcgcgc tcgcggcgcc ggcggcccgg cgatggggga ggtggccgcg ctgcgccagc   180
              tcgtcggcca ggtccaggag ctctgggacc tctacggcgc caacgcccac cccatcccca   240
              ggtggtattt acttgacttc gaacatggtt caatcaagga tgattattgt gggggaaggc   300
              ctggatacaa ctcagaatta ctgaagatca tggaaactaa ccaatctccc cctcgcaaac   360
              gaccgcggag agatcgaaac cgtgaaaagg caccctcaaa caaaactgaa gtaatgcaac   420
              aagagatctg gagagatttc cccgaagatc tttttgaaac tgtcattgca aggcttccag   480
              ttgctgcaat ctttcgattc cgcaccgtct gccgaaagtg gtcttctctt ttggggctca   540
              gacagttttt ctcatcagta ctctgaagct ccacgtggac tgccatggtt ctatacaatc   600
              acccatgaga atgcaaacaa caatgttgca atgtatgatc cttcgctgaa gaaatggcac   660
              cacccatccg ttcctctcac tccctcgaag atagttattc cagcggcatc cgtgggtggt   720
              cttgtatgtt tattggatct gagccacagg aatttctaca tttgcaaccc tcttatgcaa   780
              tcactcaagg agatcccacc aagatcagtt cagggatggt caagagtcgc tgtaggggat   840
              ggtgttgaac ggaagaagtt ctagtgatgg ctacaaagta atgtggttag gaaatgatgg   900
              gacttatgaa gtctatgact ctacaaagaa catgtggtct tgccctggat cttttcctcc   960
                                                    881

              gggcatcaaa cttccacttg ctctaaattt caggtcacag cctgtggcgg ttggcagcac   1020
<removed-date>
              ggtatacttc atgtgcgcag aaccagatgg tgttttgtca tatgatgtaa gcaccgggat   1080
              ttggaggcaa tttgccatcc cactgccact gcatctgact gaccacacac ttgccgagtt   1140
              ccagggaagg gttatgctag tgggtctgct gtgcaaaaat gcagcgacct gcgtctgcat   1200
              atgggagttg cagaagatga ctctcctctg gaaggaggtg gacagaatgc caaatatctg   1260
              gtgcttagag ttctacggta agcacatgaa gatgacatgc ctgggcaaca gtggtttgct   1320
<removed-apn>
              catgctctcc ttgaaggcga agcgtatgaa ccgccttgtt acttacaacc ttttcaaaag   1380
              ggagtggcag aaggttcctg attgcatgct accatgcagc cgcaaaaagc aatggatagc   1440
              atgtggcaca gcgtttgatc cggtcccctg tgccttggcc tgacatggag tgtaccttct   1500
              ttggccgagc atgctaatat tttagtcatt tcatataatt ggtctattat ctttagatat   1560
              ttctatgttg ttgtgacaag ttctgcaaaa ccgcatcact gtggtttgtt ttgtatcacg   1620
              ctgaagcaat caaactgttt ccttctatta cctgctgcta cttgggtcag tgctacatca   1680
              attgggcaag ccgacctgaa tatgtttcat ggaagtcaaa aatggaacgc caggtatctg   1740
              tatggtcttg gttttggtat gttttgtctg tgtcccgttt aagcttgtaa tctttctgaa   1800
              cttgcagtta cctgcccaga actgagttta ttatacaata aaaagaacgg catgt        1855
              <210>   782
              <211>   1863
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 782
              gcaccacggg gggacgaggc gcgccaccgg ccgagccgaa tcgagcagca gcagcagcag     60
              cagcgccctc ccaccttgcc atggcgacgc aggctgcttt cctcgcgggg ttatcgcagc    120
              tcgccgcaca gccgggccgg gaccgcgccg tggcgccggc gcgggtggcc gtggcggcgg    180
              tgggtgtggg tagcgccaag gtgggtgtgc gggtgggcgt gaaggcgggg accgccgagg    240
              ccaaagcggt ggcgcagcgc cgcggggtgc ggtgccgggc cagcctgatc gagcccgacg    300
              gcgggcggct ggtggacctg gtggcgcccg aggagggcgg gcggcgcgcg gcgctgcggc    360
              gggaggcggc cgagctgccg caccgcctgc gcctcagccg cgtcgacaag gaatgggtcc    420
              acgtcctcag cgaagggtgg gcgagcccgc tgcaagggtt catgcgcgag catgagttcc    480
                                                    882

              tccaagcact tcatttcaat gccatccgcg gcgcggatgg caggatggtc aacatgtccg    540
<removed-date>
              tccccatcgt gctctccctt ggggacgcac agcggagggc catccaggcc gacggcgcca    600
              cgcgcgtcgc gctcgtcgac caacgcgacc gccccatcgc cgtcctcagc gacatcgaga    660
              tctataagca taataaggaa gaaagaatag caaggacatg ggggacaacc gcgccgggat    720
              taccttatgt cgaggaggca attaccaatg ctggtgactg gttgattggt ggggacttgg    780
              aggttataga accaatcaag tacaatgatg gtctagatca gtatcgcctg tctccagcac    840
<removed-apn>
              agctgcgtga agagtttgcc aggcgcaatg ctgatgcggt atttgccttt cagcttcgca    900
              atcctgtaca caatgggcat gctctgctta tgaccgacac acgtaaacgc ctccttgaga    960
              tgggttataa aaatcctgtt cttctgctcc atccactggg aggattcaca aaagcagatg   1020
              atgtgcctct tagttggaga atgaagcaac atgagaaggt tcttgaggaa ggtgtcctca   1080
              acccagaatc aactgttgtt gcgatctttc cctctccaat gcattatgct gggccaaccg   1140
              aggttcagtg gcatgctaag gctcgtatta atgctggcgc aaatttctat attgttggaa   1200
              gggatcctgc tggtatgagc catcccacag agaaaaggga cctctatgat gcggatcatg   1260
              gaaagaaggt tttgagcatg gctcctggtc ttgagaggct caacatcctt ccattcaagg   1320
              tggctgcata tgacacaaag caaaagaaaa tggatttctt tgatccatca aggaaagatg   1380
              atttcctctt catctctggc acaaagatgc gcactcttgc caagaaccgc gagaatcccc   1440
              cagatggttt tatgtgcccg ggtggctgga aagtactcgt tgaatactat gacagcttgg   1500
              tgccatctga gggcagcagc aagctgcgag aaccagttgc agcctaaaat ctgggaagtg   1560
              cttcagataa ggaatcctat tatatcagcg caagcggttc tttgcgacat agaaccgatg   1620
              ttatatgatt gtataccggc tgtaagactt aaaaacactg ggcttggttc ggacgttaat   1680
              gtgtgctttt gtgactggtg tgccctatct gctggcagtg ctgcacatgc agtagagcac   1740
              atcaaatgtt tggtgttaat aaggacaggc tatgtatcgt ctgccagatt gtacatatac   1800
              attgtggtga tataattaaa accctgtctt ctgccgttca ggctccgtaa aaaaaaaaaa   1860
              aaa                                                                 1863
              <210>   783
              <211>   982
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
                                                    883

<removed-date>
              <400> 783
              gcacgaggtg agcatttcct ctccctctcc ggggcggggc tcatccatgc acgggggcgg    60
              gatgggtgtc ttcttcctct aaccggccgg cctcttgcca agagaatcat atcgccgtcc   120
              atgcatatat gtgatatccg tctcccaggg ccggtgatgt ttacacgaga ggaggaattc   180
              tagcctgcct cttcctctga tcgttgtcag caagattctc cgtccaaccg ccagaaccaa   240
              aatccctttt aaagcagggg agctcccagc tcccgagttt ccccaaacac ttcatttcag   300
<removed-apn>
              ccttcagcta tggaggcatc atcggcatca gcggtcgagt cgaccgccac cgtgtccgtc   360
              ttcgatgtat catccaacaa gcagcgccca gacacggcga agctcgtgct gaacagcccc   420
              agcccgccga gcctgcgcga ggagctcgtc ggcgtggtcg gcaaggcgtt ccggccacgg   480
              ccccccggcg gcggtggccg ggcgccgcgc tgcccgtgga tcctcacggc gctgcagtgc   540
              gtgttcccgg tcctgcagtg ggggaggacc tacaccctca agtccttcag gagtgacgtc   600
              atggccggcc tcactcttgc cagccttggc atccctcaga gcattggata cgccaaccta   660
              gccaaactgg accctcagta cggtctttac acaagtgtcg tgccaccgct gatctacgct   720
              gtcatgggga catcgaggga gatcgccatc ggcccagtcg ccgtcgtctc gctgctgctg   780
              tcgtcgatga tccagaaggt cgtcgacccg gccgccgacc cggcaaccta caggtcgctc   840
              gtcttcacgg tgactttcct cgccggcgtc ttccaggtct ccttcggcct cttcaggctg   900
              gggtttctcg tggatttcct gtcgcacgct gccatcgtgg ggttcatggg cggggcggcc   960
              atcgtgatcg gactgcagca gc                                            982
              <210>   784
              <211>   1408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 784
              actcctctcg ctagtcgcta ctgcctccgt ctctccaccc tacagcctcg tcccggcaca    60
              tcaactcgct tacgctacca ccgccagcac acacccaggc cgcagcgccg cgctccgttc   120
              acctcctctt acgcgcggtg ccctaccggc gcgcggtgtc tggctagaat cttggtggtc   180
              gttcgcaggg gtagccaagc tatctagcta gctcggaaag cggccggccg cgcgcggaga   240
              tgatgatgat gagcggtcga gcgggcggcg gcgccaccgc ggggcggtac ccgttcacgg   300
                                                    884

              cgtcgcagtg gcaggagctg gagcaccagg cgctcatcta caagtgcctg gcgtctggca    360
<removed-date>
              agcccatccc gtcctacctc atgccgccgc tccgccgcat cctcgactcc gccctcgcca    420
              cgtcgccgtc cctcgccttc ccgccgcaac cctcggtggg gtggggctgt ttcgggatgg    480
              gcttcagcag gaagcccgac gaggacccgg agcccggccg gtgccggcgg acggacggca    540
              agaagtggcg ctgctccaag gaggcgtacc cggactccaa gtactgcgag aagcacatgc    600
              accggggcaa gaaccgttca agaaagcctg tggaaatgtc cttggccaca ccggcgccgg    660
<removed-apn>
              cctctgcggt gtcctccgcc acaagcgcca cagccgccgc cgccgccgcc accaccacca    720
              cctcgtcgcc agcaccgtcc taccgcccag cgcccacctc gcacgacgcc tcgccgtacc    780
              acgcgctgta cggcggcggc agtccgtact cggcgtcggc gcgtcccgcc ggtggccccg    840
              gcccgtacca tcatcccgcg caggtgagcc ccttccacct ccacctcgag accacccacc    900
              cgcacccgcc gccgtcctac tactccgtag accagcggga ctacgcgtac gggcacgcca    960
              ccaaggaggt cgtcggcgag cacgccttct tctccgatgg cgcggccgag cgggaccgcc   1020
              agcatgccgc cggccagtgg cagacaaaat ggtgggtctg gacaaggttc tggctctggc   1080
              tctggatatg gtcaggctgg cggatatgct caggcaggtg gccaaggtgg tggtggcgga   1140
              ggcggccaaa gtggtcaaaa tggtagtgga tatggaagtg gctcagggag tggctctgga   1200
              agtgctggca gtggtaatcc gtaggccttc tatatggatt tggatatcta atatacacct   1260
              ttactaatat tgagtacttc ggtaatgaag aataaaaggg ctttatgtgc ccttgtatta   1320
              aaattagttg tgtggcatat aaaatgtgtt actatcaata atacaagtgt ccttgtcttc   1380
              ttgtgtgtaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaag                                      1408
              <210>   785
              <211>   715
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 785
              atatggatcg agctgaagag ctggtccgtg aaatggaaga ggatggcatt gatgctccta     60
              tcgatgttta tcacagtatg atgcatggat atactgttgc ccaagatgaa aagaaatgtc    120
              taattgtgtt tgaaaggctg aaggagtgtg gcttcagacc atctataata tcttatggtt    180
              gccttattaa tctgtatgtt aagattggga aggttccaaa agccttagct gttagcaaag    240
                                                    885

              agatggaatc acatggcatc aaacataata acaaaactta ctctatgctg atcaatggat   300
<removed-date>
              ttatccatct gcatgacttt gcaaatgctt ttagcatttt tgaggacatg ataaaatcag   360
              gtttgcagcc tgatcgtgcc atatacaatt tgctggtaga agcattttgt aagatgggaa   420
              atatggatcg agctattcgc atattcgaaa gaatgaagaa ggaacgaatg caaccatcaa   480
              atagaacatt caggcctatc atagaaggat ttgcagttgc tggagatatg aaaagggctc   540
              tcgataccct tgacctaatg cggcgaagtg gttgtgctcc tactgtaatg acttataatg   600
<removed-apn>
              ctctcatcca tgggctaatt aggaagcacc aggttgaaag agctgtttct gtacttgaca   660
              agatgtctat tgctggcatt gcaccaaacg agcatacata cacaatcatt atgag        715
              <210>   786
              <211>   860
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 786
              tagtgcttat cctgttggta ttcttctata cctcccgtgc tctcgtccct cccattgtac    60
              ctgcagtgca gcccatcata ctttagatca tcatggccaa cgccttgctg ctcctcgtgg   120
              cgctgctcgt cgccgggtgc gcggctctgg cttcggccac gtcgtacacc gtcggcgacg   180
              ggcagggctg gacgaccaac gtcgactaca gcacctgggc cagcggcaag agcttcgccg   240
              tcggagacaa actagtgttc aactacatga gcaaggcgca ctcggtgacg gaggtgagca   300
              agagcggcta cgacacctgc tccggcgcca acccgctgag cgacgacgag agcggctcca   360
              ccgtcgtccc gctccagacc ccgggaacgc actacttcat ctgcaacgtc cccggccact   420
              gcgcggaagg catgaagctg gccgtcgccg tctccgccac gccgtcttcc gcggggggcg   480
              ccctgctgca ggtcccggcg atggcctccg tcgtcgccgc ggcggccgca ggcgctgcga   540
              tcaagctcgc gctcttctga cggagcacgg cggcgcggct atggatcgtc agagtcgtct   600
              cagggtagag acagtgcatg cagttggcta tgttcttgga cgttgatggt tcgtgtaatc   660
              ggtgattact gtccacactt aatttctgct acgttttctg gctattgttc tcgtcgtgca   720
              gctcatgtat gtatgttact ctgcggtggc gagtgccttt tctgatgcct ctgtcgttgt   780
              gtgttcatca cacggtgtat atcgtcgtgt gtgattgttc tttgggatat ctctgtgtca   840
              ataaaattgc ctcattctct                                               860
                                                    886

<removed-date>
              <210>   787
              <211>   676
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (670)..(670)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 787
              gcacgaggca ccatcactag ctactcttct cttgtcgctt gctctctctc tatatatata    60
              ccagaagcac cagaagttgc tgctctctgt gtgccggccg gtcgtcgtcg tcgtctgagc   120
              atccagctgg tgaggtgagg tgaggtgagg tgagtagaca gcaatggcgg cgcagcagca   180
              gcagggaaga ggcagtggag ctgcggtggt cgttgcggcg gcggtgctcc tctgcgtgct   240
              cctccaagcc cacgtcgcgg agtcggccgt gttcaccgtc ggcgaccgtg gcggctggag   300
              cttcaacacc aacacctgga ccaacggcaa gcgcttcaag gctggggacg tcctagtgtt   360
              caagtacgac tcgacggcgc acaacgtggt ggcggtgaac gccgccggct acaaaggctg   420
              ctccgcgccc cgcggcgcca aggtgtacaa gtccggcaac gaccgcgtca cgctcgcccg   480
              cggcaccaac tacttcatct gcagcatccc cggccactgc cagtccggca tgaagatcgc   540
              cgtcaccgcc gcctgactga tcgacgacac cgccgccgcg tgatatacat atatatacat   600
              ctatctatcg actagctgat tgtcagttcg agtgactcat atggactttt gttattacca   660
              tcgttgtttn catgga                                                   676
              <210>   788
              <211>   706
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 788
              tactggatcg ccaactcgga aaccttcaga ggaaagccac tgctagcaaa tccccccgcg    60
              gttccatcga gagccaacgc cgccgcggca acatttcgtt ctcgccatgg cgtcgctgtc   120
              gtcgacctgg ctgctccttc tcctctcctg cctcgcgctt gcgctgctcg cggcggacgc   180
              cgaagtgcac caccatgagt tcgttgtcca agagacgccg gtgaagaggc tgtgcaagac   240
              acacaacatc atcacggtga acggacagtt tccggggccg atgctggagg tcagggaggg   300
                                                    887

<removed-date>
              cgacacgctc gtgatcaacg tcgtcaaccg ggcgcagtac aatgtcacca tccactggca   360
              cggcatccgg cagatgagga ctgggtgggc ggacgggcct gagttcgtga cgcagtgccc   420
              catcaagccc ggcggcagct acaagtaccg gttcaccatc gaggggcagg agggcacgct   480
              gtggtggcac gcgcacagct cctggctcag ggccaccgtc tacggcgggc tcatcatccg   540
              ccccagggag aacaagacct accctttcgc caagccctcc cgcgaagtcc ccctcatcct   600
<removed-apn>
              cggggaagtg gtgggatgcg aacccgatcg atgtcatccg ggaggctcag aagacgggcg   660
              gcggtcccaa cgtctccgac gccttcacca tcaacggcca gcccgg                  706
              <210>   789
              <211>   643
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 789
              gcacgagggc ctctagcgct aggctaccta gcttcccgtc tcttccccat cagatcaatc    60
              gtcctcgccg gctatctcaa cttcgtcttg cttcttcctg tgctcctttt tgttcctgga   120
              cggctaataa ctagatctga gaggcagaaa aaagagggat ggggaggggg aagatagtga   180
              taaggaggat cgacaactcg acgagcaggc aggtgacctt ctctaagaga cggaacgggc   240
              tgctgaagaa ggcaaaggag ctctcaatcc tctgcgatgc ggaggttggc ctcatcatct   300
              tctccagcac cggaaggctc tacgagttct ccagcaccaa catgaaagct gtgatagacc   360
              gatacggaaa ggcaaaagag gagcagattg gcaccaacaa tgcaacttca gaactcatgc   420
              tctggcaaag ggaggcagca agcttgaggc aacaactgca caacttgcaa gagagccaca   480
              agcatcgtct gcgagtggtt ctgaaaaaaa aaggatcact catcaatagg aagtttcaat   540
              gacacatgaa aaacttcata gaacataaaa aagtgaaacg tttcaaccaa ggattaagta   600
              aatatatagt tattgaagac attaacaaca ttcattattt cag                     643
              <210>   790
              <211>   794
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 790
              ccagatccgc gctctcccac tccagtgtcc agtccattcc ctccctccct ccctcccgca    60
                                                    888

              cccaccaatc tctagagctt taccactacg gcctacgggg ctccggcggt tcagcctaca   120
<removed-date>
              ggagaccagc aaggcagcaa ttgcgacgtc cccgcgcagg ttcatccaag aactgaacta   180
              atggcagaag cactgctatc tgctctctcg aaaattggta ccgttttagg agatgaagtc   240
              atcaaattcg tcattgctga agcatctaaa aaggcaacta atcttaggga gctaccaaaa   300
              aatataaggc acattgagag agaattgaat atgatgagaa atgtcatacg agatttggat   360
              accacaaatc tcagcatcaa tgtggtcaag ggttggatcg gggagctgag aaaggtggcc   420
<removed-apn>
              ttccatgtgg aagatgtaat ggacaaatac tcatataacg cttttaagct gcaggaagaa   480
              ggatcgctga tgtggttcat caaaggagca cataatgcca aaattttcag tgatattgct   540
              gatgaggtgg ttcgtataaa gggtgagatt gagcaagtaa aacaactgca gaagaactat   600
              ttccctgctc tccaagttcc agcaggccct gtaattgttc gacatggatc ccaaaccttc   660
              ttgccagagc ttattcaaga tgaagatctc gtggggattg cactgaatca agcaaagctg   720
              attggatggc ttcatagcaa tgaaccaaac aacacagtga taacggtgtc gggtatgggt   780
              ggattgggaa aaac                                                     794
              <210>   791
              <211>   1606
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 791
              tgacgccgcc atggccgccg ccgttcgcca catcgtgcga cgccgtcatg tcccggctgc    60
              caccaccaca ccggtcccca ctccgggctc catcctcaac ccgtcctcgc cgagcactcc   120
              cctcacctcg cgagagaaga cccgactcgc catctctctc ctcaagtctt ccccgccgcc   180
              tccccccgac cagatcctct ccatctgccg cgccgccgcg ctgaccccgg agacccacat   240
              cgaccgcatc gcgctgtctc tagccgcatc agagctctcc tccgctccgg acaccctccg   300
              tgacctcgcc tctaccgtcc tcaccccgcg ccacgcgccc cacgccatcg tgctcttcgg   360
              ccaggcaaac ctcctccccg acgccatctc cactttccag tcctccccct ccacccgctc   420
              ccgcaacgcc ctcatctttg cgtgcatcgt ctccggtaac cacacggagg ccgcccgcgt   480
              cttccagaca ttcccagacg cccatggcgt caaacccaac accgagacct tcaatgccat   540
              catcaaatca gtcgccgagt ctggcaccat aaggtccttt tactcggttt ttgatgaaat   600
                                                    889

              gtgcaagaag ggcttgaagc ccaacgccac cacgtttacc actgctctgg ctggtttcta    660
<removed-date>
              caaggaggag aggtttgatg acgtcgggaa ggtattagag ctcatgaaga agaatggatg    720
              tggtgagtcc ctgccggtat acaatgtgag ggtgcagagt ttgtgcaaac tcggtcggag    780
              tggtgaggcg agggcattag tggacgagat ggtgaagaag ggcacaaagc caagctgggt    840
              gacctacaat catctgattt atggattctg taaggagggg gatttggagg aagcaaaacg    900
              tctgtacaag gagatgggaa ggaaggggct tgttggagat atcaatttct attttatgct    960
<removed-apn>
              tattcattac ctttgtaagg gtgatgattt tgacactgcc cttggagtat acaatgagat   1020
              agcagctaag aattgggtgc catgcttctc gaccatgaaa atgcttgtga atggacttgc   1080
              tgggagctca aggatcgatg aggcaaaggg gatcattgag aagatgaagg agaagttccc   1140
              agataaaact gaggggtgga aggaggtgga ggaggcattg cctcattaga gtaaaacatc   1200
              gatgatctct cagaaaattt gccagtgctg aaggcattgt tgattgggag ttgggactgc   1260
              atctatattt gatcaactgt ttcaagcata tgaagctatg gcctggattc aattttatat   1320
              agatgtgaag catgctccag ctgtgatgac ggattgacag tggcagctgt aggttgttct   1380
              tggcgatgct ccagtagtta atacttttgc aaattacagt tttagttctg ggagttggag   1440
              ataataaaac ttgttcgctt tgctctgtct gttccgtttt gcatgggctg agcctatcac   1500
              tgcctatacg gactgttcgc ctgcaatgtg tgcagtttgt aagtgatgca atgtatgctg   1560
              taactgtttc agtttgaatg gaatgaaact aatggttact ccctgg                  1606
              <210>   792
              <211>   1288
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 792
              cgaccgccgg gtcaacctct acgggatggc gcaggccgcc atccgccgcg ccaagggcca     60
              gtgcgaggca ttctgggccg agtacgcggc cgatgatgat gtgctccatc ttctcggcga    120
              tgaggcaccg gccctaaaga gtctccgcct cattgcttgt caagacatcg ttgaatttga    180
              agaggagata aggaagtttc ctctgcttga ggagctcgag atttcactct tcacaaatat    240
              agatgggaag cgtgtgtttg aggaggttgg caaagcatgc ccggagctga agcatttcag    300
              atttaacaag taccgtttcc acaactttgg agatattgaa tactctgagg atgatgatag    360
                                                    890

              cgagatcaag tacaacaagg atgacaatgc cctggggatt gcaagtatgc atgggctgcg    420
<removed-date>
              ctctctgcag ctctttggca atgacttcac caatgaagga ctgacagcca tccttgacaa    480
              ttgcccccac ctggagttcc tcgacatccg tcactgcttc aacatccaga tggacgatgc    540
              cctacgggca aaatgtgctg caatcaagac tctgaagcct ccctatgatt caactgatga    600
              ctataattta cagtttgagg gaccaatctg gtcaccttct gggcttggta ttgactttga    660
              caccgacagt gatggttgtg actacattct ggactcagat gattatgatg attactgtga    720
<removed-apn>
              cccgatgcgc taccttgatg gtgtctatga gtctgagctt ggcccagaag atcggatgtt    780
              cctcaagggt atgcgtatgc tgatgagaga tgatgacgat gatgattact gagtaattgt    840
              ggtccttacc accgcaacct ttgatggcgt ctatgtggat tccttgaaga tctgatgttc    900
              tttgttggac ctcacatgtt cctgaaataa atgtgacatg gggattgctg gtgcttggga    960
              tctcaaacct ccttgctgca acattgcttg gcaatggcaa ctttatcacc gatgtgtctc   1020
              gtatttgttt cttttctgtg tgttcgttga gtaataataa tgtgaactta tagagctgac   1080
              agtagttttt tcagtgcttc accatgtttc ttccacagtt ggaattggca aaatgtctgc   1140
              attactgtag atctgccatc tgtggctggg cgaggaactg gtgtccaacg atatatcatg   1200
              tctacatttg ctaccgttcg agaaacaatg gtatattaaa aaagtacaaa gcatggcatg   1260
              aatcaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagg                                      1288
              <210>   793
              <211>   1390
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1309)..(1309)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 793
              acatagtggc ttcttctccc taaacctgaa actatcaggc ctgttgttct tcctatcagg     60
              ctggagttca tcaaggatct aaactttgaa actggagccg acaagcacac agaggaagaa    120
              gaacaccaag actggttccc aacccatcca aggtagaagc gagcaacgtt agtgtggtag    180
              taacatggtg actgtgagag aggagatgcg taaagggcca tggacagagc aggaggacat    240
                                                    891

              gcaactggta tgcactgtcc gcctctttgg tgaccgtcgt tgggacttca ttgcccaagt    300
<removed-date>
              ctcaggtttg aggggttggg aaactacaac ttaggtagct attttgctat tcttagcgca    360
              aagtcgcaaa cataaatgtc ttcctgtcta accagccctc ttcatactat acgttctcta    420
              tgttcatgca ggcctcaaca ggacaggaag gagctgccgc ctgcggtggg tgaactacct    480
              tcatcctggc ctcaagcatg gccgcatgtc accacaagaa gaacgcctta ttattgagct    540
              ccatgctcgg tgggggaaca ggtggtctag gatagcacgg aggctgccag ggcgtacaga    600
<removed-apn>
              caacgagatc aagaactact ggagaacaca catgagaaag aaagcacagg agaggaagat    660
              gagcatgtca tcaccttcat cctcatgctc ctcactgaca taccaagcct gccatcttga    720
              cactgttcca gtcattggga tgagcagtgg tgacactcac aatggtggct gcgtcaccag    780
              cgccctcgag aacacacaga gtgtcatggg tggatacccc atggaccaga tatggaagga    840
              gattgaggca cctcaggcac ctgccttgct gggtattgct gaagggaaag agaagacatg    900
              cagcagtatc ccctgtcatc taccatcatc tgctatgtgg gactacaaat atcctgaggt    960
              attctggaag atggaagatc aagaaatcat gatgtgatag aagatgaaga aaccttgatg   1020
              ttggcttatt tggttatggt aaataaggcc ctcactattg aaagctgaag gaatacatct   1080
              atattggtca ggccactcgg ctatctgcct agcagatttg cagtacttgt acttcctagc   1140
              tatgcttgca ttagtatggg tttcagtatt ttaaaatata cagtgatact ggaggtatgc   1200
              ttatgatgta tgtatctatt agtgtgcaaa atagtttgta tcagtttgtg gaatagtgtg   1260
              caatacaagg acgctctata tgcatcatgt acttatttat ctctgttgnt attgcgccga   1320
              acaaatagca gcataatctt gtttgcagtt attattcaat agaatatgaa tttgatgcca   1380
              aatgaatatt                                                          1390
              <210>   794
              <211>   354
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (154)..(154)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400>   794
                                                    892

              gcacgagggg acggcggagg aggaccagaa gctcgtcagc ttcatcctcg gcaacggcca    60
<removed-date>
              gtgctgctgg cgcgccgtgc ccaagctcgc cgggctgctg aggtgcggga agagctgccg   120
              gctccggtgg accaactacc tgcggccgga gccntcaaga ggggcctgct ctccgacgcc   180
              gaggagaagc tcgtcatcga cctgcatgct cagctcggca acaggtggtc caagattgcg   240
              tcgcacttgc cagggcgaac ggacaacgag atcaagaacc actgggaaca cccacatcaa   300
              gaagaagctc aagaagatgg ggatcgaccc gctcacccac aagcccctct gccc         354
<removed-apn>
              <210>   795
              <211>   2132
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1928)..(1928)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1951)..(1952)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1959)..(1959)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1966)..(1966)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1968)..(1969)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1976)..(1976)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1985)..(1985)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                    893

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1991)..(1991)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1997)..(1997)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2001)..(2001)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2029)..(2029)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2038)..(2038)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2042)..(2042)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2044)..(2045)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2050)..(2051)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2077)..(2078)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2084)..(2084)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                           894

              <222>   (2090)..(2090)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2122)..(2122)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 795
              cgtccgcgga cgcgtgggcc ctcccctctc tctcctccct caaaactctc tctccctccc     60
<removed-apn>
              tgaaaattct ccgcatactg ggtgcccaag tggtgccggc atctcgctga ggcgagagag    120
              agagagagag agagagagag atcctcccct gtttccactc ccccgccgct cccccgaccc    180
              gccctctcca gccccgccgc cgagccggga ggaggagttg ttgcagctca gctccgcccc    240
              agctcagtcc ccgaccccga gctgatcgtc ccgccggcgg cgagattcga ccagggcacg    300
              acggagagat gtaccgggtg aagagcgaga gcgactgcga gatgatgcat caggaggacc    360
              agatggactc gccggtgggc gacgacggca gcagcggagg gtcgccccac aggggcggcg    420
              ggccgcctct gaagaagggc ccctggacgt cggcggagga cgccatcctg gtggactacg    480
              tgaagaagca cggcgagggg aactggaacg cggtgcagaa gaacaccggg ttgttccggt    540
              gcggcaagag ctgccgcctc cggtgggcga accacctcag gcccaacctc aagaaggggg    600
              ccttcacccc cgaggaggag aggctcatca tccagctcca ctccaagatg ggcaacaagt    660
              gggctcggat ggccgctcat ttgccagggc gtactgacaa tgaaataaag aattactgga    720
              acactcgaat aaagagatgt cagcgagctg gcttgccaat atatcctgct agcgtatgca    780
              accaatcttc aaatgaagat cagcagggct ccagcgattt caactgcggc gagaatcttt    840
              ccagtgacct tctgaatgga aatggtcttt atctgccaga ttttacctgt gacaatttca    900
              ttgctaattc agaggctcta tcttatgcac cacagctttc agctgtttca ataagcagtt    960
              tgcttggtca gagctttgca tccaaaaact gcggcttcat ggatcaagta aaccaagcag   1020
              ggatgctaaa acagtctgac cctttactcc ctggattgag cgacaccatc aatggcgcgc   1080
              tctcctcggt cgatcagttc tcaaatgact ctgagaatct caagaaggct ctgggttttg   1140
              actatctcca tgaagccaac tctagcagca agatgattgc accatttggg ggtacactta   1200
              ctggcagcca tgccttttta aatggcacct tctctacttc taggaccatc aatggccctt   1260
              tgaagatgga gctcccttca ctccaagata ccgaatctga tccgaatagc tggctcaagt   1320
                                                    895

              ataccgtggc tcctgcgatg cagcctacgg agttggttga tccctacctt cagtctccga   1380
<removed-date>
              cagcaactcc gtcagtgaag tcggagtgtg tgtcgccaag gaacagcggt ctcttggaag   1440
              agctgcttca tgaagctcag ggactaaaat ctgggaagaa tcagcagctt tccgtgagaa   1500
              gttcaagttc ctctgtcagt acgccgtgtg atactacggt ggttagccca gagtttgata   1560
              tctgtcagga ctattgggaa gaacctctga atgaatatgc tcctttcagt ggcaattcac   1620
              tcactggatc tacggctcct gttagcgctg cgccgcctga tgtttttcag ctctccaaaa   1680
<removed-apn>
              ttcctcctgc acaaagccct tcgctgggat ctggtgagca ggcaatggag cctgcatatg   1740
              agcctggggc tggggacact tcgtctcatc ctgaaaactt caggccagac gcactcttct   1800
              ccgggaacac aactgactcg tccgtcttca acaacgccaa taaccaatgc tcctgggcaa   1860
              cgacattgaa gacgggactg caagcctgtt ttcggcgacg ggattcgtgt ttgatacttc   1920
              cccgtggngc aacatgccac atgcttgcct nntgtcggng gaattnannt gaattncttg   1980
              ccganccttg ngcggtntcg ntggggattc ttggttttcc tcaccctgnt tgttttgngg   2040
              tngnnttttn ngaaagcctt attgattgtt ttcctgnntg cttnttgttn ctggtccttg   2100
              ttggcttttg cggttgtttc cngttgtgct tt                                 2132
              <210>   796
              <211>   1245
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 796
              agccaaagcc aaagccaagc agagagagaa acggaaacag agggggagaa gacttgcaga     60
              ggagaggagc aagttgcgga ggaggcagcg gcaagggagg aggggtcgcc ggaaggggga    120
              catgctccct cctcatctca catctcgcag cttgaactga gagcaagagt agaaacccat    180
              aagatgagac gcaagcaaaa tatgcatgaa aatggcacaa tcatgattca gtttggtcag    240
              caagtgccta actgcgagtc ctcagctagc gattctcctc aagaagtgtc cgggatgagt    300
              gaaggaagct ttaatgagca gaatgatcaa tctggtaatc gcgatggcta caccaagagt    360
              gatgaaggca agatgatgtc ggctttgtct ctgggcaatt cagaaacagc atacacaccc    420
              ccaaaacctg accgcactca tcccttcgcc atatcatacc catatgctga tccttactat    480
              ggtggtgcag tggcagccta tggcacacat gctattatgc acccccagat ggtgggtatg    540
                                                    896

              gtaccatcct ctcgagtgcc actgccaatt gaaccggctg ccgccgaaga gcccatttat    600
<removed-date>
              gtgaacgcga agcaatacca tgccattctc cgaaggagac agctccgcgc aaaattagag    660
              gctgaaaata agctggtcaa aagccgtaag ccgtacctcc acgagtcccg gcaccagcac    720
              gcgatgaagc gggctcgggg gacaggcggg cggttcctca acgcaaagga gaagtccgag    780
              gcggcctccg gcggcggcaa tgcatcagca agatctggcc acgccggcgt tcctacagac    840
              ggtggtggca tgttctcgaa gcacgaccac accttaccgt ccggtgactt ccattaccgc   900
<removed-apn>
              gcaagagggg gcgcctaggg cgggcctttg cccccggcaa atcatccttg gcttatgtgt   960
              gtggcgaatg accgtcaatt cggtccaatg atattgtaaa actgaattta gagtctgcaa   1020
              ttgttacttg ggggtttggt agacggtcgt tgtgtttggg gacgctgcag ctgcagctgc   1080
              agctgccggt tctcttgttg tggtaggttt gtgtggcatg gcaggtgctg ctaagctgga   1140
              gcctgcttga actgttttcc tgtcactttg ttggggtaat aatgaccatc ctgtatgata   1200
              ttagtactga cttggagtaa taaccattcc cggcgtgatg cattt                   1245
              <210>   797
              <211>   1460
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 797
              ccctgcgtgc cccgccgcgg aatccggggg tcgccccacg cgtgcgccct ctcgtgcgtc     60
              cacgcgtccg cccacgcgtc cgcggacgcg tgggtgcctc tgttcagcca aagccaaagc   120
              caagctgaga gagaaacgga aacaaagaca gagggagagg agacttgcag aggagaggag    180
              acgggaggag caagttgcgg aggaggcagc ggcaagggag gaggggtcgc cggaaggggg    240
              acatgctccc tcctcatctc acatctcgca gcttgaactg agagcaagag tagaagccca    300
              tgagatgaga cgcaagcaaa atatgcatga aaatggcaca atcatgattc agtttggtca    360
              gcaagtgcct aactgcgagt cctcagctag cgattctcct caagaggtgt ccggaatgag    420
              cgaaggaagc tttaatgagc agaatgatca atctggtaac cgcgatggct acacgaagag   480
              tgatgaaggc aagatgatgt cagctttgtc tctgggcaat tcagaaacag catacacacc   540
              gccaaaacct gaccgcactc atccctttgc catatcatac ccatatgctg atccttacta   600
              tggtggtgca gtggcagcct atggcgcaca tgctattatg cacccccaga tggtgggcat    660
                                                    897

              ggtaccatcc tctcgagtgc cgctgccaat tgaaccggcc gccgccgaag agcccattta    720
<removed-date>
              tgtgaacgcg aagcaatacc atgccattct ccgaaggaga cagctccgcg caaaattaga    780
              ggctgaaaat aagctggtga agagccgcaa gccgtacctc cacgagtccc ggcaccagca    840
              cgcgatgaag cgggcccggg gaacaggcgg gcggttcctc aacgcgaagg agaagtccga    900
              ggcctccggc ggcggcaatg catcagcgag acctggctac gccggcgttc ctgcagacgg    960
              cggcatgttc tcgaagcacg accacacctt accgtccggt gacttccatt accgcgcgag   1020
<removed-apn>
              agggggcgcc tagggcgggc ctttgccccc tggcaaatca tccttggctt atgtgtgtgg   1080
              tgaatgaccg tcaattcggt ccaatgatat tgtaaaactg aatttagagt ctgcaattgt   1140
              tacttggggg tttggtagac ggtcgttgtg tttggggagg ggacgatgca gctgcagctg   1200
              cagccggttc tcttgttgtg gtaggtttgt gtggcatggc aggtgctgct aagctggagc   1260
              ctgcttgaac tgttttcctg tcactttgtt gtttggggta ataatgacca tcttgtatga   1320
              tattagtact gacttggagt aagtaataac cattcccggc gtgatgcatt tgcgcccgtg   1380
              gtggtgtttc tgttgaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaacaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1440
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                               1460
              <210>   798
              <211>   1996
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 798
              cgctatgacc ttaggcctat ttaggtgaca ctacagaaca agtttgtaca aaaaagcagg     60
              ctggtaccgg tccggaattc ccgggatatc gtcgacccac gcgtccgcgc gctcccatgc    120
              catagacgcg accccactca tcggtccagg tcggtcgctc ggagccgagc ggcggcgggc    180
              gggcgaggag tgcgttttat tcggtcccgg cgggcctcgg atcggagatg gtgctggatc    240
              tcaatgtgga gtcgccggcg gactcgggca cgtccagctc ctccgtgctc aactccgcgg    300
              acgccggtgg cggcggcttc cggttcggcc tgctcgggag ccctgatgat gacgactgct    360
              ccggcgagcc ggcgccggtc gggcccgggt tcgtcacgag gcagctcttc cccgcgtcgc    420
              cgcccgggca cgcgggcgcg cccggggtga cgatggggca gcaggccccg gcgcctgcgc    480
              cgatggcgcc cgtgtggcag ccgcggcgcg ccgaggagct cctcgtggcg cagcggatgg    540
                                                    898

              cgcccgcgaa gaagacgcgg cggggcccga ggtcgcgcag ctcgcagtac aggggcgtca    600
<removed-date>
              ccttctaccg caggaccggc cggtgggagt cgcacatctg ggattgcggg aagcaggtct    660
              acttgggtgg tttcgacact gcgcacgcgg ccgcaagggc ctacgatcgc gcggcgatca    720
              agttccgggg gctggaggcc gacatcaact tcaatctgag cgactacgag gaggatttga    780
              agcagatgag gaactggacc aaggaggagt tcgtgcacat cctccgccgc cagagcacgg    840
              ggttcgccag ggggagctcc aagtaccgcg gcgtcacgct ccacaagtgc ggccgctggg    900
<removed-apn>
              aggcaaggat gggccagctg ctcggcaaga agtacatata tctgggcctc tttgacagcg    960
              aagttgaagc tgcaagggcg tacgacaggg cggcgattcg cttcaatggg agggaagctg   1020
              tgactaactt tgagagcagc tcctacaatg gggatgctcc acccgacgcc gaaaatgagg   1080
              caattgttga tgctgatgct cttgacttgg atctgcggat gtcgcaaccc accgcgcacg   1140
              atcccaagag ggacaacatc atcgccggcc ttcagttaac ttttgattcc cctgaatcgt   1200
              caaccacaat gatctcttct cagccaatga gctcatcttc gtcccagtgg cctgtgcatc   1260
              aacatggcac ggcagtagca cctcagcagc accagcgttt gtacccatct gcttgtcatg   1320
              gcttctaccc gaacgtacag gtgcaggtgc aggagaggcc catggaggca aggccccctg   1380
              agcagccgtc gtccttcccc ggctgggggt ggcaagcgca agccatgccg ccgggctcct   1440
              cccactcgcc gttgctttac gctgcagcat catcaggatt ttctaccgcc gccgccggcg   1500
              cgaacctcgc cccgccgccg ccgtacccgg accaccaccg gttctacttc ccccgcccgc   1560
              cggacaactg aagctggccg ttgtgaccag acggcggtgg gtgcgcgcgg tcgaggtgtt   1620
              cgctcctcgt cgtcggtaac gcttgttgtg aaactataat cggagagaga tgacattgcc   1680
              aggccatgtg tggtgacact actggctggt ctctcgccgc ctcgccatga tcgggatcac   1740
              gcggatcatg gctgttcatt agattctcat gtatccaatg ttcaagtttc ccaaacggtt   1800
              gaaaaaactt tgaaatttgt gatggcaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaactca aggggggccg   1860
              gacccattcc cccttagaga tcgaatacaa tccttggcgt cgttacacgt cggatggaaa   1920
              ctggcgtacc aactatcgct tgagaaatcc tttccacttg ctaaacaaaa gccgagatcc   1980
              cttccacatg caccta                                                   1996
              <210>   799
              <211>   2030
                                                    899

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 799
              tagggcctat ccaggtgaca taatataaca agtttgtaca aaaaagcagg ctggtaccgc     60
              tcccccgggc cccgcgggcc ggcggcccgc gccgccgagg caaggcaagg gcaaggcagc    120
              gagcatttag gcaggcagcg ggagaaaagc agcgtgccga ctgcccccga gccaaccccc    180
              accccacaaa aggagggaag gggggagagc gcgagacaca gaggcggccg cgaccgaggg    240
<removed-apn>
              cgccgccggc ggcggcggtg gcggcggatg ggggaggtgg cggcgctgcg gcagctggtc    300
              ggccaggtgc aggagctctg ggacctctac ggcgccgtcc acgcccacgc ccacggcccc    360
              atccccaggt ggtatttact tgactttgag catggttcgg tcaaggatga ttattgtgga    420
              gaaaggactg ggtacaactc ggaattattg aagatcatgg aagctaacca atctcctcct    480
              cgcaagcgac cacgcagaga cagaaaccga gagaaagcat ccttcctgaa ctcggctgaa    540
              gcaatgaagc tagatatttg gagcgagttc cctgaagacc tttttgaaac tgtcattgca    600
              aggcttccag tggctgcaat tttccgattc cgctctgttt gccggaagtg gtgttctctg    660
              gtaggctcag acaatttctc tcagcagtac tctgaagtcc cacagggaat gccatggttc    720
              tatacaatca cacatgagaa tggcaacaac aatgtagcga tgtatgaccc ttcgctaaac    780
              aagtggcacc acccttctgt tccccttgct cctgcaaaca tagtaatgcc agtggcatct    840
              gcaggtggcc ttgtgtgctt attggatctt agccacagga acttctacat atgcaaccct    900
              cttacacaat cactaaagga aattcctccg aggtcagtcc aggcatggtc aagagtgtca    960
              gtagggatgg tgctgaatgg aagaacttct aatgagggtt acaaagtgat gtggttgcga   1020
              aatgatggaa atcatgaagt ctacgactca gtgcagaata tgtggtctca gccaggcgcg   1080
              tttcctccaa gcatcaagct cccacttgct ctaaatttca ggtcacagcc agtcgcggtt   1140
              ggcagcacgc tgtacttcat gtgctcagaa cccgagggtg ttttgtcata tgatgtaagc   1200
              actgggattt ggattcattt catcatcccg ctgccgctgc atctgactga ccacacactt   1260
              gccgagttcc aggggaagat catgcttgtg ggcctgctgt gcaaaaacgc agcaacctgc   1320
              gtctgcatct gggagttgca gaagatgact ctcctctgga aggaggtgga cagaatgcca   1380
              aatatctggt gcttagaatt ctacggtaag cacatgagga tgacctgcct gggcaacagc   1440
              ggcttgctca tggctctcct tgaaggcgaa gcggatgaac cgcctcgtga tgtacaacct   1500
                                                    900

<removed-date>
              tgtgagcaaa gagtggcaga aggttcctga ctgcatgctc ccttgcagcc gcaagaagca   1560
              gtggatagca tgtggcacgg cattcggtcc gtgcccctct gcctcgccct gacggttctc   1620
              agcaaaggtt gacattgtcg ctttcatttt gttacacatt tccgtgtcgt cgcgacttgg   1680
              cgagaaggtt atctgttatg ttattgtaca aattcatgtc aaagtggttg ttttcgttac   1740
              ttgctgaagc aatcggaccg ttttgttact gtcggtttta tcatccgcga gaatttgtgt   1800
<removed-apn>
              cggtgcaatg gcaactgatc agttgaactg aatctgttaa ggttactgcg atcaaaaggc   1860
              tgaagagcag acatctgtta ctgtattaga acttttattt gttccgttgt tgtgtcatgt   1920
              tcagtatgta atatttgtac taaatctcgg gtcgtctcct cagcaaaact gagcctactc   1980
              tataataata acaactggag ttgtatttat aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaccg              2030
              <210>   800
              <211>   720
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 800
              atggggcgcg gcaagatagt gatccggcgg atcgacaact ccacgagccg gcaggtgacg     60
              ttctcgaagc ggcggaacgg gatcttcaag aaggccaagg agctgggtat tctctgcgat    120
              gccgaggtcg gtctcgtcat cttctccagc accggccgcc tctatgagta cgccagctcc    180
              agcatgaagt cagtgataga tcgatatgga cgagccaagg aggagcagca acttgttgca    240
              aaccccaact cggagcttaa gttctggcaa agggaggcag caagcttgag acaacaactg    300
              cacaacttgc aagaaaatca tcggcagttg atgggacaag atctttctgg aatgggtgtc    360
              aaggaactac agactctaga aaatcaactg gaaataagcc tgcgttgcat ccggacaaaa    420
              aaggaccaaa tcttaattga tgagattcat gaactgaatc acaaggggag tcttgtccac    480
              caagaaaaca tggaattata caaaaagatt aacctaattc gtcaagaaaa tgctgagtta    540
              cacaaaaagc tctctgagac ggaggcagcg actgaagtta accgagattc aagaacccca    600
              tacaattttg cagttgttga agatgccaat gtttctgtta atcttgaact caattccccg    660
              cagcaacaaa atgatgttca gcatactgcg ccccctaaac taggattgca actacatcca    720
              <210>   801
              <211>   402
                                                    901

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 801
              tctaccttcc ccacataaga ccagccccca tacacttctt cttcttcttc ttcctcttct    60
              tcttcttctc agtccgcctg ctagctctta gatctgagag ggatggggag ggggaagata   120
              gtgatcagga ggatcgacaa ctcgacgaac aggcaggtga ccttctcgaa gcggcggggc   180
              gggctgctga agaaggccaa ggagctctcc atcctctgcg atgcggaggt cggcctcgtc   240
<removed-apn>
              gtcttctcca gcaccggcag gctccatgag ttctccagca ccaacatgaa agctgtgata   300
              gaccggtata ccaaggcaaa agaggagcag cctggcgtga atgcaacttc agagattaag   360
              ctttggcaaa gggaggcagc aagcttgagg cagcaactgc ac                      402
              <210>   802
              <211>   911
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 802
              cgaccggcca gccggcagga tagagatcta gagaggaaga agaagaagaa agaagaagaa    60
              taagatgggg agggggaaga ttgtgattga gaggatcgac aacccgacga atcgtcaggt   120
              gaccttctcc aagaggcgcg gagggctgat gaagaaggcc cgggagctcg ccatcctctg   180
              tgacgccgat ctcgcgctca tcgtcttctc cagcaccggt cgcctctacg actttgcgag   240
              ctccagcgga atggaggcaa tactagagcg gtaccaggag gcgaaagagg agcactacgg   300
              ggtgctgaat ccaacatcag aggcaaagtt atggcagagg gaggttacaa ccttgaggca   360
              gcaagtgcaa aacttacaac acaataatag gcaactgttg ggagaggagc tatctggcac   420
              cactgctcga gatctgctgt ttttggtgaa ccaagttgag acgagcttac attccgtaag   480
              aaagaggaag gagcaactta tggctgcaga gattcatgaa ctcaaccaaa agggatttca   540
              cattcaaaag gaaaatgtag aacttggcaa aaagttgggc attgctcatg agcacaaaat   600
              agagccgcag aaaaagcttt ctggggtcat gagaacgagt gagcagcaag ccagcggaag   660
              cagctcaaaa gctgctgccg gattattatt gtcgactaga gcacgtgaac caaggatttt   720
              tattgacctt gagttgcggc agcagaagca tgaggatgaa taacacctac tacctcgtcc   780
              actacatgct cagtaaaaga tatatgtgct tagtcgcatg ccaaaccaca ttgttaacca   840
                                                    902

              aatttactga tttgcatgaa actgcagcat caacttgtat tttcagtgca tgcgtggacg   900
<removed-date>
              atggaagctc g                                                        911
              <210>   803
              <211>   1130
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1118)..(1118)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1121)..(1121)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 803
              cacccaacca acatcacctc acctcacctc actcaccacc attgccgcac ttcagagcaa    60
              ctcgacccat cgacaccggc cagacaccac ctcgtgcacg accaccatgg accagtacaa   120
              ctacggcggc ggcgtggcct actacggcag caccaccggc ggcgtaggcg acaacggcca   180
              gggcggcggg tacgcgacgg tgacgtcggc gccgccgaag cggccggcgg ggcggaccaa   240
              gttccgggag acgcgccacc cggtgtaccg gggcgtgcgc cggcgcggcg cggccgggcg   300
              gtgggtgtgc gaggtgcgcg agcccaacaa gaagtcccgc atctggctcg gcaccttcgc   360
              cagccccgag gccgcggccc gcgcccacga cgtcgccgcg ctcgcgctcc ggggccgcgc   420
              cgcctgcctc aacttcgccg actcggccac gctgctcgcc gtcgaccccg ccacgctccg   480
              cacccccgac gacatccgcg ccgccgccat cgcgctcgcc gagaccgcgt gccccgccgc   540
              gcccgcgtcc tcgtcgtccg tggccgccgc cgtggcgtcc gcgccggcgc ccccgatgac   600
              gatgatgcag tttgacgact acgcgatgca gtacggcggc attggggact tggaccagca   660
              ttcctactac tacgacgggt tgagcgccgc cggtggcgac tggccgagcg gctcgcacat   720
              ggacggagcc gacgacgact gcaacggcag cggtggctac ggcgccggcg aggtcgcgct   780
              ctggagctac tgatcgagct gctcgattga gccattctcc agcccggtca gctttctccg   840
              atggggctgc cgtacaacat cactcagcgt aggataaaga agaagcagag agggaacggg   900
              agcttcagtt ctgaagtagt actaagtact agttctgtgt tccgtaaagc agagagggca   960
                                                    903

<removed-date>
              cgggaatgca agttgcatca acctgtttcc ctcccttaat tttttttcat tttttgataa   1020
              tttttggttg gcaagatttt ttgtaacatg tgctggagta gttagagtaa taagagacaa   1080
              ctccgcttta ctaatatata tctgaagtaa ttttgccnag ntttccaaaa              1130
              <210>   804
              <211>   1175
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 804
              cgcgctgcgg cctctgccag ggacgcgcgc accaccatcc tgctgctccg gggagcggcc     60
              acctttggcg ccggcggcga aggaagggac ggacacgggc tgcagaggag agggcggcca    120
              tggctgctag ctagctaagt gggaaagagt acgtaggaag atagaaagag agagagagag    180
              agagagagag agagagagaa tggggatgag gacgtgcagc gcgaaggaag gggtgaagag    240
              aggggcatgg acgagcaagg aggaccaaac cttggcctcc tacatcaagg cccatggcga    300
              aggcagatgg aaggaagtcc ccctcaaagc cggtctgcgg cggtgcggca agagctgccg    360
              gctgcggtgg ctcaactacc tccggccgag catcaagcgg ggcaacatct ccgacgacga    420
              cgaggagctc atcgtcaggc tccaccgcct cctcggcaac aggtggtccc tcatcgcggg    480
              caggctgccc ggccgaacag acaacgaaat caagaactac tggaacagca cccttggccg    540
              gaaggcgctc ccggcgcgac tggacaccac caggacggtc gccacaccct gcccctccgc    600
              cagctccggc tcctccaccg gggcgtcgac agcatggctt tcctctaact gcggggatgg    660
              tacaagtgcc aaggctgcgg ggctgctgtc gtcggcctcg gtgtgggtgc ccaagcccgt    720
              gaggtgcaca ggcggtctct tcctcagccg ggatgcgccg cccccgccgg tcatggagac    780
              gcgggccgtg ggaggagacg cagatgagtg cagcggcagc agcttggcgg catcgtcggg    840
              cggcggcgac tggatggacg acgtgagagc cttggcgtcg tttctcgagt ccgacgagga    900
              ctgggtcaac tccctgcaca tggcggatta acgctcacac tttttctcag cacgtgcacg    960
              tttatcacta cgtacgaaca gggagctgta tcgatacagc tccatgcgtg tacgtaggtt   1020
              ggcttcgtgc tgagtactga ctaatcagta gctacctgtg atggacttct aatcatactc   1080
              acactctctc gagctgttta gtggatggtg tatgagtggg tgtgttcaac cgaataaaaa   1140
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaagtact agtcgacgcg tggcc                              1175
                                                       904

<removed-date>
              <210>   805
              <211>   2940
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 805
<removed-apn>
              atggagatgg cggtggctaa ccaccgtgag agaagcagtg acagtatgaa tagacattta     60
              gatagtagcg gtaagtacgt taggtacaca gctgagcaag tcgaggctct tgagcgtgtc    120
              tacgctgagt gtcctaagcc tagctctctc cgtcgacaac aattgatccg tgaatgttcc    180
              attttggcca atattgagcc taagcagatc aaagtctggt ttcagaaccg caggtgtcga    240
              gataagcaga ggaaagaggc gtcgaggctc cagagcgtaa accggaagct ctctgcgatg    300
              aataaactgt tgatggagga gaatgatagg ttgcagaagc aggtttctca gcttgtctgc    360
              gaaaatggat atatgaaaca gcagctaact actgttgtta acgatccaag ctgtgaatct    420
              gtggtcacaa ctcctcagca ttcgcttaga gatgcgaata gtcctgctgg attgctctca    480
              atcgcagagg agactttggc agagttccta tccaaggcta caggaactgc tgttgattgg    540
              gttcagatgc ctgggatgaa gcctggtccg gattcggttg gcatctttgc catttcgcaa    600
              agatgcaatg gagtggcagc tcgagcctgt ggtcttgtta gcttagaacc tatgaagatt    660
              gcagagatcc tcaaagatcg gccatcttgg ttccgtgact gtaggagcct tgaagttttc    720
              actatgttcc cggctggtaa tggtggcaca atcgagcttg tttatatgca gacgtatgca    780
              ccaacgactc tggctcctgc ccgcgatttc tggaccctga gatacacaac gagcctcgac    840
              aatgggagtt ttgtggtttg tgagaggtcg ctatctggct ctggagctgg gcctaatgct    900
              gcttcagctt ctcagtttgt gagagcagaa atgctttcta gtgggtattt aataaggcct    960
              tgtgatggtg gtggttctat tattcacatt gtcgatcacc ttaatcttga ggcttggagt   1020
              gttccggatg tgcttcgacc cctttatgag tcatccaaag tcgttgcaca aaaaatgacc   1080
              atttccgcgt tgcggtatat caggcaatta gcccaagagt ctaatggtga agtagtgtat   1140
              ggattaggaa ggcagcctgc tgttcttaga acctttagcc aaagattaag caggggcttc   1200
              aatgatgcgg ttaatgggtt tggtgacgac gggtggtcta cgatgcattg tgatggagcg   1260
                                                    905

              gaagatatta tcgttgctat taactctaca aagcatttga ataatatttc taattctctt   1320
<removed-date>
              tcgttccttg gaggcgtgct ctgtgccaag gcttcaatgc ttctccaaaa tgttcctcct   1380
              gcggttttga tccggttcct tagagagcat cgatctgagt gggctgattt caatgttgat   1440
              gcatattccg ctgctacact taaagctggt agctttgctt atccgggaat gagaccaaca   1500
              agattcactg ggagtcagat cataatgcca ctaggacata caattgaaca cgaagaaatg   1560
              ctagaagttg ttagactgga aggtcattct cttgctcaag aagatgcatt tatgtcacgg   1620
<removed-apn>
              gatgtccatc tccttcagat ttgtaccggg attgacgaga atgccgttgg agcttgttct   1680
              gaactgatat ttgctccgat taatgagatg ttcccggatg atgctccact tgttccctct   1740
              ggattccgag tcatacccgt tgatgctaaa acgggagatg tacaagatct gttaaccgct   1800
              aatcaccgta cactagactt aacttctagc cttgaagtcg gtccatcacc tgagaatgct   1860
              tctggaaact ctttttctag ctcaagctcg agatgtattc tcactatcgc gtttcaattc   1920
              ccttttgaaa acaacttgca agaaaatgtt gctggtatgg cttgtcagta tgtgaggagc   1980
              gtgatctcat cagttcaacg tgttgcaatg gcgatctcac cgtctgggat aagcccgagt   2040
              ctgggctcca aattgtcccc aggatctcct gaagctgtta ctcttgctca gtggatctct   2100
              caaagttaca gtcatcactt aggctcggag ttgctgacga ttgattcact tggaagcgac   2160
              gactcggtac taaaacttct atgggatcac caagatgcca tcctgtgttg ctcattaaag   2220
              ccacagccag tgttcatgtt tgcgaaccaa gctggtctag acatgctaga gacaacactt   2280
              gtagccttac aagatataac actcgaaaag atattcgatg aatcgggtcg taaggctatc   2340
              tgttcggact tcgccaagct aatgcaacag ggatttgctt gcttgccttc aggaatctgt   2400
              gtgtcaacga tgggaagaca tgtgagttat gaacaagctg ttgcttggaa agtgtttgct   2460
              gcatctgaag aaaacaacaa caatctgcat tgtcttgcct tctcctttgt aaactggtct   2520
              tttgtgtcca tgggcaaggg cgaggaactg ttcactggcg tggtcccaat cctggtggaa   2580
              ctggatggtg atgtgaacgg gcacaagttc tccgtcagcg gagagggtga aggtgatgcc   2640
              acctacggaa agctcaccct gaagttcatc tgcactaccg gaaagctccc tgttccgtgg   2700
              ccaaccctcg tcaccacttt cacctacggt gttcagtgct tctcccggta cccagatcac   2760
              atgaagcagc atgacttctt caagagcgcc atgcccgaag gctacgtgca agaaaggact   2820
              atctctttca aggatgacgg gaactacaag acacgtgccg aagtcaagtt cgaaggtgat   2880
                                                    906

<removed-date>
              accctggtga accgcatcga gctgaaaggt aagtttctgc ttctaccttt gatatatata   2940
              <210>   806
              <211>   1446
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
<removed-apn>
              <400> 806
              atggggagag gtaagatcgt gataaggagg atcgacaatt ccacgagcag gcaagtgacg     60
              ttctcgaagc gaaggaacgg tttgctgaag aaggcgaagg agcttgcgat cttgtgcgat    120
              gctgaagtcg gagttatgat cttctccagc accggaaaac tctacgattt cgccagctcc    180
              agcatgaaat cagtaatgga ccgatacagc aaatcaaaag aagaaccttg tcaacttggg    240
              agttcagcct ctgaaattaa gttttggcaa agggaggcag caatgttaag gcaacaatta    300
              cacaatttgc aagaaagtca ccgcaggaaa atgatggggg aagaactgtc aggcttgaca    360
              gtcaaagaat tacaaaattt ggagaaccaa ttagaaatta gccttcatgg tgtccgaatg    420
              aaaaaggatc aacttttaat gggtgaaata caagagctaa atcgaaaggg aaacctcata    480
              caccaagaaa atgtggaact gtataagaag gtctatggaa cacaagatga taacgaaaca    540
              aacagagatt ctgttctgac aaatggtcta ggcataggag aggatttgca agtgcctgtg    600
              aatctccagc taagccagcc acagcaacag caacaacact acaaggcatc ttcaggaact    660
              acaaaattgg gattgcaatt gcataaccca gcggtactcg ctgaggcgat cgcaatggtg    720
              agcaagggcg aggagctgtt caccggggtg gtgcccatcc tggtcgagct ggacggcgac    780
              gtaaacggcc acaagttcag cgtgtccggc gagggcgagg gcgatgccac ctacggcaag    840
              ctgaccctga agttcatctg caccaccggc aagctgcccg tgccctggcc caccctcgtg    900
              accaccctga cctacggcgt gcagtgcttc agccgctacc ccgaccacat gaagcagcac    960
              gacttcttca agtccgccat gcccgaaggc tacgtccagg agcgcaccat cttcttcaag   1020
              gacgacggca actacaagac ccgcgccgag gtgaagttcg agggcgacac cctggtgaac   1080
              cgcatcgagc tgaagggcat cgacttcaag gaggacggca acatcctggg gcacaagctg   1140
              gagtacaact acaacagcca caacgtctat atcatggccg acaagcagaa gaacggcatc   1200
                                                    907

              aaggtgaact tcaagatccg ccacaacatc gaggacggca gcgtgcagct cgccgaccac   1260
<removed-date>
              taccagcaga acacccccat cggcgacggc cccgtgctgc tgcccgacaa ccactacctg   1320
              agcacccagt ccgccctgag caaagacccc aacgagaagc gcgatcacat ggtcctgctg   1380
              gagttcgtga ccgccgccgg gatcactctc ggcatggacg agctgtacaa gtccggaggg   1440
              atcctc                                                              1446
<removed-apn>
              <210>    807
              <211>    1482
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Synthetic construct
              <400> 807
              atgggaaggg gcaagatcgc gattaagagg atcaataact ctacgagccg tcaggttacg     60
              ttctcgaagc gaaggaatgg attgttgaag aaagctaagg agcttgcgat tctctgcgat    120
              gctgaggttg gtgtcatcat cttctccagc accggtaggc tctacgattt ctccagctcc    180
              agcatgaaat cggtcataga gagatacagc gatgccaaag gagaaaccag ttcagaaaat    240
              gatcccgctt cagaaattca gttctggcaa aaggaggctg cgattctaaa gcgtcagcta    300
              cataacttgc aagaaaacca ccggcaaatg atgggggagg agctctctgg actaagtgta    360
              gaagctttac agaatttgga aaatcagctt gaattgagcc ttcgtggcgt tcgaatgaaa    420
              aaggatcaaa tgttaatcga agaaatacaa gtacttaacc gagaggggaa tctcgttcac    480
              caagagaatt tagacctcca caagaaagta aacctaatgc accaacagaa catggaacta    540
              catgaaaagg tttcagaggt cgagggtgtg aaaatcgcaa acaagaattc tcttctcaca    600
              aatggtctag acatgagaga tacctcgaac gaacatgtcc atcttcagct cagccaaccg    660
              cagcatgatc atgagacgca ttcaaaagct atccaactca actatttttc cttcattgca    720
              aacccagcgg tactcgctga ggcgatcgca atggtgagca agggcgagga gctgttcacc    780
              ggggtggtgc ccatcctggt cgagctggac ggcgacgtaa acggccacaa gttcagcgtg    840
              tccggcgagg gcgagggcga tgccacctac ggcaagctga ccctgaagtt catctgcacc    900
              accggcaagc tgcccgtgcc ctggcccacc ctcgtgacca ccctgaccta cggcgtgcag    960
              tgcttcagcc gctaccccga ccacatgaag cagcacgact tcttcaagtc cgccatgccc   1020
                                                    908

<removed-date>
              gaaggctacg tccaggagcg caccatcttc ttcaaggacg acggcaacta caagacccgc   1080
              gccgaggtga agttcgaggg cgacaccctg gtgaaccgca tcgagctgaa gggcatcgac   1140
              ttcaaggagg acggcaacat cctggggcac aagctggagt acaactacaa cagccacaac   1200
              gtctatatca tggccgacaa gcagaagaac ggcatcaagg tgaacttcaa gatccgccac   1260
              aacatcgagg acggcagcgt gcagctcgcc gaccactacc agcagaacac ccccatcggc   1320
<removed-apn>
              gacggccccg tgctgctgcc cgacaaccac tacctgagca cccagtccgc cctgagcaaa   1380
              gaccccaacg agaagcgcga tcacatggtc ctgctggagt tcgtgaccgc cgccgggatc   1440
              actctcggca tggacgagct gtacaagtcc ggagggatcc tc                      1482
              <210>   808
              <211>   2251
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 808
              gcacgagacc attacctaga acatcctaat cgaaaagctt ccagctccgg cccggtgtgc     60
              tccgcaggct ccacctccgc gtcctctcaa gtctcaaacg ctcaaggtct caccggagac    120
              cgcgccgcgc cccgcgggct tctggtagct cgggatggcc tccgggggct cggccgcacg    180
              tgacgcgtac gacgaggagg ccgccgtccg ccgccccctc gagctcgata gccgtgacgc    240
              cgccgcctcg tcctccgacc actggcccgg tgggaatgcc atgcctaggt atcaagtggg    300
              cttgacaaag gatgattcaa gtagtagaca ctctgagtgg cggcagccta gcacagatga    360
              tgtgcgcaag agcaagctcg ggccaagata cttcacggcg tttggcgtgg atctgtcccc    420
              tgataatatg gcagttgcca ttgtctattt tgtgcaaggg gttctgggtc ttgcacggct    480
              tgctgtgagc ttttacttaa aagatgatct ccatctagat ccagctgaga ccgcagtggt    540
              atctggtttc tcatccttgc cgtggttgat caagcccctc tatggcttta tcagtgattc    600
              cattccactc tttggatatc gaaggaggtc gtaccttttt ctgtcagggt tacttggagc    660
              actttcatgg agtttaatgg ccacagtagt gagcagtaaa tacagtgcag catcctctat    720
              tcttcttggc tcactttctg ttgccttctc agatgttttg ttagaaatca tcgaagtgat    780
              ggtagtggat tctatggttg ttgagagagc ccgtggagaa tctcaaagca catctggatc    840
              actccagtcg ctctgttggg gatcttctgc ctttggagga attgtgagtg cttacttcag    900
                                                    909

<removed-date>
              cggttcgctt gtggatactt atggagtaag atttgtcttt ggtgtaacag cgtttttacc    960
              cctgatgaca tctgctgttg cagttcttgt aaatgaacat cgcatatctt ctggagaacg   1020
              tactacctta cactctggtt caggattcgt tgagagttct aagcagcacg tcaggcagct   1080
              ttggacttca gtaaagcagc ctaacatatt gttgccgacc ttgtttatat ttctttggca   1140
              agcaacacca cagtcagatt ctgctatgtt tttcttcatc acaaataagc ttggattcac   1200
<removed-apn>
              accagagttt ctagggcgtg tgaagcttgt aacctccttt gcatccctgc tcggtgttgg   1260
              gctctacaac tattttctga aggaagttcc tctaaggaaa atatttctcg tgacaaccat   1320
              tataggttca gctcttggga tgacacaggt gcttcttgta actgggctaa atcggaagtt   1380
              tgggattagt gacgagtggt tttctattgg tgattcatta atcatcacag tccttggtca   1440
              ggcttcattt atgccagtct tggtgttagc tgcaaaactg tgccctccag gaatggaagc   1500
              cactttattt gcaactttga tgtcaatttc taatgctgga agtgttactg gtggtctggt   1560
              tggtgctggt ctaactcgga tatttggggt caccagggac acctttggga acctacctct   1620
              attgattgtc gtctgcaatc ttagttcgct gctgccctta cctcttctaa gtctcctgcc   1680
              agaggaatca ggtgacacag acaatggaga aacaaagaat atctgacttg ctgagggttt   1740
              catctctgtt tgttctgatt ctcaagtata gcataccaca gtgcccagct tcaactcaga   1800
              tatgacccat ccagttgaag ttcaaaagat cagtgggcaa atatgaaaat catactggag   1860
              ataagttcag ttagtcacca ccaccatcag ccagtatctc ctgcgactat taacctgtga   1920
              tcaaagcgat tcattggtga tcaaaacgac tattaacctg cgattcattg gcgcacaggt   1980
              aatcaccact ttttttagtt tatataagtt accttgcata cgaaggcaag gtcggtttta   2040
              tctttctcta cattctttga gttttttgtt agctaatgct gcgaccccat gaaaactaga   2100
              gtaggggtca aagactagta gttgaggatt cccttacaaa gtcgaatgta ttgtaaccaa   2160
              aaaaaaagag agggaatatt tatgcattat ggaggcctag agtacggaca cgtaaaggaa   2220
              aatacttgca cacagaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a                                  2251
              <210>   809
              <211>   2042
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                    910

              <400> 809
<removed-date>
              gcggcgcggc gagactgctg agcccgagga aacgggaaga gaggagaaaa gcaaaacgaa     60
              gctcggaacc acgagacgac ggagaggatg ggcttcagcg tcctgctctc accgccgccc    120
              cttccgctcc cgagcgccac cgctgcggcc gacttgtacc taatattcgg cggccacgat    180
              cgccgccgcc gccgcccgct ggaacacggc tgccgctgcg gccgcccccc ggagacggcg    240
              ctcggcggca gctcaggccg ccgcggctcg tacgatgacg acgggacggc tccaggctcc    300
<removed-apn>
              ctcggcctcg acggcagcag cacgtcctcc tcggtccgtc ggacggggag tgcaaaacca    360
              agatatcaag taacttcgaa agaagaggac acacaaaatg cagaccgcga ggggtggcaa    420
              tatagtacag aaggcctttc aaagagcatg tccaagtcaa ggtacatcaa agtatttggg    480
              gttgatttgt cccctgataa tgtggctgtt gctattgttt acttcgtgca aggagtttta    540
              ggcctttcga ggcttgctgt cagcttctac ttaaaagata atcttcatct tgagccagca    600
              gagactgcag ttatatctgg gttctcagcc ttgccatggt tggtcaagcc cctctacggt    660
              tttatcagtg attccatccc tctctttgga tatcgaagaa ggtcgtacct atttctatca    720
              ggcatccttg gagcactttc atggagtttg atggccgctg ttgtggatga taaatatagt    780
              gcagcactct ctattattct tggatctctt gcagttgcca tatctgatgt tgtggttgat    840
              tctatggtgg ttgagagagc tcgaggtgaa tcacagagta catctggatc tctccagtcg    900
              ctatgttggg gatcctcagc cttcggagga gtcgtgagtg catacttcag tggttcttta    960
              gtggatactt atggtgtaag atttgttttt ggtgttacag cacttctgcc actgatgaca   1020
              tctgctgttg cagttcttgt aaatgaagaa cgcttacctt tggggaaaag ttcagtctca   1080
              ctttcagttt caggttcaga attaattgag agctctaagc aacgtatcat gcagatttgg   1140
              gattcagtaa agcaacccag catactccta cccaccttgt tcatattcct ttggcaagca   1200
              acaccgcaat cagactctgc catgtttttc ttcataacaa ataagctcgg gtttactcca   1260
              gaatttctag gacgtgttac gcttgtcaca tctgttgcat ccttactggg aatcggagtg   1320
              tataatttgt ttctgaagga agttccattg aggaaaatct ttctagtgac aacagtttta   1380
              ggttctgctc ttggaatgac acaggttctt cttgtcactg ggctcaaccg gaagcttggc   1440
              ataagcgatg aatggttctc cattggggat tctttgatta tcacagtcct tggccaggct   1500
              tcctttatgc ctgtcctggt gttggctgca aaattgtgcc ctgtgggagc ggaagcaact   1560
                                                    911

              ttatttgcca ctttgatgtc catctctaac gccggaggtg ttgccggagg tctggtgggc   1620
<removed-date>
              gcgggtctga cgcagttact gggagtcagc agagacaact tcgaaaacct tgctctgctg   1680
              atcgcgattt gcaatctcag ttccctgcta cctctgcctc ttctgggtct cctgccagat   1740
              gaatcccgta atgcagatgg tgcacagacc aaaaatgact gatgcttgta tatctccacg   1800
              cgtctttaca agacgaaagg gcatacacat acactcatcg gcacaaagca gcgcagctga   1860
              tgacgtgaac aaaacatgga agctgatgta taggatgtat tatctatgat gtatagtaag   1920
<removed-apn>
              taacgttaga ttaattatga aacatatttg taataatttt aattgaaagt ataaatactc   1980
              cttttcataa aacgagaaaa aaaaaaacaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaggttta catttttttc   2040
              gg                                                                  2042
              <210>   810
              <211>   1812
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 810
              atgggcttca gcgtcctgct ctcaccgccg ccccttccgc tcccgagcgc caccgctgcg     60
              gccgacttgt acctaatatt cggcggccac gatcgccgcc gccgccgccc gctggaacac    120
              ggctgccgct gcggccgccc cccggagacg gcgctcggcg gcagctcagg ccgccgcggc    180
              tcgtacgatg acgacgggac ggctccaggc tccctcggcc tcgacggcag cagcacgtcc    240
              tcctcggtcc gtcggacggg tgagccgcgc tggcttatta gctatatcgt aattgtaaag    300
              caattctgtg tggtaactga ctgttgcagg aatttcttat ggtcatccag aaaacattca    360
              ggagacccct tttttctaag cctggactac caagggagtg caaaaccaag atatcaagta    420
              acttcgaaag aagaggacac acaaaatgca gaccgcgagg ggtggcaata tagtacagaa    480
              ggcctttcaa agagcatgtc caagtcaagg tacatcaaag tatttggggt tgatttgtcc    540
              cctgataatg tggctgttgc tattgtttac ttcgtgcaag gagttttagg cctttcgagg    600
              cttgctgtca gcttctactt aaaagataat cttcatcttg agccagcaga gactgcagtt    660
              atatctgggt tctcagcctt gccatggttg gtcaagcccc tctacggttt tatcagtgat    720
              tccatccctc tctttggata tcgaagaagg tcgtacctat ttctatcagg catccttgga    780
              gcactttcat ggagtttgat ggccgctgtt gtggatgata aatatagtgc agcactctct    840
                                                    912

              attattcttg gatctcttgc agttgccata tctgatgttg tggttgattc tatggtggtt    900
<removed-date>
              gagagagctc gaggtgaatc acagagtaca tctggatctc tccagtcgct atgttgggga    960
              tcctcagcct tcggaggagt cgtgagtgca tacttcagtg gttctttagt ggatacttat   1020
              ggtttcactg atcatgtgtc ccatgaatgc agatttgttt ttggtgttac agcacttctg   1080
              ccactgatga catctgctgt tgcagttctt gtaaatgaag aacgcttacc tttggggaaa   1140
              agttcagtct cactttcagt ttcagatttg ggattcagta aagcaaccca gcatactcct   1200
<removed-apn>
              acccaccttg ttcatattcc tttggcaagc aacaccgcaa tcagactctg ccatgttttt   1260
              cttcatcgct cgccatccac gcccacgcag gccgcagctg ccaccggcca ctcgctcgga   1320
              gatttgatct gctccaacca gcaaccacca cccctggggg aaaaggcgtc agcggtgcgg   1380
              ttgctggcgg ctggccagca accaaaccac accctaaaat gcatatttcc tcaggttctt   1440
              cttgtcactg ggctcaaccg gaagcttggc ataagcgacg aatggttctc cattggggat   1500
              tctttgatta tcacagtcct tggccaggct tcctttatgc ctgtcctggt gttggctgca   1560
              aagttgtgcc ctgtgggagc ggaagcaact ttatttgcca ctttgatgtc catctctaac   1620
              gccggaggtg ttgccggagg tctggtgggc gcgggtctga cgcagttact gggagtcagc   1680
              agagacaact tcgaaaacct tgctctgctg atcgcgattt gcaatctcag ttccctgcta   1740
              cctctgcctc ttctgggtct cctgccagat gaatcccgta atgcagatgg tgcacagacc   1800
              aaaaatgact ga                                                       1812
              <210>   811
              <211>   2081
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 811
              ccacgcgtcc gattctcaat gaacgtgaga aattggtttc cttctatatt gagcttttta     60
              ttctattata tatgactaaa acagctactt catacactat ttccacttca aggctcttgt    120
              tcttactagc tttctagttt gcattataat aatgcacctt tctggcaaac caacactgct    180
              ctcaagaaaa tgttggtcaa tcccaacata attatatttc tagttcaagt tttacacggt    240
              aaggctggcc acttgaacca atttttagtt atttatgcta ttcaaattaa tcaatttagg    300
              gctagtttgg atactttggg attagagtgt tttggaggga ttggagaggg tgtaaatccc    360
                                                    913

              caatagatca aatactctct ctcaatacat ctcaatccac tctaatccca ctcattacta    420
<removed-date>
              gagtacccaa actaggcctt attgggggct gtctagccct aaaactggat gtatctggcc    480
              aaatgtgcca atgtgataaa cttttatcca tgtttatttt ttattgtata aaaattatca    540
              tcatatcatt tccacctcct gctgggactg tagaacaaga acttttgcat gtatattgct    600
              tcaaggtttg tctcagccac atgtgggaac actgtaggta gtggattcta tggttgttga    660
              gagagcccgt ggagaatctc aaagtacatc tggatcactc cagtcactct gttggggatc    720
<removed-apn>
              ttctgccttt ggaggaattg tgagtgctta tttcagtggt tcacttgtgg atacttatgg    780
              agtaagattt gtctttggtg ttacagcgtt tttacccctg atgacatctg ctgttgcagt    840
              tcttgtaaat gaacatggca ttccttctgg agaacacaat acctttctct ctggttccgg    900
              atttattgag agctctaagc agcatgtcag gcagctttgg acttcagtaa agcaacctaa    960
              cattttgttg ccgaccttgt ttatatttct ttggcaagca acaccgcagt cagattctgc   1020
              tatgtttttc ttcatcacaa ataagcttgg attcactccg gagtttctag ggcgcgtgaa   1080
              gcttgtaacc tcttttgcat ccctgcttgg tgttgggctc tacaactatt ttctgaagga   1140
              agttgctctg aggaagattt ttcttgtgac aaccattata ggttcagctc ttgggatgac   1200
              acaggtgctt cttgtaactg ggctaaatcg gcagcttggg atcagcgatg agtggttttc   1260
              tattggtgat tcattaatca tcacagtcct tggtcaggca tcgtttatgc cagtcttggt   1320
              gttagctgca aagttgtgcc ctccaggaat ggaagccact ttatttgcaa ctttgatgtc   1380
              catttctaat gctggaagtg ttactggtgg tctggttggt gctggtctaa ctcggatatt   1440
              tggggtcact agggatacct ttgggaacct acctctgttg attgtcgtct gcaatcttag   1500
              ttcattgctg cccttacctc ttttaggtct ccttccagag ggatcaggtg acaccgataa   1560
              cggagaaaca aaaaataact gatttactga gggttttatc tccattgttc tggtactcaa   1620
              gtattgcata ccacagtgcc cagcttcaac tcagatatgg cccatcgagt tgaaattcaa   1680
              aaggccagta gagaaatacg gaaatcacac tggatttaag ttcagtcggt caccgccatc   1740
              atcaggcagt atctcctgtg actattaacc tgtgtgatgg aagtgattca ttgatgatct   1800
              gcaaatgatc tatggcgcac aggtactcac ctctttttag tttctaagct atcttgtaca   1860
              cgaagacaag gtaggtttta tcttttctct agagtctttg agtttttgtt gttaatgcga   1920
              ccccatgaga attagactag tggtcaaagg ctattaattg gggattacct tgcgaagtca   1980
                                                    914

<removed-date>
              aatgtattgt gacaaaaaaa aggagggagt atgtatacat tattggaaac ctagagtacg   2040
              gaaatgtaaa gaaaaatatt tgcacaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa g                       2081
              <210>   812
              <211>   2290
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 812
              cattgggtac ctcgaggccg gccggggcgc tgcgccaatc tcgcttccaa catctccggc     60
              ccatcgcccg tgctctctgc actgtctcgc ctccgacctc cgcgccctct caaggtctca    120
              ccggagaccg cgctgcggtc cgcgggcttt gggtagcgcg ggatggcctc cgtggggtgg    180
              gctgcacgcg acgcgtacga cgaggaggcc gcagtccgcc gccctctcga gctcgagggc    240
              cgtggcgtcg ccgcatcgtc ctccgaccac cggcccggcg ggaatgtcat gcctaggtat    300
              caagtgggct cgacaaaggg tgattcaagt agtagacgac actctgagga gtggcggcaa    360
              cctagcacag atgatgtgcg catgagcaag ccggggtcga gatatttcac ggcgtttggg    420
              gtggatctgt cccctgataa tatggcagtt gccattgtat attttgtgca aggggtttta    480
              ggtcttgcac ggcttgctgt gagcttttac ttgaaagatg atcttcatct agatccagct    540
              gagactgcag tggtatctgg tttctcgtcc ttgccgtggt tgatcaagcc cctctatggc    600
              tttatcagtg attccattcc actctttgga tatcgaagaa ggtcatatct ttttctgtca    660
              gggttacttg gagcactttc atggagctta atggccacag tagtgagcag taaatacagc    720
              gcagcattct ctattcttct tggctcactt tctgttgcct tctcagatgt tgtagtggat    780
              tctatggttg ttgagagagc ccgtggagaa tctcaaagta catctggatc actccagtca    840
              ctctgttggg gatcttctgc ctttggagga attgtgagtg cttatttcag tggttcactt    900
              gtggatactt atggagtaag atttgtcttt ggtgttacag cgtttttacc cctgatgaca    960
              tctgctgttg cagttcttgt aaatgaacat ggcattcctt ctggagaaca caataccttt   1020
              ctctctggtt ccggatttgt tgagagctct aagcagcatg tcaggcagct ttgggcttca   1080
              gtaaagcaac ctaacatttt gttgccgacc ttgtttatat ttctttggca agcaacaccg   1140
              cagtcagatt ctgctatgtt tttcttcatc acaaataagc ttggattcac tccggagttt   1200
              ctagggcgcg tgaagcttgt aacctctttt gcatccctgc ttggtgttgg gctctacaac   1260
                                                    915

<removed-date>
              tattttctga aggaagttgc tctgaggaag atttttcttg tgacaaccat tataggttca   1320
              gctcttggga tgacacaggt gcttcttgta actgggctaa atcggcagct tgggatcagc   1380
              gatgagtggt tttctattgg tgattcatta atcatcacag tccttggtca ggcatcgttt   1440
              atgccagtct tggtgttagc tgcaaagttg tgccctccag gaaatggaag ccactttatt   1500
              tgcaactttg atgtccattt ctaatgctgg aagtgttact ggtggtctgg ttggtgctgg   1560
<removed-apn>
              tctaactcgg atatttgggg tcactaggga tacctttggg aacctacctc tgttgattgt   1620
              cgtctgcaat cttagttcat tgctgccctt acctctttta ggtctccttc cagagggatc   1680
              aggtgacacc gataacggag aaacaaaaaa taactgattt actgagggtt ttatctccat   1740
              tgttctggta ctcaagtata gcataccaca gtgcccagct tcaactcaga tatggcccat   1800
              cgagttgaaa ttcaaaaggc cagtagagaa atacggaaat cacactggat ttaagttcag   1860
              tcggtcaccg ccatcatcag gcagtatctc ctgtgactat taacctgtgt gatggaagtg   1920
              attcattgat gatctgcaaa tgatctatgg cgcacaggta ctcacctctt tttagtttct   1980
              aagctacctt gtacacgaag acaaggtagg ttttatcttt tctctagagt ctttgagttt   2040
              ttgttgttaa tgcgacccca tgagaattag actagtggtc aaaggctatt aattggggat   2100
              taccttgcga agtcaaatgt attgtgacaa aaaaaaggag ggagtatgta tacattattg   2160
              gaaacctaga gtacggaaat gtaaagaaaa atatttgccc ccagaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2220
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag ggcgggctct agagtatccc tcgaggggcc cgaagcttac   2280
              gcgtacccag                                                          2290
              <210>   813
              <211>   1983
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 813
              atggcgggcc tttttctgag ggagagacag agacgttggc gcggcgcggc gagactgctg     60
              agcccgagga aacgggaaga gaggagaaaa gcaaaacgaa gctcggaacc acgagacgac    120
              ggagaggatg ggcttcagcg tcctgctctc accgccgccc cttccgctcc cgagcgccac    180
              cgctgcggcc gacttgtacc taatattcgg cggccacgat cgccgccgcc gccgcccgct    240
              ggaacacggg ctgcccgctg cggccgcccc ccggagacgg cgctcggcgg cagctcaggc    300
                                                    916

<removed-date>
              cgccgcggct cgtacgatga cgacgggacg gctccaggct ccctcggcct cgacggcagc    360
              agcacgtcct cctcggtccg tcggacgggt gagccgcgct ggcttattag ctatatcgta    420
              attgtaaagc aattctgtgt ggtaactgac tgttgcagga atttcttatg gtcatccaga    480
              aaacattcag gagacccctt ttttctaagc ctggactacc aagggagtgc aaaaccaaga    540
              tatcaagtaa cttcgaaaga agaggacaca caaaatgcag accgcgaggg gtggcaatat    600
<removed-apn>
              agtacagaag gcctttcaaa gagcatgtcc aagtcaaggt acatcaaagt atttggggtt    660
              gatttgtccc ctgataatgt ggctgttgct attgtttact tcgtgcaagg agttttaggc    720
              ctttcgaggc ttgctgtcag cttctactta aaagataatc ttcatcttga gccagcagag    780
              actgcagtta tatctgggtt ctcagccttg ccatggttgg tcaagcccct ctacggtttt    840
              atcagtgatt ccatccctct ctttggatat cgaagaaggt cgtacctatt tctatcaggc    900
              atccttggag cactttcatg gagtttgatg gccgctgttg tggatgataa atatagtgca    960
              gcactctcta ttattcttgg atctcttgca gttgccatat ctgatgttgt ggttgattct   1020
              atggtggttg agagagctcg aggtgaatca cagagtacat ctggatctct ccagtcgcta   1080
              tgttggggat cctcagcctt cggaggagtc gtgagtgcat acttcagtgg ttctttagtg   1140
              gatacttatg gtttcactga tcatgtgtcc catgaatgca gatttgtttt tggtgttaca   1200
              gcacttctgc cactgatgac atctgctgtt gcagttcttg taaatgaaga acgcttacct   1260
              ttggggaaaa gttcagtctc actttcagtt tcaggttcag aattaattga gagctctaag   1320
              caacgtatca tgcagatttg ggattcagta aagcaaccca gcatactcct acccaccttg   1380
              ttcatattcc tttggcaagc aacaccgcaa tcagactctg ccatgttttt cttcataaca   1440
              aataagctcg ggtttactcc agaatttcta ggacgcgtta cgcttgtcac atctgttgca   1500
              tccttactgg gaatcggagt gtataatttg tttctgaagg aagttccatt gaggaaaatc   1560
              tttcttgtga caacagtctt aggttctgct ctcggaatga cacaggttct tcttgtcact   1620
              gggctcaacc ggaagcttgg cataagcgac gaatggttct ccattgggga ttctttgatt   1680
              atcacagtcc ttggccaggc ttcctttatg cctgtcctgg tgttggctgc aaagttgtgc   1740
              cctgtgggag cggaagcaac tttatttgcc actttgatgt ccatctctaa cgccggaggt   1800
              gttgccggag gtctggtggg cgcgggtctg acgcagttac tgggagtcag cagagacaac   1860
                                                    917

              ttcgaaaacc ttgctctgct gatcgcgatt tgcaatctca gttccctgct acctctgcct   1920
<removed-date>
              cttctgggtc tcctgccaga tgaatcccgt aatgcagatg gtgcacagac caaaaatgac   1980
              tga                                                                 1983
              <210>   814
              <211>   1004
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 814
              acaagtttgt acaaaaaagc aggctggtac cggtccggaa ttcccgggat cttccactca     60
              tgagaggcac ggcaccagag ctccagctcc acatcgccag ctcccgggcc gcacctcgat    120
              cgcccaggcc ggcctcctcc ctcgccgccg gcgccgccat ggaccgcaag agcaagtccg    180
              ccaagggcgc cgcgagctcg gcagcggcgt ccatggccgc gctcgccgca gccgccgcgg   240
              ccggcgacag cagatcgggc cccggcggcg gcggcgtctg tcgttgcggc aggcggcggc    300
              ggcgggccga ggtgccaggc ggagcggtgc aacgcgaacc tgatgaccga ggagaagccg    360
              tacaaccgga ggcacaaggt gtgcgaggcg cactccaagg cccccgtcgt gctcgtcgcc    420
              ggcctccgcc agcgcttctg ccagcaatgc agccggttcc acgagctgtc ggagttcgac    480
              gacgtcaagc gcagctgccg cctgcgtctg gccggccaca acgagcggcg ccggaagagc    540
              tcggccgacg cgcacgccgg cggcggcaat aatggattcc gccaacacgc cgaccagaac    600
              ggccgcggcg acccggccgg gaaccacttc cagatcagat aaagcatgcc tctctctctt   660
              ctgtcatgca gcaggatatg ctagcatcat cactaccgat agatatttat gcgtctatcg    720
              tctacccgcc ccgaaaaccc tagttatata tatatatata tatattttat atatatatat    780
              atatatatat atagacatat gctgattgta acctaattag cctgcagcca gttaagcagg    840
              gactgcctac tctgctagga ggacgtgtgt aatcatgtgg cctgcgcaaa cagtaatttg    900
              tgctggctgc tgtgtattca tgctgctctg ataatcgtgt cgtggtaata atatatccta    960
              tttattctac tactagtaat cggacgcgtg ggcggacgcg tggg                    1004
              <210>   815
              <211>   1399
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                    918

              <400> 815
<removed-date>
              gccggccggg ccgggacctt acctcctcac gcctgtatag ctttcgtcgt cttcggctaa     60
              gttttaaaag tgaaaacgat gaattggaac ttgtatctgg gatgaggttc tgaatcagtc    120
              atcaaattgg tgcttctctg cgccagtaca aaacacagag gacgcaggat ctgtgcagta    180
              gttttttgct ttgacaagaa ccctcaaatc ttcaagcccc atcttttcaa gttgttgcat    240
              acgtttcact tgctcgcgga gtttgacgag gccaagcgca gctgtagaaa gaggctcgat    300
<removed-apn>
              gggcacaacc ggcgtcgcag gaagccgcag ccagatacca tgagctctgg gagctttatg    360
              tcgagtcaac aagggacgag gttctcgtcg ttcccggttc caaggccgga gccgagctgg    420
              cccggagtca tcaaatccga ggacagcggc tcatactacg cgcaccagcg ccacccggtc    480
              ctaagcagca ggccgcactt cgccggcggg ggctccacgc cgccggccta ctcgtccaag    540
              gaaggccggc gcttcccgtt cctccaggac ggctgcgacc agcagcaggt cggcggcttc    600
              agcgcgggcg cgggggcgca gcagctcgag gtctcttcca cgtccacggt gtgccagccc    660
              ctcctcaagg ccgccgccgc cgccgcccca ccgccgccgc cagagagcag cagcagcaac    720
              aagatgttct ccgacgggct cgcccccgcc gtgctcgact cggattgtgc tctctctctt    780
              ctgtcatccc ccgccaactc ctccagcgtc gacgtgggcc ggatggtcgt ccaccagccc    840
              gcggagcaca tccccatggc gcagcccctc gtccccggcg gcctccagca gcagcagcag    900
              caccacccgt tcggcggctc ccccgcctgg ttcgcctgct cccaggccgg ctccagcgcc    960
              gtctccgccg gcggtttcgc ctgccccccg ggcgtggaga gcgagcagct caacaccgtg   1020
              ctggtgccga gctccgacgg tggcggccac gacatgaaca tgaactacca cggcatattc   1080
              cacgtcggcg gcgacggctc ctccgacggg acgtcccctt cgctcccgtt ctcgtggcag   1140
              tagctagctt tccaattcaa gcgtccagca gtctatcgtt tcagctgtac tagtggtcat   1200
              cgcaccagtt ccctcttctt tcctcgtttt atttatttac tagtggatgg cgcgcgccct   1260
              gcgcgcgttg taaaattcaa ttctagagca tttggatata tctaaattta aattattgca   1320
              ttttacaatc aataatctgt atggttaggc aaagttaaaa cagtagattg tatcattgca   1380
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa                                                1399
              <210>   816
              <211>   1676
              <212>   DNA
                                                    919

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 816
              cgttatttta agggcggcgc caccactgtt gtcgcctcct tcctcactgc ctcctcctac     60
              ccttccctcg ctgaagccct ctcgcgcctc ctcccactcc cactggacag agaggaggtt    120
              agtggaaggc gggctaggag gctacgccgc cacagacgcg aagcgatagc gtcgggggga    180
              agcaaggaag cgggtggcaa tggcgaccgg cggcggcggt gggagcgacg acttccacgg    240
<removed-apn>
              gctcacgttc ggccagaaga tctacttcga gcaggacgcg ggcgccgccg gggggagcgc    300
              gacgggcggc aggaagggga agggcgccgc ggcgtccgcg agcgccgccc agccgccgcg    360
              gtgccgggtg gacgggtgcg gcgtggatct gagcgccgtc aagcagtact actgccggca    420
              caaggtgtgc tacatgcact ccaaggagcc gcgcgtcttc gtcgccggca tcgagcagcg    480
              cttctgccag cagtgcagca ggttccacca gttacctgaa tttgaccaag ggaagcgaag    540
              ctgccgccgc cgcctcattg gtcacaacga gcgccggagg aagccaccac ctggaccact    600
              cacctcacga tacggcccgc ttgctgcatc actagttcaa gagcctggta ggttcaggag    660
              cttcctgctc gacttctcgt acccgagggt tccaagcagc gtgagagatg atgcgtggca    720
              atggcaaggg atgcagcatg gcggcgacag gatgctgctg ggtaccgcca gcgccatcca    780
              gtggcatggg aaccaagaac ctcacccacc acatcgcagc gcagctgcgg gctatggcaa    840
              ccatgcgtac aacaactgcc atggtggcgg cggcttggta gcagcagcag cgggggcgtc    900
              aatgctctcc tctgccttcg agcccccgcc tggcggtggc ggatgtgtcg caggagctac    960
              cgcggccgac tccagctgtg ctctctctct tctgtcaact cagccatggg atacgcccac   1020
              ccaaagtggc agcagccacc acaaccggtc cccagcgatg tccgcggctg caggcgcctt   1080
              cgaagtggcg ccgtcgtccg tcgtggcgag cagctacacg gcgtcgagct cctggtctgg   1140
              ctcacgggac cctgccgacg gcgccaggaa aaacgcgcag cgtcacgatg atggcctgca   1200
              cctggtccat ccaccaggcc ccgtccacca cggccacttc tccggcgagc tcgagctcgc   1260
              cctgcaggga agcggcccgc cgcatgtcga ccatggcggc ggcacctgct tcagccattc   1320
              tgacaccaac gcgatgaatt ggtccctgta gggacaacaa cttttgccgc cactgccttg   1380
              atccggtcgg cacgccacga gacatggagc acttgggatt gggacaccct ggttttgtgc   1440
              ccctgacctt gccgttctgg tttttcaggg tggaactaac tgggattccc taggcgtaga   1500
                                                    920

              tcatgaatcc cctttccccg tgtaacccat tgcgtccatg aagtcggccc aacaccggat   1560
<removed-date>
              catatataat tctacaactc ccataaccta aatcattctt cagttgtgaa gatatatgct   1620
              tgtcaagtga cctggtttta ttttatctgc catcaattca tcatcatcac ttcttt       1676
              <210>   817
              <211>   1197
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 817
              gtttcacttg ctcctagagt ttgatgaggc caagcgcagt tgtagaaaga ggcttgacgg     60
              gcacaaccgg cgccgcagga agccgcagcc agataccatg agctctggga gctttatgac    120
              aagtcaacaa ggcttgtttt cgagtgcagg gacaaggtta tcgtcgttcc cggcaccaag    180
              gccggagcca agctggtctg gagtcatcaa atccgaggac agctcatact acacacacca    240
              cccggtgctc agcaacaggc cgcacttcgc cggcacctcc acgtcgccgg cctactccaa    300
              ggaaggccgg cgcttcccgt tcctccagga cggcgaccaa gtcagcttca gcgcatcagg    360
              cgccgggacg ctcgaggtct ccacggtgtg ccagcccctc ctcaagacga ccgccgccgt    420
              ggccccgccg ccgcccgaga gcagcaagat gctcgccccc gtgctcgact cggattgtgc    480
              tctctctctt ctgtcatccc ccgccaactc ttccagcgtc gacgtgagcc ggatggtcca    540
              gcccgcggag cgcatcccca tggcgcagcc cctcgtcccc ggcctccagc accaccagtt    600
              cggcggctcc ccggtgccgg actggttcgc cggctccggc gccgtccctg ccgcgggcac    660
              cggcgggttc gcctgccccc acagcgtgga gagcgagcag ttcaacacag tcctagtgcc    720
              gagctccgac ggcggccacg agatgaacta ccacggcata ttccacgtcg gcggcgaggg    780
              ctcctccgac gggacgtccc cttcgctccc gttctcgtgg cagtagctta ccgttgaagc    840
              gggcagtgtt atgatcggtc agctgtatag cggtggtcat cacaccagtt ccctcttctt    900
              tccgtgttta tttattctct gctccctcac gcactccccc gtgtcacttg ctagtttctt    960
              agttttgcat gcctgatgca tgtagcctga aaaaactcta tcaaattagt gccagatttc   1020
              ctagttcccg tttgtttcat tttattttga gaattggaat cttactaatg atttcctagt   1080
              tcccgtttgt ttcattttat tttgagaatt ggaatcttat taatgtaata ggctattttt   1140
              tagaatgtga cattccacca ctttccaaag ttattgtata agcctaaaaa aaaaaag      1197
                                                    921

<removed-date>
              <210>   818
              <211>   2843
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 818
              atggcccgcg ctgtagctga cactgacgac tggaccgggg ccgtacggtc cccgccggcc     60
              ggccggccgg cctgcctgct gcgtaccctc tcggcctgcc cccgcaccgc accgcaccag    120
<removed-apn>
              gcttttgcgg gtcgctgtgc gaggctgcac tttgacaggt gggacacggt gactcaggtc    180
              ccactgggca gtggggtgcg ctcggcggtg gaattttggt acgcgatgcg caaagccttt    240
              tgtggcgtct ggttccggat acgggatctt tcgagcaagt ggcagagccg cctgttttct    300
              aacccgtcac ccaggcagat cttagccaat gacgttcggg acccacctga cggagactcc    360
              acatgtcatc cgcgtctccc tatggcccga gtcccattcg ggcagcagca tcatcagccg    420
              ccgccgccgc cgccgcgctt ccactttgtc ttgagccctg ccctcaacga cgactcgcgg    480
              gccggcagca cagcacgtat agctatggaa ggaaacggtg gcgcgggcgg cggtagcgga    540
              agcgcggcac cgccctggga tctcgccatg cactgggcac ccgccgtagt gtcgtcctac    600
              ccgccgcagc ccttggagct gcagcagcag gagcttacct gcctcaagct ggggaagcgg    660
              cccgcctgct gctgggcagg ggcgccgggc aaccaagcgg cgcaggtcca cggcaatggc    720
              ggcgctggtg gcgcagctgc tgagggtaag aggaaggaca aggcgcctgc cgcggcggcc    780
              gtgacgaggt gccaggtgga ggggtgccac ctgtcgctgg cggacgccaa ggagtaccac    840
              cggcggcaca aggtgtgcga ggcgcactcc aaggcgcccc gggtcgtcgt cctcggcgcc    900
              gagcagcgct tctgccagca gtgcagccgg ttccacgcga tctcggagtt cgacgacgcg    960
              aagcggagct gccgacggcg tctggccggg cacaacgagc ggcggcggaa gagcaacgcc   1020
              agcgaggcca tggcaagagg cgtcgcgcac ccacacggag tgacggcttt cggccacggc   1080
              ggcttcctgc cctcgcgcgg cctcgtcccc gcagggtcgt ccccggcggc ggctggtgct   1140
              ctctctcttc tgtcatcggc cagaggcagc gtggcgggcg ccagcgggcc ctggctggtc   1200
              acggcggcgc gggaggacat cccggcgcgc tccagcgcgg cgctcgacga ccttatcgcc   1260
              gagaaccgcg ccgccgcgct cctcgcgcgg cagtacttcg tctccgaccg ctcgccggcg   1320
              cccagacggg atttcgtcgc ctcttcgacg gcgggttgct ccctccagca gcagcagcac   1380
                                                    922

              ccgcccgacc acgaccacac agccggctgg cacccgcacc cccaccccta cagtggcggt   1440
<removed-date>
              ggcggtggca gctgtggtgg tcggtaccag taccaccacg tggcgccgcc gagcgcgtgg   1500
              cacgcgacga cgctggacct tatgcagccg acagcaagca ccaccgccgc tcccgccacc   1560
              gccggcgcag cgttgtggcc agcagtgccg gagagggcgg gcgcgaggtc gtctcgctct   1620
              cgcagcgaga ccaaggatgg cgacgcgtcg ggatgtagcg gcttggacgc gtgggcgccc   1680
              actggtggag ctcgtgtgct gacacaggag gttgctcagg agcactttgc cgctctcgtg   1740
<removed-apn>
              gacgtcgatc ccaagccact tctagaaccg ccttgcaaac tcacagcgaa agagggcgag   1800
              accacacctc cacagacaga ggccgagcat gccagccgga cgaggacgag ccttcgtgtc   1860
              gtcgagcagg gcccggcggc ccgtagctta aggagtggca tggacaaact ctgcaggagc   1920
              cttggcggca agacgctgtc tgcggcgcga gggagcacca ggacgctgac ggcgcggcag   1980
              gagcagcgtc agaggctgag gctgaagcgt caagcaaagc agcaacagag acagcgcagc   2040
              gggggcagca agcgatgggg agcgcggtgg ctaggggagc ggatgcagca gggcgcgcgg   2100
              cgcagggtgg cactggccat aggcgagaag cgcgaaggag gccgagatga ccagcagagc   2160
              agacgggccc gctccgaggc gcggcagcac aatccggcac ggcggcagcg gaagcacagg   2220
              ggacagaggc aaagcggggg gcggcagctt ttgcgaggga agcgccaccc cactgggatt   2280
              ggaacggggt tgacggagcg gcggggggca ggagagcggg cggtggaagg gggtctgtac   2340
              gcgagggatc ggcatcttgc aggaggaccg gattgcctgt ggccggaggc gccacaggca   2400
              cagcaccgca tggggtcgct cgcggcaatc acgcacgaag tgatcagact tcagaggcaa   2460
              ggcaacggaa gccagccgaa ggcgagccca acttcggcag tttccaggga actggaggag   2520
              ggagcggttt tgaaggcgag gtcgtggcct cagcagccga aggcacagtc cgatgtcccc   2580
              atccagcacg tctggttgga gagcagtaat agcgtcttct tcaacccccg gcagccgaat   2640
              tgcagcagca gcccgcatgg cggacggcaa acaggggtga ggcgtcaacg agaggaccca   2700
              gccagcctaa gcggcccaac ccaactcatc tcgaggcgcc ggaagctgct ccacgccagc   2760
              accagcctcg gtgcagcgcc ggtttttgaa aagctgtgca ccagcgagac tgttctgaag   2820
              ctgtcatcgc ccgacggcac ctg                                           2843
              <210>   819
              <211>   2216
                                                    923

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 819
              tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccgga attcccggga tgtctgaaag ctgagctgag     60
              ctctagctga tagaggtagc cctccacacc acaccactcg caatccacac aactacactg    120
              atacacctgc gctgcacttg cctctgcgag cacgtactgg ctgtggctgt gcctggcctc    180
              ctcttcctcg gtggtggtgg tggtggtggt gcactggtgc tggtcttgcg cctgcttgtt    240
<removed-apn>
              cggttgttcc tcacttccac ttccacggct cccctcccac caagcagact gcagtagcac    300
              atccccctcc gcgcaccact cgcttcgaca ccaccgggca ccgcccggca tctagctcta    360
              gcggcagctc atctccctcc ctctggctgg ctgtttgttt ctctctctct ctcctcccca    420
              tcaggataag ctcagcagcc ccccctgctg atctgcggca tttgccctgt tcccgtgctc    480
              gatttgttcg cttctgtgcg cgcgcggtgg tgcccaggca ataactcccc tcggtgtctg    540
              gctggctcgt tgccaccctc cccgcggcag agcggcctat aggatgagag ggacagggga    600
              acccaacaaa ccggccgcgg cactgtcctg gccgtgaaag acacgcacac agagctccag    660
              ctcggccacg ggcacgggca cggccacggg cacgcggcgc ctagctctgc actggccgac    720
              ggggaaacgg tcgagcttgc tatccatcgc ccgcgccgtt cccattcatg gattgggatc    780
              tcaagatgcc ggtttcctgg gacctgcccg acctggagca cgacgccgtg ccgccgccca    840
              tcgccgccgc cgcctccgcc gcgccttccc ccgcggcggc gtcgggcatt gccgccgcag    900
              ctgctgggcc tccccccgcg gcggcaccgc gcggggcgcc gagccgggcg gagtgctccg    960
              tggacctcaa gctcggcggg ctcggcgagt tcggggctgc ggacgggacg aaggagccgg   1020
              tagtggcagc ggccgcggcc gcggccgcgg cgccgccgtc cgctagcccg atgaagcgcc   1080
              cgcgctcggg gcccggtggc gccgccgggg cgcagtgccc gtcgtgcgcg gtggacggct   1140
              gcaaggccga cctcagcaag tgtcgcgact accaccgccg ccacaaggtc tgcgaggcgc   1200
              actccaagac gcccgtcgtc gccgtcgccg gccgcgagat gcgcttctgc cagcagtgca   1260
              gcagggaggg caatgtaaca tgcctgagac gtaggaattt gctatttgag agacagtttc   1320
              acttgctcgc ggagtttgac gaggccaagc gcagctgtag aaagaggctc gatgggcaca   1380
              accggcgtcg caggaagccg cagccagata ccatgagctc tgggagcttt atgacgagtc   1440
              aacaagggac gaggttctcg tcgttcccgg ttccaaggcc ggagccgagc tggcccggag   1500
                                                    924

<removed-date>
              tcatcaaatc cgaggacagc ggctcatact acgcgcacca gcgccacccg gtcctaagca   1560
              gcaggccgca cttcgccggc gggggctcca cgccgccggc ctactcgtcc aaggaaggcc   1620
              ggcgcttccc gttcctccag gacggctgcg accagcagca ggtcggcggc ttcagcgcgg   1680
              gcgcgggggc gcagcagctc gaggtctctt ccacgtccac ggtgtgccag cccctcctca   1740
              aggccgccgc cgccgccgcc ccaccgccgc cgccagagag cagcagcagc aacaagatgt   1800
<removed-apn>
              tctccgacgg gctcgccccc gccgtgctcg actcggattg tgctctctct cttctgtcat   1860
              cccccgccaa ctcctccagc gtcgacgtgg gccggatggt cgtccaccag cccgcggagc   1920
              acatccccat ggcgcagccc ctcgtccccg gcggcctcca gcagcagcag cagcaccacc   1980
              cgttcggcgg ctcccccgcc tggttcgcct gctcccaggc cggctccagc gccgtctccg   2040
              ccggcggttt cgcctgcccc ccgggcgtgg agagcgagca gctcaacacc gtgctggtgc   2100
              cgagctccga cggtggcggc cacgacatga acatgaacta ccacggcata ttccacgtcg   2160
              gcggcgacgg ctcctccgac gggacgtccc cttcgctccc gttctcgtgg cagtag       2216
              <210>   820
              <211>   1275
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 820
              atgcactggg cacccgccgt agtgtcgtcc tacccgccgc agcccttgga gctgcagcag     60
              caggagctta cctgcctcaa gctggggaag cggcccgcct gctgctgggc aggggcgccg    120
              gggccgggca accaagcggc gcaggtccac ggcaatggcg gcgctggtgg cgcagctgct    180
              gagggtaaga ggaaggagaa ggcgcctgcc gcggcggccg tgccgaggtg ccaggtggag    240
              gggtgccacc tgtcgctggc ggacgccaag gagtaccacc ggcggcacaa ggtgtgcgag    300
              gcgcactcca aggcgccccg ggtcgtcgtc ctcggcgccg agcagcgctt ctgccagcag    360
              tgcagccggt tccacgcgat ctcggagttc gacgacgcga agcggagctg ccggcggcgt    420
              ctggccgggc acaacgagcg gcggcggaag agcaacgcca gcgaggccat ggccagaggc    480
              gtcgcgcacc cacacggagt gacggctttc ggccacggcg gcttcctgcc ctcgcgcggc    540
              ctcgtccccg cagggtcgtc cccggcggcg gctggtgctc tctctcttct gtcatcggcc    600
              agaggcagcg tggcgggcgc cagcgggccc tggctggtca cggcggcgcg ggaggacatc    660
                                                    925

<removed-date>
              ccggcgcgct ccagcgcggc gctcgacgac cttatcgccg agaaccgcgc cgccgcgctc    720
              ctcgcgcggc agtacttcgt ctccgaccgc tcgccggcgc ccagacggga tttcgtcgcc    780
              tcttcgacgg cgggttgctc cctccagcag cagcagcacc cgcccgacca cgaccacaca    840
              gccggctggc acccgcaccc ccacccctac agtggcgttg gcgttggcgt tggcagcggt    900
              ggtggccggt accagtacca ccacgtggcg ccgccgagcg cgtggcacac gacgaccctg    960
<removed-apn>
              gatcttatgc agccgacagc aagcaccgcc gccgctccct ccaccgccgg cgcagcgttg   1020
              tggccagcag tgtcgccgga gagggcgggc gcgaggtcgt ctcgctctcg cagcaagacc   1080
              aaggatggcg acgcgtcggg atgtagcggc ttggacgcgt gggcgcccac tggtggagct   1140
              cgtgtgctgt gatcgccatg caatcgacga gcgtgacggc cattatatat gttgcgcctg   1200
              tactggtcgg gtgttgcgtg gtgcctgatc tgtcccaaaa gggatgtgta atccaatgta   1260
              cttcgggatg tgctt                                                    1275
              <210>   821
              <211>   1533
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 821
              atgctcccct cttggctatt tgtttgtttc ttgcagagga attttttcct gaacttgtcc     60
              tcgccgtctt gaagcacaca cgcgagcacg cgcccgcact gttcgctcgc tccccatctc    120
              cacacccgcc gctctccaca gtgctgctat cgagacgtct ttctccgatt gtttcttgtt    180
              tgggagcagg cggaggcgtt tctttccttc ttcgccggcg gcggcatgga ctgggcagcg    240
              gcgtccgggt ctccgtcgtg gggcgcggcg gcgacggacc ccggtccgac catgctgtcc    300
              ttcgcaggcc cgtcctcctc cgccgccgac gccgaggtgc ggctccagga tttcgccgcg    360
              ggtcttgccc agagctcgcg gccgactggg gcggcgccgg gagccgggag gaggtcccgc    420
              gcggccgtgg gaggtgccgg cgcggaggcg tgctccgtcg acggctgccg ctctgatctc    480
              agccggtgcc gcgagtacca ccggcggcat aaggtctgtg aggcacactc caaggcgccg    540
              gtggtggtcg tcggcggaca ggagcggcgc ttctgccagc aatgcagccg gtttcacatg    600
              ctgtccgagt ttgacgagga aaaaagaagt tgccggaagc gtctggatgg ccataatagg    660
              cgtcgaagaa agccacagca tgatctgaca aatctagggg gtttctttcc ataccaccaa    720
                                                    926

<removed-date>
              gtgaatcagt ttgagttcta cccacaaaca attccaacag ttggccagaa ttcggacgcc    780
              gtgcacttgg tgggccgtca gcagcctttc tccatatcgt tctcaagaac accagacgag    840
              ttccctttcc cacagggtgg cggtagcagt gtgctgcacc acctccatgc agcccgccct    900
              ggccatcacg ctgaaggcag cagccacact ggaagcagca cacgcgacaa cgctctctcc    960
              ggcacactgg gccccgagtg tgctctctct cttctgtcat cgtcgctgcg tcgcccctca   1020
<removed-apn>
              actgctggcg tccccgccgt tggccaaccc caggttactg cctcttcgac cactgccgct   1080
              gccgtgtcgc aggctgcaac ggcagctgtg gccactgctg cattcgcggc cagtgctggc   1140
              caccatgtgt ttgttcctga tgctatgttt gaggatccat cacaggcact gccattctct   1200
              tggcagtagg attgttttgt tgtcctgttt ttatgtgctc ctgttgtgtt ctcgatcgat   1260
              actctagtgt ctgatggctg ggaattcggg gtacctgtgc acttgcagac tcaggttgtg   1320
              gtccgtcaga gatgtataca agtgacacga cgactagtgc tggcatctga aaggaagtgg   1380
              tagctgctgt gcagagtgtt tagccgttaa attcaaatgc gcccgttcaa tttttttctt   1440
              cgttttcctt gtatatatgt gtttgttttt ttttgggcaa aaatatgtgc atgttatgca   1500
              cttctggaat cgtcgaatca ggctgcagtc ttg                                1533
              <210>   822
              <211>   1380
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 822
              atgccggttt cctgggacct gcccgacctg gagcacgacg ccgtgccgcc gcccatcgcc     60
              gccgccgcct ccgccgcgcc ttcccccgcg gcggcgtcgg gcattgccgc cgcagctgct    120
              gggcctcccc ccgcggcggc accgcgcggg gcgccgagcc gggcggagtg ctccgtggac    180
              ctcaagctcg gcgggctcgg cgagttcggg gctgcggacg ggacgaagga gccggtagtg    240
              gcagcggccg cggccgcggc cgcggcgccg ccgtccgcta gcccgatgaa gcgcccgcgc    300
              tcggggcccg gtggcgccgc cggggcgcag tgcccgtcgt gcgcggtgga cggctgcaag    360
              gccgacctca gcaagtgtcg cgactaccac cgccgccaca aggtctgcga ggcgcactcc    420
              aagacgcccg tcgtcgccgt cgccggccgc gagatgcgct tctgccagca gtgcagcagg    480
              tttcacttgc tcgcggagtt tgacgaggcc aagcgcagct gtagaaagag gctcgatggg    540
                                                     927

<removed-date>
              cacaaccggc gtcgcaggaa gccgcagcca gataccatga gctctgggag ctttatgacg    600
              agtcaacaag ggacgaggtt ctcgtcgttc ccggttccaa ggccggagcc gagctggccc    660
              ggagtcatca aatccgagga cagcggctca tactacgcgc accagcgcca cccggtccta    720
              agcagcaggc cgcacttcgc cggcgggggc tccacgccgc cggcctactc gtccaaggaa    780
              ggccggcgct tcccgttcct ccaggacggc tgcgaccagc agcaggtcgg cggcttcagc    840
<removed-apn>
              gcgggcgcgg gggcgcagca gctcgaggtc tcttccacgt ccacggtgtg ccagcccctc    900
              ctcaaggccg ccgccgccgc cgccccaccg ccgccgccag agagcagcag cagcaacaag    960
              atgttctccg acgggctcgc ccccgccgtg ctcgactcgg attgtgctct ctctcttctg   1020
              tcatcccccg ccaactcctc cagcgtcgac gtgggccgga tggtcgtcca ccagcccgcg   1080
              gagcacatcc ccatggcgca gcccctcgtc cccggcggcc tccagcagca gcagcagcac   1140
              cacccgttcg gcggctcccc cgcctggttc gcctgctccc aggccggctc cagcgccgtc   1200
              tccgccggcg gtttcgcctg ccccccgggc gtggagagcg agcagctcaa caccgtgctg   1260
              gtgccgagct ccgacggtgg cggccacgac atgaacatga actaccacgg catattccac   1320
              gtcggcggcg acggctcctc cgacgggacg tccccttcgc tcccgttctc gtggcagtag   1380
              <210>   823
              <211>   1284
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 823
              gcacgagacc attacctaga acatcctaat cgaaaaactt tgaatttgag ttgtttatta     60
              cgggcattac gcattaccct ggagtgtgga ctttgttcat aagattatcc cggctcctga    120
              gagattcgtt ctatctgatt ttccttggaa ttttcgtgat cttggtttca cttgctccta    180
              gagtttgatg aggccaagcg cagttgtaga aagaggcttg acgggcacaa ccggcgccgc    240
              aggaagccgc agccagatac catgagctct gggagcttta tgacaagtca acaagggaca    300
              aggttatcgt cgttcccggc accaaggccg gagccaagct ggtctggagt catcaaatcc    360
              gaggacagct catactacac acaccacccg gtgctcagca acaggccgca cttcgccggc    420
              acctccacgt cgccggccta ctccaaggaa ggccggcgct tcccgttcct ccaggacggc   480
              gaccaagtca gcttcagcgc atcaggcgcc gggacgctcg aggtctccac ggtgtgccag    540
                                                    928

<removed-date>
              cccctcctca agacgaccgc cgccatggcc ccgccgccgc ccgagagcag caagatgctc    600
              gcccccgtgc tcgactcgga ttgtgctctc tctcttctgt catcccccgc caactcttcc    660
              agcgtcgacg tgagccgaat ggtccagccc gcggagcgca tccccatggc gcagcccctc    720
              gtccccggcc tccagcacca ccagttcggc ggctccccgg tgccggactg gttcgcctgc    780
              tcccaggccg gctccggcgc cgtccctgcc gcgggcaccg gcgggttcgc ctgcccccac    840
<removed-apn>
              agcgtggaga gcgagcagtt caacacagtc ctagtgccga gctccgacgg cggccacgag   900
              atgaactacc acggcatatt ccacgtcggc ggcgagggct cctccgacgg gacgtcccct   960
              tcgctcccgt tctcgtggca gtagcttacc gttgaagcgg gcagtgttat gatcggtcag   1020
              ctgtagcggt ggtcatcaca ccagttccct cttctttccg tgtttattta ttctctgctc   1080
              cctcacgcac tcccccgtgt cacttgctag tttcttagtt ttgcatgcct gatgcatgta   1140
              gcctgaaaaa actctatcaa attagtgcca gatttcctag ttcccgtttg tttcatttta   1200
              ttttgagaat tggaatctta ctaatgtaat tgactatttt tttagaatat gacattccac   1260
              cactttacaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa                                          1284
              <210>   824
              <211>   1308
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 824
              accagcgtac gaagtcgccg gcctgcttgg gttgagtccc gaggagagag ctgctactcc     60
              ctgtgcaagg atcccgacaa caggcaggca cgtacacgcg cgtcggcctg gggacgggct    120
              gtcgccatgg actgggacgc caagatgctt cctgcctggg acctcggcac ggtggtcggg    180
              cccagcagca gcgggggcgg cgcgctggac ctgaagctgg gcgcgccgac gagctcgagg    240
              gcggtgctca cggccgccgc cggtgccgcg cccgcgctgc cgtcagcgaa ccctcctccg    300
              cccccgcctc cgccgtcgtc gtccgcgccg gcgaagcggc cgcgcccggg gctcgcgcgg    360
              caggcggtgc ccgcgtgctc cgtgcagggc tgcgacgccg acctgtcccg gtgccgcgac    420
              taccaccgcc gccacaaggt ctgcgaggcg cactccaaga cgcccgtcgt caccgtcgcc   480
              ggccagcagc agcgcttctg ccagcagtgc agcaggtttc atctgctcgg ggagttcgat   540
              gaggtgaagc ggagctgcag gaagcgcctc gatggacaca accgccgccg ccggaagccg    600
                                                    929

<removed-date>
              cagccggacc ctctcaaccc cgccggcttg tttggcaatc accacggagt gacaagattc    660
              acgtcttacc cgcagctctt cgcggcgtcc atggaacagc ctaaatggtc ggtggtcaag    720
              acggaggccg acgtgttcca agaccagtac tacccggccg tccacctcaa tggcgctggc    780
              ggcggcgcca tcggctccca cttccacggc aaggagcgga agcacttccc gttcctgacc    840
              agccacagca acggcggcgg cggcggcgac gtggcgaccg ccgcggccct gggctgccag    900
<removed-apn>
              ccattcacca tcaccaccac ggcggcctca gagagcgaca gcaagcagag caacggcaac    960
              tgtgctctct ctcttctgtc agacaacccg acatcagcac agacggtcat gatccctact   1020
              accgcgcagt ccctcgccgc ggtgatgcag cacgggggca gactccctgg cagcgtcagc   1080
              gctcagcggc gataacagat gctgcttgca gccttggata tttgtggagt gaacgcattg   1140
              ttgatagcat atggataaga aagtaatgta attatctgga gatgtgtaat tatgtggcaa   1200
              tattatttgc aacaatgatg catggagtac tttcatgtat gatactgagg ctttgcattt   1260
              gatttgcttc tatttggaaa ttatagtaaa gcgtcgagca tacatatt                1308
              <210>   825
              <211>   1698
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 825
              caccagacac gccaaaagcg ttattttaag ggcggcgcca ccactattgt cgcctgcttc     60
              accctccctg ctcactgccg cctaccctcg ttgaagcgcg ctctctcgct ctcgctctcc    120
              tcgcgcttcc tcccactccc actggacaga gaggagggtt agtggagggc ggggtaggaa    180
              gctaccgccg ccacagtaac agcgttagct aggggggaag cacggaagcg ggaagcaatg    240
              gcgaccggcg gcggcagcag caggagcgac gacgtgcgcg ggctcaagtt tggcaagaag    300
              atctacttcg agcaggacgg cgggagcggg agcggggcgg gggcggtggg cggcaggaag    360
              gggaagggcg tggccaccgg tggcgcgagg ccggcgtccg ccgcctccgc agcccagccg    420
              ccgaggtgcc aggtggacgg gtgcggcgtg gatctgagcg ccgtcaagca gtactactgc    480
              cggcacaagg tgtgcaacat gcactccaag gagccgcgcg tcttcgtcgc cggcatcgag    540
              cagcgcttct gccaacagtg cagcaggttc caccagctac atgaatttga ccaagggaaa    600
              cgtagctgcc gccgccgcct catcggtcac aacgagcgcc ggaggaagcc accacctgga    660
                                                    930

<removed-date>
              cctctcactt cacgatatgg ccggctcgct gcatcacttc aagagcctgg caggttcaga    720
              agcttcctgc tcgacttctc gtacccaagg gttccaagca gcgtgaggga tgcgtggcca    780
              ggaatccagc acggtggcga caggatgctg ggcaccgtcc agtggcatgg gcaccaagaa    840
              cctcctcacc cacaccgcag tgcagctgct ggctatggca accatgctgc atacaactgc    900
              catggcggct tggtagcagg cggggcccca atgctctcct ctgccgcctt tgagctcccg    960
<removed-apn>
              cctggcggat gtgtcgcggg agttgccgcc gactccagct gtgctctctc tcttctgtca   1020
              actcagccat gggacacgac ctcccacgac caccggtccc cagcaatgcc cgcggccggc   1080
              gccttcgacg gcaccccggt ggcgccgtcc gtcatggcga gcagctacgc ggcgtcgagc   1140
              gcctggacgg gctcgcggga ccccgctgcc gacggcgcca ggaacgcgca gcgtctcgac   1200
              gatgctctgc acctggtcca cccaggctcc gcggcggtcc acttctccgg cgagctcgag   1260
              ctcgccctgc agggaagcgg cgggccgcca cacctgccgc gcgtcgacca tggcggctcc   1320
              ggcggcggca ccttcaacca ttccaccacc agcgcgatga actggtccct gtagcagcac   1380
              tgcctgcctt catccggtcg ccacgccacg agatgtggag ggagcacttt tgcattggac   1440
              accaccctgg ttttgtgcgc cttaccttgc cgttctcgtt ttttcagggt ggagaaactg   1500
              ggattcctaa ccatagtaga tctaccgtga attcccttcc cgtgtagtag cgcattgcgt   1560
              ccatgaactc atttgatcga tcgtcgtgtc accgtgtgcg taactgcgta tctgtttggc   1620
              gtaaatgagt atctgtttgt tgaatctttc cgaacattgc ggacttccca tgctgcttca   1680
              agcaacaact cgggctat                                                 1698
              <210>   826
              <211>   2254
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 826
              atagaatgca actttcatta cttataaaaa ttctgttgct gggccaccaa cttacattac     60
              ctgtaataaa ctgggatcac gggcgcgtga ataaacacac ctcggtttgt cgacgctccc    120
              tcatacctac cagccaaacc aagcaagcag ggaatcccca caaggcagca gatggaagcg    180
              aaaggtggcg gtggcgcggc gtggcgcggg cgcgggcgcg gctagctagg ccggctcgtg    240
              tgcgtgcgcg aggagacagc cacagccata cagggatgct gcctgcttcg tgaccgtgct    300
                                                    931

<removed-date>
              ggtggtggtg ggctgcagcc tgcagctcgt atcacacgcc cacagtgcag gaaggaggga    360
              gtggaagaag agagaggaag ttgtttttaa aggcaacagc gagtcccgct gctgtccctc    420
              tccttcgcca cctccctccc tcactctctt ccctccctct cggaggagga gagagaagag    480
              agggagccag tccagctcca gccagccgga cgcccggacc aacaccaccc cgcctccccc    540
              tccccccgcc ccaccggccc gccctctcgc gctgccgtac ccacggcccc acgcacgttc    600
<removed-apn>
              acaagtctcg tcgccgccgc aatggagtcc ggcggtggcg gggacgacca gctgcacggc    660
              ctcaagttcg gcaagaagat ctacttcgag gacgccgccg gctccagcag cggcagcagc    720
              agcggcggtg gcagcgcgcc cgcgcctcca gcgacgcagc agccgtcgcc gccggccgct    780
              tcgcctaggg ccccggccgg cggcggcagg aggggcaggg ccgcggccgg cggcgcgggc    840
              ccctcgacgg cgcccgcgcc cgcccgctgc caggtcgacg gctgcaacgt tgacctcacc    900
              gacgtcaagc ccgcctacta ctgccgccac aaggtgtgca aaatgcactc caaggagccc    960
              cgcgtcctcg tcaacggcct cgagcagcgc ttctgccagc agtgcagcag gttccaccag   1020
              ctgcctgaat tcgaccagct aaagaagagc tgccgcaaac gcctcgcagg ccacaacgag   1080
              cgccggagga ggccgccgcc tggacccctt gcgtcacgat acggccgtca cgctgcgtcg   1140
              ctcggcgagc ccggcaggct cagaagcttc atgctggatt tctcgtaccc gagggtctca   1200
              agcgccatga ggggtgggtt tccggcggtg aggcccggtg gtgaaagggt gcctggcggt   1260
              atccagtggc aagcgggctt ggatcctcgt caccaccaag gcgcggtcgc gggatacggc   1320
              gcccactatg ggagcgaggg tggtagctcg tcgtcggcga ggccgccggt gttccctggc   1380
              ccggagctgc ccccaggtgg atgccttgca ggagtccccg cggactccag ctgtgctctc   1440
              tctcttctgt caactcagcc atgggatgct gcccacagcc acagccacag ccacgctgcg   1500
              ccaacagcgg gtttcgacgg cggcagccct gtggcgccct ccctcatggc ggcgagtagc   1560
              tacatcgcgc cgagcccctg gaccgagacc gactcctggg gccacgaagg cgggcggagc   1620
              gtgcctcagc tgccacctga cgacgtcccc ctcggcgagg tgcactccgg ctcgagcagc   1680
              caccacggcc agttctcagg tgagctcgag ctcgccctgc agggaaacag gccagcgcca   1740
              gggtcggcgg caccgccagc gccgcgcaat aatcagggct ccgcgggcac gttcgaccag   1800
              gctggcaaca cgatggactg gtcgctctag gccgggggcc gaaataaagc gcagcagatc   1860
                                                    932

              ctagccgcgc agggagatgg aggaggctga aagtctgatg ctgcacgctg cttgcttagc   1920
<removed-date>
              ttagagcatc cagcatgata agagtgatga actgatgcgg tgtcaggaga ctagtttatt   1980
              ctgtgcttca ccatgaactc gtctgtcgcg gcgtctatgt agacagacgg cacggcagac   2040
              gtccgtggtt cgaagttacc agtatgcttg tcggggactt tgctcgcgat gcattaaaaa   2100
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2160
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaacaacaag gagaaaaaaa aaaaaacaaa acccaaattt   2220
<removed-apn>
              cttgaaaaaa aggaaaccct aaaaagaggc gaaa                               2254
              <210>   827
              <211>   1838
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 827
              gtgcaggagg gagtggaaga gagtagagag agagtgggag cgagagcaca gggaggggag     60
              ttgttttgaa ggcaacagcg agccctgctg tccctctgct tcgccacctc ctccctccct    120
              ctctttcctt cctcttggag gagagagaag agggggagag ccagtcagcc agccagccca    180
              agaacagcgt acgtacgttg tcaagtcccg tcgccgccgc agcagcttcg ctcctcccgc    240
              cccgcccacc gtcgcgcgcg gcggcgggga gcgagcaatg gaggccggcg gcgccagcgg    300
              cggcgacgaa ggggacggcc agctgcacgg cctcaagttc ggcaagaaga tctacttcga    360
              ggacgccggc ggctccagta gcagcggcgg cagtggcagt gccagcgcga ccgcgcctcc    420
              agcgacgcag cagccgtcgc cgccggccgc ttcgcctagg gccgcgcccg gtggcggcag    480
              gaggggcagg gccgcggctg gcggcgcggg cccctccttg ccgcccgcgc ccccgcgctg    540
              cctggtcgac ggctgcaacg ccgacctcac cgacgccaag acctactact gccgccacaa    600
              ggtgtgcgaa atgcactcca aggagccccg cgtcgtcgtc aacggtctcg agctacgctt    660
              ctgccagcag tgcagcaggt tccacaacct ggccgaattt gaccagcaaa agaaaagctg    720
              tcgcaagcgt ctagcaggcc acaacgaacg ccggagacgg ccacctcctg gaccccttgc    780
              gtcacgatat ggccgtctcg ctgcaccgct cggtgaagag cccggcggca ggttcagaag    840
              cttcatgctg gatttctcat acccaagggt tccaagcgcc atgagggatg ggtttccagc    900
              ggttcgacct ggtggtgaaa gggtgcctgg cagcaatatc cagtggcaag cagcgagcct    960
                                                      933

              agatcctcct ccccctcacc atcagagcgc ggcagcagga tacggtgccc actcgtacgg   1020
<removed-date>
              gagcccgggt agctcgtcgt cgtcgaggcc accggtgttc cctgctggcc cggagctccc   1080
              cccaggcggt ggatgtctcg caggagtccc cacggactct agctgtgctc tctctcttct   1140
              gtcaactcag ccatgggacg ctgctggcca cagcgccggc cacggccacg gccacgccgc   1200
              gtcactgccc gcaacagcag gcttcgacgg caaccccgtg gccatggcga gtagctacat   1260
              cgcgccgcca agcccctgga ccgactcccg ggcccacgaa ggcgggcggc ggaacgtgcc   1320
<removed-apn>
              tcaactgcca cccgacgtcc ccctcggcga cgtgcactct ggcccaggca cccatcacgg   1380
              ccagttctca ggtgagctcg agcttgccct gcagggaaac aggccagccc cggcgccgcg   1440
              caatggccag ggctccgcgg gcgcgttcga ccaggccggc agcacgacgg agtggtcgct   1500
              ctaggaggcc aaataaaagc gcggcacatc gtcgtagccg cacagcgaga tggagcttga   1560
              agcctggctc cgctagctac ctgcatgcgc tgtttgcttg cctagaggct agagcatcca   1620
              gtatgataat aagcgaggaa ctagtgcagt gccggccagg agactgattt cttttgcgct   1680
              tgtccatgaa ctcgtctgtt gcgtctatgt acacctccat ggtttgaact cgtcggggac   1740
              ttcgctcgat gtgttattaa tctcatgctc atccttccgc taatgttgcc tggcggcatc   1800
              gccaggaatc ggttccaagg ctaaaaaaaa aaagaaaa                           1838
              <210>   828
              <211>   1587
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 828
              cagagctcca gctccacatc gccagctgcc gggccgcacc tcgatcgccc aggccggcgg     60
              cggcgtctgt cgttgcggca ggcggcggcg gcgggccgag gtgccaggcg gagcggtgca    120
              acgcgaacct gatgaccgag gagaagccgt acaaccggag gcacaaggtg tgcgaggcgc    180
              actccaaggc ccccgtcgtg ctcgtcgccg gcctccgcca gcgcttctgc cagcaatgca    240
              gccggttcca cgagctgtcg gagttcaact acttcctcca atctcccact cattactcag    300
              cttaggaagg tccagggcct ccagctccga tccaccacgc tacgctagct ctatgccgga    360
              ctcctcctcc tccgccggca caggcggcat ggccccctcg agctcggcgg cggcgtccat    420
              tgccgcgctc gcggccgccg cggcgtccgg cgacggctcg gacgactccg gggcggccaa    480
                                                    934

              caacaacggc gcgctgccgc tgccgctgcc gccgccgcac ggggtggagg acaacaacag    540
<removed-date>
              tcccgcggag ctggcgggcg cgggtggcac ctcccgggcg gtggcgagga gggtcgcggc    600
              ggccggcgcc tccccggcgg cggcggcgag gaggggcgcc gccttgaacg ccgcggcggc    660
              cggcggcgcc gggccgagct gccaggtcga gcggtgcagc gccgacatgg gcgtggagaa    720
              gcggtacaac cggaggcaca aggtgtgcga cgcgcaccgc aaggcgtccg tcgtcctcct    780
              ggccggcctc cgccagcgct tctgccagca atgcagccgg ttccacgagc tgtcgcactt    840
<removed-apn>
              cgacgacacc aagcgcagct gccgcctgcg cctggcgggg cacaacgagc ggcgccggag    900
              gaaccccgcg gaggcgcagg accagcacgg cgggcggggc gacccgggga gccaccacct    960
              ccagatcaga taaaaaccta ctacgtcagc atgctctctc tcttctgtca tgcaggacgc   1020
              acgcacctag cgtcgtcacc gatccatagt ccgatatgtg tctcaagtgt tgtgtgtgcg   1080
              cgctctcgcc gcctacccct gtcctgcagt gttgcgtagt atatggttct acgacctaca   1140
              cgtactgctg ctactactgc gtgctaactt taatctgatg gcagtccaca gctagctagc   1200
              acatcacctc ctgtaagtaa tgtgcttatc tatatgtgca ccgacccgga accggaggcg   1260
              tgcgtacgct gatctgccac gaagcctact agtagttaaa tgtaacgtaa cctgcaggca   1320
              attaagcagg gcgctgctat atatagcgta attaattgtg cgtatgggta tggtggttcg   1380
              attatcggat gtgtaatccc tgtacgtggc cgggcccgtg ccaaacgtac ggtgacctgt   1440
              gcaggctctg tgtgtcgatg atgttgtact ctgataatga tataatccat tgtggtaatg   1500
              tatgctatta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaat gtactgtgtg ctgggcggcc atcccgggaa   1560
              ttccggacgc ggtaccagcc ctgcttt                                       1587
              <210>   829
              <211>   1003
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 829
              actcattact cagcttagaa ggtccagggc ctccagctcc gatccaccac gctacgctag     60
              ctctatgccg gactcctcct cctccgcctc cccggcggcg gcggcgagga ggggcgccgc    120
              cgtgaacgcc caggcggccg gcggcgccgg gccgagctgc caggtggagc ggtgcagcgc    180
              cgacatgggc gtggagaagc ggtacaaccg gaggcacaag gtgtgcgacg cgcaccgcaa    240
                                                    935

              ggcgtccgtc gtcctcctcg ccggcctccg ccagcgcttc tgccagcaat gcagccggtt    300
<removed-date>
              ccacgagctg tcgcacttcg acgacaccaa gcgcagctgc cgcctgcgcc tggcggggca    360
              caacgagcgg cgccggagga acccggcgga ggcgcaggac cagcacggcg ggcggggcga    420
              cccggggagc caccacctcc agatcagata aaaacctact acgtcagcat gctctctctc    480
              ttctgtcatg caggacgcac gcacctagcg tcgtcaccga tccatagtcc gatatgtgtc    540
              tcaagtgttg tgtgtgcgcg ctctcgccgc ctacccctgt cctgcagtgt tgcgtagtat    600
<removed-apn>
              atggttctac gacctacacg tactgctgct gctgcgtgct aactttagtt tgatggcagt   660
              ccacagctag ctagtactgt gcttatctct atgtgcaccg accggaaccg gaggcgtgcg    720
              tacctacgct gatctgccac gaagcctact agtagttaaa tgcaacgtaa cctgcaggca    780
              attaagcagg gcgctgctat atatagcgta attaattgtg cgtatgggta tggtggttcg    840
              attatcggat gtgtaatccc tgtacgtggc cgggcccgtg ccaaacgtac ggtgacctgt    900
              gcaggctctg tgtgtcgatg atgttgtact ctgataatga tataatccat tgtggtaatg    960
              tatgctattt aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaggcggcgc tcg                     1003
              <210>   830
              <211>   2856
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 830
              gccggccggt ttgggacgtc cacctgttca cttcctgccc cctccccgca cctccctccg     60
              atcccccaaa tcccgaattg accaacccaa agccgtcgcc ccgcatggag tggacggtcc    120
              cgaagcgcgc cagggccgac gacggcgagg tgaggtgcca ggtggagggg tgcgggctgg    180
              acctcagcag ggtcaaggag taccaccgga agcaccgcgt ctgcgaggcc cacaccaagt    240
              ccccccgcgt cgtcgtcgcc ggtcaggagc gacgcttctg ccagcagtgc agccgatttc    300
              atgccctgtc agagtttgat cagaagaaga ggagctgcag gaggcgtctg tctgatcaca    360
              atgcccgccg ccggaagcct cagccagatg cattcgcctt tgcctctgca aggctgcctt    420
              cgttcggtaa tgtgttcata tcttaagtag tgcttgaaat ttgccagtgg atactggcaa    480
              aatggtggtg atgggctctt agccagctgc atgtacagca cgccaataga tgtcttgttg   540
              ctcaaatggc aagctttcta tcttttatac ttggcaataa gttgctgttg cgtttcttca    600
                                                    936

              tggaattata tacaaactaa actagacatt ttttgaccgg caaaagctgt aggggaaagc    660
<removed-date>
              aataaatata ctccctccgt tcttttttta tttgtcgcgt tttagttcaa aaatagtatt    720
              attttaaaag aaagagaact tttgtaccga gaggggtgaa accaccaaag ggcagagaaa    780
              taaaagaagt aaggagaaaa gaagaaagag aggggggggg ggggcgtaga gagaacttag    840
              ccataaggat atttgcagtt tgagatcctg gctaaatcta tacatctgaa gcttcagcgt    900
              gttgttgaag cagactttcc aggacgaaaa cgaaggggcc tcctcctgaa agataaaagc    960
<removed-apn>
              atttctttgt ttccagattt cccaagctgc tatttgcaca acaagtttag taatatgata   1020
              ggaggcaaat aagttttgtc tggaataaag ctcctgttag ccatgtaagg cctttcactt   1080
              ctccatggga cagctcatct gagctccctc atgcaaagga aataagagag gtgtcaacga   1140
              aagttgggac aattactgga caggttcatt tggataaatc ttacgtgtcc aacgctattc   1200
              catcacttac ccatggcaaa gatgagcctt ggccaatgaa aggtctggta ccccgtctct   1260
              tcttctgcac agtccacact gttcacttcc ggccccctcc cccgcacctc cctccgatcc   1320
              cccaaatccc gaattgacca acccaaagcc gtcgccccgc atggagtgga cggtcccgaa   1380
              gcgcgccgcc tcgccgccct cgcctccgct cctctgggac tgggggggag accacgccgg   1440
              cgccacgggc tcgggctcgg gctcctccgg cgacgccccg gcgcggcgcg gcgggaggga   1500
              gcgggaggcg aagcgcgcca gggccgacga cggcgaggtg aggtgccagg tggaggggtg   1560
              cgggctggac ctcagcaggg tcaaggagta ccaccggaag caccgcgtct gcgaggccca   1620
              caccaagtcc ccccgcgtcg tcgtcgccgg tcaggagcga cgcttctgcc agcagtgcag   1680
              ccgatttcat gccctgtcag agtttgatca gaagaagagg agctgcagga ggcgtctgtc   1740
              tgatcacaat gcccgccgcc ggaagcctca gccagatgca ttcgcctttg cctctgcaag   1800
              gctgccttcg tcgtcgttcg atgataggag gcaaataagt tttgtctgga ataaagctcc   1860
              tgttagccat cctttcactt ctccatggga cagctcatct gagctccctc atgcaaagga   1920
              aataagagag gtgtcaacga aagttgggac aattactgga caagttcatt tggataaatc   1980
              ttacgtgtcc aatgctgttc catcacttac ccatggcaaa gatgagcctt ggccaatgaa   2040
              aggtccggac atgtctatag ctgcttcaaa attcgatgga gcaccggatc ttcagcgtgc   2100
              tctctctctt ctgtcagttg gcgcctgcgg attgcccgat cctgtacacc aaacatcttg   2160
              cgtcatccaa ttcactagtg ccagcgagaa cagtggcgac cttcatctat cacatggagc   2220
                                                    937

<removed-date>
              gaactctggt ctagcgtcat gcggtgatgg acagcatata gcttctcagc ctcaggctca   2280
              gctggttcgg tttaccatgg ataccagcaa cagtgtctat gagcccagtt tcttcagtgt   2340
              aaaccagata aattaagcgt tgaagacaca cgccacttgg tcatttggat aaatagccct   2400
              gaagatggcc tgagcttgtg caagaagttc ttcaaccaac caccggacat aaggatctat   2460
              ctgttaatgt tatctgtgta tttattagcc atacctgaat taagttgaac ccaatctagg   2520
<removed-apn>
              ccagcttatg tgcaatatgc agttccaacc tgtgattgac ccattttttc tgttgtttct   2580
              ttgcccgtga tgtgactgct ctggaactta agtgtgatac tgttgtagtt acactttact   2640
              gccctgacaa tcatgtcaaa cggctggata tctttgaaac tgtccttgat gaatctggac   2700
              gtgtattttg tgtgtatata tggtctgttg cttcaatact gccatcatta aaatatttga   2760
              aggacttcag ctaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg cggccgctct   2820
              agagtatccc tcgaggggcc cgaagcttac gcgtac                             2856
              <210>   831
              <211>   2113
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 831
              acaggcggga gcgcggacgg tggcggaccg tggtgggttt gtgaggcgtt ggctcccttc     60
              cccactgctt cctcccccca ctgccggtcg ctgtgcaaga gctgccacga gacagcagat    120
              tccccatcat ccaaagcgag gtgagattct tgctgaaaga tcggacggag ggagtagaat    180
              cgcggggggc gtggctgtgg ttgccagtcg ccatgccatg atgtgtgtag ggtccagcca    240
              ccggagaccg gagttgctga tgacgacttg gcgatgctgt ggtttccagg ctaacaagtt    300
              tgtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaattcccgg gatccccact gccggtcgct    360
              gtgcaagagc tgccacgaga cagcagattc cccatcatcc aaagcgagcg aggtagctgc    420
              ttgggcagac aagtaggagc agcggctcaa acttcggatc tcggcatggg ctcctttggg    480
              atggactgga accagaaggc ctccgtgttg tgggactggg agaacttgcc gcccgtagcc    540
              gtaggcgcga gcgggagcga gaaccccagg atggctgctg cgcctcaggc tttgcattct    600
              gcctgtggca ccatctcttc cagctcagag atggggtatg gctcatccaa gagctccgta    660
              tccgcgtcgg ctgatgattc ttcacccaag gccaagggga aaagcatgga gctcaacttc    720
                                                    938

<removed-date>
              gcacctgaca aagtgcctga caagaacact gattcaggga aggttgacga cgccaggacc    780
              tctccgtcgt cgccggtgat tgccatcagc agtgcagagc ccgtgcttag cctgaagctt    840
              ggcaagagaa cgtatttcga agatgtctgt ggagggcaga gcgtcaagag tttgccgtcg    900
              gatacgagtg cagtgactcc tcctcctgct tctccgaaga agacgaaggt gactccaaac    960
              aagaaatctt actgtcaggt tgaaggctgc aaggttgatc tctcttctgc taaagagtac   1020
<removed-apn>
              catcggaagc acagagtctg tgaacctcat tctaaggctc ccaaggtggt tgttgctggt   1080
              ctggagcggc gcttttgtca acagtgtagc cggttccatg gattagctga gtttgaccag   1140
              aagaagaaaa gctgccgcag gcgcctcaat gatcacaatg cccgcagacg gaaaccacaa   1200
              cctgaagcac tttcttttgg gtcatcaagg ctgtcggcaa tgttctatga cacaagacaa   1260
              cacacaagcc ttctgtttgg tcaaggtcct tatggtcaaa tgagaagttg tgcaagttct   1320
              tcatgggata acccaggagg cggcttcaaa tttgcagaga caaaaggtcc ctggttaaga   1380
              gctggtggtg ttgatgggtt gcatcaatca agtcagcagg tgtggaacaa ctttatgccg   1440
              catggtgtcc atcaagattt tgatgggttc acagctttca aaggaaccaa tgcaaaggtc   1500
              cttcatcaag gcgttgaagc ttctgcggtc gcctccaacc agaacggagc cccacaaccg   1560
              gaccttcatc gtgctctctc tcttctgtca aacagctggg ctggtgccgg taccgaccag   1620
              cacccgacgg cccagctgcg ccaccacgct gccctgagca gcagcctcgc cgccagctcc   1680
              gtctccgtgg cgcaggcctc gccagcaggg ctgtggcagg acggcggcgg cggcgcaacc   1740
              ctgagccacc acgactatgc ccacgcgcag gcacggttcc aggctatcga cgcgctgggc   1800
              ggcgccggcg ccgccgccgt tgcagcgggt caggagcttc tccagctccc gcgtccgccg   1860
              tccccgtacg atggtggctc ctcgtcccgc tacgacctga tgcgctgatc cttcttctcc   1920
              cttggggctt ctggtggagc gcggggtttc gatttttgaa cgaactctgg atggaactcg   1980
              gagttttgaa cgaactgctg tatgcttgct atcaaggtct gctggctcgg gctcggacgc   2040
              tcgtgggatc gccagcagct ccgtgtgctt gaataaatcc acagtttttt ttgtgtgacg   2100
              ctagctattt att                                                      2113
              <210>   832
              <211>   1983
              <212>   DNA
                                                    939

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 832
              tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccgga attcccggga tgtcgataat tgggggagtc     60
              ttgtcttcct catctgctcc cctttcctcg ccgctctgcc tcgccttttg ggtttctgag    120
              aggcgctgcg ctggtttgcc ttccccactg ctcgctctgc cggtcgccgc cgtggaagag    180
              ctacaccacg acgagacaca ggttctctcg acccgtcatc acccacagcg aggctgagcg    240
<removed-apn>
              gagaggagac gaagagagga acagggtaca cagatctcaa gaagctccat gagggcgaac    300
              ctgtgccccg gcgcgcgagg ctgagcttct tgcacgctgc gcccaccccg agctcgccga    360
              tgcgccgccg ccgcagcagc cgcagccacg gctgtccagc cggcgtgctg acctgacgcg    420
              gactgaccta gacgcaggtt gccctgtccg ttcccttttt tttctgagtt agccgcttcg    480
              gcaggcaagt aggacgagga gcagcagctc agatttcgga tcctggcact ggcaactggc    540
              atgggctcgt ttgggatgga catggactgg aaccagaagg cctccgtgct gctgtgggac    600
              tgggagaacc tgccgcccgc agccgcaaac gggagcgaga gccacaggac gaccgctgcc    660
              gcgcctcagt tcgcgggcct tgaggccaca gggcatgaac cggcgccttc ttccgtatcc    720
              tcgtcaatcc attctctgcc cagtgccaag gggaacaaga acaagaacaa catggagctc    780
              atcagtttcg cacctgccaa agcgcccgac aaggacactg gttcggtgct cagcagcgga    840
              gagccggtgg tgctaggcct gaagcttggc aagagaacgt atttcgaaga tggttgtgga    900
              ctagggcaga gcggcaagag ttcggcggcg ttaggcactg ccagtgcagc gacccctccg    960
              ggtcctgcga agaaggcgaa ggcggcggcg gcggctccaa ccgcgcagca gcagaaatcg   1020
              tactgccagg ttgaaggctg caggaccgat ctgtcctctg ctaaagacta tcatcgcaag   1080
              cacagagtct gcgagcccca ttccaaggcg cccaaggtgg tcgtcgctgg cctggagcgg   1140
              cgcttctgcc agcagtgcag ccggttccat ggactggccg agttcgacca gaagaagaag   1200
              agctgccgca ggcgactcaa cgaccacaac gcgcgcaggc ggaagcccca gcccgaagcg   1260
              ctccctttcg gctcatcgag gctgtcggcg atgttctatg acacgaggcg ccaggcgagc   1320
              ctcctgtttg gtgaaagtcc ctacggtcag atgagaagct gtgcgagttc ttggtgggat   1380
              agcccaggag caggaggagg aggcttcaaa ttcgcggaga cgagaggagc tccttggttg   1440
              aagccggcga gagctgctgc tgatgggctg ctgcctttgt caggtcagca gcagcagcag   1500
                                                    940

              gtgtggaatg actcgattcc gcatgttgcc catcaggagg atttcgatgg gttcacggtc   1560
<removed-date>
              acggcgttca aaggaatcag tccaaagacc cttgatcatc aaggcgttga agcctgtgcg   1620
              gccgtctcca gcccggacgg cgccccggac cttcagcgtg ctctctctct tctgtcaaac   1680
              agtccggccg gtggcggcgg caccaacacc aaccacccgc cgccgccgcc ggcggctgag   1740
              ctgcaccacc accgcgctgc cccgagcagc tgcctcgccg ccggctccgt ctccgtgctg   1800
              caggaggcct cgtcgccggg gctgtggcag gacggcggcg gcagcgcggc cctgggccac   1860
<removed-apn>
              cacgcgcacg cgcggctcca ggctctcgac gccgccatgg cgacggcgca ggagctcctc   1920
              cagctcccca ggccgccgcc atcgtacggc ggctcctcgt cccactacga cctgatgcgc   1980
              tga                                                                 1983
              <210>   833
              <211>   1986
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 833
              gtgctgaggt aattgctgcg aaagatgaga gagggtcttg gatgtgggtg gttgtgatgg     60
              tggagcacga gaccattacc tagaacatcc taatcgaaaa gaggataggg aaggcatgca    120
              tgatagggac ttcaaagacc caggtgagag ctcagtcgac ggtaatgccg ccgcagctcc    180
              tttagtcgcc aggcgattgg catgccacgg ttcctggttc atctcgcaga gttagtttga    240
              gttcgaggct tgtgtggtgt tgctgattgc gcacaagagg tccaggaaca tataggcggc    300
              ggatctggct gcgttctttc tgtttcgtca gagaaggggt ttcagcgctg ccagctttca    360
              cataaacaag ttggggaagc agttgaggtt ttctaattct tcttggaagg attgagatct    420
              ccagttctga taatgggttc ttttgggatg aactggaatc agaaggaccc catggtgtgg    480
              gattgggaac atctagtacc gtctgtctca aatgcagtta caaggcacgg atctgctaat    540
              tcatctggtg gtactcttac ttctaactca gagctagggc atggttcatc caagagctct    600
              atttcagcgt ccattgattc accctctgga gtagggaaca gcttagagtt caacttcgcc    660
              gctgttgaga ggcatgttaa gaacacgggc acgaacggca gagtcgatga ctcggggaat    720
              tctccatcgt caatgatagc tttcaaccaa ggagagccat taatcagcct gaaacttggg    780
              aagagggctt acttcgaaaa cgcctgcgga ggacaggatg ccaaggtttc tgcagcttca    840
                                                    941

              gacgttactt ctgcagccag cgtggtcaag aagactaagg tgtctcagca gaatgcaaag    900
<removed-date>
              aactggtact gtcaggttga agggtgcaaa gttgacctgt cttctgctaa agattacaat    960
              cgcaagcaca aggtctgtgt agtccattct aaagctacca aggtggttgt tgctggtcta   1020
              gagcgtcggt tttgtcaaca gtgtagccgt tttcatggtt tagcggagtt tgatcagaac   1080
              aaacgaagct gtcgtaggcg tctgatgcat cataatgcac ggaggaggaa acctcaggca   1140
              gacacaattt cattcaattc atcgacaatg ttttatgata caaggcagcg gacaaatctt   1200
<removed-apn>
              ttctttagtc aaccacttta tggccaagtg aggagcaatg cagggtcttc atgggataac   1260
              ttgggaggct taaaattcat ggagacgaaa catccgccag tgcatccaac aaaaacagca   1320
              tcccctgatg aactgcattt ctcagccctc cagataacta gtgctgcggc tcacaccggg   1380
              acatcatcat gatctcgatg ggttcatggc gttcaaggga accagcacaa aggtccttaa   1440
              ccaaggcgtg gaggcttggg cggccgcttc cagctcgaac aacggaggcc cagaaggtgg   1500
              gcgtgctctc tctcttctgt cagacggctc gtggggctcg agttcagccg tcatccagca   1560
              gcccacatct cacgcggacg ccggtgcatt gctgccgccc ctcgccaccg ttgccgtctc   1620
              caacgccgcc gccgccgccg ggcatcctct ggacccgtcc ccggggaagg ttctggccgc   1680
              aagacgatca tcccccgctc gtcgacggac ccgccacgca gattccggag ctggcgcacc   1740
              tccggatatg gtgaaaggaa acgcatgtga tgcggtgact ggtgacatgc cagttcgagg   1800
              gcctggctgg gaacacatct ggttggttag cctgccgctc tggcttgaat ttgccggcga   1860
              cgacagtctt tgtttgtatc ttttgatcag aacggacaca gacatgtttg cgcaatataa   1920
              tgtgacgagt ccctctgggg ttgaggagtg aggagatgga gaacgatagg aggcaaaaaa   1980
              tatata                                                              1986
              <210>    834
              <211>    2354
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Zea mays
              <400> 834
              cgacccaccc gtgcggtatt tgccaagtta cttttttttg gcatctttaa tgatttaggt     60
              agctttgaaa atgtgaccag ctgagggcag ggccagccac tcaagttgta gagcgaagtg    120
              gacttgtgct agtctatatg atgctcaatt attttgcttg gctcagactc tcatgatatt    180
                                                    942

              tatgttattt aatcttttct aattaaggta cacaggaacg ctagcatgaa atgaatagtg    240
<removed-date>
              aagaaaaatt ggcaattcct tttgtttctg gcactagctg taatggtgta ggactgccta    300
              agtggagtgt tgaactgttg atgcaacatc ttgagaagga gaaattgtac acaagcttat    360
              aactaacatt tacacttgat ctagttgaca taatgaagct atccctcttt tctttaatcc    420
              ttctctgttt gtagttcttt gggatctcca atagaggaga aaggttgcca tctcgtgtgt    480
              gtgtgtctgt tggatggatc tctgtgagcc atgccctctt tgtcttcttg cttttgcttt    540
<removed-apn>
              cttggtccct tcccttctct tttctagcag agctctcgtg gttcttggcc ttccgtgtgt    600
              ctgccaggta gaaattttaa ccgaaaaaaa gattcttccg agcaaaggag cgctgccagc    660
              tttcacataa acaagttggg gaagcagttg aggttttcta attcttcttg gaaggattga    720
              gatctccagt tctgataatg ggttcttttg ggatgaactg gaatcagaag gaccccatgg    780
              tgtgggattg ggaacatcta gtaccgtctg tctcaaatgc agttacaagg cacggatctg    840
              ctaattcatc tggtggtact cttacttcta actcagagct agggcatggt tcatccaaga    900
              gctctatttc agcgtccatt gattcaccct ctggagtagg gaacagctta gagttcaact    960
              tcgccgctgt tgagaggcat gttaagaaca cgggcacgaa cggcagagtc gatgactcgg   1020
              ggaattctcc atcgtcaatg atagctttca accaaggaga gccattaatc agcctgaaac   1080
              ttgggaagag ggcttacttc gaaaacgcct gcggaggaca ggatgccaag gtttctgcag   1140
              cttcagacgt tacttctgca gccagcgtgg tcaagaagac taaggtgtct cagcagaatg   1200
              caaagaactg gtactgtcag gttgaagggt gcaaagttga cctgtcttct gctaaagatt   1260
              acaatcgcaa gcacaaggtc tgtgtagtcc attctaaagc taccaaggtg gttgttgctg   1320
              gtctagagcg tcggttttgt caacagtgta gccgttttca tggtttagcg gagtttgatc   1380
              agaacaaacg aagctgtcgt aggcgtctga tgcatcataa tgcacggagg aggaaacctc   1440
              aggcagacac aatttcattc aattcatcga caatgtttta tgatacaagg cagcggacaa   1500
              atcttttctt tagtcaacca ctttatggcc aagtgaggag caatgcaggg tcttcatggg   1560
              ataacttggg aggcttaaaa ttcatggaga cgaaacatcc gccagtgcat ccaacaaaaa   1620
              cagcatcccc tgatgaactg catttctcag ccctccagat aactagtgct gcggctcaca   1680
              ccggacatca tcatgatctc gatgggttca tggcgttcaa gggaaccagc acaaaggtcc   1740
              ttaaccaagg cgtggaggct tgggcggccg cttccagctc gaacaacgga ggcccagaag   1800
                                                    943

<removed-date>
              gtgggcgtgc tctctctctt ctgtcagacg gctcgtgggg ctcgagttca gccgtcatcc   1860
              agcagcccac atctcacgcg gacgccggtg cattgctgcc gcccctcgcc accgttgccg   1920
              tctccaacgc cgccgccgcc gccgggcatc ctctggaccc gtccccggga aggttctggc   1980
              cgcaagacga tcatcccccg ctcgtcgacg gacccgccac gcagattccg gagctggcgc   2040
              acctccggat atggtgaaag gaaacgcatg tgatgcggtg actggtgaca tgccagttcg   2100
<removed-apn>
              agggcctggc tgggaacaca tctggttggt tagcctgccg ctctggcttg aatttgccgg   2160
              cgacgacagt ctttgtttgt atcttttgat cagaacggac acagacatgt ttgcacaata   2220
              taatgtgacg agtccctctt tggggttgag gagttaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaggagatgg   2280
              agaacgatag gaggcaaaaa aaatatatat ttgtttcgcg cgttttcccg gaagtattta   2340
              aaatatttag gatc                                                     2354
              <210>   835
              <211>   1610
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 835
              tatagaacaa gtttgtacaa aaaagcaggc tggtaccggt ccggaattcc cgggaccatc     60
              tcgtcttctc cacagtccac actgttcacc acctctccca tcctctcttc gatccccaaa    120
              tcccgaattg accagcccaa atcgtcgccg cggcgcatgg agtggacggc cccgaagccc    180
              gcctcatcgc ctcccctcct ctgggactgg ggagaccacg ccgccacggg ctcgggctcc    240
              tccagcgacg ccccggcgcg gcgcggcggg aaggagcggg aggcgaagcg tgccagggcc    300
              ggcgaggacc gcgggggagg tgagctgagg tgccaggtcg aggggtgcgg attggacctc    360
              agcagggtca aggactacca ccgtaagcac cgcgtctgcg aggcccacac caagtccccc    420
              cgcgtcatcg tcgccggcca ggagcgccgg ttctgccagc agtgcagccg attccatgcg    480
              ctgtcagagt ttgatcagaa gaagaggagc tgcaggaggc gtctgtctga tcacaatgcc    540
              cgccgccgga agcctcagcc agatgcattc accttcgcct ctgcaaagct gccttcgaca    600
              ttgtttgatg ataggcggca aataagtttt gtctggaata aagctcctgt tagccatgta    660
              agacccttca cttctccatg ggacagctca tctgacttaa agccccctta tgcaaaggaa    720
              ataagtgatg tatcaacaaa agttgggaca attactggac aagttcattt ggataaatct    780
                                                    944

<removed-date>
              cacatgttca atgctattcc aacacttagc catggcaaag atgagccttg gccaatgaaa    840
              ggtctggaca tgtctatatc tgcttcaaaa ttcgatggag cagcggatct tcagcatgct    900
              ctctctcttc tgtcagccgg cgcttgtgga ctgcctgatt ctgtacatca aacatcttgc    960
              attatccaat tcaatggtgc cagcgagaac agcagtgacc ttcatgtaac gcatggcagg   1020
              aactctggtc cagcatcatg cgccgatgcg cagcatatag ctgcccagcc tcagtctcag   1080
<removed-apn>
              ctgtttcatt ttaccacaga taccggcaat actgtttatg agcccagttt ctttggtgta   1140
              aaccagataa attaaccatg gaagacccat gccccttgat cacttggatg aatagccctg   1200
              aagatggttt gggcctgtgc aagtttttca accaaccccc ggacataagg atttttgtta   1260
              atgttatttt catatttatt ggccatacct gaattcagtt gaaccgagct taggccagct   1320
              tatgtttaat atgcagttcc aacctgtgat tgacccattt tttatgtttt ttttgccctt   1380
              tgtgatggga gggggactac tttgtaacat tataagtgtg atactattgt agtttttact   1440
              gccccgacga tgtaaacggt tggatatttt tgaagctgtc cttgatgaat ctggacatgt   1500
              attttgtgtg taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1560
              gggcggccgc tctagagtat ccctcgaggg gcccgaagct tacgcgtacc              1610
              <210>   836
              <211>   2636
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 836
              tctccacagt ccacactgtt caccaactct cggcacgtct cttcgatccc caaatcccga     60
              attgaccagc ccaaatcgtc gccccggcgc atggagtgga cggtcccgaa gcccgcctca    120
              tcgcctcccc tcctctggga actggggaga ccacgccgcc acgggctcgg gctcctccag    180
              cgacgccccg gcgcggcgcg gcgggaagga gcgggaggcg aagcgtgcca gggccggcga    240
              ggaccgcggg ggaggtgagc tgaggtgcca ggtcgagggg tgcggattgg acctcagcag    300
              ggtcaaggac taccaccgta agcaccgcgt ctgcgaggcc cacactaagt ctccccgcgt    360
              catcgtcgcc ggccaggagc gccgcttctg ccagcagtgc agccgattcc atgcgctgtc    420
              agagtttgat cagaagaaga ggagctgcag gaggcgtctg tctgatcaca atgcccgccg    480
              ccggaagcct cagccagatg cattcacctt cgcctctgca aagctgcctt cgtcttactg    540
                                                    945

<removed-date>
              tatgatgcat atatatctcc tgtggcaatg aaccatgagt aggacctata ttgtttttgc    600
              tttgcttggg ttcttgtaac ccagatttca tgccctgtca gagtttgatc agaagaagag    660
              gagctgcagg aggcgtctgt ctgatcacaa tgcccgccgg gagatgcatt cgcctttgcc    720
              tctgcaaggc tgccttcgtc gtcgttcgat gataggaggc aaataagttt tgtctggaat    780
              aaagctcctg ttagccatcc tttcacttct ccatgggaca gctcatctga gctccctcat    840
<removed-apn>
              gcaaaggaaa taagagaggt gtcaacgaaa gttgggacaa ttactggaca agttcatttg    900
              gataaatctt acgtgtccaa tgctgttcca tcacttaccc atggcaaaga tgagccttgg    960
              ccaatgaaag gtccgattcc cccgtctctt cttctgcaca gtccacactg ttcacttcct   1020
              gccccctccc cgcacctccc tccgatcccc caaatcccga attgaccaac ccaaagccgt   1080
              cgccccgcat ggagtggacg gtcccgaagc gcgccgcctc gccgccctcg cctccgctcc   1140
              tctgggactg ggggggagac cacgccggcg ccacgggctc gggctcgggc tcctccggcg   1200
              acgccccggc gcggcgcggc gggagggagc gggaggcgaa gcgcgccagg gccgacgacg   1260
              gcgaggtgag gtgccaggtg gaggggtgcg ggctggacct cagcagggtc aaggagtacc   1320
              accggaagca ccgcgtctgc gaggcccaca ccaagtcccc ccgcgtcgtc gtcgccggtc   1380
              aggagcgacg cttctgccag cagtgcagcc gatttcatgc cctgtcagag tttgatcaga   1440
              agaagaggag ctgcaggagg cgtctgtctg atcacaatgc ccgccgccgg aagcctcagc   1500
              cagatgcatt cgcctttgcc tctgcaaggc tgccttcatc gtcgttcgca gactttccag   1560
              gacgaaaacg aaggggcctc ctcccgaaag ataaaagcat ttctttgttt ccagatttct   1620
              caagctgcta tttgcacaac aagtttagta atatgatagg aggcaaataa gttttgtctg   1680
              gaataaagct cctgttagcc atgtaaggcc tttcacttct ccatgggaca gctcatctga   1740
              gctccctcat gcaaaggaaa taaaagaggt gtcaacgaaa gttgggacaa ttactggaca   1800
              agttcatttg gataaatctt acatgtccaa tgctattcca tcacttaccc atggcaaaga   1860
              tgagccttgg ccaatgaaag gtccggacat gtctatagct gcttcaaaat tcgatggagc   1920
              accggatctt cagcgtgctc tctctcttct gtcagttggc gcctgcggat tgcccgatcc   1980
              tgtacaccaa acatcttgcg ttatccaatt cactagtgcc agcgagaaca gtggcgacct   2040
              tcatctatca catggagcga actctggtct agcgtcatgc ggtgatggac agcatatagc   2100
                                                    946

              ttctcagcct caggctcagc tggttcgttt taccatggat accagcaata gtgtctatga   2160
<removed-date>
              gcccagtttc ttcagtgtaa accagataaa ttaagcgttg aagacacacg ccacttggtc   2220
              atttggataa atagccctga agatggcctg agcctgtgca agaagttctt caaccaacca   2280
              ccggacataa ggatctatct gttaatgtta tctgtgtatt tattagccat acctgaatta   2340
              agttgaaccc aatctaggcc agcttatgtg caatatgcag ttccaacctg tgattgaccc   2400
              attttttctg ttgtttcttt gcccgtgatg tgactgctct ggaacttaag tgtgatactg   2460
<removed-apn>
              ttgtagttac actttactgc cctgacaatg atgtcaaacg gctggatatc tttgaaactg   2520
              tccttgatga atctggacgt gtattttgtg tgtgtgtata tggtttttgc ttcttcaatg   2580
              cttgtccaag gaatatagat atataaaaag ctgttgcatc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa       2636
              <210>   837
              <211>   1249
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (137)..(137)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (198)..(198)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 837
              ttcgaccaga agaagaagag ctgccgcagg cgactcacga ccacaacgcg cgcaggcgga     60
              accccacccg aacgctccct ttggtcacga gctgcgggat ttctatggta tatgaaaggg    120
              ggggggggtg ttcgtanttt gtgaagggcc ctacggtcag atgagaagct gtgcgagttc    180
              ttcgccgcga tagcccanga gcaggaggag gaggcttcaa attcgcggag acgagaggag    240
              ctccttggtt gaagccggca agagctgctg ctgatgggct gctgcctttg tcaggtcagc    300
              agcagcagca gcaggtgtgg aatgactcga ttccgcatgt tgcccatcag gaggatttcg    360
              atgggttcac ggtcacggcg ttcaaaggaa tcagtccaaa gacccttgat catcaaggcg    420
              caggcgttga agcctgtgcg gccgtctcca gcccggacgg cgccccggac cttcagcgtg    480
              ctctctctct tctgtcaaac agtccggccg gtggcggcgg gcaccaacac caaccacccg    540
                                                    947

<removed-date>
              ccgccgccgc cggcggctga gctgcaccac caccgcgctg ccccgagcag ctgcctcgcc    600
              gccggctccg tctccgtgct gcaggaggcc tcgtcgccgg ggctgtggca ggacggcggc    660
              ggcagcgcgg ccctgggcca ccacgcgcac gcgcggctcc aggctctcga cgccgccatg    720
              gcgacggcgc aggagctcct ccagctcccc aggccgccgc catcgtacgg cggctcctcg    780
              tcccactacg acctgatgcg ctgatgcttc cttccttgtg gattgtggtg gagaactgga    840
<removed-apn>
              gatggagcgg gagcgccgcc gtgcccccgg ttggcgcgtg gaaatcagtc agacgtggct   900
              tctgtggcgt cgtctctgca acgcgggagc gggattttgc ttgtgttctg aacgaacaga   960
              aaataataaa aaagaagaag gccttgtcgc catgggaact cgtggaggtc gccggtagag   1020
              ctgcgcgcgc ttgaataatc cacggttttg tgacgctagc agttgaagtt ctattgattt   1080
              gtgcaatgta ataacttggt tgcttcggaa gagttctatt gtcatcttta atggcacccc   1140
              ccccccaatt agctcaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta   1200
              tccctcgagg ggcccgaagc ttacgcgtac ccagctttct gtacaaagt               1249
              <210>   838
              <211>   1164
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 838
              atggggctga ggatagggaa ggcatgcatg atagggactt caaagaccca gaaggacccc     60
              atggtgtggg attgggaaca tctagtaccg tctgtctcaa atgcagttac aaggcacgga   120
              tctgctaatt catctggtgg tactcttact tctaactcag agctagggca tggttcatcc    180
              aagagctcta tttcagcgtc cattgattca ccctctggag tagggaacag cttagagttc    240
              aacttcgccg ctgttgagag gcatgttaag aacacgggca cgaacggcag agtcgatgac    300
              tcggggaatt ctccatcgtc aatgatagct ttcaaccaag gagagccatt aatcagcctg    360
              aaacttggga agagggctta cttcgaaaac gcctgcggag gacaggatgc caaggtttct    420
              gcagcttcag acgttacttc tgcagccagc gtggtcaaga agactaaggt gtctcagcag    480
              aatgcaaaga actggtactg tcaggttgaa gggtgcaaag ttgacctgtc ttctgctaaa   540
              gattacaatc gcaagcacaa gagcgtcggt tttgtcaaca gtgtagccga tacaaggcag   600
              cggacaaatc ttttctttag tcaaccactt tatggccaag tgaggagcaa tgcagggtct    660
                                                    948

<removed-date>
              tcatgggata acttgggagg cttaaaattc atggagacga aacatccgcc agtgcatcca    720
              acaaaaacag catcccctga tgaactgcat ttctcagccc tccagataac tagtgctgcg    780
              gctcacaccg gacatcatca tgatctcgat gggttcatgg cgttcaaggg aaccagcaca    840
              aaggtcctta accaaggcgt ggaggcttgg gcggccgctt ccagctcgaa caacggaggc    900
              ccagaaggtg ggcgtgctct ctctcttctg tcagacggct cgtggggctc gagttcagcc    960
<removed-apn>
              gtcatccagc agcccacatc tcacgcggac gccggtgcat tgctgccgcc cctcgccacc   1020
              gttgccgtct ccaacgccgc cgccgccgcc gggcatcctc tggacccgtc cccgggaagg   1080
              ttctggccgc aagacgatca tcccccgctc gtcgacggac ccgccacgca gattccggag   1140
              ctggcgcacc tccggatatg gtga                                          1164
              <210>   839
              <211>   901
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 839
              aaaaacccca agcccataca tccacactgc ttagtctata gactctatac catagtttca     60
              ccaccatcta gctttaccag aaatggaggg tcagagatca caacgctggg gttacttgaa    120
              agacaaggct atagccacca gccttgctga agaagaaatg gaaaatagca tggatggaga    180
              ggaggatgat actggagatg aagacaaaag gaagagagtg atggagagag ctagaggtcc    240
              taacacagaa cgtgttccct tgcggctgtg cctggtcgat aggtgcactg ctaacttaac    300
              tgaggccaag cagtattacc gcagacacaa agtctgtgag gttcatgcaa aggcatcttc    360
              tgcaactgtt gctggagtca agcaacgttt ttgtcaacaa tgcagcaggt tccatgagct    420
              agcagagttt gatgaaacta aaagaagttg caggaggcgc ttagctggac acaatgagag    480
              gaggcggaag atatctggtg acagttacgg agaagggtca ggccggagag cggttagctt    540
              gacacagact caagaaagaa acaggataga catgaaactt cctatgacta actcaccatt    600
              caagcgacca cagatcagat aaaacaacat caacacaccc aaccgctctc tctcttctgt    660
              catctactta tgttatatat ctacgttctc tagctatcca aataatgaca tctaagtacc    720
              atgtcaagaa aagtggatcg tggtattgaa tcctacaaca atatataact acaaaactct    780
              agtacccttt atgttatcat ttaaaggatg catatccaca aatgtataag acttgtcata    840
                                                    949

<removed-date>
              ctcttgtatt gtctaattat gtttagtagt ctcgtatgtt tcaagaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa    900
              a                                                                    901
              <210>   840
              <211>   1572
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 840
              cttccactca tgagaggcac ggcaccagag ctccagctcc acatcgccag ctcccgggcc     60
              gcacctcgat cgcccaggcc ggcctcctcc ctcgccgccg gcgccgccat ggaccgcaag    120
              agcaagtccg ccaagggcgc cgcgagctcg gcagcggcgt ccatggccgc gctcggcggc    180
              gggccgaggt gccaggcgga gcggtgcaac gcgaacctga tgaccgagga gaagccgtac    240
              aaccggaggc acaaggtgtg cgaggcgcac cgcaaggcgt ccgtcgtcct cctcgccggc    300
              ctccgccagc gcttctgcca gcaatgcagc cggtaagccc cgcctgcctg cttgctcgga    360
              ggcacatgca catgggcgca gtgcagtgtg cagtccggcc ggcgtgcgtg actcgtacgt    420
              gagtgagttc gtgacatgct caaaggcacc gcccgctttc agttcgtacg gctactacta    480
              ctactaaact aaacgagctt aattcgacct tgaaaagtaa acttgcttgc ctgaagcgca    540
              tcgggtccct tgagaaagct tgcagctttt tttcttgggt catggatagc acggtgagct    600
              gctggattgg atcctaagct agctaggttg ctctctcaac tcaagatctt gcagaagcgt    660
              ctctcagtct catgcaacct ctttggaggt tattaatcaa accgtgctag ctcctctgcc    720
              tggagcttct ctccgcctgt gtcactcttt cttgaccccc ggccctcgtc tgctcgcagg    780
              ttccacgagc tgtcgcactt cgacgacacc aagcgcagct gccgcctgcg cctggcgggg    840
              cacaacgagc ggcgccggag gaacccggcg gaggcgcagg accagcacgg cgggcggggc    900
              gacccgggga gccaccacct ccagatcaga taaaaaccta ctacgtcagc atgctctctc    960
              tcttctgtca tgcaggacgc acgcacctag cgtcgtcacc gatccatagt ccgatatgtg   1020
              tctcaagtgt tgtgtgtgcg cgctctcgcc gcctacccct gtcctgcagt gttgcgtagt   1080
              atatggttct acgacctaca cgtactgctg ctactactgc gtgctaactt taatctgatg   1140
              gcagtccaca gctagctagc acatcacctc ctgtaagtaa tgtgcttatc tatatgtgca   1200
              ccgaccggaa ccggaggcgt gcgtacgctg atctgccacg aagcctacta gtagttaaat   1260
                                                    950

<removed-date>
              gtaacgtaac ctgcaggcaa ttaagcaggg cgctgctata tatagcgtaa ttaattgtgc   1320
              gtatgggtat ggtggttcga ttatcggatg tgtaatccct gtacgtggcc gggcccgtgc   1380
              caaacgtacg gtgacctgtg caggctctgt gtgtcgatga tgttgtactc tgataatgat   1440
              ataatccatt ggggtaatgt atgctaaaaa aaaaaaaacc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1500
              aaaaaaaagg gcggccatcc cgggaattcc ggaccggtac cagcctgctt ttttgtacaa   1560
<removed-apn>
              acttgttctt at                                                       1572
              <210>   841
              <211>   1297
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 841
              atggactggg acgccaagat gctccctgcc tgggacctgg gcacggtggt cgtgcccatc     60
              ggcggcggcg gcggcgcgct ggacctgaag ctgggcgcgc cgacgagctc gagggcggcg    120
              gtggccacgg ccgcgcccac gctgccgtcg gcgaaccctc cgccgccgcc gccgccgccg    180
              tcgtcgtccg cgccgccgaa gcggccgcgc ccgggccacg cgcagcaggc ggcgccggcg    240
              tgctccgtgc agggctgcga cgccgacctg tcccagtgcc gcgactacca ccgccgccac    300
              aaggtctgcg tggcgcactc caaggcgccc ttcgtcaccg tcgccggcca gcagcagcgc    360
              ttctgccagc agtgcagcag gtttcatctg ctcgaggagt tcgacgaggt gaagcgaagc    420
              tgcaggaagc gcctcgacgg acacaaccgg cgccgccgca agccgcagcc ggaccctctc    480
              agccctgccg gcttgtttgg cgatcaccac catggaggag tgacaaggtt cacatcgtac    540
              ccacaccgct tcaccacatc catcgcaaag cccgaatggg gggcggtcgt caagacggag    600
              accgacgcgt tccaagacca gtactaccct gccgtccacc tcaacggcgc cggcgccggc    660
              gccctcttcc acgacaagga ccggaagcac ctcccattcc tgaccaacca caacaatgga    720
              tgccagccat tcaccgtcac cacgacggct tcctcagaga gcagcagcaa gcacagcaac    780
              ggcaactgtg ctctctctct tctgtcagac aacccgacac cagcacaggc acagacggcc    840
              acgatcccta ccgcgcagcc cctcgtcgcc acggcatcgc agtacggcag gctccctggc    900
              ggcgacgacg acgacgtctc cctcgccggg atgtcgtaca tgagggtggg agacagccgg    960
              caggcttcca atctgacaac gtcctcaccc ggtcctgcca ctgcagctgc aacacagcag   1020
                                                    951

<removed-date>
              cacctgcagt accaccatgg ctactactac catgtgagcg gtggcgagca gggcaacaac   1080
              agcccagatg gcgccgccat tcaggccctc cccttctcgt cgtggtagac gcgcgacttt   1140
              ctgatgaaga tcatgtgcta ggataggcag gcagtcgctc ttgttgttca ccaaacacat   1200
              gggttgtaac actaggctcg gtcatactga aaaaccatga caaaaaatgt ccatttttca   1260
              gcttgttctg ataggtctaa tctatggaaa attcttc                            1297
<removed-apn>
              <210>   842
              <211>   1810
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 842
              attcctcctc ctccgaagca gcaggcagca gctgcatcgc acctcacacc tctcgtgtcc     60
              atcgatccag ccgccgccgc agctgcagct ctcacttcac tgttgctgtg ccacctcctc    120
              gtcgcctgta gtgtctgtcg atagataaac gcccgcggaa tgagagggaa ggagcggaag    180
              ctgcagcggg cgcgcgcgtg caagggctag gactagcggt tgcaacgtcg gcgcgcgcgg    240
              cgtacgtcgg gcatggattg ggatctcaac gcggcgggcg cgtgggacct cgcggagctg    300
              gagcaggacc acgcggccgc ggcgccgtcg tcggggggcc acgccgccaa tgctgccgcg    360
              gcgggcacgg ggacggagag ccgcccgccg gcgcccgggg cagcaggggc acccgccgag    420
              tgctccgtgg acctgaagct gggcgggatg ggcgagtgcg agcccggcgc ggcccgcagg    480
              gagagggagg ccgcggcggg ggcggcgaag cggccgcgcc ccgccgggcc cggcgggcag    540
              cagcagcagc agcagtgccc gtcgtgcgcg gtggacgggt gcagggcgga cctgggcaag    600
              tgccgcgact accaccggcg gcacaaggtg tgcgaggcgc actccaagac ccccgtcgtc    660
              gtcgtcgccg gccgcgagat gcgcttctgc cagcagtgca gcaggttcca tctacttgca    720
              gagttcgacg ccgacaagcg cagctgcaga aagcgtctgg acgggcacaa tcgccgccgc    780
              aggaagccac agccagacac catggcttct gctagcttta tcgcaagcca gcaaggcacg    840
              cgattctcac catttgcgca tccaagactg gaggcgagct ggccgccggg ggtgatgaaa    900
              accgaggaga gtccatatca catcactcac caaatccctc tgggctccag cagcagcagc    960
              aggcagcagc atttcgtggc tctgggagcc gccacgcctg cctacgccaa ggaaggccgg   1020
              cgcttccctt tcctgcagga gggcgagata agcttcgcca ccggcgtggt gctggagccg   1080
                                                    952

<removed-date>
              ccggcggcgg ctccagcgtg ccagccgctc ctcaggacgg gagcaccatc cgagagcagc   1140
              ggcgccggcg gcagtaagat gttctccgat caggggctgg ctcgcgtgct cgactcggac   1200
              tgtgctctct ctcttctgtc agcgccggcc aactcctccg gcatcgacgt cagcaggatg   1260
              gtccgcccga ctgaacacgt ccccatggcc cagcagcccg tggtcccggg cctgcagttc   1320
              ggcagcgcgt cgtggttccc gcgcccccag gcttccacgg gcggctcctt cgtcccctcc   1380
<removed-apn>
              tgccccgccg cggtggaggg cgagcagcag ctgaacgccg tgctgggccc caacgacagc   1440
              gaggtgagca tgaactacgg cgggatgttc cacgtcggcg gcggcagcgg cggcggcgag   1500
              ggctcctcgg acggcggcac ctcgtcgtcg atgcccttct cgtggcagta gtcgtcgtca   1560
              cttgtcagca gccgctgcgt tctctcatct ttcgcgcttc agacgatctg gtagggagat   1620
              actggcttta gtgatcactg atcagcattg atttctgttc tttttcctgc attcgctttg   1680
              ttgaatcggc tctgctcgcc agcattcgtg tggacatttt ttgaacataa ttctgtgttc   1740
              gtttccctca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1800
              aaaaaaaaaa                                                          1810
              <210>   843
              <211>   1434
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 843
              attcggctcg agcatggatc aggttgacca agcggggatg ctgaaacaat ctggctgtgt     60
              gcttcctgca ttgagcgatg ccattgacag tgtgctttcc tcagctgatc atttttcaaa    120
              tgactctgag aagctcaggc aggctttagg ttttgattat ctgaatgaag ccaatgctag    180
              cagcaagagt attgcacctt tcggggttgc acttactggc agccatgcct ttttaaatgg    240
              caatttctct gcttctaggc ccacaaatgg tcctttgaag atggagctcc cttcactcca    300
              agatactgaa tctgatccaa atagctggct caagtatact gtggctcctg caatgcagcc    360
              tactgaatta gtagatcctt acctgcagtc tccatcagcg accccttcag tgaaatctga    420
              gtgtgcatcg ccgaggaaca gtggtctttt ggaagagctg cttcatgaag ctcaggcact    480
              aagatctggg aagaaccaac aatcatcggt ccgaagttca agttcttctg ctggcacacc    540
              ttatgagact accacggtgg ttagcccaga gtttgatatg ggtcaggaat attgggaaga    600
                                                    953

<removed-date>
              acagcccagt tctttcctca gtgaatatgc tcattttagt ggaaattctt tcactgaatc    660
              cactcctcct gttagtgctg cgtcacctga tatcttccag ctctccaaga tttctcctgc    720
              acaaagccct tcaatgggct ctggcgagca ggcgttagag cctaaacatg agtcggcagc    780
              ttcacctcgt cctgaaaact tgaggcctga tgcattattc tctgggaaca cagccgatcc    840
              atccattttc aataatgcca tagccatgct cctgggcaat ggcattgatg ccgagtacaa    900
<removed-apn>
              acctgttctt ggtgatggaa ttgtgctcga ttcttcgtca tggaacaaca tgcaacatgc    960
              ttttcagatg gcgggattca aatgagttcc atgcacttgt ttgtgatgct gaagggcttc   1020
              ttgttgcttg ttttggggtc agtatcagcg aaggccgcat tgattgtgac gctgcattcc   1080
              tgacagaggg cgtgcaggtg cagcagctac catatgtgat cttcatgcta atagtccttt   1140
              tgtctaataa agtgcatgaa gataaaccgg atattttttt tttgctttgt attagagaac   1200
              cgtttttgtc aaccctgtca ggattctgtt ggaaatgtgt catgattttt gtttgaacaa   1260
              tttaatatct gtcattggta ctgtgctgtg tgctactcct tgatgcattt gcttgtggca   1320
              gcaaattgtt taagtataca ctgtcattgc tgcgggcaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg   1380
              cggccgctct agagtatccc tcgaggggcc caagcttacg cgtacccagc tttc         1434
              <210>   844
              <211>   1020
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 844
              atggctcgac cacctggcgg cgcccgccgg cggggcggag gcagcggcag gagggacgcg     60
              gcgggcgggt gcgaggcggt gcggaagggg cactggacag cggaggagga cggtgtgctg    120
              ctggagcacg tgcgcgtgca cggcccccgg gactggagct tcattcgatc caaaggattg    180
              ctgccgcgca ccggcaagtc ctgccgcctc cgctgggtga acaagctcag gccagacctc    240
              aagaccggct gcaagttctc tgcagaggag gagcgggtgg tgctggagct gcaggcgcag    300
              ttcgggaaca agtgggcgag gatcgctacc tacttgccgg gcaggacgga caacgacgtc    360
              aagaacttct ggagcacccg ccagaagcgg ctcgccaggc tgctgggagc gcctatccgc    420
              cgccgccagt ccagcaggag caggagcgcc aaggcgcctg ttgcctcctc tctgaagtcg    480
              cgacccgcca ccgtggttcc ctgcctggat caagttccat tggagggcag ctccaccggt    540
                                                    954

<removed-date>
              gtccacccat gcagcgcagg cgcagcaaca ccattcatgg acgcgcacag tatcagtgct    600
              gcactagccc cgtatgattg ggcaggctcc gggcttgcca gttccgacgg agcactgccg   660
              ctggcctccg acatacacgc ctgctcgtca tcaaacgctg ccgcactgcc accactgctg   720
              ccgttcgacc agcctccgtg cactgagctt ggcttcccag ggctaccggc tggctggaac   780
              atggctcctg ggttcgacaa cgtcggcact atggatcatc tcgcctacca ggagctgctc   840
<removed-apn>
              ccggtgacgc aacccgctcc aatgatgctc ccgttcttcg gcacggagta cctgcacggt   900
              ggcgccaagg ccgagcttcc tgacgcgggg cccgactact tcttcgacga cctgccgccg   960
              gacatgttcg actcccttga tcagccgcct cggccactgt caccgcctgc gacgagctag   1020
              <210>   845
              <211>   1041
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 845
              atggctcgag cacctggcgg cgcccgccgg cggggcggag gcagcggcag gaggggccag     60
              gcggacgggg gccaggcggt gcgcaagggc cactggacgg cggaggagga cgcggtgctg   120
              ctgaggcacg tgctcgtgca cggcccccgg gactggagct ccattcgatc caaaggcttc   180
              ctgccgcgca cgggcaagtc ctgccgcctc cgctgggtga acaagctcag gccagacctc   240
              aagactggct gcaagttctc cgcagaggag gagcgggtgg tgctggagct gcaggcgcag   300
              ttcgggaaca aatgggcgag gatctccacc tacttgccgg gcaggacgga caacgacgtg   360
              aagaacttct ggagcacccg ccagaagcgg atcgccaggc tgctgggaac gcctccccgc    420
              ggccggtcca gcaggagccg gagccgcagc gccaagggca aggcgcctgt tgttgcctcc    480
              tctctcgagt cacgacccgc caccgtggtt ccctgcctgg atgaagttcc attggagggc   540
              agctcatccg gtgttgtcca cccatgcagc gcagcaacac cattcatgga gacgcgcagc   600
              gtcagtgccg cactagcccc gtatgattgg gcaggctccg ggcttttcag tttcgacgac   660
              ggagcactgc cgctggcctg caacagccac gcgtgctcgt catcgaacgc tgccgcactg   720
              ctgccgttcg accagcctcc gtaccctctg ctcgacgtcc aagtccaagg ggtaccggcg   780
              ggctggaact ggaacatggc tcctgggttt gccaacgccg gcgctacgga tcatctcgcc   840
              taccaggagc tgctcccgtt gacgcaagcc gccccaatgg tactcccgtt cttcgacgcg    900
                                                    955

<removed-date>
              gagtacccgc tcggcggcgt caaggccgag cttccggacg ccgcgcccga taacttcgac    960
              gacctgccgc cagacgtgtt cgactccttc gaccagccgc ccccgccagt gtcaccgcct   1020
              gcgactagct ctgggttttg a                                             1041
              <210>   846
              <211>   1638
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 846
              atttcagttg cctggccgca cagataatga aataaagaac ttttggaata ccagaaaaag     60
              aagaaaacag agatgtggtt cgcctctcta tccagaatat atgctttctc aggttagtca    120
              taaagacatg gactttgaaa ctcttggaga gtcacatggc aagaaacggt caaatgattt    180
              ttcaaaagaa aaggttggtg atgtgcaaga acttgtggat gagttaattg tatttgagca    240
              ccttgactat ggtaaggata tagtgtttcc aatcagacct ttgaaatgcc atgcatctac    300
              tggcagtgtg caaatttctg gtgacattcg gaaaaccttt tgtcccactg atttgaacta    360
              tgtaatgaca aagaatcagt cggtgcctgt tggtagtgcc attggcagtg gctatccagt    420
              atatggtggc agactctcta cttcagggac catattcggt tccattcaga cagagattcc    480
              ttcgatccaa agttccagct atagcccaag taatgactgg ttggctcaat gtccttcggc    540
              ttgcattgag caacggattc caatggaatg caatacaata tctcagtcaa aagcttacct    600
              tatgatgcat tcttcttcag ctttctgtgc ccctgaacat gatgcctgtt ctgaaactca    660
              agctccagac ttatgttcag gttcagatgt tgttttcgac cccagccaat gttatccagt    720
              tgctagtttt tctgatcttg ggatctcgga taccccacta acatcagttt cttgaatgat    780
              atagcactag caagtttgtt gaatgttaat ttgaaggacc agtcacatat caacaggcag    840
              gaacctacca atgatacatc actaggagga gcaagtttct tgaatgctaa tttgaaggac    900
              cagtcacatc tcaactggca ggaacatatg aatgagacat caccagtagc aggtttattg    960
              aatgctaatt tggaggagca gtcacatctc aactggcagg aacctaagaa tgagtcatca   1020
              ccagaagcag gtttcttgaa tgctaatttg gaggagcagt cacatctcaa ctggcccttg   1080
              caggaatgtg agccatggat tgagagacaa atgttttgac caatagtttg atccttgtta   1140
              caagcctgac ttcccatgtt cctgagcagc agtttcctct actgcacaac cagggccaga   1200
                                                    956

<removed-date>
              gtgagcaaca accaagatat tcttgtgagc gtgatggaaa ttacatttta gttctctgcc   1260
              ttcgctgtct taagctctct gaagtattgt cttcgacttt gctgggatga tgagctgctg   1320
              ccccgagaca acaacagtca gccagaccaa aatcacttaa atagttttaa caatgtatta   1380
              agttttgtct tgttacctgc tgtctggcgt ctgccatgtt ttgtccactg ttaaacttgt   1440
              ctaataatac ccttttaggg ctaatttgga aagcctcaat gtcttaagtt ttgtcttggt   1500
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc   1560
              aagcttacgc gtaccctagc tttcgagttg tgcactgcaa aataattgta tctcgtgccg   1620
              agtcatatag cttgggcc                                                 1638
              <210>   847
              <211>   1048
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 847
              acgacgaccc agcagacggc gcagttcctc tcgccgccgc ccttctcggc gccgtcgtcc     60
              ccgtgggcca agccgttcgc gcggaacgcg cagtacttcc agctcgcgca ctcgtcgccc    120
              gtgtccccgt cgacgccgac cgggccggtg cacccggcca tgccggacct gtctctcggc    180
              ggccacggcg cgcgcgccgc cgccgctgcc gaccagagca ggctcccacc gctctcgccg    240
              tcccccggcc ccagagtgga gctcccttca aaccaatacg gccagccggc gccgccgacc    300
              tcggccgccg ccgtcgccgc cggacttgcg ctgccggatc atcagaacgc ggcgagcctc    360
              gaacagatgc tgcaggagct gcacgacgtc atcaaggtcg aaccgcaggc gctggtcccg    420
              gccagcggcg gcggcgctgc actggagcgg catgattgcg gagtttcagt cccagagagc    480
              agaatcagcg gcctgcagcg tcgggctgac gacatggaca cgctgttcgg cctggtgcgc    540
              ccggcgctcg gcgcgccgga gacggcgccg gcggccgccg cctccaacca ctccggctcg    600
              acctcgcggc acagcaccgc cgaccagaac ccgtccaccg tcggcaacag ctcgccggac    660
              caggactggg gcctcgacgg cgtctgccag tggagcaacg tgtccaggat ctgctgatcg    720
              cgtgcaagag ctgcaggggg ggtcggcgta gccatgccga atcatcgatt aggacaccca    780
              tccgatccga tgattctgag aagggccgga gacggattgc cgaccttttc ttttttgctt    840
              ttgaacattt cagcctgaca gatgccaagc atcacggaca aatctgtctg tgttctgttc    900
                                                    957

<removed-date>
              tccgttcctg acgaactagt tgccggctca atctcgaact cagctgcgat cgaatctgcg    960
              tcagcgtctc tagctagcat gttgttttcc agtttccagt tcaattgaca tcatcaatca   1020
              attgtagaat ttaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa                                      1048
              <210>   848
              <211>   1121
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 848
              attcccggcc gacccagcgt ccgcgccgtt ggtcgctcat ggagaagagc ccgggcgccg     60
              cgccgacatc atcgcccgag gaggaggtgg cggcggatgg ccacgggcat gttgaggacg    120
              cgacggggca gaaggagcag gcgacgccgg ttgtgctcaa gaaggggccg tggacggcag    180
              cggaggatgc catgctcatg gacctgtccc tcggctacgg cgtacgcagc gccggcgtcg    240
              gcgccggcgc cgaccagagc aggctcccgc cgctctcgcc gtccccttgc cccagagtgg    300
              tggagctccc ttcaaaccaa tacgcccaac cgacgccgcc ggcctcggcc gccgccaccg    360
              cacttggagg tggtggcgca gcgctgccgg atcatcagaa cgcggcgagc ctcgagaaga    420
              tgctgcgcga gctgcatgac gtcatcaagg tcgacccgcc ggcgctggtc ccggccagcg    480
              gcggcgctgc cctggagtgg catggtggcg gagaatttgt gagcggcctg caggccctgc    540
              agcagcatcg ggttgacgac atggatactc tgttcggcct gctgcacccg ccgctccgcc    600
              gcgcgccgga gacggtggcg gcggcagctg caggctccac ccactccggc tcgacctcgc    660
              agcacagcag cgacgaccag aagcccaccg acgtcgtcgg cctcggcctg gacctggacc    720
              tccaggtcgc cggcagcacc gtctcgtcgg accaggagga ctggggcctc gacgccgtct    780
              gtcagtggag cagcgtgtcc aggatttgct gatcgcgtgc acggactgca gggatcggcg    840
              tagcgatgcc gaatcgtcgg tcaagacatc gtgcatgcat ccggtgattc tgagaactgg    900
              aagagagaga gaatgccttt ttttttgaac gtttaaattt cttgctgctg tcagatgcca    960
              agcagcatgg gcaaacggat ttgtttcccg ttcaatgttc atgacgacta tggttggtta   1020
              gttaccgagt cggctgcgca acccaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagggcgg ccgctctaga   1080
              gtatccctcg aggggcccaa gcttacgcgt acccagcttt c                       1121
                                                    958

              <210>   849
<removed-date>
              <211>   2324
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 849
              atctctttct ctttctctct ctctcctgaa atctctctct cgctgacctg agagttatcc     60
              aaatactctg gtatggcgag atccccctcc tcgggttccc actcaactgc tgtatcgtag    120
              tagtcgacta cttccctgca atccgttggt cagctcacaa tagcagatga gtccattgga    180
<removed-apn>
              ggagttcgac tagtctccac cgctgctgcg agattccgcc agtgaagatt ataaaacttc    240
              tgcccgagca aagcggccga ccaagttacc acagagcaag tcagcgaggc gaaataggcg    300
              accaagtccc aacaaccgag taagaaaggg agacgaaact gccgaccaag tctctaggcc    360
              cacaaggttc cgcgcatacc ctgacggcgt gccatgtacc gggtgaagag ccagggcgag    420
              ggcgagatga tgtcgcagga ccagatgcac tcgccggtgg acaacgatgt cagcagcagc    480
              cgcaggtcgc ctcgcagggg cgtcggggcg cccctgaaga aagggccctg gacggacgcg    540
              gaggacgcca tcctgataga ctacgttaag aagcacggcg tgggcaactg gaacgcggtg    600
              cggaagaaca ccgagctatt gcgctgcggc aagagctgcc gcctcaggtg ggcgaaccac    660
              ctcaggccca acctcaagaa ggaggccttc accccggagg aggagcgcct catcatccag    720
              ctccacgcca agctggggaa caagtggtcg aggatggcta ttcatttgcc agggcgtact    780
              gacaacgaaa taaaaaacta ctggaacaca cgaaaaaaga gatgtgaacg agctagcctt    840
              cctatctatc ctgctggtgt acgtaatcaa tcttcaaatg aagaccagca attgtctggc    900
              gatttgaacg gtggcgagaa catgtccaat gatcttctat ccggaaacag cctttgtcta    960
              ccagatttta acaatgacag tttccttgcg aaactgcagg ctttaccacc acagctgcca   1020
              gctgtttcaa taagcaattt gctcggccaa agctttgcat caaaaggttg tagcttcatg   1080
              gatcaggtag accaagcagg gatgctgaaa caatctggca gtgcgcttcc tacattgagc   1140
              gatgccattg acgatgtgat ttcctcggtt gatcaatttt caaatgactc tgagaagctc   1200
              atgcagactt taggttttgg ttatctcaat gaagccaacg ctaccagcaa gagtattgtg   1260
              cctttcgggg ttgcacttac tggcagccat gcccctttaa atggtatttt ctctgcttct   1320
              aggctcacaa atggtccttc gaagatggag cccccttcag tccaaaatag caggctcaag   1380
              tatactgtgg atcctgcaat gcagcctact gagttagtag atccttacat gcagtctcta   1440
                                                    959

<removed-date>
              tcagcgaccc cttcagtgaa atcagagtgt gcatcgccga gaaacagtgg tcttttcgaa   1500
              gagctgcttc atgaacctca tgcactaaga tctgggaaga gccaacaacc atcggtccga   1560
              agttcaagtt cttctgctgg cacaccttat gggactatgg ttagctcaga atttgatatg   1620
              ggtcaggaat attgggaaga acagcccggt tctctcctca gcgaatatgc tcacttcagc   1680
              gggaattatt tggctgaatg cgctcctcct gttagcgctg catcaactga tatctttccg   1740
<removed-apn>
              ctccccaaga tttctcctgc agaaagccct tcaatgggct ctggcgagca ggcgttagag   1800
              cctaaacatg agtcagcagc ttcacgtcat cttggaaact tgaggcatga tgcattattc   1860
              tctgggaaca cagcccattc atccagtttc aacgatacca taacaatgct catcggcgat   1920
              gtacctgttc ttggtgatgg aattgtgctc gattcttcct catgggacaa catgccacat   1980
              gcttttcaaa tggcggaatt caaatgagtt ccatataatt tctttgtgat gctgaagggc   2040
              ttcttcctgc ttgttttggg gtcaatatca gggaacgccc cactgattgt gacgctgcat   2100
              tcctgacaga gatccttgtg atcttcatgc ggatagtcct tttgtctaat taagtgcatg   2160
              gaagataacc tggatattat ttttaatttt ttgctttgta ttagagaacc gtttttgtca   2220
              tccctgacag catttctgtt ggaaacgtgt catgactttt gtttgaacaa tttaaatgtc   2280
              ggttatagat aatgtgatgt gtgccatcaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa                    2324
              <210>   850
              <211>   1572
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 850
              gtgacactat agaacaagtt tgtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaattcccgg     60
              gatggcagac agccaaatgc cccaccacag cgtagcccct cctcactgac tcgcctgcaa    120
              aaaccacttg caaaccacac aaaccgaaaa cgccagctcc cctgcctcca tttttagcaa    180
              cttttccctt ctgtcttccc atcacagtca cccttcttgc ccccacgcag ccgagcgtgc    240
              ctacccctcc tcgacccttc tctggggccg ccgttggacg ctcatggaga ggagtcgtcc    300
              gggcgccgcg ccgacaccat cgccagagga ggaggtggcg gcggagggcc atgcgcatgg    360
              tgacgatgtg acggggcagg aggaggaggc gacgccagtg gtgctcaaga agggcccgtg    420
              gacggcctcg gaggatgcca tgctcatgga ccacgtccgg caccacggcg aggggaactg    480
                                                    960

<removed-date>
              gaacgcagtg cagaggatga ccggcctgct gcgctgcggc aagagctgcc gcctgcgctg    540
              gaccaaccac ctccgcccca acctcaagaa gggctccttc tcccccgacg aggagctcct    600
              catagcccag ctccacgcgc agctcggcaa caagtgggcg cgcatggccg cgcacctgcc    660
              cgggaggacg gacaacgaga tcaagaacta ctggaacacg aggaccaagc gccgccagcg    720
              cgccggcctg cccgtgtacc cgccggaggt gcagctccac cttgccctct ccaagcgctg    780
<removed-apn>
              ccactacgac gactacgact tcccgccgct cgcgtcgtcc ccgcagctgt cggcgacgac    840
              gacgaccgat gtccaggcgc tgggcgccgg gcccgggtac gccagctcgc gcccggcgcc    900
              gctcgacctg gctcgcagcc agctcgccgc gacgacgacc cagcagacgg cgcagttcct    960
              ctcgccgccg cccttctcgg cgccgtcgtc cccgtgggcc aagccgttcg cgcggaacgc   1020
              gcagtacttc cagctcgcgc actcgtcgcc cgtgtccccg tcgacgccga ccgggccggt   1080
              gcacccggcc atgccggacc tgtctctcgg cggccacggc gcgcgcgccg ccgccgctgc   1140
              cgaccagagc aggctcccac cgctctcgcc gtcccccggc cccagagtgg agctcccttc   1200
              aaaccaatac ggccagccgg cgccgccgac ctcggccgcc gccgtcgccg ccggacttgc   1260
              gctgccggat catcagaacg cggcgagcct cgaacagatg ctgcaggagc tgcacgacgt   1320
              catcaaggtc gaaccgcagg cgctggtccc ggccagcggc ggcggcgctg cactggagcg   1380
              gcatgattgc ggagtttcag tcccagagag cagaatcagc ggcctgcagc gtcggggtga   1440
              cgacatggac acgctgttcg gcctggtgca cccagcgctc ggcgcgccgg agacggcgcc   1500
              ggcggccgct ctagagtatc cctcgagggg cccaagctta cgcgtaccca gctttctgga   1560
              caaagtggtc cc                                                       1572
              <210>   851
              <211>   2400
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 851
              gacactatag aacaagtttg tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccgga attcccggga     60
              ttctctctct ctatctctct ctcagtctct ctcttccgca cgagaccatt acctagaaca    120
              tcctaatcga aaacacatac tctgctgctg ctaagtggtg gcatctcgtt taggcgagat    180
              ccccctcctc ccccgctttc cactcctctc ctccacccta gtcgactcct tccctgcaat    240
                                                    961

<removed-date>
              ccgctggccg gctcacagta ccagaggagt ccaccggagg agctcagcta gactcccacc    300
              ctggtggctc gatcggcacc ggccgctgcc tgcgagactc cgccagcgcg cgatgtaccg    360
              ggtgaagagc gagggggagg gcgagggcga gggcgactgc gaaatgatgc tgcaggaaca    420
              gatggactcg ctggtggccg acgacgtcag cagcggagga gggtcgcctc acaggggcgt    480
              cggcacgccc ctgaagaagg ggccatggac gtccgcggag gacgccatcc tggtggacta    540
<removed-apn>
              cgttaagaag aacggcgagg gcaactggaa cgcggtgcag aagaacaccg ggctgttccg    600
              ctgcggcaag agctgccgcc tccggtgggc gaaccacctc aggcccaacc tcaagaaggg    660
              ggccttcacc cccgaggagg agcgcctcat catccagctc cacgccaaga tggggaacaa    720
              gtgggcgagg atggctggtc acttgccagg gcgtactgac aatgagatca agaactactg    780
              gaacactcga ataaagagat gtcaacgagc tagccttcct atttatcctg ctagtgtatg    840
              caatcaatct acaaatgaag atcagcaact gtctggtaat tttaacggtg gcgagaatat    900
              atccaatgat cttctatctg ggaacagcct ttatctgcca gattttacca gtgacaattt    960
              cattgcgaac ccagaggctt tatcctatgc accacagttg tcagctgttt caataagcaa   1020
              tttgctcggc caaagctttg catcaaaaag ttgtagcttc atggatcagg ttgaccaagc   1080
              ggggatgctg aaacaatctg gctgtgtgct tcctgcattg agcgatgcca ttgacagtgt   1140
              gctttcctca gctgatcatt tttcaaatga ctctgagaag ctcaggcagg ctttaggttt   1200
              tgattatctg aatgaagcca atgctagcag caagagtatt gcacctttcg gggttgcact   1260
              tactggcagc catgcctttt taaatggcaa tttctctgct tctaggccca caaatggtcc   1320
              tttgaagatg gagctccctt cactccaaga tactgaatct gatccaaata gctggctcaa   1380
              gtatactgtg gctcctgcaa tgcagcctac tgaattagta gatccttacc tgcagtctcc   1440
              atcagcgacc ccttcagtga aatctgagtg tgcatcgccg aggaacagtg gtcttttgga   1500
              agagctgctt catgaagctc aggcactaag atctgggaag aaccaacaat catcggtccg   1560
              aagttcaagt tcttctgctg gcacacctta tgagactacc acggtggtta gcccagagtt   1620
              tgatatgggt caggaatatt gggaagaaca gcccagttct ttcctcagtg aatatgctca   1680
              ttttagtgga aattctttca ctgaatccac tcctcctgtt agtgctgcgt cacctgatat   1740
              cttccagctc tccaagattt ctcctgcaca aagcccttca atgggctctg gcgagcaggc   1800
                                                    962

              gttagagcct aaacatgagt cggcagcttc acctcgtcct gaaaacttga ggcctgatgc   1860
<removed-date>
              attattctct gggaacacag ccgatccatc cattttcaat aatgccatag ccatgctcct   1920
              gggcaatggc attgatgccg agtacaaacc tgttcttggt gatggaattg tgctcgattc   1980
              ttcgtcatgg aacaacatgc aacatgcttt tcagatggcg ggattcaaat gagttccatg   2040
              cacttgtttg tgatgctgaa gggcttcttg ttgcttgttt tggggtcagt atcagcgaag   2100
              gccgcattga ttgtgacgct gcattcctga cagagggcgt gcaggtgcag cagctaccat   2160
<removed-apn>
              atgtgatctt catgctaata gtccttttgt ctaataaagt gcatgaagat aaaccggata   2220
              tttttttttt gctttgtatt agagaaccgt ttttgtcaac cctgtcagga ttctgttgga   2280
              aatgtgtcat gatttttgtt tgaacaattt aatatctgtc attgatacaa aaaaaaaaaa   2340
              aaaaaaaaaa cgggccgccg cgcggggcta tccctcgagg ggcccaagct tacgcgtacc   2400
              <210>   852
              <211>   1926
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 852
              ccgcctcttt tcccccgggc ggttggccgg gttcccttaa atccaaatgg gcttggccca     60
              ggtttttccc gactccgaaa aaaccggccc ctcggggccc cacccccatt taaaaggggg    120
              tttagtcccc cccctttagg caccccccgg gtttttccct tttatgcttt ccgggcccct    180
              acttttggtt ggaaatattg aaggggaaaa caattctccc ccacggaaac agttttgccc    240
              ctgattcccc ccaagcttgg aaatttaccc cccctaaagg ggaacaaaaa gctggagctt    300
              ccccccgcgg tgggcggcgc ctttagaact agtgggatcc ccccgggctg caggaatcgg    360
              cccgagagct cactagtccc cccccccccc ccggagcaac aatggatttt ttcgacgaag    420
              acaggcctag attcgttttc caatctcgtc cttcttcttc tcacacggcg gaggaagaag    480
              aagaagctag aatccctaac aagcttttca tttcaatctc cgtctcaatc tccctcatca    540
              tattatctct ctccttcttc tacttcgaat ctgaacctgc caaatcgcta ctattatggc    600
              tttccctctc tttcctcgtc ggtcctttcg ctcctagctc gctcaccgga ggtaagattc    660
              gcgtcggtta tggtcagatc ttggagccag aacagattca cgatgagtca tccacggata    720
              acgaacgtga atccaggagg aaatcggtga ataagcgatc taaaggctcg acgaagagcg    780
                                                    963

              ataatccgcc ggaaaatgct tctgcggtga ctgaagtttc gaggaaagtg gtgattccgc    840
<removed-date>
              agtctaagga gagtggatct gtgaatgaaa ctaaagattg gactgctgaa gagatcgaga    900
              ttttgaagaa gcagttgatt aagcatccag ctggtaaacc tgggagatgg gagacggtgg    960
              cttcagcgtt cggaggaaga tccaagccag agaatgtgat taagaaggcg aaagagatag   1020
              gtgagaagaa aatctatgag agtgatgatt acgctcagtt tttaaagaat aggaaagctt   1080
              cagatcctag attggttgat gaaaacgaag agaattctgg agctggtgga gatgcggaag   1140
<removed-apn>
              gtactaagga gatttggagt aatggagaag acattgcatt gctcaatgct ttaaaagctt   1200
              ttcctaagga ggcagctatg agatgggaga agattgcagc tgcagtacct gggaagtcga   1260
              aagcagcttg tatgaagaga gttactgagc ttaaaaaagg gtttcggagc tcgaaaactc   1320
              cagctaatta actagaggac atctgtacgg gattaaggca aataccagga gaggaaaaac   1380
              aattttgtgt ttgctgcttg agattattgc tacaacgccc aaagtagtga atagagttct   1440
              gcaggaagtt tcttttagag agaagaaaag aaagcatctc aatatgccaa agaatttaac   1500
              ataaagttat gagttcttct ttacttcaag ctttgattcg aattacaaga cttgagcatc   1560
              tgtgtatccc ctccccaaag agcacctatt ttattactag ggaaatatat aaaaagacta   1620
              tatatattct taatccaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaactcga gggggggccc ggtacccaat   1680
              tgttaaacac aataaagttg gaactggagg ggggaaagct ttttacaccg gcgtggaaaa   1740
              gaatggtttc cccattaccc aatttaaacc gccttggaga aaatccccct tttccccggt   1800
              aggggaaaaa ggaaaagggc cccacccaaa tgcccttttc ccaaaattgg gcccccccga   1860
              aagggggaaa gggcaatttg gaagcgggaa aatttttggg aaaaaacccc gggaaatttt   1920
              ttgtgt                                                              1926
              <210>    853
              <211>    1380
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Zea mays
              <400> 853
              atggagaaga gcccgggcgc cgcgccgaca tcatcgcccg aggaggaggt ggcggcggat     60
              ggccgcgggc acgttgagga cgcgacgggg cagaaggagc aggcgacgcc ggtggtgctc    120
              aagaaggggc cgtggacggc agcggaggat gccatgctca tggaccacgt ccggcaccac    180
                                                    964

              ggcgagggga actggaacgc agtgcagagg gtgaccggcc tgctgcgctg cggcaagagc    240
<removed-date>
              tgccgcctgc gctggaccaa ccacctccgc cccaacctca agaagggctc cttctccccc    300
              gacgaggagc tcctcatcgc ccagctccac gcgcagctcg gcaacaagtg ggcgcgcatg    360
              gccgcgcatc tgccggggag gacggacaac gagatcaaga actactggaa cacgaggacc    420
              aagcgccgcc agcgcgccgg cctgcctgtg cacccgccgc cagaggtgca gctccagctc    480
              gccctcgcca ggcgctgccg ctacgacgac ttctcgccgc tgccgtcccc gcaggagctg    540
<removed-apn>
              tccggtgtcc aggcgctggt gggcgccgcc gcctcggccg ggtacgccag ctcccgcccg    600
              gcgcccctcg acctggctcg gcagctcacc cagacgacga accagcagac ggagactgtg    660
              cagttcctct cgccgccacc cttctcggcg ccgtcgtccc cgtgggcgag gccgttcgcc    720
              cggaacgcgc agtacttcca gctcgcgcac tcgtcgtcgc ccgtgtcccc gacgacgccg    780
              gacctgtccc tcggctacgg cgcgcgcagc gccggcgccg accagagcag gctcccgccg    840
              ctctcgccgt ccccttgccc cagagtggtg gagctccctt caaaccaata cgcccaaccg    900
              acgccaccgg cctcggccgc cgccaccgca catggaggtg gtggcgcagc gctgccggat    960
              catcagaacg cggcgagcct cgagaagatg ctgcgcgagc tgcatgacgt catcaaggtc   1020
              gacccgccgg cgctggtccc ggccagcggc ggcgctgccc tggagtggca tggtggcgga   1080
              gaatttgtga gcggcctgca ggccctgcag cagcatcggg ttgacgacat ggatactctg   1140
              ttcggcctgc tgcacccgcc gctccgccgc gcgccggaga cggtggcggc ggcagctgca   1200
              ggctccaccc actccggctc gacctcgcag cacagcagcg acgaccagaa gcccaccgac   1260
              gtcgtcggcc tcggcctgga cctggacctc caggtcgccg gcagcaccgt ctcgtcggac   1320
              caggaggact ggggcctcga cgccgtctgt cagtggagca gcgtgtccag gatctgctga   1380
              <210>   854
              <211>   1428
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 854
              atggagagga gtcgtccggg cgccgcgccg acaccatcgc cagaggagga ggtggcggcg     60
              gagggccatg cgcatggtga cgatgtgacg gggcaggagg aggaggcgac gccagtggtg    120
              ctcaagaagg gcccgtggac ggcctcggag gatgccatgc tcatggacca cgtccggcac    180
                                                    965

              cacggcgagg ggaactggaa cgcagtgcag aggatgaccg gcctgctgcg ctgcggcaag    240
<removed-date>
              agctgccgcc tgcgctggac caaccacctc cgccccaacc tcaagaaggg ctccttctcc    300
              ccccgacgag gagctcctca tagcccagct ccacgcgcag ctcggcaaca agtgggcgcg    360
              catggccgcg cacttcgttc gttcctgtgc cggttgctgg ttggttgcat tggttggctt    420
              ggtgcgcgcc cgcagctgcc cgggaggacg gacaacgaga tcaagaacta ctggaacacg    480
              aggaccaagc gccgccagcg cgccggcctg cccgtgtacc cgccggaggt gcagctccac    540
<removed-apn>
              cttgccctct ccaagcgctg ccactacgac gactacgact tcccgccgct cgcgtcgtcc    600
              ccgcagctgt cggcgacgac gacgaccgat gtccaggcgc tgggcgccgg gcccgggtac    660
              gccagctcgc gcccggcgcc gctcgacctg gctcgcagcc agctcgccgc gacgacgacc    720
              cagcagacgg cgcagttcct ctcgccgccg cccttctcgg cgccgtcgtc cccgtgggcc    780
              aagccgttcg cgcggaacgc gcagtacttc cagctcgcgc actcgtcgcc cgtgtccccg    840
              tcgacgccga ccgggccggt gcacccggcc atgccggacc tgtctctcgg cggccacggc    900
              gcgcgcgccg ccgccgctgc cgaccagagc aggctcccac cgctctcgcc gtcccccggc    960
              cccagagtgg agctcccttc aaaccaatac ggccagccgg cgccgccgac ctcggccgcc   1020
              gccgtcgccg ccggacttgc gctgccggat catcagaacg cggcgagcct cgaacagatg   1080
              ctgcaggagc tgcacgacgt catcaaggtc gaaccgcagg cgctggtccc ggccagcggc   1140
              ggcggcgctg cactggagcg gcatgattgc ggagtttcag tcccagagag cagaatcagc   1200
              ggcctgcagc gtcggggtga cgacatggac acgctgttcg gcctggtgca cccagcgctc   1260
              ggcgcgccgg agacggcgcc ggcggccgcc gcctccaacc actccggctc gacctcgcgg   1320
              cacagcaccg ccgaccagaa cccgtccacc gtcggcaaca gctcgccgga ccaggactgg   1380
              ggcctcgacg gcgtctgcca gtggagcaac gtgtccagga tctgctga                1428
              <210>   855
              <211>   1264
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 855
              atgacggtgg tgagggtgga cgagaaccct gcgccggatg gagagaactc tcccctagac     60
              gatgagtacg tctcggccga cgatgaacac gttgatgatg aagacaagga gaccgatagc    120
                                                    966

              atcgacgact atgaaaaccc cagcgggacg ccccagatga agaagggtcc ctggtcgccc    180
<removed-date>
              gaagaggata agcgtctcaa agactacgtc gaggtacacg gcgcggggaa ctggaataag    240
              gtgcagcaga atgccaggct caaccgctgt ggcaagagct gtcgtctccg ctggacgaac    300
              cacctcaggc ccgatcttaa gaaggagcct ttcaacgctg aggaagagga aaagataatc    360
              aagcttcaca ttagacgggg ccccaagtgg tccatgatgg cctcatatct tactcataaa    420
              gacatggact gtgaaactcc tggagaatca catggcaaga aacggtcaaa tgagtgctca    480
<removed-apn>
              aaagaaaagg ttgctgatgt gcaagaactt gtggatgagt taattgtatt tgagcacctt    540
              gactatggta aggatacaat gtttccaacc agacctttga aacaccatgc atctactagc    600
              agtgtgcaaa ttcctggtga cattgagaaa accttttgtc ccaaaaactt gaactatgta    660
              atgacaaaga accagtcgat gcctgttggt agtgccattg gcagtggcta tccagtatat    720
              ggtggcagac tatctacttc agggaccata ttcagttcca ttcagacgga gatcccttcg    780
              atccaaagtt ccagctatag cccaagtaat gactggtttg ctcaatgtcc ttcggcttgc    840
              attgagcaat ggattccaat ggaatgcaat acaatatctc aatcaaatgc ttaccttatg    900
              atgcattctt cttcagcttt ctgtgcccct gaacatgagg gttgttctga aactcaagct    960
              ccaaacttat gttcagatgt tgttttcgat cccagccagt gttatccagt tgctagtttt   1020
              tctgatcttg ggatcccgga tacaccacta acagcaggtt tcttgaatga tatagcacta   1080
              gaccagtcac atctcaaccg gcaggaacct aggaatgaga catcaccaga agcaggtttc   1140
              ttgaatgcta atttggagga gcagtcacat ctcaactggc acttgcagga acctgagccg   1200
              tggactgatg gagacaaatg ttttgaccaa tggtttgatc cttgtcacat gcctgacttc   1260
              ccag                                                                1264
              <210>   856
              <211>   1495
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 856
              aggtgaacta tagaacaagt ttgtacaaaa aagcaggctg gtaccggtcc ggaattcccg     60
              ggatcgcagc cgagcgtgcc tacccctcct cgacccttct ctggggccgc cgttggacgc    120
              tcatggagag gagtcgtcgg ggcgccgcgc cgacaccatc gccagaggag gaggtggcgg    180
                                                    967

              cggaggggca tgcgcatggt gacgatgtga cggggcagga ggaggaggcg acgccagtgg    240
<removed-date>
              tgctcaagaa gggcccgtgg acggcctcgc aggatgccat gctcatggac cacgtccggc    300
              accacggcga ggggaactgg aacgcagtgc agaggatgac cggcctgctg cgctgcggca    360
              agagctgccg cctgcgctgg accaaccacc tccgccccaa cctcaagaag ggctccttct    420
              cccccgacga ggagctcctc atcgcccagc tccacgcgca gctcggcaac aagtgggcgc    480
              gcatggccgc gcacgtaagc accctatcct ttgccctgga taacaaattt atttatggcg    540
<removed-apn>
              agtggcggcg acctgctgat gtgactgacg tttgcgagtt cgttcgatcc tgtgccggtt    600
              gctggatggt tgcattgggt ggcttgatgc gcgcgcgctg ctgcccggga ggacggacaa    660
              cgagatcaag aactactgga acacgaggac cgagcgccgc cagcgcgccg gcctgcccgt    720
              gtacccgccg gaggtgcagc tccaccttgc cctctccaag cgctgccact acgacgacta    780
              cgacttcccg ccgctcgcgt cgtccccgca gctgtcggcg acgacgacga cgcgatgtcc    840
              aggcgccgct cgacctggct cgcagccagc tcgccgcgac gacgacccag cagacggcgc    900
              agttcctctc gccgccgccc ttctcggcgc cgtcgtcccc gtgggccaag ccgttcgcgc    960
              ggaacgcgca gtacttccag ctcgcgcact cgtcgcccgt gtccccgtcg acgccgaccg   1020
              ggccggtgca cccggccatg ccggacctgt ctctcggcgg ccacggcgcg cgcgccgccg   1080
              ccgctgccga ccagagcagg ctcccaccgc tctcgccgtc ccccggcccc agagtggagc   1140
              tcccttcaaa ccaatacggc cagccggcgc cgccgacctc ggccgccgcc gtcgccgccg   1200
              gacttgcgct gccggatcat cagaacgcgg cgagcctcga acagatgctg caggagctgc   1260
              acgacgtcat caaggtcgaa ccgcaggcgc tggtcccggc cagcggcggc ggcgctgcac   1320
              tggagcggca tgattgcgga gtttcagtcc cagagagcag aatcagcggc ctgcagcgtc   1380
              ggggtgacga catggacacg ctgttcggcc tggtgcaccc agcgctcggc gcgccggaga   1440
              cggcgccggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc aagcttacgc gtacc        1495
              <210>   857
              <211>   1176
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 857
              tagcgagggg gagggcgagg gcgagggcga ctgcgaaatg atgctgcagg aacagatgga     60
                                                    968

              ctcgctggtg gccgacgacg tcagcagcgg aggagggtcg cctgaagaag gggccatgga    120
<removed-date>
              cgtccgcgga ggacgccatc ctggtggact acgttaagaa gaacggcgag ggcaactgga    180
              acgcggtgca gaagaacacc gggctgttcc gctgcggcaa gagctgccgc ctccggtggg    240
              cgaaccacct caggcccaac ctcaagaagg gggccttcac ccccgaggag gagcgcctca    300
              tcatccagct ccacgccaag atggggaaca agtgggcgag gatggctggt cacttgccag   360
              ggcgtactga caatgagatc aagaactact ggaacactcg aataaagaga tgtcaacgag   420
<removed-apn>
              ctagccttcc tatttatcct gctagtgtat gcaatcaatc tacaaatgaa gatcagcaac   480
              tgtctggtaa ttttaacggt ggcgagaata tatccaatga tcttctatct gggaacagcc    540
              tttatctgcc agattttacc agtgacaatt tcattgcgaa cccagaggct ttatcctatg    600
              caccacagtt gtcagctgtt tcaataagca atttgctcgg ccaaagcttt gcatcaaaaa    660
              gttgtagctt catggatcag gttgaccaag cggggatgct gaaacaatct ggctgtgtgc    720
              ttcctgcatt gagcgatgcc attgacagtg tgctttcctc agctgatcat ttttcaaatg    780
              actctgagaa gctcaggcag gctttaggtt ttgattatct gaatgaagcc aatgctagca   840
              gcaagagtat tgcacctttc ggggttgcac ttactggcag ccatgccttt ttaaatggca   900
              atttctctgc ttctaggccc acaaatggtc ctttgaagat ggagctccct tcactccaag   960
              atactgaatc tgatccaaat agctggctca agtatactgt ggctcctgca atgcagccta   1020
              ctgaattagt agatccttac ctgcagtctc catcagcgac cccttcagtg aaatctgagt   1080
              gtgcatcgcc gaggaacagt ggtcttttgg aagagctgct tcatgaagct caggcactaa   1140
              gatctgggaa gaaccaacaa tatgaaatct cgtgac                             1176
              <210>   858
              <211>   415
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 858
              atgaagccct acggaggtgg tcgtgagttg tcagcgtggg tgaggaaagg gccgtggacg     60
              gaggacgagg acgaggtgct gcggcggcac gtcatggaga acgggccccg ggagtggagc   120
              tccattcgat ccaaaggcct cctcccgcgc accggcaagt cctgccgcct ccgctgggtc   180
              aacaagctcc gcccggacat caagaagggc tgcaagttct cggcggacga ggagcgcgtg    240
                                                    969

              gtcatcgacc ttcaggcgca gttcggcaac aagtgggcca ggatcgccac gtacctgtcc    300
<removed-date>
              ggccgcacgg acaacgacgt caagaacttc tggagcacgc ggcagaagcg gctggcgagg    360
              ctccagcgtg cgccggggcc acgccggagg cccggcggag cttcttcctc gcgcg         415
              <210>   859
              <211>   1603
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 859
              aaagcaggct ggtaccggtc cggaattccc cccggccccg cctccctgac tcacctgcaa     60
              aaaccacttg caaaccacac aaaccgaaac cgccagctcc cctgcctcca tttttagcaa    120
              cttttccctt caatctcccg tcgcagtcac ccttcttgca cccccgcgca gcttccgaca    180
              cctccgacct tctctggcgg cgccccgccg ttggacgctc atggagaaga gcccgggcgc    240
              cgcgccgaca tcatcgcccg aggaggaggt ggcggcggat ggccgcgggc acgttgagga    300
              cgcgacgggg cagaaggagc aggcgacgcc ggtggtgctc aagaaggggc cgtggacggc    360
              agcggaggat gccatgctca tggaccacgt ccggcaccac ggcgagggga actggaacgc    420
              agtgcagagg gtgaccggcc tgctgcgctg cggcaagagc tgccgcctgc gctggaccaa    480
              ccacctccgc cccaacctca agaagggctc cttctccccc gacgaggagc tcctcatcgc    540
              ccagctccac gcgcagctcg gcaacaagtg ggcgcgcatg gccgcgcatc tgccggggag    600
              gacggacaac gagatcaaga actactggaa cacgaggacc aagcgccgcc agcgcgccgg    660
              cctgcctgtg cacccgccgc cagaggtgca gctccagctc gccctcgcca ggcgctgccg    720
              ctacgacgac ttcttcgccg ctgccgtccc cgcaggagct gtccggtgtc caggcgctgg    780
              tgggcgccgc cgcctcggcc gggtacgcca gctcccgccc ggcgcccctc gacctggctc    840
              ggcagctcac ccagacgacg aaccagcaga cggagactgt gcagttcctc tcgccgccac    900
              ccttctcggc gccgtcgtcc ccgtgggcga ggccgttcgc ccggaacgcg cagtacttcc    960
              agctcgcgca ctcgtcgtcg cccgtgtccc cgacgacgcc ggacctgtcc ctcggcttac   1020
              ggcgcgcgca gcgccggcgc cgaccagagc aggctcccgc cgctctcgcc ttccccttgc   1080
              cccagagtgg gggagctccc ttcaaaccaa tacgcccaac cgacgccgcc ggcttcggcc   1140
              gccgcccccc cacttggagg tgggggggca gcgctgccgg atcatcagaa cgcggcgagc   1200
                                                    970

              ctcgagaaga tgttgcgcga gctccatgac ttcatcaagg tcgacccccc ggcgctggtc   1260
<removed-date>
              ccgcccagcg gcggcggcgc tgccctggag tggcatggtg ggggagggga gtagtccatc   1320
              ccgtgtgtga accatttttt ttcgcttttt ccctttattt ttggatcccc gcgggagtag   1380
              ggagttcgat ttgttgcttt gcggggggaa gagaacaaat atgctcatga ttactgtgtg   1440
              aactggcaga ttagcgtgac ccttttcttt tgtggttcca aaatctccat ttgttttcac   1500
              ttgctacgtg ccaccgccca ccggcttctt caaaagctaa acaatttctg atcttcatcg   1560
<removed-apn>
              cggtgtcacc atctagtttt aatcggcgtt tcacttactt gcc                     1603
              <210>   860
              <211>   1954
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 860
              gggtacctcg aggccggccg ggccgcacga gaccattacc tagaacatcc taatcgaaaa     60
              aaaagtccaa acgctgcccc caccctctcg gcctccgcca ccgccgcggt ccttccctcc    120
              cctgcccacc gagtagattt gaggatctcc agctttttga ggacaatcca gttttcgtcg    180
              aagttcaaaa tgacggtggt ggaggcgggg gaagtgttga acttgaaggt gggcgagaac    240
              cctctactgg aggatgaggc caagacgggg tacgtctcgc ccgacgacca agacggggag    300
              accgccagcg aaaaacccag cggcgcgccc cagctgaaga agggcccctg gagtcccgat    360
              gaagataagc ttctcaaaaa ttatgtcgag gcacacggcg aggggaaatg gaacaaggtg    420
              cagcgcaact ccgggctcaa tcgctgtggc aagagctgcc gcctccgctg gaccaaccac    480
              ctcaggcccg atctcaagaa agggtctttc gacaatgagg agatcgacaa gattttgaag    540
              ttttacctca agtggggccc caagtgggcc aagatagcct cgcgattgcc tggtcgcaca    600
              gataatgaaa taaaaaactt ttggaatacc agaataaaga agactgagaa acagggtttg    660
              cctatctatc cggaacatgt gctttctcag gttaagcaac cgcaacaaga catgaactgt    720
              gaaactcctg gattgtcaca tggcaagaaa cggataagag agattgagat tcatgatctt    780
              atggatgtca aaatcttatt tcagcacctt gactatcata aggatctagt ggttccaaca    840
              aaacctttga aacgccgtgc atctattggt agtctgaaaa tttctggtga gactaaggaa    900
              acctattgtt ccactgattt gaactatgta ttggcaagga gtgagtcggt gcctactggt    960
                                                    971

              agtgccattg ccagtggtta tccagtcgag ctcccttcag tccaaagttc cagctctacc   1020
<removed-date>
              ctaagtaatg actggttgct tcaatgtgtt tcggcttctg ttgaacaaca gattcatagc   1080
              tccattcaat ctacagaaac catttcatcg caaaccactg gcctgctccc cacaatgtct   1140
              gaaatatctt ttgaaacact gattccaatg gtatacccta tgattcattc ttttggctac   1200
              tctgaacatg aaagctctcc gaatactgat attcaagctg caaacttatc tttaggttca   1260
              gatgatgtta gccagtatta tcaagttgct agtttttttg atcctggggt ccctgataca   1320
<removed-apn>
              gagctagggg caagtttctt caatgacaca ccaccagaaa caagtttttt gaaccaacag   1380
              aagcaagtat cttgaatggt acaccaccag aagcaagtat cttgaatgat atagcactag   1440
              aagcaagttt cttgaatggt acacaactag aagcaagttt cttgaatggt acacaactag   1500
              aagcaagttt cttgaatgat aattcgaagg accattcaca tctttactgt caggagccta   1560
              agcctgattg atggaggcca atggtttgat ctgtgtcgca agcccaggtc cgtgagcagc   1620
              agttctccgt tgcacaatca gggtcagtgc gacaaccatg attagatact cttgtcttcc   1680
              tagcattttg ttaaggtcac agagccttgt gttgtttcag gcagtttgtg tataaagaca   1740
              taccttgagt gcttgaactt catattcatt tattttgatg tgctgcgacc atctgaactg   1800
              aaatttcgtt ctttgatgtg atgtgattta tcgggaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa atgctgccct   1860
              tgccgttctc ctgcagtttc gagcttactt cctacatgct tcttgggtgt agtgggaatg   1920
              tgctccctgc atcctggaac tgatctgcta tgcc                               1954
              <210>   861
              <211>   1449
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 861
              gatagcttct gctcaggttg ctgacccaat cagatggcca aattcaccgt ggaggcttct     60
              tcaggtcgca tgggatgaac cggacttgct gcagaacgtg aaatgtgtga acccatggct    120
              cgtggagatc gtatcaagcg ttccaccgat ccacctggga ccattttctc cacctaggaa    180
              gaagctgcgg gtgccccacc atccggactt cccgttcgac ggccagctgt tgaatccgat    240
              tttccacggc aacccactcg gtccgagcaa cggcggcggt gctcttcgct gtttctcgga    300
              catcgctcct gcaggcatac agggagccag gcatgctcag ttcggtctac cactaacaga    360
                                                      972

              ccgccagctt aacaagctgc acctcggtct gttccaaggc ggcggtttta agcggcggct    420
<removed-date>
              tgacgctatc actccaccat gccctatatc caggggcttt gtgatcggca gtgcaccggt    480
              cgacgagagc gtctcttgcg tgctgacgat cggcacgcca cgggccgcag agagatctga    540
              cgacaggaag aaaccacatc taatgctgtt cggaaagcct atccttaccg agcagcagat    600
              gagctctaga gggtcaaggg aaacactctc ccctgaggcc actgggaaca gttccgatgg    660
              cagtgttcag aaaacgggaa acgtatccga tggctccggc tcgtcgatct gcatcggttc    720
<removed-apn>
              ctcgtcccga ggccgcgagg cttctaggct cgggttcgaa tttgaagccg ggcactgcaa    780
              ggtatttgtg gagtcggagg atgtcggtcg caccatcgac ctgtccgtct ttggctcgta    840
              cgaagagctg tacggtcagt tggccgacat gtttggaatc gagagggcag aggtaatgag    900
              ccacctttgt taccgtgatg ctgctggcgc tgtcaagcgt actggcgacg agccgttctg    960
              tgacttcatg aaagtggcac ggaggctcac catagtagag agcaccgagg ggaggctgca   1020
              gaaacctctc gtcgagtaca tggcttgatt gcatgactgt tcgataaggc actctgaagc   1080
              ttgaggaaga ctgaagcttg gagcgaatat gttttcgttt gcgtttgtct gccgtgaagc   1140
              ggaatcgcga tgtctgtctc gtcgtgtgaa agaaactcgt gtatcggatt ttcgtctgtc   1200
              gtgacttggt cgttagaact ctgtcgtggt cagttgtgtt gcgcttgcgc ttgggtcgaa   1260
              gttgatagat ggcctctttg atgaactagc ttggaataaa gttcgagttg tggttaggga   1320
              atgccagtgc catggcaatt cagttgtcgt tgtcgattta gttaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1380
              agctgcagtt tgatagcact tgccaagata tgttgaactt atcgtggtta tgttcatttc   1440
              ctcagcgtg                                                           1449
              <210>   862
              <211>   2484
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 862
              atgacgcata ccgaaattca cgggcctcaa acttccacac agctccacgc atacgtcgat     60
              ccactgctcc gtagctcagt tacacacgac acccgctcgt cttcgtcagt tcgtctcctc    120
              cacctctgta tccctctcac tccaccggcc gccggccctc gcatcggcgc gttcccaatg    180
              atcacatttg cggacctgac ggagccggcc gccgccggcg ccgagcggtg cgtggaccgg    240
                                                    973

              caactgtggc tggcgtgcgc gggcagcatg tgcaccgtgc cgcttgttgg cgccagcgtc    300
<removed-date>
              tgctacttcc cgcaggggca cgcggagcac gcgctcggtc tcgacggtgc ggccgacctc    360
              tccgcggcgc gcgtaccggc gctggtcccc tgccgcgtca cggcagtgcg ctacatggct    420
              gatccagaca ccgacgaggt cttcgccagg atccgcctcg tcccgctacg cggcggggag    480
              gcgcacgcgg gtggcctcga tgacgatgtg gccgcggcgg acgagcagga gaagccggcg    540
              tcgttcgcca agacgctgac acagtccgac gccaacaacg gcggcgggtt ctccgtgccg    600
<removed-apn>
              aggtactgcg cggagaccat cttcccgcgg cttgactacg ccgccgaccc gcccgtgcag    660
              aacgtcgtcg ccaaggatgt gcacgggacc gcctggaagt tccgccacat ctaccggggc    720
              acgccgcgcc ggcacctgct caccactggg tggagcacgt ttgtcaacca gaagaagctc    780
              atcgccgggg actccatcgt gttcctccgc ggtgacagcg gggacctgca cgtcggcatc    840
              cggcgcgcaa agcgtgggtt ctgcggcgct ggtgggggcg gaggcgacga ggcccctacg    900
              cccgggtggc atcattacgc cggccttatc cgaggtaatg tgagcccttg cgcggctgcc    960
              aaggcacggg gcaaggtgcg accagaggac gtggccgagg cggcgaggct ggcggctgcc   1020
              gggcagtcgt ttgaggtggt gtactaccct cgcgcgagca cgcccgagtt ctgcgttcgc   1080
              gccgccgcgg tccgcgcggc gatgagggtg cagtggtccc cagggatgcg gttcaagatg   1140
              gcgttcgaga ccgaggactc ctccaggatc agctggttca tgggcaccgt cgccggcgtc   1200
              caggtcaccg accccatccg ctggccgcag tcgccgtggc gccttcttca ggtgacctgg   1260
              gacgagccgg accttctgca gaacgtgaag cgggtgagcc catggctggt cgagctggtg   1320
              tcaagcatgc cggccatcca cctcgcctcc ttctcgccgc cgcggaagaa gccccgcatc   1380
              ccagcgtacc ccgagttccc cttcgaaggg cagctcctta acccggcgtt cccgcccagc   1440
              ccactgccac acggccagca acaccaccac aatttccttc acgcccaccc accgtcgttc   1500
              ttcccgttcc cggacggcag tgctcctgca gccatacagg gagccaggca tgcgcaattt   1560
              gttccatctt tatcagatct ccaccttatc cacctgcagt cgagcctgct gtaccctggg   1620
              ctccgccgtc ccgaccatgt cggtccgacg atccctatcc cgtcgggaat cagcaccgac   1680
              ctgaccatcg gaggcgcacc ggcgcgcgac ggcgtcccgt gtgccctgtc cgtcggtgcc   1740
              agcaagcaga accccgacgc cgtcaagccg gcggggctgg tgctcttcgg acggaccata   1800
              ctaaccgagc atcagatgag cctcagcagc tccggcggcg ccacctcccc agcggcgact   1860
                                                    974

<removed-date>
              ggtaacagct ctctgtgctg gaccgccgag aagggcccca atgtctcgga gggctcgggc   1920
              tcgggctcgg gctccggcgt catccagaac agcccgaccg gcaagaacac gtcgtcggag   1980
              aggctgccgt ggttcgggga cggcagcagc cagcaggcct ccgagcccgg tcttgagccc   2040
              ggacaatgca aggtgttcgt cgagtccgac acggtcggcc gcaacctcga cctgtcggcg   2100
              ctgggctcgt tcgacgagct gtacggccgc ctgtccgaga tgttcggcgt cgagggcgcg   2160
<removed-apn>
              gagatgcgga gccgcgtgct gtaccgcggc gccaccggtg aagtgaggca cgccggcgac   2220
              gagcccttca gaggagacag caaccgcagt gagggaggag aaaaggtggc cgtcggcgag   2280
              gttgagtggc cgcacggggg agcttcagcc ccccgccgtg cgggtgatct ccggctggcc   2340
              gccacgcggg cgagcgtggg gggagcttgg gccctgctgc cgcgcgggca acctctggcg   2400
              gtctggccca cgcccaccat cgcgcaaggc gagcgcgggg gaactccggc agtcaagccc   2460
              ccagcggccc tcctcgtcgc ttag                                          2484
              <210>   863
              <211>   2807
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 863
              gccggcgagg ccggccttca gtcatcacca caacaaggta gaggcgtccg aggcctcgcc     60
              ataattccaa cccactgtgt gtgccgctgt agcagcgcag cgcagcgcgc gcgccaccac    120
              cgtcaacctc ctgatctccc cgcctcgccg ccgtcgattc ttcgccgtct tcctggggct    180
              cgggggcagc cggagcaagc ttgggggggt ggtgtcctcg gaccgacgac agagtcgttg    240
              cccgcgaaga tgccggccct ggtgtacatt cctactccgc tttgcccggt gccagagcgt    300
              ttctcccgga gtagcggttg cgccgcctca tgatctgcca attggaaccc ctgggcgtgc    360
              gcagaggagg ttgctctgca gctggacagt gatcgcgttt ggtgggtgtg gcggcggtgg    420
              aggaagacga cacgacgaag acgaggaggt caggaggcca tgaaggaggc gggcgaggag    480
              aggtgccttg acccgcagct gtggcacgcg tgcgccggcg gcatggtgca gatgcccccc    540
              gtgcgctccc gtgtctacta cttcccgcag ggccacgcgg aacacgcgca cggcggcggc    600
              ggcgccacgg acctcgccgg ggcgcgggcg cgacctctcc cgccgctcgt gctctgcacc    660
              gtcgccgggg tgcgcttcct ggccgatccg gagaccgacg aggtcttcgc caagatccgc    720
                                                    975

<removed-date>
              ctcgtgccgg ccgcgcccgg cgaggtggag ttcggagagc cccgcgagtt cggcatcgac    780
              cccgaggacg cccgggagaa gctgtcctcc ttcgccaaga cgctcacgca gtccgacgcc    840
              aacaacggcg gcggcttctc cgtgccgcgc tactgcgccg agaccatctt ccccaagctc    900
              gactaccggg ccgacccgcc ggtgcagacg gtgctcgcca aggacgtgca cggggaggtc    960
              tggaagttcc gccacatttt ccggggcacg ccgcgccggc atttgctcac cacgggatgg   1020
<removed-apn>
              agcgcgttcg tcaaccagaa gaagctcgtc gccggggact ccatcgtctt cctgcgcacc   1080
              gagcatggcg agctgtgcgt cgggatacgc cgtgccaagc gggtgtcctg tggtggcatg   1140
              gagtgcatct ctggctggaa cgccccggtg tacggggcct tgtcggcgtt cttgaaggac   1200
              gaggaaggta agatcactaa gggtcctggt gggtacatga gaggcagggg gaaggtggag   1260
              atcacggacg ttgttgaggc cgcaagctta gccgcgagcg ggcagccatt tgaggtggtg   1320
              tactacccga gagctagcac tccagagttt gttgtgaagg ctgcatcggt acagaacgcg   1380
              atgaggaacc agtggtgccc tgggatgagg ttcaagatgg catttgagac agaggattcg   1440
              tcaaggatca gctggtttat ggggacgata gcttctgctc aggttgctga cacaatcaga   1500
              tggccaaatt caccgtggag gcttcttcag gtgtcatggg atgaaccaga cttgctgcag   1560
              aatgtgaaat gtgtcaatcc atggcttgtg gagattgtat caagcattcc accgattcac   1620
              ctagggacat tttctccacc tagaaagaag ttgcgggtgg cccaacatcc agactttcca   1680
              tttgagggtc agctgttgaa tccaattttc catggcaacc cacttggtcc aagcaacagc   1740
              ccacttcgct gtttctcgga catcgctcct gcaggcatac agggagccag gcatgctcaa   1800
              tttggtttac ccctaacaga ctaccagctt aaccagctgc acctcggttt caaccggctt   1860
              ggtgctatga ctccgacgcc ccgtatatcc aagggttttg tgatcagcag cgcaccagcc   1920
              agtgagagtg tctcttgctt gctgacaatc ggcacaccac aggccacaga gaaatctgat   1980
              gacataaaga gaccccacat aatgctgttc ggaaagccta tccttactga gcagcagatg   2040
              gattctggag gatcgaggga aggcctatcc caagaccgca aggcttctga gcttgggcta   2100
              gaagacgggc actgcaaggt gtttatggaa tcagaggatg ttggccgcac cattgaccta   2160
              tctgtctttg gttcgtacga agagctgtac ggccagttag cggacatgtt tggaattgag   2220
              aaggcggaaa taatgaggca cctttgctac cgtgatgctg ctggtgctgt caggcatact   2280
                                                    976

              ggtgaagagc cgttcaatga cttcatgaaa gtagcacgga ggctcaccat tatagagggc   2340
<removed-date>
              acggagggga gaccgcagaa acctctcgtg gaatacatgg tcgagcgggc ttgattgcat   2400
              ggtggttcgg acaaggcaat ctgaaacttg tgcaagactg agcttagagc gaagtaactg   2460
              ctgtgtgttt tcatttgtgt ttgtctgccg ccgaagcaga atcgcgatgc ttgtctggtc   2520
              gtgtggaaaa ccttggtgta cgcttcgtga cttggtcgtt agaactctgt cgtggtcagt   2580
              tgtgttttgc ttggtcgaag ttgatgaata acctctttga cgaattagct tggaataaag   2640
<removed-apn>
              ttcgagttgt tgtgttatgg taagtgccat ggcaacatgg caattcagtt gtcactgtcg   2700
              atttagttaa aatgcgtgta tctgttatta cagtttgaca acacttattc atttcatcag   2760
              catacttgtg gccggttatc tatcgccagt ttgggaacaa aaaaaaa                 2807
              <210>   864
              <211>   2566
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 864
              ttatcgatga caaattgtta aagatccccc acgcaacaag gagaggtgtc cgaggcctcc     60
              cacctcataa ttccaaccca ctgtgtgtgc cgctgtagca gcgcgcgcca ccaccgtcaa    120
              cttctcccca cctcgccgcc gtctagattt cgtctcctgg gctcgagcaa ccgaagcagg    180
              cttggggtgt tctcggagag aatcgttgcc tcggccgatg ccggccctga tgtaggtttc    240
              tgctctgctt tgcccggtgc caacgtctct cccggagtag cggttccgcc gccccatgat    300
              ctgccagttg gaacacatgg gcgttcacgg aggaggttgc tctgctggac agtgaccgca    360
              tttggtagcg gtggaggaag acgacgaaga ggaggaggag taggccatga aggaggtggc    420
              cgaggaaagg tgccttgacc cgcagctgtg gcacgcgtgc gctggcggca tggtgcagat    480
              gccgcccgtg cgctcccgtg tctactactt cccgcagggt cacgcggagc acgcgcatgg    540
              cggcggggcc gcggacctcg ccggggcgcg agcgctcccg tcgctcgtgc tctgcagcgt    600
              caccggggtg cgcttcctgg ccgatccgga gaccgacgag gtcttcgcca agatccgcct    660
              ggtgccggtc gcgcccggcg aggtggagtt ccgagagccc gatgagttca gcgtcgaccc    720
              cgcggacgcc cgggagaagc tttcttcctt cgccaagacg ctgacgcagt ccgacgccaa    780
              caacggtggc ggcttctcgg tgccgcgcta ctgcgccgag accatcttcc ccaagctcga    840
                                                    977

              ctaccgggcc gacccgccgg tgcagacggt gcttgccaag gacgtgcacg gggaggtctg    900
<removed-date>
              gaagttccgc cacatttacc ggggcacgcc gcgccggcat ttgctcacca cgggatggag    960
              cacgttcgtc aaccagaaga agctcgtcgc cggggactcc atcgtcttcc tgcgcactga   1020
              gcatggcgag ctgtgcgtcg ggatacggcg tgtcaagcgg gtgtcctgtg gtggcatgga   1080
              gtgcatgtct gggtggaacg ccccggggta tggggccttg tcggcattct tgaaggatga   1140
              ggagggtaag atgatgaaga gtcatggtgg gtacatgaga ggtaggggga aggtgaagat   1200
<removed-apn>
              cacggatgtt gtcaacgccg caagtctagc agcgagcgga caaccatttg aagttgtgta   1260
              ctacccgaga gctagcacac cggagtttgt tgtgaaggct gcatcggtac agaacgcgat   1320
              gaggaaccag tggtgcccgg ggatgaggtt caagatggca tttgagacag agtattcgtc   1380
              aaggatcagt tggtttatgg ggacgatagc ttctgctcag gttgctgacc caatcagatg   1440
              gccaaattca ccgtggaggc ttcttcaggt tttgcttgat cacatgtttc caatacttgt   1500
              atgcaatact gcatttctct tctggtcaat ggtcactgag atcagtgttg tcaccttcta   1560
              caacattgtt ttccatctcc atgtggcatg ggatgaaccg gacttgctgc agaacgtgaa   1620
              atgtgtgaac ccatggctcg tggagatcgt atcaagcatt ccaccgatcc acctgggacc   1680
              attttctcca cctaggaaga agctgcgggt gccccaccat ccggacttcc cgttcgacgg   1740
              ccagctgttg aatccgattt tccacggcaa cccactcggt ccgagcaacg gcggcggtgc   1800
              tcttcgctgt ttctcggaca tcgctcctgc aggcatacag ggagccaggc atgctcagtt   1860
              cggtctacca ctaacagacc gccagcttaa caagctgcac ctcggtctgt tccaaggcgg   1920
              cggttttaag cggcggcttg acgctatcac tccaccatgc cctatatcca ggggctttgt   1980
              gatcggcagt gcaccggtcg acgagagcgt ctcttgcgtg ctgacgatcg gcacgccacg   2040
              ggccgcagag agatctgacg acaggaagaa accacatcta atgctgttcg gaaagcctat   2100
              ccttaccgag cagcagatga gctctagagg gtcaagggaa acactctccc ctgaggccac   2160
              tgggaacagt tccgatggca gtgttcagaa aacgggaaac gtatccgatg gctccggctc   2220
              gtcgatctgc atcggttcct cgtcccgagg ccgcgaggct tctaggctcg ggttcgaatt   2280
              tgaagccggg cactgcaagg tatttgtgga gtcggaggat gtcggtcgca ccatcgacct   2340
              gtccgtcttt ggctcgtacg aagagctgta cggtcagttg gccgacatgt ttggaatcga   2400
              gaaggcagag gtaatgagcc acctttgtta ccgtgatgct gctggcgctg tcaagcgtac   2460
                                                    978

<removed-date>
              tggcgacgag ccgttctgtg acttcatgaa agtggcacgg aggctcacca tagtagagag   2520
              caccgagggg aggctgcaga aacctctcgt cgagtacatg gcttga                  2566
              <210>   865
              <211>   1449
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 865
              atgaggacgg tgaacgggga cctctgcgtc ggcatccggc gcgccaagaa gggcggcatc     60
              ggaggagggc cggagttccc gcaccaccag ccgccgggcg gcggcggcgg gtacgggtac    120
              gccggcttct ccacgttcct gagaggagaa gaggacgacg cggccgcgag gggcaaggcc    180
              agggtgcggg tgcggccgga ggaggtcgtc gaggccgcca acctcgcggc gagcgggcag    240
              ccgttcgagg tggtctacta cccgagggcg agcacgccgg agttctgcgt caaggcgggg    300
              gcggtccgcg cggccatgcg cacccagtgg tgcgccggga tgaggttcaa gatggccttc    360
              gagacggagg actcgtccag gatcagctgg ttcatgggca ctgtcgccgc cgtgcaggtc    420
              gctgacccca tccgatggcc caattcaccc tggaggcttc ttcagaacgt gaagagagtg    480
              agcccatggc tggtcgagct tgtctcaagc acgccggcca tccaccacct cacgccgttc    540
              tcgccgccaa gcaggaagaa gctgtgtatc ccattgtacc cggagggcca ccagctcccg    600
              gcgccgatgt tccacggaag ccctctggtg ggccgtggtg ttggcccgat gcgctacttc    660
              ccggacggcg gcactcctcc tgcaggcata cagggagcca ggcatgcgca attcggcata    720
              tctttaccag atctccacca cctcaccagg ctgcagtcga gtctatcgcc gcacgcgcac    780
              gggcttcgcc accagctcga ccacggcgcg cggccgagga tcgccggcgg cctcatcgtc    840
              ggccacccgg cagctcggga cgacatctcg tgcttgctca ccattggcac cgccccgcac    900
              aagaaaccat cagacgtcaa gtcggccgcg gcggcgccgg cgccgcagct gatgctgttt    960
              gggaaaccga ttctcaccga gcagcagata tctctaggct ttcggccgct gccggcgccg   1020
              aagaagagcc cgtccgacga cgctgctgag actgagagga cggtgagcaa caactcggat   1080
              gcctcgagcc cagctgggac tgcgagtggg agcacgccgt ccatcagtgg aggcgccccg   1140
              tcgtcgtgcc aggacaacaa ggcggcggcg acggcgacgg cgactgatga cgacgatctc   1200
              ctcgggcact gcaaggtgtt catgcagtcg gaggacgtcg ggcgcacgct cgacctctcg   1260
                                                    979

<removed-date>
              gctgtcgcgt cgtacgagga gctctaccag aggctggccg acatgttcgg cgtcgacagg   1320
              gccgagctga cgagccatgt cttctaccgc gacggcgctt ctggagcgct caagcacgcc   1380
              ggcgacgagc ctttcagtga gttcaccaag accgctcgga ggctgaccat acaaacggac   1440
              gcgaggtag                                                           1449
              <210>   866
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1913
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 866
              gggcccctcg agggatactc tagagcggcc gcgaggggca aggtcagggt gctggtgcgg     60
              ccggaggagg tcgtcgaggc cgccaacctc gcggcgagcg ggcagccgtt cgaggtggtc    120
              tactacccga gggcgagcac gccggagttc tgcgtcaagg cgggggcggt ccgcgcggcc    180
              atgcgcaccc agtggtgcgc cgggatgagg ttcaagatgg ccttcgagac ggaggactcg    240
              tccaggatca gctggttcat gggcactgtc gccgccgtgc aggtcgctga ccccatccga    300
              tggcccaatt caccctggag gcttctccag gtcggttggg atgagccgga cttgttacag    360
              aacgtgaaga gagtgagccc atggctggtc gagcttgtct caagcacgcc ggccatccac    420
              cacctcacgc cgttctcgcc gccaagcagg aagaagctgt gtatcccatt gtacccggag    480
              ggccaccagc tcccggcgcc gatgttccac ggaagccctc tggtgggccg tggtgttggg    540
              ccgatgcgct acttcccgga cggcggcact cctcctgcag gcatacaggg agccaggcat    600
              gcgcaattcg gcatatgttt accagatctc caccacctca ccaggctgca gtcgagtcta    660
              tcgccgcacg cgcacgggct tcgccaccag ctcgaccacg gcgcgcggcc gaggatcgcc    720
              ggcggcctca tcgtcggcca cccggcagct cgggacgaca tctcgtgctt gctcaccatt    780
              ggcaccgccc cgcacaagaa accatcagac gtcaagtcgg ccgcggcggc gccggcgccg    840
              cagctgatgc tgtttgggaa accgattctc accgagcagc agatatctct aggctttcgg    900
              ccgctgccgg cgccgaagaa gagcccgtcc gacgacgctg ctgagactga gaggacgatg    960
              agcaacaact cggatgcctc gagcccagct gggactgcga gtgggagcac gccgtccatc   1020
              agtggaggcg ccccgtcgtc gtgccaggac aacaaggcgg cggcgacggc gacggcgact   1080
              gatgacgacg atctcctcgg gcactgcaag gtgttcatgc agtcggagga cgtcgggcgc   1140
                                                    980

<removed-date>
              acgctcgacc tctcggctgt cgcgtcgtac gaggagctct accagaggct ggccgacatg   1200
              ttcggcgtcg acagggccga gctgacgagc catgtcttct accgcgacgg cgcttctgga   1260
              gcgctcaagc acgccggcga cgagcctttc agtgagttca ccaagaccgc tcggaggctg   1320
              accatacaaa cggacgcgag gtagaagaag gcggcagaca atgaagctct cgtcgcctgt   1380
              acaaccgggg ggagctagcg agccgcggcg gcgatctcga aggacgatcg ccccttgcag   1440
<removed-apn>
              agtgctggtg cagactgcaa agagggcggt gctgctgtcg tgtcggtcgt ttcttatcag   1500
              ctcttttgtt gcctgcaaaa tgaatttaaa gaatgtgctt tgtcacgctg ccacgtcagt   1560
              cagtcagcac gcagttgcta ccgcccaacg gtactgttct tttgcacata cttgttctag   1620
              ccctgtcgtt gttcctgttg cgggggagcc ctggcaggcg tgcgtagtgc gagcgccccg   1680
              gatgccgtgc catttcacca gccaggccgc gccgtgctgc ttctagcggt ccttgtgtgc   1740
              acggcgtacg ttgttcagtg atctttcctg gagtgtccaa gtactctcgt gcctactgtc   1800
              ccacggtctg cttttcatcc tctctaatat atgttcatct ctgtacacga gcgaaaagcg   1860
              tgaacagtag aggaggaaga tcactaaaca gaaaaaaata taaaattttg tgt          1913
              <210>   867
              <211>   2246
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 867
              tgacactata gaacaagttt ggtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaatttccgg     60
              accgtgagaa cacgcagctc cgtagctcag ttacacacga cacccgctcg tcttcgtcag    120
              ttcgtctcct ccacctctgt atccctctca ctccaccggc cgccggccct cgcatcggcg    180
              cgttcccaat gatcacattt gcggacctga cggagccggc cgccgccggc gccgagcggt    240
              gcgtggaccg gcaactgtgg ctggcgtgcg cgggcagcat gtgcaccgtg ccgcttgttg    300
              gcgccagcgt ctgctacttc ccgcaggggc acgcggagca cgcgctcggt ctcgacggtg    360
              cggccgacct ctccgcggcg cgcgtaccgg cgctggtccc ctgccgcgtc acggcagtgc    420
              gctacatggc tgatccagac accgacgagg tcttcgccag gatccgcctc gtcccgctac    480
              gcggcgggga ggcgcacgcg ggtggcctcg atgacgatgt ggccgcggcg gacgagcagg    540
              agaagccggc gtcgttcgcc aagacgctga cacagtccga cgccaacaac ggcggcgggt    600
                                                    981

<removed-date>
              tctccgtgcc gaggtactgc gcggagacca tcttcccgcg gcttgactac gccgccgacc    660
              cgcccgtgca gaacgtcgtc gccaaggatg tgcacgggac cgcctggaag ttccgccaca    720
              tctaccgggg cacgccgcgc cggcacctgc tcaccactgg gtggagcacg tttgtcaacc    780
              agaagaagct catcgccggg gactccatcg tgttcctccg cggtgacagc ggggaactgc    840
              acgtcggcat ccggcgcgca aagcgtgggt tctgcggcgc tggtgggggc ggaggcgacg    900
<removed-apn>
              aggcccctac gcccgggtgg catcattacg ccggccttat ccgaggtaat gtgagccctt    960
              gcgcggctgc caaggcacgg ggcaaggtgc gaccagagga cgtggccgag gcggcgaggc   1020
              tggcggctgc cgggcagtcg tttgaggtgg tgtactaccc tcgcgcgagc acgcccgagt   1080
              tctgcgttcg cgccgccgcg gtccgcgcgg cgatgagggt gcagtggtcc ccagggatgc   1140
              ggttcaagat ggcgttcgag accgaggact cctccaggat cagctggttc atgggcaccg   1200
              tcgccggcgt ccaggtcacc gaccccatcc gctggccgca gtcgccgtgg cgccttcttc   1260
              aggtgacctg ggacgagccg gaccttctgc agaacgtgaa gcgggtgagc ccatggctgg   1320
              tcgagctggt gtcaagcatg ccggccatcc acctcgcctc cttctcgccg ccgcggaaga   1380
              agccccgcat cccagcgtac cccgagttcc ccttcgaagg gcagctcctt aacccggcgt   1440
              tcccgcccag cccactgcca cacggccagc aacaccacca caatttcctt cacgcccacc   1500
              caccgtcgtt cttcccgttc ccggacggca gtgctcctgc agccatacag ggagccaggc   1560
              atgcgcaatt tgttccatct ttatcagatc tccaccttat ccacctgcag tcgagcctgc   1620
              tgtaccctgg gctccgccgt cccgaccatg tcggtccgac gatccctatc ccgtcgggaa   1680
              tcagcaccga cctgaccatc ggaggcgcac cggcgcgcga cggcgtcccg tgtgccctgt   1740
              ccgtcggtgc cagcaagcag aaccccgacg ccgtcaagcc ggcggggctg gtgctcttcg   1800
              gacggaccat actaaccgag catcagatga gcctcagcag ctccggcggc gccacctccc   1860
              cagcggcgac tggtaacagc tctctgtgct ggaccgccga gaagggcccc aatgtctcgg   1920
              agggctcggg ctcgggctcg ggctccggcg tcatccagaa cagcccgacc ggcaagaaca   1980
              cgtcgtcgga gaggctgccg tggttcgggg acggcagcag ccagcaggcc tccgagcccg   2040
              gtcttgagcc cggacaatgc aaggtgttcg tcgagtccga cacggtcggc cgcaacctcg   2100
              acctgtcggc gctgggctcg ttcgacgagc tgtacggccg cctgtccgag atgttcggcg   2160
                                                    982

              tcgagggcgc ggagatgcgg agccgcgtgc tgtaccgcgg cgccaccggt gaagtgaggc   2220
<removed-date>
              acgccggcga cgagcccttc aggtaa                                        2246
              <210>   868
              <211>   741
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(1)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (358)..(358)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 868
              nccccacccc atattaaatt aaaccacaac ccaaagtaca ctccaacact ctttaataat     60
              tatattaatt tttctccccc cccccccgaa ttgggtaccg ggccccccct cgagtcagct    120
              acctaggccc cccccccaat tcatgcttgt ctttgccaat attctaaagt ttgaattttc    180
              atcgcaacag gttagttggg atgagcctga tttgctacat aatgtgaagc gagtgagccc    240
              atggttggtt gagttggtat ctaacgtgcc aatcatccat ctggcagcct tctctccacc   300
              aaggaagaag cttaggttcc cccttgacgt tcagtttccg ataccatcgt tttcaggnaa   360
              cccctttggg tcttctagct ctagcagccc cttttgttgt ctctctgata acgctcctgc   420
              aggcatacag ggagcccagg cattctcaaa ttggaatatc tttatcagat cctccacctt   480
              aacaataagc tgcagttgag gttgcttccc actaaagtcc accagcttaa tttgcacgcc   540
              gggatttcta atgctaagag taaagaaagc ctatcatcct tgctctccat gggaaattct    600
              aacatgactt tggagaaatc tgatcatgtc aagagacacc attttttgct tttccggtca    660
              accgatactc cccgagcaac aaatctctaa atcctctagt gatgtcccca ccggatgatg    720
              agaataagga aaagaagaag a                                             741
              <210>   869
              <211>   2262
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                    983

<removed-date>
              <400> 869
              atgtctcccg aagcctgcga gctcacgctc gcgccgcgga tgcccgcatc gcaggccggt     60
              gccggtgccg gcgccgagcc cgagaccaag ggatccgtgc acccgcaact gtggtacgcg    120
              tgcgcgggcc ccacgtgcac cgtgccgccc gtcggcaccg cggtgtacta cttccctcag    180
              ggccacgccg agcatgccgg cgccgccgcc gacgccaacc tgcacgcccc gcctttcgtg    240
              ccgtgccgcg tcgcgggcgt caggttcatg gctgagctcg acaccgacga aatcttcgtc    300
<removed-apn>
              aaaatacgcc tcgacccgct ccgctccggg gagccgctga cggacgtggg cgaggcccag    360
              gtggtgaacg acgaggccgg ccagcggcag cccaccaggc cggtgatttc ttccgccaag    420
              acgctgacca agtccgactc ctacagcggc ggcagcctct ccgtgcggcg cacctgcgcg    480
              gaaaccatct tccccaagct ggacaagagc atcaaacggc cccagcagtt ggtctccgcc    540
              agggacgtgc acggcgtcga gtggacgttc cgccacgtct accggggcac cccggagcgg    600
              aacctgctca ccacagggtg gagcgacttc gtcaacagca agaagatcgt catcggcgat    660
              tccgtcgtgt tcctgcgcga agaggacggc accatccaca tcggcctgcg gcgcgccgag    720
              cgcgcgtccc ggcggaacgc ctacgggcgc cagctggtgc ggggcaacgc gagcggcacg    780
              ggcgccgccg cggacggcgt cctccgagcg gaggacgtgg tcgcggcggc ggtgacgctg    840
              gccgccgccg ggaacccgtt cgaggtggtg cactacccgc gggccacagc gccggcgttc    900
              tgcgtgcgcg tggccacggt cattgaggcc ttgcaggtct cctggtgccc cggcttgcgg    960
              ttcaagatgg cgttcgaggc aaaggacctg tcccggatca gctggttcat gggcaccgtc   1020
              gccggtgtcg ggccggccga tcccgcccgg tggccgctgt cgccctggcg attccttcag   1080
              gtgacctggg acgagcctga gctcgtgcgg aacatgaacc gcctgagccc gtggcaggtc   1140
              gagctggtgg cgaccatgcc caacctgccg cacttcgcgg cgccgcctac gccgacgccg   1200
              ccgcgcaaga agccgcgcat gccgacgtac aaggagtacc aatcgcaggg ccggcaactt   1260
              ttcgatcccg ttttcccgct caacaaccca ctcccactgc cacacccaca ccaccaccct   1320
              gcaccaaccc acgactggaa ctgccacggt ttcgtccatt gttcctcctt ccccttcccg   1380
              gacagcatcg ctcctgctgc tgccgcaggc atacagggag ccaggcatgc gaacttcgct   1440
              cagttcttat tttcggatca cctcctcagc aacctgcggc gaagcctggt gttgggtggc   1500
              atccgccagt acccaggcga tcaccatgcc gctcccgcgc cacggatccc catccccacc   1560
                                                    984

<removed-date>
              gacgacgtga agactggcag cgaaacgccc cgctctccat cacatgcgac caagaagcgc   1620
              gacggagtca agccgccggg gataaggctc ttcgggcagg agatactgac cgaggagcag   1680
              atgaaaggca gccacgatgg gaaagcgacc aacaacacct ctggtcgctc tggagcgccc   1740
              gagttcgggc tggagcccgg gcagtgaaga gtgttggtgg agtcggtcgc cttcgtcgga   1800
              tcagctagct agcgctgcag ccgcagtgta gcttagagga gcacgtcggc gacgagactt   1860
<removed-apn>
              tgagtgcgta tgtgaaataa ccggggagga tcgatcgagg taccgaacga atgacgctgg   1920
              caggcagcga ccacacgccg agaaccgatg atcgaccagc agatatcggc tgcgactgcg   1980
              atattgtaga gcgctatatt cataggatgc gatagcgata cagccgaatg caccaccgag   2040
              cttgcggcca cgtacgtttg aggtctcttc ctggatcagt cttagagagt ttacagctta   2100
              agctgatgcg gttattcaat tcagttatta cgctgtgttt ttaaggccac tttggattgc   2160
              tgggtttttt ttatttcttt cttatgttct ctacggtttt atgttcctgc agacgattcc   2220
              tataaatttt gtcctataaa aaacaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aa                      2262
              <210>   870
              <211>   2531
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2497)..(2497)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 870
              atggagcggg agcgggagag tgacaggtgc ctggacccgc agctgtggca cgcctgcgcc     60
              ggcgggatgg tccagatgcc ggcggtgcac tccaaggtgt actacttccc gcagggccac    120
              gcggagcacg cgcagggccc cgtggacctc cccgccggcc gggtccccgc gctcgtcctc    180
              tgccgcgtcg ccgccgtccg cttcatggcc gatccggaca ccgacgaggt cttcgccaag    240
              atccgcctgg ccccggtccg tcccaacgag ccgggctacg ccgacgacgc cattggcgcc    300
              gcggcggcgt cgggcgcgca ggaggacaag cccgcgtcct tcgccaagac gctcacgcag    360
              tccgacgcca acaacggcgg gggcttctcc gtgccgcgct actgcgccga gaccatcttc    420
              ccgcggctcg actactcggc cgaccccccc gtgcagaccg tgctcgccaa ggacgtgcac    480
                                                    985

<removed-date>
              ggcgtggtct ggaagttccg ccacatctac cgcggcacgc cccggcgcca cctgctcacc    540
              accggctgga gcaccttcgt gaaccagaag aagctcggcg aggcggactc catcgtgttc    600
              atgcggacgg agaacgggga cctctgcgtc ggcatccggc gcgccaagaa gggcggcatc    660
              ggagggccgg agttcatgca ccaccaccac cagcagccgc ccccgccgca gggcggcggg    720
              tacgccgggt tctccatgtt cctgcgaggg gaagaggacg gcggcaagat gatggccgcg    780
<removed-apn>
              gccgccacga gggggaaggc cgccagggtg cgggtgcggc cagaggaggt cgtcgaggcg    840
              cgctaacctg gccgtgagcg ggcagccgtt cgaggtggtg tactacccga gggcgagcac    900
              gccagagttc tgcgtcaagg cgggggcggt gcgcgccgcc atgcgcaccc agtggtgccc    960
              cgggatgagg ttcaagatgg ccttcgagac ggaggactcg tcccggatca gctggttcat   1020
              gggcactgtc tccgccgtgc acgtcgctga ccccatccga tggcccaatt caccctggag   1080
              gcttctccag gtcgcctggg atgagccgga cctgttacag aacgtgaaga gggtgagccc   1140
              atggctggtt gagctggtgt cgaacatgcc ggtcatccat cacctcacag ccacgccctt   1200
              ctcgccgccc aggaagaagc tgtgcgtccc actgtacccg gagcttccgc tggagggcca   1260
              gttcccggcg ccgatgttcc acggaagccc cctcctcggc cgtggcggcg ccggtggccc   1320
              gatgtgctac ttcccggacg gcactcctgc aggcatacag ggagccaggc atgctcaatt   1380
              cggcatatcc ttatcagatc tccacctgaa caagctgcag ccgggcctgt caccgcacgg   1440
              gctccaccgc cagctcgacc acggcgtgca ggtgcaggtg cagcagccga ggatcgccgc   1500
              cgggctcatc gtcggcggcc acccggcggc ccgagacgac gtctcgtgtc tgctcaccat   1560
              cggcacccca aagagcaaga agccaccgtc agacgtcaag aaggcgtcca cggcggcggc   1620
              accgcagctg atgctcttcg ggaaagcgat cctcaccgag cagcagatat cgctaggcgg   1680
              cggcaatgtc gtgccggcgc tgctggcgaa gaagagcccc tccgacgacg acgacgacgt   1740
              ggccgagagg acggtgagca actcggacgt gtcgagccct gggaggagca accaggacgg   1800
              cacgtccagt ggcggaggcc cggcggcgcg ggcgtgctgg caggaggagg agtgcaacaa   1860
              cagggcggca ggttctgagg acgacctcct cgggcactgc aaggtgttca tgcagtcgga   1920
              ggacgtcggg cgcacgctgg acctctccgc cgtcgcgtcg tacgaggagc tctaccagag   1980
              gctcgccgac atgttcggcg tcgacaaggc cgagctgacc agccacgtgt tctaccgcga   2040
                                                    986

              cgacgcttcc ggagcgctca agcaccctgg cgacgagcct ttcagtgagt tcaccaagac   2100
<removed-date>
              cgcccggagg ctgaccatac tgacggacga gagcagcgac agcttagcga ggtagagtcc   2160
              agtctcaagg agacggcggt tcggcagttt cggttgggag tgggaggcgc cccggaacgg   2220
              gagcgcgtgc gtgcgtctga tccaggacca aagatttgtc ggactagtag ctctacagta   2280
              gtggagtacg tacgtacacc ttgatgctgc tgcttctgct gtcagttcaa gtggccataa   2340
              ccataatgca gctgcctttg gtcacagtga ctgatccggg aatgtgttgt gtacatcggg   2400
<removed-apn>
              accgttgatt tgcgaacgcg attactgaaa gagcttatat ttattttttt ttggattttt   2460
              gatataaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagcttatc gtaccgncga acccctccgg gggggggggc   2520
              cccggtaccc a                                                        2531
              <210>   871
              <211>   1363
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 871
              ccacgcgtcc gggacaggtc gcctgggatg agccggacct gttacagaac gtgaagaggg     60
              aagaagctgt gcgtcccact gtacccggag cttccgctgg agggccagtt cccggcgccg    120
              atgttccacg gaagccccct cctcggccgt ggcggcgccg gtggcccgat gtgctacttc    180
              ccggacggca ctcctgcagg catacaggga gccaggcatg ctcaattcgg catatcctta    240
              tcagatctcc acctgaacaa gctgcagccg ggcctgtcac cgcacgggct ccaccgccag    300
              ctcgaccacg gcgtgcaggt gcaggtgcag cagccgagga tcgccgccgg gctcatcgtc    360
              ggcggccacc cggcggcccg agacgacgtc tcgtgtctgc tcaccatcgg caccccaaag    420
              agcaagaagc caccgtcaga cgtcaagaag gcgtccacgg cggcggcacc gcagctgatg    480
              ctcttcggga aagcgatcct caccgagcag cagatatcgc taggcggcgg caatgtcgtg    540
              ccggcgctgc tggcgaagaa gagcccctcc gacgacgacg acgacgtggc cgagaggacg    600
              gtgagcaact cggacgtgtc gagccctggg aggagcaacc aggacggcac gtccagtggc    660
              ggaggcccgg cggcgcgggc gtgctggcag gaggaggagt gcaacaacag ggcggcaggt    720
              tctgaggacg acctcctcgg gcactgcaag gtgttcatgc agtcggagga cgtcgggcgc    780
              acgctggacc tctccgccgt cgcgtcgtac gaggagctct accagaggct cgccgacatg    840
                                                    987

              ttcggcgtcg acaaggccga gctgaccagc cacgtgttct accgcgacga cgcttccgga    900
<removed-date>
              gcgctcaagc accctggcga cgagcctttc agtgagttca ccaagaccgc ccggaggctg    960
              accatactga cggacgagag cagcgacagc ttagcgaggt agagtccagt ctcaaggaga   1020
              cggcggttcg gcagtttcgg ttgggagtgg gaggcgcccc ggaacgggag cgcgtgcgtg   1080
              cgtctgatcc aggaccaaag atttgtcgga ctagtagctc tacagtagtg gagtacgtac   1140
              gtacaccttg atgctgctgc ttctgctgtc agttcaagtg gccataacca taatgcagct   1200
<removed-apn>
              gcctttggtc acagtgactg atcggatgtg ttgtgtacat cggaccgttg atttgcgaac   1260
              gcgattactg aaagattatt attatttttt tgtatttttg atataactaa ggaaaaaagg   1320
              ttcttatcga tcccgtcgac ccttcgaggg gggggcccgg tac                     1363
              <210>   872
              <211>   2256
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 872
              cattgggtac ctcgaggccg gccgggatat tttaaaaaaa cctcgtagac tatgtaaaat     60
              tatactgggg aaggagagca gacaccgaca gcggagggaa gtaccgggaa ggaagaaccg    120
              tcgccgccca gcgacatgcc atggcagcca tcgccgctct tcgccgtctt ccgccaacaa    180
              cgcctcgcct cctcctgggc cgccgccatc gctggccacg cgcgctgcgg tcgccacgcc    240
              gccgcactta ccgtcttccg ccgcgttctc cgagcccacc ccgccgtcgc tgcctccgac    300
              cagttcgcct atgccgccct gctccggtgc cgcgaccgcc gcctcgcgta ccagatacat    360
              gcccaggcgt gccgtcgtgg cctgaccgcc tccaaccccg tcctcgcttg ctccctcctc    420
              atcttctatg ccgactgcga ggagtggaac ggcgccacca gggtgttcag cgaaatgccg    480
              tgcccagaca ccgtgtccta caccgccatg atatccgccc tcctccgcgc cggggactgc    540
              cacggggcgc tcgcgctcta cccgtgcatg ctcccacttt gcgcacccac ccagcacacc    600
              ttctccaagc tgctcgcgcc ctgcgcctcc atgcgcttgc accgccacgg cagccagctc    660
              cacgcgcagc tcctccgctg gggctgctgg ggcccccacc tcggcctggt cctcaagacc    720
              gcgctcgtcc acatgtacgc cgcttgcggc gccatggtct ccgcacgcgc cgtgctccac    780
              gccactcccg aaaccgacgt cgtgctctgg acggcaatta tcaccgccta cacgcgtcgc    840
                                                    988

              ggccagctcc atcgtgctct gctggcgttc cgtgacatgg aacgctctgc tgtgcttccc    900
<removed-date>
              aatgccttca cctacgcagc gctcatcgcc gcctgctccg cggaccactc gctgcacatc    960
              ggacagcagc tccatggccg cctcttcaag tctggtctgg agcacgacac ctctgcttgc   1020
              aatgcgctcc tcgacttgta cagcaagtcc tccgcacgtt ccctcgactt gctgcttgct   1080
              ttccacgcgg ctgacatgcc caacgtggtg acctggactt ccttcattgc tggactgatg   1140
              cgccatggca gggaacaaga ggcgcttgcg gcatttgctc gtatgcgggc taccggagtg   1200
<removed-apn>
              aagcccaact ccttcaccct gtccactctt ctgaaaggct gcacctccgc acatgcatgt   1260
              ctgcacgctg caaagatcca tgcctatgtg ctcaagacca gttcggagtc attggacgcg   1320
              gctgccggaa actcgtttgt tgatgtgtac gcaaggtctg caagaatgga tgacgcgtgg   1380
              aaggtggcta ccacaatgtc cttcgtgagg gacagattca catacacaag cctggccaaa   1440
              gggctgaatc agatggggct tcaccacagg gcactcggca tgatacttca catgttccac   1500
              gaggaggtta gtatcgacgg tttcagccta gcttgcttcc tttctgctgc tgcgacattg   1560
              gcatccatag agtccgggaa gcagctgcac tgctgtgcag tgaaattggg attgagcggt   1620
              caggtatctc tctccaacag cctcataaac atgtacagca ggtgcaagag tctggaggat   1680
              gctaagagtg ttttccagtc aatcagggaa cccagtgtcg tgtcgtggaa tgctataatc   1740
              tttgggatgg cattcaacgg ctcttacact gaagcgttgt cagtttttga agacatgatt   1800
              ctggctggag ctcagcctga tggggtcact ttcacagttg tgctttctgc ctgcagccat   1860
              ggtggcttag ttgacattgg catcaaacac ttcaactcta tggcgaatat gtttgatgtc   1920
              cccccacaaa agagccacta tacattgttc ctggatatgc taggacgatc aggccgcttt   1980
              acagaggtgg cacacaccat cgaggccatg cccgtccagc cagacttatc aatttacagg   2040
              accctgctgg tatattgcaa gttccacaat gaaccggtgg ttggtgaata tattgccaag   2100
              aaggcactag agttggatcc atcagattca gtgtcacgga atacactttc aggcatccgc   2160
              cgtgctcctc ggatacaaga tcatgacgaa cagatatatt tgtgggatga agagggatgc   2220
              aggcatccaa gttctgtgct gccgatcaat tgctga                             2256
              <210>   873
              <211>   1921
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                    989

<removed-date>
              <400> 873
              aacctctcag aactcagaag gtttctttgt gcctcagacg acccatcatc ctccgcataa     60
              ccccatcgac gtcgatggcc tgcatgtaca tcaacggtca ctgccttgtc cagtaacacg    120
              tccgagacgc cgccatggcg gcgggcaaca agttctcgtc gtaccacctc gccgcggccc    180
              tccgccgcga gccggacccc gccgcggccc tccgccgcga gccggacccc gccgccgcgc    240
              tccgcctctt cctcaaccct cccgcatccg ccaccccgtt ccgctattcc ctccgctgct    300
<removed-apn>
              acgacctcat catctccagg ctcgccgccg cgcgcctctt cccggccatg gagtccgtcc    360
              tctcgcgcct ggcctcctcc tcgggtcccc ggccccgcga gcagctcctc tgccgcgtcg    420
              tctccgccta cggccgcgcc cgcctccccg ccgccgcgcg ccgcgccttc gcgcacccgg    480
              ccttccctgg gccccgcacc gccagggctc tcaacgccct cctccacgcc ctgctcgcct    540
              gccgcgctcc cctccgcgac ctcctcgccg tctgccgtga cgctgggacc ccgccggacg    600
              cgtgcaccta taacattctc atgcgggcag cggctgcgtc cggctccctt ggccacgcac    660
              gccacctgtt cgacgaaatg ctgcgacggg gcatcgcgcc gactgtagtc actttcggca    720
              ccctcgtcgc cgcgctgtgc gctgctggcc agctggaaga cgcgttcgag gtgaaggaag    780
              tgatggttcg gcagtaccac gtgttgccga acgtgtatgt gtatacaagt ctgatcaagg    840
              ggctctgtga gaaaggggac gtggatgctg cgatggcgct caaggaagag atggcaggga    900
              aggcagatct tgtgctggat tctgctgtgt atgcgacgct tgtacgggcg ttgttccagg    960
              tagggcgaaa aggtgcggta gttggattgc tggaggagat gaaggggagt ggggttgtgg   1020
              ctgatacggt ggtgtacaat gctatgctcg caggcttttg tgaggatgag aaggatcttg   1080
              ctgctgcgtt cgctgtgctt gacgatatgc agaagaatgg gtgcaaggcg gatgcggtga   1140
              gctataatac attagttgca gggttgtgca agctgggccg gtggcgggat gcacatgaat   1200
              tggttgagga tatgccaagg caggggtgcc atccagatgt ggtgacctac agaatgctct   1260
              ttgatgggat gtgtgctgct aaggagtttc ttgaagcaaa ccaggttttg gatgagatgg   1320
              ttttcaaggg ttttgcgcca agcaacgatg gtgcacagaa gtttgtccag gggattgaga   1380
              aggaaggaga tgtggtattg ctagagtcag tgttgtgccg actagcgaag gtgaatgctt   1440
              tggtgccaag tggatgggaa aaagctgtaa gtggtgcgct gaatgatccc acagagttga   1500
              ggctagagaa gcagcttgac tctttaagaa ttgcttgatt agacaccata gtggatttga   1560
                                                    990

<removed-date>
              tcaatacagt ttgagtagca aaaaaatggc aagcatgatt tttaaagaaa tcaatttgtt   1620
              catctgttat acaaggctgc cttgcaggag tcttacccaa ttcaggttag tttcttgcag   1680
              gtagtattat taaagtcaga gaaagattaa aatggaatct aaggtgtgca acttattcaa   1740
              ttgaagttaa tttgccataa gattggaata taagatggat ctatggcaaa aaaagaatat   1800
              tcgtgtttgc aagtacatga tcgtatatat tctagttttt tggtatgctt ctaaatatgt   1860
<removed-apn>
              tgttattttg ttcccttgct gacaataatg tgatcttttg aatacaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1920
              a                                                                   1921
              <210>   874
              <211>   2229
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 874
              gcgcgagcgc cggcgcctac gccaggtgcc caggcctccg tcggtcattt cgccaggcat     60
              tcgtcgcggg ctcttcgccg gcgacgagca cacccaccaa acagattctc gtgacagtgc    120
              ctccctggtt gcctttcgct gaagttactg aatctgaaat ctgaccatca tgaaccaagt    180
              tgagggttgg tcctttacga gcatgttata atgggagaga acggagttca gctgacactg    240
              acctccactt tgaagagcac aggcaagcca cggatcaatg cggacgggct gaataatgga    300
              tcacatacta ccaaagagaa gcatgaacac ggtggcactt tccaaccatc aaaaggccag    360
              aagcagcagc tgtgcacaac atgtgcaaaa gggcatactt gtcaatcggt catcaaccgg    420
              acaagacaaa tgcgagctct aatcgactca aagaagcctt accaagcaca ctctgtattc    480
              aagcacttaa tggatgaggg gcacaagcct tcattggtca catacacaat tctactgacc    540
              gccctgacga accagaggat gtttgagtcg attccatcac tgcttgctga agttgaacta    600
              gctggagtta ggccagactc catcttcttc aatgccttga taaatgcgtt tgttgaggcg    660
              aagcggatgg gcgaagcgat aaacacattc tggaaaatga aacattctgg ctgccaccca    720
              actacaagca ccttcaacac actgataaaa ggttatggca ttgtaggcaa acccgaagaa    780
              tcacagcgcg tcttcgacat gatgggcgtt gaaggatcag tcaggcctaa cctcacaaca    840
              tacaacattc ttgtgaaggc atggtgtgat cacagaaatc ttgaggaggc ctggggtgtt    900
              gtgggcaaaa tgcaagcagg tggttttgag cctgatattg taacttacaa taccatagcc    960
                                                    991

<removed-date>
              agtggcatat gccaataatg acgagacatg gagagcagaa gagctcattg tggagattca   1020
              gactagagtg cgcaccagtg agcgaacatg gggcataatc attggtggtt attgccggga   1080
              gggcaggttg gaggaagcat tacgatgcgt ccagcaaatg aaggatgcag gaagtgttcc   1140
              taacgtcgtc atcttcaaca cactgctgaa gggctttctt gatgcaaatg acatggctgc   1200
              tgtcaataag atcctgggtc tgatggagaa atttggcatc aaacctgaca tcgttaccta   1260
<removed-apn>
              cagtcaccag ttgaacacat tcagctcgct gggccacatg gctaaatgca tgcatgtatt   1320
              tgacaaaatg atcgaagcag gaattgagcc agatcctcag gtatacagca ttctcgccaa   1380
              aggatttgtt cgtgctcagc agcctgagaa agcagaagac cttctgttgc aaatgagcca   1440
              tcttggtctc tgcccaaatg tcgtcacttt caccactgtc attagcgggt ggtgcagcgt   1500
              ggccgacatg gagagtgcca tgagagtcta tgacaagatg tgcaagtcag gcgtctatcc   1560
              caatctcagg acatttgaga ctctgatctg gggctacagc gaacagaagc agccatggaa   1620
              agctgaggaa gtccttcaga tgatgcggga gactggtgtc aagccgaagc aaagcaccta   1680
              ctgtctcatt gctgatgcat ggaaggctgt tggtttgact gagaacatca acaactcaaa   1740
              tggttccccc aatggtcctt atgcaatcga gaaattggat cattcaaatg acaattgcaa   1800
              cgtgcgaata tcagaagaca ataataacaa gctgcagttt tttgatgaaa gtaatgggcg   1860
              tgcaatgaat ggccgttcac gttccagttt tcttcagata acaaatgcac taggcagcag   1920
              tggtatagtt tctgccaagg tcatgaaggc tggagaattt ccatctgaaa gactgaaggc   1980
              tatcaaaaac acatcctttc cacaaggatt tcaattgttg catctcgagt tttgtaggaa   2040
              gcagcttcgg aagaatggtg gattctgtag tcagagcatc aactcattca aaatgggttt   2100
              ctctagcaga ggatgcattt attaattcga tgtacacatt gggctgaaac ttaaacaaaa   2160
              acaaatctcg gtgttccaag tctccgccta tgatgcgggc catttttatg attcagacgc   2220
              agttcctgc                                                           2229
              <210>   875
              <211>   1901
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 875
              caaaaaagca ggctggtacc ggtccggaat tcccgggatc agaacttgga cagcatcacg     60
                                                    992

<removed-date>
              tcgctggatc agagtgccat ttctgttctc agaaggtttc tttgtgcctc agacgaccca    120
              tcatcctccg cataactcca tcgacgtcga tggcctgcat gtacatcaac ggtcactgcc    180
              ttgtccagta agtaacacgt acgagacgcc gccatggcgg gcaacaagtt ctcgtcgtac    240
              cacctcgccg cggccctccg ccgcgagccg gaccccgccg ccgcgctccg cctcttcctc    300
              aaccctcccg catccgccac cccgttccgc tattccctcc gctgctacga cctcatcatc    360
<removed-apn>
              tccaggctcg ccgccgcgcg cctcttcccg gccatggagt ccatcctctc gcgcctggcc    420
              tcctcctcgg gtccccggcc ccgcgagcag ctcctctgcc gcgtcgtctc cgcctacggc    480
              cgcgcccgcc tccccgccgc cgcgcgccgc gccttcgcgc acccggcctt ccctgggccc    540
              cgcaccgcca gggctctcaa cgccctcctc cacgccctgc tcgcctgccg cgctcccctc    600
              cgcgacctcc tcgccgtctg ccgtgacgct gggaccccgc cggacgcgtg cacctataac    660
              attctcatgc gggcagcggc tgcgtccggc tcccttgccc acgcgcgcca catgttcgac    720
              gaaatgctgc gacggggcat cgcgccgact gtagtcactt tcggcaccct cgtcgccgcg    780
              ctgtgcgctg ctggccagct ggaaggcgcg ttcgaggtga aggaagtgat ggtccggcag    840
              taccacgtgt tgccgaacgt gtatgtgtat acaagtctga tcaaggggct ctgtgagaaa    900
              ggggatgtgg atgctgcggt ggcgctcaag gaagagatgg caggaaaggc agatcttgtg    960
              ctggattctg ctgtgtatgc gacgcttgta cgggcgttgt tccaggtagg gcgaaaaggt   1020
              gcggtagttg gattgctgga ggagatgaag gggagtgggg ttgtggctga tacggtggtg   1080
              tacaatgcca tgctcgcagg cttttgtgag gatgagaagg atcttgctgc tgcgttcgct   1140
              gtgcttgacg atatgcagaa gaatgggtgc aaggcggatg cggtgagcta taatacatta   1200
              gttgcagggt tgtgcaagct gggccggtgg cgggatgcac atgaattggt tgaggatatg   1260
              ccaaggcagg ggtgccatcc agatgtggtg acctacagaa tgctctttga tgggatgtgt   1320
              gctgctgagg agtttcttga agcaaaccag gttttggatg agatggtttt caagggtttt   1380
              gcgccaagca acgatggtgc acagaagttt gtccagggga ttgagaagga aggagatgtg   1440
              gtattgctag agtcagtgtt gtgccgacta gcgaaggtga atgctttggt gccaagtgga   1500
              tgggaaaaag ctgtaagtgg tgcgctgaat gatcccacag agttgaggct agagaagcag   1560
              cttgactctt taagaattgc ttgattagac accatagtgg atttgatcaa tacagtttga   1620
                                                    993

              gtagcaaaaa aatggcaagc atgattttta aagaaatcaa tttgttcatc tgttatacaa   1680
<removed-date>
              ggctgccttg caggagtctt acccaattca ggttagtttc ttgcaggtag tattattaaa   1740
              gtcagagaaa gattaaaatg gaatctaagg tgtgcaactt attcaattga agttaatttg   1800
              ccataagatt ggaatataag atggatctat ggcaaaaaaa gaatattcgt gtttgcaagt   1860
              acatgatcgt atatattcta gttttttggt atgcttctaa a                       1901
<removed-apn>
              <210>   876
              <211>   1479
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 876
              atggaacgct ctgctgtgct tcccaatgcc ttcacctacg cagcgctcat cgccgcctgc     60
              tccgcggacc actcgctgca catcggacag cagctccatg gccgcctctt caagtctggt    120
              ctggagcacg acacctctgc ttgcaatgcg ctcctcgact tgtacagcaa gtcctccgca    180
              cgttccctcg acttgctgct tgctttccac gcggctgaca tgcccaacgt ggtgacctgg    240
              acttccttca ttgctggact gatgcgccat ggcagggaac aagaggcgct tgcggcattt    300
              gctcgtatgc gggctaccgg agtgaagccc aactccttca ccctgtccac tcttctgaaa    360
              ggctgcacct ccgcacatgc atgtctgcac gctgcaaaga tccatgccta tgtgctcaag    420
              accagttcgg agtcattgga cgcggctgcc ggaaactcgt ttgttgatgt gtacgcaagg    480
              tctgcaagaa tggatgacgc gtggaaggtg gctaccacaa tgtccttcgt gagggacaga    540
              ttcacataca caagcctggc caaagggctg aatcagatgg ggcttcacca cagggcactc    600
              ggcatgatac ttcacatgtt ccacgaggag gttagtatcg acggtttcag cctagcttgc    660
              ttcctttctg ctgctgcgac attggcatcc atagagtccg ggaagcagct gcactgctgt    720
              gcagtgaaat tgggattgag cggtcaggta tctctctcca acagcctcat aaacatgtac    780
              agcaggtgca agagtctgga ggatgctaag agtgttttcc agtcaatcag ggaacccagt    840
              gtcgtgtcgt ggaatgctat aatctttggg atggcattca acggctctta cactgaagcg    900
              ttgtcagttt ttgaagacat gattctggct ggagctcagc ctgatggggt cactttcaca    960
              gttgtgcttt ctgcctgcag ccatggtggc ttagttgaca ttggcatcaa acacttcaac   1020
              tctatggcga atatgtttga tgtcccccca caaaagagcc actatacatt gttcctggat   1080
                                                    994

              atgctaggac gatcaggccg ctttacagag gtggcacaca ccatcgaggc catgcccgtc   1140
<removed-date>
              cagccagact tatcaattta caggaccctg ctggcatccg ccgtgctcct cggatacaag   1200
              atcatgacga acagatatat ttgtgggatg aagagggatg caggcatcca agttctgtgc   1260
              tgccgatcaa ttgctgaaaa ccgagcttgg gttcttgtta agtattccca tggaaatttc   1320
              tggcatggca ttctatcatc ttttaatcta ggatatctta ttcctagtcc tgtggaggcc   1380
              tcctttgcag agtggtgggg aggagtgatc aatcagatcc ataaagacaa gaagaagggc   1440
<removed-apn>
              ttcaacattg ctatcatcct tggggcattg tgcctttga                          1479
              <210>   877
              <211>   2260
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 877
              atggaggctg cagttgaaga agctgcactt tctagttcta agagaactaa atggcagttc     60
              atgggagcta gagatgcagg gtctagagat gagctacgtc ttgtctatgg tgtttctgag    120
              cgtacagaaa gcgatggtgc agctaattta attcagaagt tgagagctat aaactatgct    180
              ctgggtgaac taggacagtg gtgtgcttac aaggttgcac tgtcattctt gacagcacta    240
              cagaatgatg aaagggccaa ctatcagttg actgaagggg ctgcaatgaa aagtgacagt    300
              aatgatgttg aaatgcataa ttctgaaaac cccaagccaa atgaacttga ggagggagag    360
              ctacctgaca gtcatggtga acatgtagat gaagtcattg gtgccgcagt ggccgatgga    420
              aaagttaccc caagggtgca agctttgata aaaatacttc tcaagtatca gcacactgag    480
              gattttcgtg ctatcatatt tgtagagcga gtggttacag cattagtcct ccctaaggtc    540
              tttgcagaac ttccatcgtt gggctttata cggtgtgcaa gcttgatagg tcataacaat    600
              aaccaggaga tgcggtcgtg ccaaatgcag gatacaatca caaaatttcg tgatggccgt    660
              gttacactgt tagttgcaac tagtgttgca gaggaaggac ttgatattag gcagtgcaat    720
              gttgtcattc gctttgacct tgcaaagact gttttggcct acattcagtc tcggggtcgt    780
              gctagaaagc ctggatctga ctacatattg atgcttgaaa gaggaaatat gtctcatgaa    840
              gctttcttga gaaatgctcg gaatagtgaa gagacattga gaaaagaagc tattgagaga    900
              actgatctca gtcatctcga tggcacttct atgctaagcc ctgttgatat atcacctgat    960
                                                    995

              tctatgtatc aggttgaatc aacaggtgcc gttgtcagtc tgaactctgc agttggactc   1020
<removed-date>
              gtacattttt actgctcaca gctgccgagt gacaggctca tcagtagttt cctcattcca   1080
              gatactctat tcttcgaccg gaatttatta tgcaaaagca tgagaaacca gggggttcaa   1140
              cagaatattc ttgcaaactt caactccctt gtaatgcccc attcgagaaa cttgaaggct   1200
              gtttgtttag ctgcttgtaa gaagctacat gagatgggtg ccttcacaga tatgctttta   1260
              cctgacagag gaagtgggga aggagaaaag actgaacaaa atgatgaagg tgatccactg   1320
<removed-apn>
              cctggaacag cacgccatag agagttcttt cctgaagggg ttgctgaaat tctacatgga   1380
              gaatggattt tatctggaag agatggttac caaagttcac agtttattaa gttatatttg   1440
              tattctgtga actgtgtaaa cattgggact tcaaaggacc ctttcgttac acaactttca   1500
              aattttgctc ttatttttgg caatgagctg gatgcagagg ttttatcgac gacgatggat   1560
              ctctttgttg ctaggacaat aataacaaag gcatctctcg tattccgtgg accaattgaa   1620
              attacagaaa gtcagctgat cctgcttaag agctttcatg ttaggctcat gagcattgta   1680
              cttgatgttg atgttgatcc ctcaacaact ccttgggatc cagcaaaagc atacctcttt   1740
              gttcctgtgg gagctgagaa atgtatggat cttttaagag agatagattg gactctagtt   1800
              aatagcattg tgaattctga tgcctggaac aaccctcttc agagggcacg cccagatgtc   1860
              tatctaggca cgaacgaaag gacacttgga ggggatagga gggaatatgg gttcgggaag   1920
              ttgcgccatg gaactgcatt tggacagaaa gcccacccta cgtatggtat cagaggagcc   1980
              atcgctgaat tcgatgttgt caaagcgtct ggattagttc ctggtcgtgg atggggacat   2040
              tttaatgatt atcaaaataa aggcaagttg ttcatggcag attcatgttg ggatgccaaa   2100
              gatcttgctg gaatggttgt aactgccgcc cactcaggaa aaaggttcta tgtggacagt   2160
              atttgctata atatgaatgc agaaaattct ttccctgagg aagagagggc tatctgggtc   2220
              ccttggaata cagctcgttt gctgattact acaagcagaa                         2260
              <210>   878
              <211>   3460
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                    996

              <222>   (859)..(859)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 878
              caaagttcac agtttattaa gttatatttg tattctgtga actgtgtaaa cattgggact     60
              tcaaaggacc ctttcgttac acaactttca aatttcgctc ttatttttgg caatgagctg    120
              gatgcagagg ttttatcgac gacgatggat ctctttgttg ctaggacaat aataacaaag    180
              gcatctctcg tattccgtgg accaattgaa attacagaaa gtcagctgat cctgcttaag    240
<removed-apn>
              agctttcatg ttaggctcat gagcattgta cttgatgttg atgttgatcc ctcaacaact    300
              ccttgggatc cagcaaaagc atacctcttt gttcctgtgg gagctgagaa atgtatggat    360
              cttttaagag agatagattg gactctagtt aatagcattg tgaattctga tgcctggaac    420
              aaccctcttc agagggcacg cccagatgtc tatctaggca cgaacgaaag gacacttgga    480
              ggggatagga gggaatatgg gttcgggaag ttgcgccatg gaactgcatt tggacagaaa    540
              gcccacccta cgtatggtat cagaggagcc atcgctgaat tcgatgttgt caaagcgtct    600
              ggattagttc ctggtcgtgg atggggacat tttaatgatt atcaaaataa aggcaagttg    660
              ttcatggcag attcatgttg ggatgccaaa gatcttgctg gaatggttgt aactgccgcc    720
              cactcaggaa aaaggttcta tgtggacagt atttgctata atatgaatgc agaaaattct    780
              ttccctagga aagagggcta tctgggtccc ttggaataca gctcgtttgc tgattactac    840
              aagcagaagt aagatcggna ttaccggctc gaccccgcgt ccgagaagct tcttcttgca    900
              attcaactga aggacataat tgggtatcca gttcctgcaa ataagatatt agaagccttg    960
              actgctgcgt catgccagga gacattctgc tatgaaagag cagagctgct ggggatgcat   1020
              acttgaaatg ggttgtgagt agattccttt tcctaaaata tcctcaaaag catgagggac   1080
              agctcacaag gatgcggcag cagatggtta gcaacatgat cctgtatcaa tacgccctga   1140
              ataaaaacct ccaatcttat atccaagcag atcgatttgc tccatcaaga tgggcagctc   1200
              caggagtgtt acctgtattt gatgaagaaa cgagagattc tgaaccatcc atctttgatg   1260
              aggaatttac tcctagcagt gagttacaaa agaacttgta tgatgactat gatggcgata   1320
              gcatgcaaga agacggtgaa attgagggag attctagctg ctatcgtgtt ctatcaagca   1380
              aaacattagc agatgttgtg gaagcactta ttggtgtcta ttatgtagct ggagggaaaa   1440
              ttgctacaaa ccatctgatg aaatggatcg gtattaatgc agagttggat cctcaagaga   1500
                                                    997

<removed-date>
              tcccatcttc gaagccatat aacatacctg agagcataat taaaagcatc aattttgaca   1560
              cattagaggg tgcattgggt atcaagtttc agaataaagg cttacttgtt gaagctataa   1620
              cacatgcatc aagaccatca tcaggtgttt cctgttacca gcgcctggaa tttgttggtg   1680
              atgctgtatt ggaccatctc attacgaagc acttattttt tacttatacg gacctacctc   1740
              caggccgctt gactgacttg agagctgcag ctgttaataa tgagaacttt gcaagggttg   1800
<removed-apn>
              cagttaaaca taagctacat gtacatcttc gccatggatc atctgcattg gagacacaga   1860
              ttcgagagtt tgtgaaggat gtccaggagg agctttcgaa accaggtttc aattcttttg   1920
              gccttgggga ttgtaaggct ccaaaggttc tcggagacat ttttgagtct attgctggcg   1980
              caatattcct tgatagtggg tgtgctacct ccgtagtctg gaaggttttt cagcctctgc   2040
              ttgatccaat ggtgacgccg gacacccttc cgatgcaccc tgtaagggag ctccaagagc   2100
              gctgccagca gcaagccgaa ggattagaat acaaagcatc ccgtacaggc aatgtagcta   2160
              cagttgaagt cttggttgat ggcatacaga ttggtgtagc tcagaaccca cagaagaaga   2220
              tggcacaaaa gttggcggct agaaatgcac ttgttgtctt gaaagagaag gaaaccgcag   2280
              caaagaaaga cactgaaaag gatggcgaga agaaaaacgg ttctcagttc actaggcaga   2340
              ctctgaacga catctgcttg agaaggcaat ggccgatgcc acagtacagg tgtataaacg   2400
              agggtggccc tgcccatgcc aaaagatttg tttatgcggt aagggtaaat acatctgaca   2460
              gtggatggac tgacgagtgc attggagagc caatgccgag tgtgaaaaag gccaaggact   2520
              ctgcagctgt tcttctgctc gagctgctga atcgaaatta ccgtggcaag cctgatggaa   2580
              aataatcttt ggtgatgttc tgtggtggta ggtagacgtg gaagcatcca tcattctgat   2640
              tataccccca tgcagtgctt ttcagcaaag caaattaatg gcctttgttg atgttcttgg   2700
              tggcggtatt ggtgatatgg aggcattcaa tgcaagcata agcagagcta tggggagtgg   2760
              gattagagga ttattattag ttttgtctga ggtgactact aggtatttta ctggcgaggt   2820
              actgaggtca caactcacaa atagcagttg caaattgcaa tagaggaaat gatgataggt   2880
              tgatatagga tattggaggc ctcttattca tcgattgtat aagatgttta cagaacagtg   2940
              cattgatcca ttaaatttat attgattgat atttttatag tggatgcgcc tgcagctggg   3000
              aactcggggt tctctatctt ggcctcgccg accaaatatc acgtacgtcg acgtccgcga   3060
                                                    998

              acagtatata tatggtaggc ttggcgggcg tgatcccctt gcgcatggta cagagcaaga   3120
<removed-date>
              cgctgagctg gatattctga taatcccgta tactccaaca gaaactacag aatggaatca   3180
              agttgtacct gcgtttctgc tgctcaaaaa ttgcgagatg gaccatggac gtgtgttgtt   3240
              tggcaacaac gacgcaacca gcacggacaa gaagggggga catgcagtct ctcgaaacct   3300
              gtcctataca attagaaaga aaaaaaagag ggaaaataaa aggaaaagaa cgcgagggca   3360
              gggccggccg gtcggtcggt gcctgcgccg cacttttgtc atgtgcctag cacaatcgag   3420
<removed-apn>
              ggcctcacct gcccgcctac ctaaaaaata ttttttggac                         3460
              <210>   879
              <211>   419
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 879
              gggtgccttc acagatatgc ttttacctga cagaggaagt ggggaaggag aaaagactga     60
              acaaaatgat gaaggtgatc cactgcctgg aacagcacgc catagagagt tctttcctga    120
              aggggttgct gaaattctac atggagaatg gattttatct ggaagagatg gttaccaaag    180
              ttcacagttt attaagttat atttgtattc tgtgaactgt gtaaacattg ggacttcaaa    240
              ggaccctttc gttacacaac tttcaaattt tgctcttatt tttggcaatg agctggatgc    300
              agaggtttta tcgacgacga tggatctctt tgttgctagg acaataataa caaaggcatc    360
              tctcgtattc cgtggaccaa ttgaaattac agaaagtcag gttaattttc tttgcaatg     419
              <210>   880
              <211>   1274
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 880
              tttaggtgaa ctatagaaca agtttgtaca aaaaagcagg ctggtaccgg tccggaattc     60
              ccgggatgca gcacatatca attagtaact agctaggtag aagaagatga gctcgtcgat    120
              cagcatgatg gaggcgagaa tgcctccggg gttcaggttc caccccaggg atgacgagct    180
              cgtgatggac tacctcctac aaaagctctc cggccatggc caccatgccg gcgctgccat    240
              cgtcgtcgac gtcgacctca acaagtgcga gccatgggac ctcccagatt ccgcgtgcgt    300
              gggtgggaag gagtggtact tcttcagcct gcgcgaccgc aagtacgcga cggggcagcg    360
                                                    999

<removed-date>
              cactaaccgc gccacgcact ccggctactg gaaggccacc ggcaaggacc gcgccgtcgt    420
              cgccggcggc gaggtggcgg tggggatgcg caagacgctg gtcttctacc ggggccgcgc    480
              gcccaggggg aagaagacgg agtgggtcat gcacgagttc cgcctccacc cccatgccgc    540
              gccgtgcctg ctagcagcag ctgcgccaaa caaggaggac tgggtgctat gcagggtgtt    600
              ctacaagagc agaacaacca gcccaaggcc agaatctgaa gacgcccggg acggcacccc    660
<removed-apn>
              atcagctgaa ccgcaactgc cggctgccct gccgcttgcg cccctcgctg acacctacgc    720
              cgccccaacg gttgcagagc aggtgtactg cttctccggt ctgccggcac tgccattcag    780
              aagaccagtg agccttgggg accttctgga gttcgacgcc tccgagaagg aatctgtcac    840
              gacagcgatg accagtgtct cgaacaacac tagttcagtg ctggagctgg ctccaaattg    900
              caactggaac caggaaaatg gcatgtcacg gatgtggagc ccccttggga tatgagatag    960
              atctgtgttg tttgctggat ctggatgtat ggagtgttag tactgagtgg ccagtagggt   1020
              tctgctgctt agatttgatt agcagtgtga cttgcagatt gtgtagatta gattatccgt   1080
              tattggacta atggcttggc gtagtatttg tacatattac tactgaagga acagtgtcct   1140
              tatccttgtt tggcgtagta tttgtacata gcacctgcta aacttcagac aatcagtgaa   1200
              agacaaatgt gtacattgta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1260
              aaaaaaaaaa aaag                                                     1274
              <210>   881
              <211>   1581
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 881
              atgaataaaa ttctattctt gttttttgtc atcacgtacg cactgtattt ttttccttct     60
              gatttctcca tagtacacaa ataatgtatt tacacatctg tcgtcattaa ttgatggcat    120
              agggcataca gacatatata tatctctctt ttcatttctc cttctttttg aaggatgtgt    180
              actgagatgg tactgctact atatgtatat atatacctac tactactacg gctacatgca    240
              ataccacaca ggaggcacac acacccaagc ctcttgtagc actcatctat atatccatcc    300
              tgttatcgtc gaggcatttc gatccgcatc gctctccata acaataatat atatataatc    360
              ttcctataaa acataatcaa ctaattgaac gaattccaca tctgcgtgaa gccactctca    420
                                                   1000

<removed-date>
              gctaagtact caaacccatc ctgagaaaaa ttgcttggag gcgcctccct cttgacgctg    480
              ccttcgaacc tgctaaactg gctcatgaga acatccttga ttattgactt ccccatctgc    540
              tgctccggat cagccatggc ggcagacggc ggcagccggg cggcgttcat cgacgacgat    600
              ggctgctgag aggggttact ggagaagcag ggcacttgct cataaccctc taggttctgc    660
              actgatgatg agccaggctg gtcaaaggag atattgaagt tgttgtcaat aaggggaggc    720
<removed-apn>
              aatgaagttg tggctgcatc aatattgaag ctgctgctct ctgtgggcgg ctttgcaact    780
              gttgccctac tcttgtagaa aactctacac aagacccagt cctccttgaa aggtaatttc    840
              atgggatcat ctcgcccttc catgcgaaac tcatgcataa cccactcggt cttctttccc    900
              tttggggctc taccttgata aaacacaagg gttttgcgca taccaacaag taaccctttc    960
              cggcttattg gacggtcttt ccctgtggcc ttccagtatc ccgaatcagt tgctctgttt   1020
              gtacgctggc cagtggcata ctttctatct ctaaggctgt agaaatacca ctcttttcca   1080
              ccaatgcacg cgatgtcggg aaggtcccag ggctcgcact tgttgagatc gacgtcgacc   1140
              atggtggggc agccgtagat gctcaccacc acagggcctc cgccgccgcc gagcttcttg   1200
              gccaggtagt ccagcacgag ctcgtcgtcg cgcgggtgga acctgaaccc cggaggcagg   1260
              ctggcctcca ccatgctcag cgacttgatg gccatcatcg gcgtcgtcgc ggagctatat   1320
              atatatatat acagctctca agaacgacct cgctcaccgg cgcgcggcag ctacgtacag   1380
              gtgtggagct gcttctactc ctcctcctcc ttctcctacc cctgtatcat agaagagaaa   1440
              ttaagaagaa gctggagagc ggcgagaggc gggcgttata taacaggagg agcccgcgct   1500
              gccgctgctg tacgtggtca acttctgcga tcccgggaat tccggaccgg taccagcctg   1560
              cttttttgta caaacttgtt c                                             1581
              <210>   882
              <211>   867
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 882
              atggtcgacg tcgacctcaa caaggtcgag ccatgggacc tccccgtggc ggcgtcggtg     60
              gggccgcggg agtggtactt cttcagcctc aaggaccgca agtacgcgac ggggcagcgg    120
              acgaaccggg ccacggtgtc cgggtactgg aaggcgacgg ggaaggaccg acccgtggtg    180
                                                   1001

<removed-date>
              gcggcgcggc gaggcgcgct ggtggggatg cgcaagacgc tcgtgttcta ccaggggagg   240
              gcgcccaagg gcaggaagac ggagtgggtg atgcacgagt acaggatgga gccagctgct   300
              cctcttcttg atcaccaacc ctcctcatcc aactccaagg atgaagattg ggtgctgtgc   360
              agagtcatct gcaagaagaa actggcagca ggaggccgcg caggaggggg aagctcaagg   420
              agcctggtcg ccagcaacgg cggccgcgag accgcgccag ccaccccgcc gccgccgccg   480
<removed-apn>
              ctgccacctc gcatggacac ggacgccacc ctagcacagc tccaggccgc catgcacgcc   540
              accgccggcg cgctcgagca ggtgccctgc ttctccagct tcaataacaa cactactgcc   600
              agctctagag ctgctgccgc agcagcagca gcagcgcagc catgctacct gcccagcatg   660
              gccacaggcg gcagccacgg cacgacgagc tactacctgg accacgcgat gctgccgcct   720
              gagctaggtg gctgcttcga tcctctccac ggcgacaaga gctgctcaag gcggtgctgg   780
              gccagctcgg cggcgacgcg gtggcgccgg gcctgcacct gcagcacgag atggccgccg   840
              gcgctgtcgt cgcttcgtcc gcttgga                                       867
              <210>   883
              <211>   1598
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 883
              ggagaggtgt tccttggcgc cacgtctctt tctgctaaaa ggacgccgtg ccgttccagt    60
              atttaaacgg ggaactcgaa cccgggcggg ggtttctctt gatcgcttcg tcacttgaat   120
              ccgtgcctgc tctaatagag gctctgcaat ggagcaggag ccgcaccggc ccatggagct   180
              gcccccgggc ttccgcttcc acccgaccga cgaggagctc atcacgcact acctggcccg   240
              caaggccgcc gacgcccgct tcgccgcgct cgccgtcgcc gaggccgacc tcaacaagtg   300
              cgagccctgg gacctgccat cgctggcgag gatgggggag aaggagtggt acttcttctg   360
              cctcaaggac cgcaagtacc cgacggggct gaggaccaac cgggccacgg aggccgggta   420
              ctggaaggcc acgggcaagg acagggacgt cttcaggggc aaggcgctcg tcggctccaa   480
              gaagacgctc gtcttctaca cggggagggc gcccagggga gagaagtccg gatgggtcat   540
              gcacgagtac cgcctccacg ccaagctcca cggccacggc cacggccacg gccaaggcgc   600
              agccgtcgtc gtcgtcccca aggccgccgg gaccaagaac gagtgggtgc tgtgcagggt   660
                                                   1002

<removed-date>
              gttcaagaag agcctcgtcg taggtggtgc agctgcagca gcagcaccaa ccgcaggcaa    720
              gaggggcggc acggagacgt cgtccaactc caagacggac gacgtagcgg ccatctccca    780
              cctccctccg ctgatggacg tgtccggctc cggctccggc gccgccgccg cggcggcggc    840
              acacgtgacc tgcttctccg acgcgctgga gggccagttc ttggaccaga cgacgaccac    900
              gccgccgcca gaagccgccg ccgccgccac ggacgacgac ggccacctcg gcgccctcgc    960
<removed-apn>
              cgccgcctcc tcttcggcct tccagctgcc cggcttcgcg cactactatt acggcggggg   1020
              ggcgccgcac ctgcaccagc accacggcgc cgccagcctg gtgcagctcc tggagggcag   1080
              cgttccgccg tgcaataagg gcggcgagcg ggagcgggag cgggagcggc tgagcgcgtc   1140
              gcaggacacg gggctcacct ccgacgtcaa ccccgagatc tcctcctcct ccggccaacg   1200
              cttggaccac gaccacgacc accacctctg ctgctggggc tactgatcga ttcgatgagc   1260
              ctacgactac cgatccagcg cgcatcatgc atgcggtcgc gttattacta gcgattagtg   1320
              tatagcactg ctgtaaataa aacacctact agtactacat ttgcgtgagg tcgacgatcg   1380
              gccgtgtggt gcgtggcaat tggcatgcat gcgtcgagct gcctacgttc cattatttgc   1440
              tcgtgtgatt tgttactgta gacgagtgtg ggggtgtgta attagcattg ttgatgtatt   1500
              attattcacg atttggtgga atatctccat ggttaaatga cgccgccaaa gcatgcatga   1560
              tatcattacc taaaagtttg acctgtaatg atatgatc                           1598
              <210>   884
              <211>   1690
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1676)..(1676)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 884
              ggctcgagca ccctcgcatt ggtttctctt gatcgctttg tcacttgaat ccgtgcctgc     60
              tctaacagag agcggagacg accacgacga cggcgaggcc aggctctgcg atggagcagg    120
              agccgcaccg gcccatggag ctgcccccgg gcttccgctt ccacccgacc gacgaggagc    180
              tcatcacgca ctacctggcc cgcaaggccg ccgacgcccg cttcgccgcg cttgccgtcg    240
                                                   1003

<removed-date>
              ccgaggccga cctcaacaag tgcgagccct gggacctgcc atgtaagcaa cgcacgcgcc    300
              ggcatagcta ctagatcatg tttctgcacg gatcgagtca tgcatggctt cataaaggaa    360
              gaagaagaag ggagttatga tatgtgattt ggttgcgcca gcgctggcga ggatggggga    420
              gaaggagtgg tacttcttct gcctcaagga ccgcaagtac ccgacggggc tgaggaccaa    480
              ccgggccacg gaggccgggt actggaaggc cacgggcaag gacagggacg tcttcagggg    540
<removed-apn>
              caaggcgctc gtcggttcca agaagacgct cgtcttctac acggggaggg cgcccagggg    600
              cgagaagtcc ggatgggtca tgcacgagta ccgcctccac gccaagctcc acggccacgg    660
              ccacggccac ggccaaggcg cagccgtcgt cgtcgtcccc aaggccgccg ggtccaagaa    720
              cgagtgggtg ctgtgcaggg tgttcaagaa gagcctggtc gtaggtggtg cagctgcagc    780
              agcagcacca accgcaggca agaggggcgg cacggagacg tcgtccaact acaagacggg    840
              cgacgtagag gccatcgccc acctccctcc gctgatggac gtgtccggct ccggctccgg    900
              cgccggcgcc gccgccgcgg cggcggcaca cgtgacctgc ttctccgacg cgctggaggg    960
              ccagttcttg gaccagacga cgaccacgcc gccgccagaa gccgccaccg ccgccacgga   1020
              cgacgacggc cacctcgggc gccctcggcg cctcctcctc gcccttccag ctgcccggct   1080
              tcgcgcacta ctactacggc ggcgggccgc cgcacctgca ccagcaccac ggcgccgcca   1140
              gcctggtgca gctcctggag ggcagcgtgc cgccgtgcaa taagggcggc gagcgggagc   1200
              gggagcggct gagcgcgtcg caggacacgg ggctcacctc cgacgtcaac cccgagatct   1260
              cctcctcctc cggccaacgc ttcgaccacg accacgacca tgaccaccac ctctgctgct   1320
              ggggctactg atcgtcgatt cgatgagcct acgacgacta ccgagcgcgc atcatgcatg   1380
              cgtcgcgtta ttactagcga ttagtgtata gcacactgct gtaaataaaa catctactag   1440
              tactacatct gcgtgaggtc gacgatcggc cgtgtggtgg tggtggtgcg tggcatgcat   1500
              gcgtcgagct gcctacgttt cattatctgc tcgtgtgatt tgttactgta gacgagtgtg   1560
              ggggtgtgta attagcattg ttgatgtatt attattcacg atttggtgga ataatatctc   1620
              cttggttaat gacaccgcca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagcgg ccctcgagct gccagnttgt   1680
              tgttctcctt                                                          1690
              <210>   885
                                                   1004

              <211>   1546
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 885
              tgacactata gaacaagttt gtacaaaaaa gcaggctggt acaacaactc cactcccgcg     60
              gaaaaaaaac ccatatccct ccggcataaa cccaaaaagc tgcaagcagt gtgaccaaaa    120
              gcaggcctga cggcgatcct cggctctcta gccaggcagc aggagatgga gcacgacgtg    180
<removed-apn>
              caccaccagc accagcaggc catggagctg ccgccggggt tccgattcca ccccaccgac    240
              gaggagctca tcacgcacta cctcgccagg aaggccgccg acgcccgctt cgccccgcgc    300
              gccgtcggcg aggccgacct caacaagtgc gagccatggg acctgccatc ccgggcgacg    360
              atgggcgaga aggagtggta cttcttctgc gtcaaggacc gcaagtaccc gacggggctg    420
              aggacgaacc gggccaccga gtccggatac tggaaggcga cgggcaagga cagggagatc    480
              ttcaggagca aggccctcgt cggcatgaag aagacgctcg tcttctacac ggggagggcg    540
              cccaggggag gcaagaccgg ctgggtcatg cacgagtacc gcctccacgg caagcacgcc    600
              agcagcagcc gcctcatgcc gtcgtcggtc agagctggcg cgtcaaagga cgagtgggtg    660
              ctgtgcaggg tgttcaagaa gagcatcgag ccgccgccgt cagtgggcaa gaggtcgtcg    720
              gtcgcgtgca cggggacgat ggtggtggag gacgtcgtgg gaccgccgtc catgtccatg    780
              gaggacgacc tcaccgcgtg cgcgctgcct ccgctgatgg acgtgtccgg cggtggcggc    840
              gccaacatgg cggcggcgtc catcgagctg ctggcgccac cggcaccaca cgtgacctgc    900
              ttctccaacg cgccgtggag ggccagttcc tgaacccacc attcctcctc ccttccgccg    960
              ccgcagccgc ggaccacatc gccctggcgg cctccgcctc gccgttcctg gcgagcatga   1020
              tgatgcagca gcaggcgcag tacgccggcg acgggctcct gcagggggcc ggcgggtggt   1080
              acggcaagct ggccggcgag agggagcggc tgagcggcgg cgtccccgcc gagatctcgt   1140
              cgacgcggca ctgcatggat cacgaggcct ccttctgggg cttctgagct gatctcgacc   1200
              ttttccgcga tcgttaaaaa ctggattaga ttagccaccg gattggaaac gggggattct   1260
              agtgtgcttt tttttaaatg ggagcaaaaa ttgttgtgaa gaaagtttgt tttgcgtagt   1320
              actaaattaa ttgatttggg tttagagtta tatatagcgt gcctgtgtga tacttgtgtg   1380
              aagatctatg aggaacgcag aaatccttag gcaatctcaa atcatacata ctaaaaacta   1440
                                                   1005

              tagtgtgtgt ctgtaaaagc tagaaatggc tacgtggagc gaggatattc tgcaatggtt   1500
<removed-date>
              ctgcattata ttatatatac tacaattata atttgtgtca tgactt                  1546
              <210>   886
              <211>   1748
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 886
<removed-apn>
              gcggcgatcc ttggctcact atccaggcag caggagatgg agcacgacgt agactaccat     60
              gaccaccacc accagcagca gcaggaggag gaggaggaaa aaatctcccc cttaacaact    120
              ccactcccgc ggaaaaaaaa cccatatccc tccggcataa acccaaaaag gttagcagcc    180
              tcctcctact cgatctccca gatccgcact atctctgatg ctacctgctt ctttattact    240
              agctgtatcg atcgatcgat ccagcgttgt ttagctgacg agtcctgttt aattctgcgt    300
              gtttagctgc aagcagtgtg accaaaagca ggcctgacgg cgatcctcgg ctctctagcc    360
              aggcagcagg agatggagca cgacgtgcac caccagcacc agcaggccat ggagctgccg    420
              ccggggttcc gattccaccc caccgacgag gagctcatca cgcactacct cgccaggaag    480
              gccgccgacg cccgcttcgc cccgcgcgcc gtcggcgagg ccgacctcaa caagtgcgag    540
              ccatgggacc tgccatcccg ggcgacgatg ggcgagaagg agtggtactt cttctgcgtc    600
              aaggaccgca agtacccgac ggggctgagg acgaaccggg ccaccgagtc cggatactgg    660
              aaggcgacgg gcaaggacag ggagatcttc aggagcaagg ccctcgtcgg catgaagaag    720
              acgctcgtct tctacacggg gagggcgccc aggggaggca agaccggctg ggtcatgcac    780
              gagtaccgcc tccacggcaa gcacgccagc agcagccgcc tcatgccgtc gtcggtcaga    840
              gctggcgcgt caaaggacga gtgggtgctg tgcagggtgt tcaagaagag catcgagccg    900
              ccgccgtcag tgggcaagag gtcgtcggtc gcgtgcacgg ggacgatggt ggtggaggac    960
              gtcgtgggac cgccgtccat gtccatggag gacgacctcg ccgcgtgcgc gctgcctccg   1020
              ctgatggacg tgtccggcgg tggcggcgcc aacatggcgg cggcgtccat cgagctgctg   1080
              gcgccaccgg caccacacgt gacctgcttc tccaacgcgc tggagggcca gttcttcctg   1140
              aacccaccct gcctccaccc ctccacgtcg ccgctccgcc tggcgagcat ggtgcaggcg   1200
              caggcgcagg cgcagtacga cggcgacgcg ggcatggtgc tccagctcct gcaggaggcc   1260
                                                   1006

              ggcgggtggt acagcaagct gggcgagggg gagcggctga gcggcggcgc gtcgcaggac   1320
<removed-date>
              accggcgtca cctcggaggt gaacgtgaac cccgccgaga tctcctcgac gcggcaccac   1380
              ataatggacc ccgaggcggc ctccttctgg ggcttctgaa cttcccccac atcttttttt   1440
              tccgcgatcg ctaaaaattg gattagaatt agtcactgga ttggaaactg ggattgtaat   1500
              tgtgccgttg aatattgcta tatgcaaaat ggggcaaaaa aaacaaaaag ttgtgaacga   1560
              agtgtgtgtg tatatataat atatatatgc gcgcgcgcct gtgtgcacgg tactatatat   1620
<removed-apn>
              cccgcgacaa aattgtattt atgatgatag aattgtgttt aaaaaaaagg gtcctatttt   1680
              ggatcggaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaacgagcc cttggggtac ccaattcccc ctaaagggga   1740
              gtcgtatt                                                            1748
              <210>   887
              <211>   1623
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 887
              tccggaattc ccagggatga agaatccgcc cccatccata ccaccaaaaa aacccaaaaa     60
              gaggcagcag gagatggagc acgacgtcga ctaccatcac caccaccacc agcagcagca    120
              ggaggaggag gaggaggcca tggagctgcc gccggggttc cgcttccacc ccaccgacga    180
              ggagctcatc acgcactacc tcgccaggaa ggccgccgac ccgcgcttcg ccccgcgcgc    240
              cgtcggcgag gccgacctca acaagtgcga gccgtgggac ctgccatgta agctctatcc    300
              tagctgtcgt ccgtccctcc accgcaacat gcacatgagt gctggagtgc taccaaattt    360
              aatttaaggt cggggtcctc ctccactaat gagtaatgac tcacgtcgtc acacgtgctc    420
              gtcgccatat gcatgcatgg tgtgggtgcg cgcgcagctc gggcgacgat gggcgacaag    480
              gagtggtact tcttctgcgt caaggaccgc aagtacccga cggggctgaa ggcgaaccgg    540
              gccacggagt cgggctactg gaaggcgacg gggaaggaca gggagatctt caggggcaag    600
              gcactcgtcg gcatgaagaa gacgctcgtc ttctacacgg ggagggcccc gaggggaggc    660
              aagaccggct gggtcatgca cgagtaccgc ctccaaggca agcacgccgc cgccgccagc    720
              agtagcagcc tcgtccgtcc cgtcgtcggt cagagctggc gcgtcgtcaa agcaggacga    780
              gtgggtgctg tgcagggtgt tcaagaagag catcgagccg ccatccgtgc ccggcagcaa    840
                                                   1007

              gaggtcatcg tcggttgcgt gcatggggac ggagggcacg ggagtgggag tggggccgtc    900
<removed-date>
              gtccatgtcc acagaggacg acttcgccgc gtgcgccgcg ttgcctccgc tgatggacgt    960
              gtccggcggc ggcgccaaca tgtcgctttc agcagcggcg gcggcggcgg cggcgtccat   1020
              cgagctgacg ccacctgcag gtgcagcacc ggcaccacac gtgacctgct tctccaacgc   1080
              gccgctggag ggccagttcc tgaacccacc attcctcctc ccttccgccg ccgcagccgc   1140
              ggaccacatc gccctggcgg cctccgcctc gccgttcctg gcgagcatga tgatgcagca   1200
<removed-apn>
              gcaggcgcag tacgccggcg acgcgggcgt ggtgcacggc gacgggctcc tgcagggggc   1260
              cggcgggtgg tacggcaagc tggccggcga gagggagcgg ctgagcggcg gcggcgtccc   1320
              cgccgagatc tcgtcgacgc ggcactgcat ggatcacgag gcctccttct ggggcttctg   1380
              agctctcgac cttttccgcg atcgttaaaa actggattag attagccacc ggattggaaa   1440
              cggggattct agtgtgcttt tttttaatgg gagcaaaaat tgttgtgaag aaagtttgtt   1500
              ttgcgtagta ctaaattaat tgatttgggt ttagagttaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1560
              aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc aagcttacgc gtacccagct   1620
              ttc                                                                 1623
              <210>   888
              <211>   1603
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 888
              ttgggacccc tcgaggccgg ccgggctgca cgagaccatt ggctagctcg tccccggccg     60
              ggggtttctc ttgatcgctt tgtcacttga atccgtgcct gctctaacag agagcggaga    120
              cgaccacgac gacggcgagg ccaggctctg cgatggagca ggagccgcac cggcccatgg    180
              agctgccccc gggcttccgc ttccacccga ccgacgagga gctcatcacg cactacctgg    240
              cccgcaaggc cgccgacgcc cgcttcgccg cgcttgccgt cgccgaggcc gacctcaaca    300
              agtgcgagcc ctgggacctg ccatcgctgg cgaggatggg ggagaaggag tggtacttct    360
              tctgcctcaa ggaccgcaag tacccgacgg ggctgaggac caaccgggcc acggaggccg    420
              ggtactggaa ggccacgggc aaggacaggg acgtcttcag gggcaaggcg ctcgtcggtt    480
              ccaagaagac gctcgtcttc tacacgggga gggcgcccag gggcgagaag tccggatggg    540
                                                   1008

              tcatgcacga gtaccgcctc cacgccaagc tccacggcca cggccacggc caaggcgcag    600
<removed-date>
              cccgtcgtcg tcgtccccaa ggccgccggg tccaagaacg agtgggtgct gtgcagggtg    660
              ttcaagaaga gcctggtcgt aggtggtgca gctgcagcag cagcaccaac cgcaggcaag    720
              aggggcggca cggagacgtc gtccaactac aagacgggcg acgtagaggc catcgcccac    780
              ctccctccgc tgatggacgt gtccggctcc ggctccggcg ccggcgccgc cgccgcggcg    840
              gcggcacacg tgacctgctt ctccgacgcg ctggagggcc agttcttgga ccagacgacg    900
<removed-apn>
              accacgccgc cgccagaagc cgccaccgcc gccacggacg acgacggcca cctcggcgcc    960
              ctcggcgcct cctcctcgcc cttccagctg cccggcttcg cgcactacta ctacggcggc   1020
              gggccgccgc acctgcacca gcaccacggc gccgccagcc tggtgcagct cctggagggc   1080
              agcgtgccgc cgtgcaataa gggcggcgag cgggagcggg agcggctgag cgcgtcgcag   1140
              gacacggggc tcacctccga cgtcaacccc gagatctcct cctcctccgg ccaacgcttc   1200
              gaccacgacc acgaccatga ccaccacctc tgctgctggg gctactgatc gtcgattcga   1260
              tgagcctacg acgactaccg agcgcgcatc atgcatgcgt cgcgttatta ctagcgatta   1320
              gtgtatagca cactgctgta aataaaacat ctactagtac tacatctgcg tgaggtcgac   1380
              gatcggccgt gtggtggtgg tggtgcgtgg catgcatgcg tcgagctgcc tacgtttcat   1440
              tatctgctcg tgtgatttgt tactgtagac gagtgtgggg gtgtgtaatt agcattgttg   1500
              atgtattatt attcacgatt tggtggaata atatctcctt ggttaatgac gccgccaaaa   1560
              aaaaaaaaaa aaccgggccc aagcatgcat gatatcatta cct                     1603
              <210>   889
              <211>   1660
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 889
              tgaactatag aacgcgggcg ggcaccggaa tggcacaagc acacagctca tcagttcttc     60
              ttcgtcgtct tggctagctg cctagctagc tagctagttc ctcactcctc tccgagaacc    120
              ccctttttca tctctctctc tctctctctc ggtctcgccc agctcctttc gatgttatcg    180
              tctctgctgg cctcgcaact cgtcgagaga gactcgtgaa aaagaatcca gatatagcta    240
              gagagaccga gagggcagct agcttaatta ttagcatgtc gatgagcttc ttgagcatgg    300
                                                   1009

              tggaggcgga gctgccgccg gggttccggt tccacccgag ggacgacgag ctcatctgcg    360
<removed-date>
              actacctcgc gcccaagctc ggcgccaagc ccggcttctc cggctgccgc ccgcccatgg    420
              tcgacgtcga cctcaacaag gtcgagccat gggacctccc cgtggcggcg tcggtggggc    480
              cgcgggagtg gtacttcttc agcctcaagg accgcaagta cgcgacgggg cagcggacga    540
              accgggccac ggtgtccggg tactggaagg cgacggggaa ggaccgacca gtggtggcgg    600
              cgcggcgagg cgcgctggtg gggatgcgca agacgctcgt gttctaccag gggagggcgc    660
<removed-apn>
              ccaagggcag gaagacggag tgggtgatgc acgagtacag gatggagcca gctgctcctc    720
              ttcttgatca ccaaccctcc tcatccaact ccaagcagga tgaagattgg gtgctgtgca    780
              gagtcatctg caagaagaaa ctggcagcag gaggccgcgc aggagggggc agctcgagga    840
              gcctggtcgc cagcaacggc ggccgcgaga ccgcgccagc caccccgccg ccgccgccgc    900
              tgccacctcg catggacacg gacgccaccc tagcacagct ccaggccgcc atgcacgcca    960
              ccgccggcgc gctcgaacag gtgccctgct tctccagctt caacaacaac actactgcca   1020
              gctctagagc tgctgccgca gcagcagcag cagcagcgca gccatgctac ctgcccagca   1080
              tggccacagg cggcagccac ggcacgacgt gctactacct ggaccacgcg atgctgccgc   1140
              ctgagctggg tggctgcttc gatcctctcc acggcgacaa gaagctgctc aaggcggtgc   1200
              tgggccagct cggcggcgac gcggtggcgc cgggcctgag cctgcagcac gagatggccg   1260
              ccggcgctgt cgtcgcttca tccgcttgga tgaatcactt ctaggggaca ttagttcagc   1320
              agcgaaccta agtatgtgat tggttgcgta tattatggga aatacataca tacatgtata   1380
              cataattgtg tggtgaaaca tttgtgtgtg aggcaaggag tagagcatgc gtcatttttt   1440
              ttgttgctgc cgatcgattt ggacgagaag gccatgaggc aaggagtaga actctgtaat   1500
              ataatgatgg ctgctcaagt gtgtgtacac attcagatgc agaggtcgta tgtcatgagc   1560
              gatgatcagg agaatttcat attggttaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1620
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaataaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                         1660
              <210>   890
              <211>   1504
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1010

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1389)..(1389)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1393)..(1393)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1422)..(1422)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1468)..(1468)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1488)..(1488)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 890
              ttgggtacct cgaggccggc cgggatctgt ctatctatct actggtctag tgtattgatt    60
              actctacttg tcggctgtgg cgcacagaga gcggagacga ccacgacgac ggcgaggcca   120
              ggctctgcga tggagcagga gccgcaccgg cccatggagc tgcccccggg cttccgcttc   180
              cacccgaccg acgaggagct catcacgcac tacctggccc gcaaggccgc cgacgcccgc   240
              ttcgccgcgc ttgccgtcgc cgaggccgac ctcaacaagt gcgagccctg ggacctgcca   300
              tcgctggcga ggatggggga gaaggagtgg tacttcttct gcctcaagga ccgcaagtac   360
              ccgacggggc tgaggaccaa ccgggccacg gaggccgggt actggaaggc cacgggcaag   420
              gacagggacg tcttcagggg caaggcgctc gtcggttcca agaagacgct cgtcttctac   480
              acggggaggg cgcccagggg cgagaagtcc ggatgggtca tgcacgagta ccgcctccac   540
              gccaagctcc acggccacgg ccacggccaa ggcgcagccg tcgtcgtcgt ccccaaggcc   600
              gccgggtcca agaacgagtg ggtgctgtgc agggtgttca agcccggtcg taattcccgc   660
              agctgcagca gcagcgcacg tttacgtcgt ccaactccaa aacgggcgac gtagcggcca   720
              tcgcccacct ccctccgctg atggacgtgt ccggctccgg ctccggcgct tccgccgcgg   780
              cggcggcaca cgtgacctgc ttctccgacg cgctggaggg ccagttcttg gaccagacga   840
                                                   1011

<removed-date>
              cgaccacgcc gccgccagaa gccgccgccg ccgccacgga cgacgacggc cacctcggcg    900
              ccctcgccgc cgcctcctcc tcgcccttcc agctgcccgg cttcgcgcac tactactacg    960
              gcggcgggcc gccgcagcac cagcaccagc accacggcgc cgccagcctg gtgcagctcc   1020
              tggagggcag cgtgccgccg tgcaataagg gcggcgagcg cgagcgggag cggctgagcg   1080
              cgtcgcagga cacggggctc acctccgacg tcaaccccga gatctcctcc tcctccggcc   1140
<removed-apn>
              aacgcttcga ccacgaccac gaccaccatc tctgctgctg gggctactga tcgattcgat   1200
              gagcctacaa ctaccgagcg cgcatcatgc atgcggtcgc gttattacta gcgattagtg   1260
              tacagcactg ctgtaaataa aacatctact agtactacat ctgcgtgagg tcgacgatcg   1320
              gccgtgtggt gcgtggcaat tggcatgcat gcgtcgagct gcctacgttc cattatttgc   1380
              tcgtgtgant tgntactgta gactgcttgc tgttgctatt anacgagcta gtgtggggtt   1440
              ttgtattagc attggtgatg tattattnca cgattgggtg gatatctncc tgggttatga   1500
              cgcc                                                                1504
              <210>   891
              <211>   1675
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1661)..(1661)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 891
              ggctcgagca ccctcgcatt ggtttctctt gatcgctttg tcacttgaat ccgtgcctgc     60
              tctaacagag agcggagacg accacgacga cggcgaggcc aggctctgcg atggagcagg    120
              agccgcaccg gcccatggag ctgcccccgg gcttccgctt ccacccgacc gacgaggagc    180
              tcatcacgca ctacctggcc cgcaaggccg ccgacgcccg cttcgccgcg cttgccgtcg    240
              ccgaggccga cctcaacaag tgcgagccct gggacctgcc atgtaagcaa cgcacgcgcc    300
              ggcatagcta ctagatcatg tttctgcacg gatcgagtca tgcatggctt cataaaggaa    360
              gaagaagaag ggagttatga tatgtgattt ggttgcgcca gcgctggcga ggatggggga    420
              gaaggagtgg tacttcttct ccctcaagga ccgcgggtac ccgacggggc tgaggaccaa    480
                                                   1012

<removed-date>
              ccgggccacg gaggccgggt actggaaggc cacgggcaag gacagggacg tcttcagggg    540
              caaggcgctc gtcggctcca agaagacgct cgtcttctac acggggaggg cgcccagggg    600
              cgagaagtcc ggatgggtca tgcacgagta ccgcctccac gccaagctcc acggccacgg    660
              ccacggccac aaggcgcagc cgtcgtcgtc gtccccaagg ccgccgggtc caagaacgag    720
              tgggtgctgt gcagggtgtt caagaagagc ctcgtcgtag gtggtgcagc tgcagcagca    780
<removed-apn>
              gcaccaaccg caggcaagag gggcggcacg gagacgtcgt ccaactacaa gacgggcgac    840
              gtagcggcca tcgcccacct ccctccgctg atggacgtgt ccggctccgg ctccggcgcc    900
              gccgccgcgg cggcggcaca cgtgacctgc ttctccgacg cgctggaggg ccagttcttg    960
              gaccagacga cgaccacgcc gccgccagaa gccgccgccg ccgccacgga cgacgacggc   1020
              cacctcggcg ccctcgccgc cgcctcctcc tcggccttcc agctgcccgg cttcgcgcac   1080
              tactactacg gcgggggggc gccgcacctg caccagcacc acggcgccgc cagcctggtg   1140
              cagctcctgg agggcagcgt tccgccgtgc aataagggcg gcgagcggga gcgggagcgg   1200
              gagcggctga gcgcgtcgca ggacacgggg ctcacctccg acgtcaaccc cgagatctcc   1260
              tcctcctccg gccaacgctt cgaccacgac cacgaccacc acctctgctg ctggggctac   1320
              tgatcgattc gatgagccta cgactaccga tccagcgcgc atcatgcatg cggtcgcgtt   1380
              attactagcg attagtgtat agcactgctg taaataaaac acctactagt actacatctg   1440
              cgtgaggtcg acgatcggcc gtgtggtgcg tggcaattgg catgcatgcg tcgagctgcc   1500
              tacgttccat tatttgctcg tgtgatttgt tactgtagac gagtgtgggg gtgtgtaatt   1560
              agcattgttg atgtattatt attcacgatt tggtggaata tctccatggt taaatgacgc   1620
              cgccaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agcggccctc gagctgccag nttgttgttc tcctt        1675
              <210>   892
              <211>   1392
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (868)..(868)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                   1013

              <400> 892
<removed-date>
              cttaacaact ccactcccgc ggaaaaaaaa cccatatccc tccggcataa acccaaaaag     60
              ccaggcagca ggagatggag cacgacgtgc accaccagca ccagcaggcc atggagctgc    120
              cgccggggtt ccgattccac cccaccgacg aggagctcat cacgcactac ctcgccagga    180
              aggccgccga cgcccgcttc gccccgcgcg ccgtcggcga ggccgacctc aacaagtgcg    240
              agccatggga cctgccatcc cgggcgacga tgggcgagaa ggagtggtac ttcttctgcg    300
<removed-apn>
              tcaaggaccg caagtacccg acggggctga ggacgaaccg ggccaccgag tccggatact    360
              ggaaggcgac gggcaaggac agggagatct tcaggagcaa ggccctcgtc ggcatgaaga    420
              agacgctcgt cttctacacg gggagggcgc ccaggggagg caagaccggc tgggtcatgc    480
              acgagtaccg cctccacggc aagcacgcca gcagcagccg cctcatgccg tcgtcggtca    540
              gagctggcgc gtcaaaggac gagtgggtgc tgtgcagggt gttcaagaag agcatcgagc    600
              cgccgccgtc agtgggcaag aggtcgtcgg tcgcgtgcac ggggacgatg gtggtggagg    660
              acgtcgtggg accgccgtcc atgtccatgg aggacgacct caccgcgtgc gcgctgcctc    720
              cgctgatgga cgtgtccggc ggtggcggcg ccaacatggc ggcggcgtcc atcgagctgc    780
              tggcgccacc ggcaccacac gtgacctgct tctccaacgc gctggagggc cagttcttcc    840
              tgaacccacc ctgcctccac ccctccangt cgccgctccg cctggcgagc atggtgcagg    900
              cgcaggcgca ggcgcagtac gacggcgacg cgggcatggt gctccagctc ctgcaggagg    960
              ccggcgggtg gtacagcaag ctgggcgagg gggagcggct gagcggcggc gcgtcgcagg   1020
              acaccggcgt cacctcggag gtgaacgtga accccgccga gatctcctcg acgcggcacc   1080
              acataatgga ccccgaggcg gcctccttct ggggcttctg aacttccccc cacatttttt   1140
              ttttccgcga tcgctaaaaa ttggattaga attagtcact ggattggaaa ctgggattgt   1200
              aattgtgccg ttgaatatta ctatatgcaa aatggggcaa aaaaaaaaca aaaagttgtg   1260
              aacgaagtgt gtgtatatat atatatgcgc gcgcgcctgt gttcacggta ctatcccgcg   1320
              acaaaattgt atttatgatg atagaattgt gtttaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gggcggccgc   1380
              caccgcggtg ga                                                       1392
              <210>   893
              <211>   1044
              <212>   DNA
                                                   1014

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 893
              atggagcagg agccgcaccg gcccatggag ctgcccccgg gcttccgctt ccacccgacc     60
              gacgaggagc tcatcacgca ctacctggcc cgcaaggccg ccgacgcccg cttcgccgcg    120
              ctcgccgtcg ccgaggccga cctcaacaag tgcgagccct gggacctgcc atgtaagcac    180
              gcacgcgccg gcatagctac tagatcatgt tctaaaagga agggagccac gggcaaggac   240
<removed-apn>
              agggacgtct tcaggggcaa ggcgctcgtc ggctccaaga agacgctcgt cttctacacg   300
              gggagggcgc ccaggggaga gaagtccgga tgggtcatgc acgagtaccg cctccacgcc   360
              aagctccacg gccacggcca cggccacggc caaggcgcag ccgtcgtcgt cgtccccaag   420
              gccgccggga ccaagaacga gtgggtgctg tgcagggtgt tcaagaagag cctcgtcgta    480
              ggtggtgcag ctgcagcagc agcaccaacc gcaggcaaga ggggcggcac ggagacgtcg    540
              tccaactcca agacgggcga cgtagcggcc atctcccacc tccctccgct gatggacgtg    600
              tccggctccg gctccggcgc cgccgccgcg gcggcggcac acgtgacctg cttctccgac   660
              gcgctggagg gccagttctt ggaccagacg acgaccacgc cgccgccaga agccgccgcc   720
              gccgccacgg acgacgacgg ccacctcggc gccctcgccg ccgcctcctc ctcggccttc   780
              cagctgcccg gcttcgcgca ctactactac ggcggggggg cgccgcacct gcaccagcac   840
              cacggcgccg ccagcctggt gcagctcctg gagggcagcg ttccgccgtg caataagggc    900
              ggcgagcggg agcgggagcg ggagcggctg agcgcgtcgc aggacacggg gctcacctcc    960
              gacgtcaacc ccgagatctc ctcctcctcc ggccaacgct tcgaccacga ccacgaccac   1020
              cacctctgct gctggggcta ctga                                          1044
              <210>   894
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 894
              gaaaaatggc acaagcacac agctcatcag ttcttcttcg tcgtcttggc tagctgccta     60
              gctagctagc tagttcctca ctcctctccg agaaccccct ttttcatctc tctctctcgc   120
              ctagctcctt tcgcgatgtt atcttctctg ctggcctcac aactcgagag agactcgtga   180
              aaagaatcca gatatataaa gagatcgagg gcagctagct taattattag catgtcgatg    240
                                                   1015

<removed-date>
              agcttcttga gcatggtgga ggcggagctg ccgccggggg ttccggttcc acccgaggga    300
              cgacgagctc atctgcgact acctcgcgcc caagctcggc gccaagcccg gcttctccgg    360
              ctgccgcccg cccatggtcg acgtcgacct caacaaggtc gagccatggg acctccccgt    420
              ggcggcgtcg gtggggccgc gggagtggta cttcttcagc ctcaaggacc gcaagtacgc    480
              gacggggcag cggacgaacc gggccacggt gtccgggtac tggaaggcga cggggaagga    540
<removed-apn>
              ccgacccgtg gtggcggcgc ggcgaggcgc gctggtgggg atgcgcaaga cgctcgtgtt    600
              ctaccagggg agggcgccca agggcaggaa gacggagtgg gtgatgcacg agtacaggat    660
              ggagccagct gctcctcttc ttgatcacca accctcctca tccaactcca aggatgaaga    720
              ttgggtgctg tgcagagtca tctgcaagaa gaaactggca gcaggaggcc gcgcaggagg    780
              gggaagctca aggagcctgg tcgccagcaa cggcggccgc gagaccgcgc cagccacccc    840
              gccgccgccg ccgctgccac ctcgcatgga cacggacgcc accctagcac agctccaggc    900
              cgccatgcac gccaccgccg gcgcgctcga gcaggtgccc tgcttctcca gcttcaataa    960
              caacactact gccagctcta gagctgctgc cgcagcagca gcagcagcgc agccatgcta   1020
              cctgcccagc atggccacag gcggcagcca cggcacgacg agctactacc tggaccacgc   1080
              gatgctgccg cctgagctag gtggctgctt cgatcctctc cacggcgaca agagctgctc   1140
              aaggcggtgc tgggccagct cggcggcgac gcggtggcgc cgggcctgca cctgcagcac   1200
              gagatggccg ccggcgctgt cgtcgcttcg tccgcttgga tgaatcactt ctaggggaca   1260
              ttagttcagc gaacctaagt atgtgattgg ttgcgtatat tatgggaaat acatacatac   1320
              atatatacat aattgtgtgg tgaaacattt gtgtgtgagg caaggagtag agcatctgag   1380
              catgcgtcat tttttctgtt gctgccgatc gatttggacg agaaggccat gaggcaagga   1440
              gtaaactctg taatataatg gctgctcaag tgtgtgtaca ttcagatgca aaaaaaaaaa   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   895
              <211>   3130
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 895
              ccttccaacg ccaaccaccc cccaagaaac cggaaagcga acggcatggc gaccccccgc     60
                                                   1016

<removed-date>
              agcgcagcac gccacgctcc ctcctctccc tctcgcaggc catgacgcgc caccgtcctt    120
              ggcctccttc ccatcctcct cctcctcatc ctcttcctct tcgggtagtg gcagcggcac    180
              cacaagcaac cggcagcggc gccgggaaga agatggcgag gctctccccg ggggcggcgg    240
              cgccgcaggt ggacacgggc aagtacgtcc gctacacgcc ggagcaggtg gaggcgctgg    300
              agcgcgtcta caacgagtgc cccaagccca gctccctccg ccgccagcag atcatccggg    360
<removed-apn>
              actgccccat cctctgcaac atcgagccca agcagatcaa ggtctggttc cagaaccgaa    420
              ggtgccggga gaagcagcgc aaggagtcct cccgcatgca gacggtgaac cggaagctga    480
              ccgcgatgaa caagctgctg atggaggaga atgaccggct gcagaagcag gtgtcgcgtc    540
              tcgtctacga gaacgcgtcg gtcaagagcc tcaagactaa gatccacaag gcttctgcgg    600
              ccaccacgga cacgagctgc gagtctgtgg tgacgagtgg tcagcagcaa gccctagcag    660
              ccccgcgtcc gcagagggat gcgaacaacc cagctggtct tctcgcaatc ggtgaggaga    720
              ccttgacagc gttcctgtcc aaggcgaccg gaaccgctgt cgaatgggtg caaatgatgg    780
              gaatgaagcc ttgtccggat tcattggaat catcgctgtt tcgcacaatt gtattggcgt    840
              agcagcccga gcttgcggtc ttgtgagcct tgagcccaca aaggttgccg agatcctcaa    900
              ggatcgtcca tcttggtatc gcgactgtcg ttgcgttgat atcctccatg ttttccctac    960
              gggtaatggt ggaactatcg agttaatcta catgcagact tatgcaccga cgactttggc   1020
              ggcaccacgc gacttctgga cactccgcta cacctgcgga cttgatgatg gcagccttgt   1080
              gatctgtgaa aggtcattga ctcagtccac gggtggtcca tctgggccta acactcctgg   1140
              ttttatcaga gccgaggtgc tccctagtgg ttatctgatt cgaccatgcg agggaggcgg   1200
              ctccatgatc cacattgtgg atcatgttga tttggatgct tggagtgtgc ctgaagtcct   1260
              tagaccgctc tatgaatctc cgaagatcgt tgcacaggag atgactattg cggcactgcg   1320
              acacatcagg caaatcgcgc atgaatcaag tggtgaaatc ccctatggtg ctgggcgcca   1380
              gcctgcagtt ctcagaacct tcagtcaaag gctcagcaga ggcttcaatg atgctgtgag   1440
              tggctttcca gatgatggct ggtcttgttt gttgaacacc gatggtgctg aggatattac   1500
              agttacaatc aactcatctc caaataaact tgttgggtct catgtcagcg cttccccatt   1560
              attttctgct atggggggtg gaatcatgtg cgcaaaagca tcgatgctgc tgcagaatgt   1620
                                                   1017

              gccacctgct ctacttgtgc gatttttgag ggagcatcgg tctgaatggg ctgatcctgg   1680
<removed-date>
              catcgatgct tattctgtcg cctctttgag ggccaaccca tacactgttc caggtttaag   1740
              ggctggtggg tttatgggca accaggttat actgcccctt gcacgcacct tggagcatga   1800
              agagtccttg gaggttatta ggcttgaagg acatggcttt agccatgagg aggtgcttat   1860
              gtcccgggat atgtttcttc tacagctgtg cagtggcgtc gacgaggatg cacctggtgc   1920
              gtgtgcacag cttgtctttg ctcctattga tgaatctttt gccgacgatg caccgttgct   1980
<removed-apn>
              gccctcaggc ttccgtgtga taccgcttga tgctaagacg gatgtgccaa cggccaccac   2040
              acgcacgctt gaccttgcct ctgcgctcga ggttggatca ggtggaagcg gcatgcgcgc   2100
              ttcatgcgat ggttccggca cgtgcgccac gagatcggtc ctgaccatcg ccttccagtt   2160
              ctcgttcgag aaccaccttc gcgagagcgt ggcggcaatg gccaagcagt acgtcagggg   2220
              cgtgatggcc tccgtgcaga gggtggccat ggcgatcgct ccttctcgcc tcggttcgcg   2280
              tatcgaactg aagcatccgc cgggctctcc cgaggcactt gcactagcta cgtggattgg   2340
              caggagctac agggcgcaca ctggaacgga gatccgctgg tcggacaccg aaggcgcgga   2400
              ctctccactg atgctgttct ggaagcacag cgacgcgata ctctgctgct ctctgaagcc   2460
              gccggctttc acgctcaagt tcgccaacag cgccggcttc gacatcctgg agacgacgat   2520
              ggtgaacatc caggacctgc cgctggaggc ggtcctcgac gaggagggcc agaaggccct   2580
              gtccgcgcag ctccccgcga tcatgcagca gggcctggcg tacctccccg gtggcgtgtg   2640
              caggtcgagc atggggcggc aggcgtcgta cgagcaggca gtggcgtgga aggtggtggg   2700
              tgacgacggc gccccgcagt gcctggcgct catgctcgcc aactggacct tcatctgagg   2760
              ctcgcaacat cgctcggcag cgccagaccg gatgccgcct tttgccctac tacgtatcat   2820
              tagttgcttt tccgttgtgc cgcctgtgtt aagaatttgt gtactgtgtg gatgatcgag   2880
              aactgactct gtttgtgtgt gtgcgtgaca aacaactaca acagctgtat gcgtgcctgg   2940
              tcgtggtctc gtctccccgg cttgtcgccg gcgacattga tcactgttgc aggttgcagt   3000
              attactattt gctagttctg ctaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   3060
              aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta tccctcgagg ggcccagagc ttacgcgtac   3120
              cctagctttc                                                          3130
                                                   1018

              <210>   896
<removed-date>
              <211>   3858
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 896
              tgacactata gaacaagttt gtacaaaaaa gcaggctggt accggtccgg aattcccggg     60
              atgccgctgc tcctctcctc tcctctcctc gctagctccc cccaagcgag cacgccgccc    120
              accacgatgc cagcgcgcac gggagccggc tgctccgcct ccgcctcctc tccgctcccg    180
<removed-apn>
              caccactagc gcgggagccc gatggcgagc agcaggggga ggctgaggct ctccccgcgc    240
              gcggcggcgc cgcagctgga cgcgggcaag tacgtgcggt acacggcgga gcaggtggat    300
              gcgctggagc ttgcctacgg cgagtgcccc aagcccagct cgctgcgccg gcagcagctc    360
              atccgggact gcgccgtcct caccaacgtc gagcccaggc agatcaaggt ctggttccag    420
              aaccgcagat gccgggagaa gcagcggagg gagtcctctc gtctgcagac cgtcaaccgg    480
              aagctgggtg ccatgaacaa gctgttgatg gaggagaacg accggctgca gaagcaggtg    540
              tcccgtctcg tcttcgacaa cgggtatatg aagaatcggc tccacagtcc ttctgtagcc    600
              accaccgaca caagctgcga gtctgtggtg acaagtggtc agcacaagca gcagcaaaac    660
              ccagcagttc tgcatcctcc acaaagggat gcgaacaacc cagcaggtct actcgctatt    720
              gctgaggaga cattggcgga gttcatgtcc aaggcgaccg gaactgctgt caactgggtg    780
              cagatggttg ggatgaagcc tggtccggat tccgttggaa tcatcgctgt ttcgcacaac    840
              tgcagcggcg tagcagcacg agcttgcggc cttgtgagcc tcgagcccac aaaggttgcc    900
              gagatcctta aggatcgcgc atcgtggtat cgcgattgtc ggcgtgttga tatcctccat    960
              gttatcccta cgggtaacgg tggaacgatt gagctgatct atatgcagac ttatgcactg   1020
              acaactctgg cggaaccgcg cgacttttgg acactacgat acactagtgg tcttgacgat   1080
              ggcagtcttg tgatctgcga aaggtcattg acccactcca ctggaggtcc ttctggacct   1140
              aaaactccag attttataag agctgaggtg cttcctagtg gttatctgat tcgaccttgt   1200
              gatgggggag gttccatgat ttacattgtg gatcatgttg atctgaatgc ttgtagtgtc   1260
              cctgaggttc ttcgaccgct ctatgaatct cctaagatac tggcacaaaa gatgactgct   1320
              gcggcgttgc gtcacattag gcaaattgca cacgaatcaa gtggtgaaac gccctatggt   1380
              gctgggcgac agccagctgt tctcagaact ttcagtcaaa ggctcagcag aggcttcaat   1440
                                                   1019

<removed-date>
              gatgctgtga gtggctttcc agacgatggc tggtcttctt tgttgagcag tgatggtgct   1500
              gaggatattt caattacaat caactcatct ccaaacaaac ttattgggtc tgatgtcagc   1560
              ccttccccat tcttttctgc catggggggc ggcatcatgt gcgcaaaagc gtcaatgcta   1620
              ctgcagaatg tgccacctgc tctacttgtg cgatttttga gggagcatcg ctctgaatgg   1680
              gctgaccctg gtgttgatgc ttattccgct gcctctctga gggccaaccc atataatgtt   1740
<removed-apn>
              ccgggtttaa gggctggtgg gtttatgggc aaccaggtta tactacccct tgcacgcacc   1800
              gtggagcatg aagagtgctt ggaggttatt cgacttcaag gacatggctt tagccatgac   1860
              gaggttctta tgtccccgga tatgtttctt ctgcagttgt gcagcggcat cgatgaggat   1920
              gcgccgggtg cttgtgcaca gcttgtcttc gctcctatcg atgaatcttt tgctgacgat   1980
              gcaccgttgc taccctctgg cttccgtgtg ataccgcttg atgctaagac ggatgtgcca   2040
              tctgccacac gtacccttga ccttgcttct gcgctcgagg tcggatcagg cggaggtctg   2100
              tgtgctttaa gcgatagcgg gtcaggcacg cgcagcacga ggtcggtcct gaccatcgcc   2160
              ttccagttct cgttcgagaa ccacctccgc gagagcgtgg cagcgatggc caggcagtat   2220
              gtcagggcag tgatggcgat cgtgcagagg gtggccatgg cgatttctcc ctctcgcctt   2280
              ggcccgcatg tcgaactgaa gcatccgcca ggctctcccg aggcactcgc actagcttcg   2340
              tggattggca ggagctacag ggcgcacact ggaacggaga tccgctggtc ggacactgaa   2400
              gacgcggcgg gctctcccct gacgctgttc tggaagcaca gcgacgccat aatctgctgc   2460
              tctctaaagc cggctttcac actcaagttc gccaacagcg ccggcttcga catactggag   2520
              acgacggtcg cgaacgtcca ggacctgcag ctggaggcgg tccttgatga cgggggacag   2580
              aaggccctgg tcgcacagct ccccaagatc atgctgcagg gcctggcgta cctccccggc   2640
              ggcgtgtgca ggtcgagcat ggggcggcag gcgtcgtacg agcaggcggt ggcgtggaag   2700
              gtggtgggcg acgacggcgc gccgcagtgc ctggcgctca tgttcgtcaa ctggaccttc   2760
              atctgatgct cctccgctct tgacgttcac agcctcgtgc ctcgctcggc agcgctagat   2820
              cggttgccgc ctttatccta tcctatccga ctacgtatta ctagttgctt tccgttgcac   2880
              ctgtgtgcta caactgctcg agacaatgcc cctgctgtct gtttatggcc taagtctact   2940
              gtggtggatc gggagttgga gaacaatgcc cctgctgtct gtttatgtgt gagacttaac   3000
                                                   1020

              cctattacta ctgctgttat catgttcgtc aactggacct tcgtgtgagt gaggaccggc   3060
<removed-date>
              cccctagcag agccagccag tcgcgcgcgc ccgcccgcct agcatttgca gctgttattt   3120
              gttgaactct gtatccaagt actggtcgct cttgcctttg tccaggcaat cctgtgaaac   3180
              gcacctgccc cccagttcat ccgtggaaca aacgcctttt gtagttgctt gcttgctatg   3240
              ttatgatgga tcctggtctg ctgcatctcc taaaaattgg cttggaacat tgcgtgcgtc   3300
              cccttctgct gaattcgttg cttctcgctt gattaaggaa agcgcggtac atgatgtggc   3360
<removed-apn>
              cgacctcgga cgcagacgtg gggacgtggt gggaggatgg cagccgctgc ggtggttgga   3420
              ctcgcaaccg aactgatttt gttaggtcag gtcaggtgcg cgtggtcttc tggcagaggc   3480
              cacctgagct ggcgatggac gtgaaggaag gagaggtggc agaagctacg gctgagggca   3540
              cctgaggacg gcgacgggcc gcctaatccc cccggacccg tcgtcgtcgc tgcgtgcgct   3600
              ggcgacggtc gtggcgccaa actcgctgcg tttcggcaaa ggattagcgc aaccgcggcg   3660
              ctgtcgaagg tgtacgtgag cgctggatga tctcagattc tcagtgatgg gactttgtta   3720
              gatcaatcca aggaatggac agggagcgtt tgtggttggt tttgttccag ccatgacatg   3780
              gaattcgcta cgtgtcgtgg cgcaactgca aggaccgtgt gtgtgtgatg tgcatcgaag   3840
              cttcaaatat aactgatg                                                 3858
              <210>   897
              <211>   3250
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 897
              gaggccggcc gggctctccc atccccgtct cgccgctagc tttccctttc cccccgctgc     60
              tcctcccctc cgtcctcctc ctcaccctcc ccgcgcgccg cgcggctcgg caggcagcca    120
              agcaagcaac agctgcacaa ccccccagca ccgccgccac tcctctctct ctctcctctc    180
              tctctctctc tctctctctc tcgcaccacc accatggcgt cgggcggctg cgctctcgcc    240
              ccgaggctat gactcggcgc cgcccgtggc cgtggctctc cgtattctcc gtctccccgc    300
              gacgacgaca acccctcctc ctccgactcc gactcctccc tgggcggcgg tgctagccag    360
              atgtcgacgg cgctggcggt ggtcgggggc ggcaaggacc ggccgtcgcc cggcggcggc    420
              ggcggcgccg caggtggaca cgggcaagta cgtgcgctac acccccgagc aggtcgaggc    480
                                                   1021

              gctcgagcgc gtctacagcg agtgccccaa acccagctcg ctgcgcaggc agcagctcat    540
<removed-date>
              cagggagtgc cccatactca gcaacatcga gcccaagcag atcaaggtct ggttccagaa    600
              ccgcagatgc cgcgagaagc agcggaagga ggcctcgcgc ctgcagactg tgaaccggaa    660
              gctgactgcg atgaacaagc tgttgatgga ggagaatgac aggctgcaga agcaggtctc    720
              ccgactcgtg tacgagaatg gatacatgcg acagcagctt cacaatcctt ctgctgcgac    780
              tacagacacg agctgtgagt ctgtggtcac aagtggtcag caccaccaac agcaaaacac    840
<removed-apn>
              agcagctccg cgtcctcaac gggatgcaaa caacccagct ggtctcctag ctatcgctga    900
              ggagaccttg gcagagttct tgtcaaaagc gacaggaact gctgtcgatt gggtgcaaat    960
              ggttgggatg aagcctggtc cggattccat tggaatcatc gctgtttcgc acaattgtag   1020
              tggcgtagca gcccgagctt gcggcctagt gagccttgag cccacaaagg tcgcggagat   1080
              cctcaaggat cgcccttctt ggtaccgcga ttgtcggtgt gtggatattc tccatgttat   1140
              ccctacgggt aatggtggaa ctatcgagct tatctacatg cagacttacg caccgacaac   1200
              tttggcggca ccgcgcgact tttggactct ccgatacact agtggtcttg aggatggcag   1260
              tcttgtgatc tgtgagagat cactgacaca atcgactgga ggcccatcag gacccaacac   1320
              tccaaatttt gtaagagccg aagtgcttcc tagtggctat ctaattcgac cctgtgaggg   1380
              aggtggctcc atgattcaca ttgtggatca tgttgattta gatgcttgga gtgtgcctga   1440
              ggtccttaga ccactttatg aatccccaaa gattcttgca cagaaaacaa ctattgctgc   1500
              actgcgtcac attaggcaaa ttgcgcatga atcgagtggg gaaatgccct atggaggggg   1560
              ccgacagcca gcagttttga gaacatttag ccagaggctt agcaggggtt tcaatgatgc   1620
              tgtcaatggg tttccagatg acggttggtc actgatgagc agtgacggtg ctgaggatgt   1680
              tactattgct atcaactctt ctccaaacaa acttattggt cctcatgtca actcttccca   1740
              gctgtttact gcgatcggag gtggcatcct gtgtgctaag gcatcaatgc tgcttcagaa   1800
              tgtgccacct gccctactag tacgatttct gagggagcat cgctccgaat gggctgatcc   1860
              tggtgttgat gcttattctg ccgctgctct gagggctagt ccatatgcag ttcctggctt   1920
              gcgtgctagt gggtttatgg gcagccaggt tattctgccg cttgcacata ccttagagca   1980
              tgaagagttc ttggaggtta ttaggcttga gggacacagc ctctgccatg acgaagttgt   2040
              tctgtcacga gatatgtatc ttctgcagtt gtgcagcggt gtggatgaaa atgcagctgg   2100
                                                   1022

<removed-date>
              tgcatgtgca cagcttgtgt ttgcacccat cgatgaatct tttgccgacg atgcgccact   2160
              gctaccctca ggcttccgtg tcattccact ggatgcaaag acggatccac catcaggcac   2220
              acgcacactt gaccttgcat ctaccctcga ggttggatct ggtgggacaa cgcgtgcttc   2280
              gagtgacgcc tccagcacct gcaacacaag atcagtgctg accattgctt tccagttctc   2340
              atatgaaaat cacctacgag agagcgtcgc agccatggcc aggcaatacg tcaggaccgt   2400
<removed-apn>
              ggtggcatcg gtgcagaggg tagccatggc aatagctcct tcgcgcattg gtggacagct   2460
              tgaaatgaag caaactccag gatctcctga ggcacacacg ctggcaaggt ggatcggcag   2520
              gagctacagg ttccacactg gagccgaact cctccgcacg gacacccaat gcacggatgc   2580
              ttccttgaaa gcgctgtggc aacactcgga ctcgatcatg tgctgttccc tgaaggctgc   2640
              tcccgtgttc acctttgcca accaagccgg cctggacatg ctggagacga cgctgattgc   2700
              tctccaggac atctcccttg agaagatcct tgacgacgat ggcaggaagg cgctctgcac   2760
              cgagtaccct aagattatgc aacagggctt cgcgtacctc cccggtggcg tgtgtgtgtc   2820
              gagcatgggg cggccggtgt cgtacgagca ggcggtggcg tggaaggtcc tgagcgacga   2880
              cgacaccccg cactgccttg ccttcatgtt cgtgaactgg tccttcgtgt gagaacccgg   2940
              tcccctagta gtcagtagag ccaagtcgcc tagcgtttgc ggctctgttg tttgaactct   3000
              gtaccccatg taccgtcgat tttgcctgtg tccaggcaac ctatgaaaca cacctttgta   3060
              gttgttcatc atccccgtgg aacaaacagc tttgtactag ttgttcgtct tcgcttgctt   3120
              gctatcttat gatggatcct ggtttgctac agctcctgaa aaattgattg gaccaaaaaa   3180
              aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta tccctcgagg ggcccagagc ttacgcgtac   3240
              ccaagctttc                                                          3250
              <210>   898
              <211>   765
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (731)..(731)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
                                                   1023

              <400> 898
<removed-date>
              atggatctaa ttagatgccg cgagaagcag cggaaggagg cctcgcgcct gcagaccgtg    60
              aaccgaaagc tgagtgcgat gaacaagctg ttgatggagg agaatgaccg gctgcagaag   120
              caggtttccc gtctcgtctt ggacaacggg tatatgaaga atcgactcca cagtccttct   180
              gtagccacca ccgacacaag ctgtgagtcc gtggtgacaa gtggtcagca caaccaacaa   240
              cccagcagtt ctgcatcctc cacaaaggga tgcgaacaac ccagcagggt aagcctgaaa   300
<removed-apn>
              cctggttaca tttcaaacct tatccttgct gtaatgctaa ttttcctttt gtccagtcta   360
              ctcgctattg ctgaggagac attggcagag ttcatgtcca aggcgactgg aactgctgtc   420
              aactgggtgc aaatggttgg gatggagcct ggtccggatt ccgttggaat catcgctgtt   480
              tcgcacaact gcagcggcgt agcagcacga gcttgcggcc ttgttgctga gatccataag   540
              gatcgtgcat cgtggtttcg cgattgtcgg catgttgatg tcctccatgt tatccctacg   600
              ggtaacggtg gaacgattga gctgatctat atacaggggt ttggttttgt taccatgcct   660
              tgtgtcaagg aggcatatcg ctacatcaaa tatctaaatc gttttgtgat gcaagatcag   720
              gtcataactg ntgagaaggt cataggtcta cgacttcgtg cttga                   765
              <210>   899
              <211>   3381
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 899
              ttaaattgta agagagatca acgtctgtaa atctgcaatt ctatcggttc tcacgtggct    60
              gtaggcaaat gcgtgcgtgc gtgtggtgtg ttgttggcgc tcactgctca cctccaaaag   120
              gccggcactg tgtggggtcg tgttgcgcgc catgcgcgac catgctgctg ccttctgcca   180
              cgcggggcat gtggctgcca tcgaaagcac agcgccacca ccaacgacca cacctctcaa   240
              gccaaaaaaa caaacaaaca aacaaaatgg acgtacccgt ctctcgccgc tgggtttccc   300
              tttcccttgc gctcctcctc cttcactcct caccctcccc gcaggccgcg gctcggcaag   360
              caagcaacaa cccccgccac tcccctccct caccaccatg gcgtcgggcg gctgcgctct   420
              cgccccgagg ccatgacttg gcgccgcccg tggccgtggc tctccgtctt ctccctctcc   480
              ccgcgacgac aacccctcct cctccctggg cggcggcggc ggctctagct agctagctag   540
              atggcgtcgg cgatggtggt gttcgggggc ggcaaggacc ggccgtcgcc tggcggcggt   600
                                                   1024

<removed-date>
              ggggcgccgc aggtggacgc gggcaagtac gtgcgctaca cccccgagca ggtcgaggcg    660
              ctcgagcggg tctacggcga gtgccccaag cccagctcgc tgcgcaggca gcagctcatc    720
              agggagtgcc ccatactcag caacatcgag cccaagcaga tcaaggtctg gttccagaac    780
              cgcagatgcc gcgagaagca gcggaaggag gcctcgcgcc tgcagactgt gaaccggaag    840
              ctgactgcaa tgaacaagct gttgatggag gagaatgaca ggctgcagaa gcaggtctcc    900
<removed-apn>
              cgactcgtct acgagaatgg gtacatgcga cagcagctcc ataatccttc tgctgcgact    960
              acagacacga gctgcgagtc tgtggtcaca agtggtcagc accaccaaca gcaaaaccca   1020
              gcagctccgc gtcctcagcg ggacgcgaat aacccagctg gtctactagc tattgctgag   1080
              gagaccttgg cagagttcct gtcgaaagca acaggaactg ctgtcgattg ggtgcaaatg   1140
              gttgggatga agcctggtcc ggattccatt ggaatcatcg ctgtttcgca caactgcagt   1200
              ggcgtagcag cccgagcttg cggcctagtg agccttgagc ccacaaatgt cgcggagatc   1260
              ctcaaggatc gcccttcttg gtaccgcgac tgccggtgcg tggatatcct ccatgttatc   1320
              cctacgggta atggaggaac tatcgagctt atctacatgc agacttatgc accgacaact   1380
              ttggcggcac cacgcgactt ttggactctc cgatatacta gtggtcttga ggatgggagt   1440
              cttgtgatct gtgagagatc attgacacaa tcgactggag gtccagcagg acccaacact   1500
              ccaaattttg tcagagctga ggtgcttcct agtggctact taattcgacc ttgtgaggga   1560
              ggtggctcca tgattcacat tgtggatcat gttgatttag atgcttggag tgtgcctgag   1620
              gtccttagac cactttatga atctccaaag attcttgcac aaaaaacaac tattgctgca   1680
              ctgcgtcaca ttaggcaaat tgcacatgaa tcaagtgggg aaatgcccta tggaggggga   1740
              cgccagccag cagttttaag aacatttagc cagaggctta gcaggggttt caatgatgct   1800
              gtcaatgggt ttccagatga tggttggtca ctgatgagca gtgacggtgc tgaggatgtt   1860
              actattgcta tcaactcttc tccaaacaaa cttattggtc ctcatgtcaa ctcctcccag   1920
              ctgtttactg caattggagg aggtatcctg tgtgctaagg catcaatgct gcttcagaat   1980
              gtgccacctg ccctactagt acggtttctg agggagcatc gctccgaatg ggctgatcct   2040
              ggtgttgatg cttattccgc tgctgctttg agggctagtc catatgcagt tcctggtttg   2100
              cgtgctagtg ggtttacggg cagccaggtt attctgccgc ttgcacatac cttagagcat   2160
                                                   1025

              gaggagttct tagaggttat taggcttgag ggacacagcc tctgccatga tgaagttgtt   2220
<removed-date>
              ctgtcacgag atatgtatct tctgcagctg tgcagtggcg tggatgaaaa tgcagctggt   2280
              gcatgtgcac agcttgtctt tgcacccatc gatgaatctt ttgctgacga tgcaccactg   2340
              ctgccctcag gcttccgtgt cattccacta gatgcaaaga cggatccacc gtcaggcaca   2400
              cgcacgcttg acctagcatc tactctcgag gttggatctg gtgggactac tcgcacttca   2460
              agcgatgcct ccagcacctg caacacaaga tcggtgctga ccatcgcttt ccagttctca   2520
<removed-apn>
              tacgagaatc acctacgaga aagcgtcgca gcgatggcca ggcaatatgt caggactgtg   2580
              gtggcatcgg tgcagagggt ggccatggca atagctcctt cccgtcttgg tggacagctt   2640
              gagatgaagc aaactcctgg ttcccctgag gcgcacacgc ttgcgaggtg gatcggcagg   2700
              agctacaggt ttcacactgg agcagaactg cttcgcacag acacccaatg cacggatgct   2760
              tccttgaaag cactgtggca gcactcggac tcgatcatgt gctgttccct gaaggctgct   2820
              ccggtgttca ccttcgccaa ccaagccggc ctcgacatgc tcgagacgac gctgatcgct   2880
              ctccaggaca tctccctcga gaagatcctt gacgacgatg gcaggaaggc gctctgcacc   2940
              gagtacccta agttgatgca gcagggtttc gcgtacctcc ccggcggtgt gtgcgtgtcg   3000
              agcatggggc ggccggtgtc gtacgagcag gccgtggcgt ggaaggtcct gagcgacgac   3060
              gacacgccgc actgcctcgc cttcatgttc gtcaactggt ccttcgtgtg agtgaggacc   3120
              ggccccctag catttgcagc tgttatttgt tgaactctgt atccaagtac tggtcgctct   3180
              tgcctttgcc caggcaaccc tgtgaaacgc acctgccccc cagttcatcc cgtggccgtg   3240
              gaacaaacac cttttgtagt tgcttgcttg ctatgttatg atggatcctg gtctgctgcg   3300
              tctcctaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta tccctcgagg   3360
              ggcccgaagc ttacgcgtac c                                             3381
              <210>   900
              <211>   962
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 900
              tgtacaaaaa agcacggccg gtaccgctcc gcatctcccc ggcactgccc actcccatcc     60
              cacgcgagca caaccaccac ctactcccta ctccctacac tactcccccc gcaagcacgc    120
                                                   1026

              ccagcgccat ggccatggcg gcagcgcgca cgggggcctg ctactccgcc tccgcttcct   180
<removed-date>
              ctcctctcct gcactactag cgggtccgct ggcgacgatg gcggcggtgg cgagcaggga   240
              gaggctctcc ccgggcgccg cgccgcaggt ggacgcgggc aagtacgtgc ggtacacgcc   300
              ggagcaggtg gaggcactgg agcgcgtcta cagcgagtgc cccaagccca gctcgctgcg   360
              ccggcagcac ctcatcaggg actgccccat cctccgcaac atcgagccca agcagatcaa   420
              ggtctggttc cagaaccgca gatgccggga gaagcagcgc aaggagtcct ctcgtctaca   480
<removed-apn>
              aaccgtgaac cggaagctga gtgcgatgaa caagctgttg atggaggaga atgaccggct   540
              gcagaagcag gtttcccgtc tcgtctttga caacgggtat atgaagaatc gactccacag   600
              tccttctgta gccaccaccg acacaagctg tgagtctgtg gtgacaagtg gtcagcacaa   660
              ccaacagcaa aacccagcag ttctgcatcc tccacaaagg gatgcgaaca acccagcagg   720
              tctactcgct attgctgagg agacattggc agagttcatg tccaaggcga ctggaactgc   780
              tgtcaactgg gtgcaaatgg ttgggatgaa gcctggtccg gattccgttg gaatcatcgc   840
              tgtttcgcac aactgcagcg gcgtagcagc acgagcttgc ggccttgtga gccttgagcc   900
              cacaaaggtt gctgagatcc tttaggatcg tgcatcgtgg tatcgcgatt gtcggcatgt   960
              tg                                                                  962
              <210>   901
              <211>   380
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 901
              aggagaatga ccggctgcag aagcaggttt cccgtctcgt cttggacaac gggtatatga    60
              agaatcgact ccacagtcct tctgtagcca ccaccgacac aacctgtgag tccgtggtga   120
              caagtggtca gcacaaccaa caacccagca gttctgcatc ctccacaaag ggatgcgaac   180
              aacccagcag gtctactcgc tattgctgag gagacattgg cagagttcat gtccaaggcg   240
              actggaactg ctgtcaactg ggtgcaaatg gttgggatgg agcctggtcc ggattccgcg   300
              ctgtttcgca caactgcagc ggcgtagcag cacgagcttg cggccttgtg agccttgagc   360
              ccacaaaggt caactctgta                                               380
              <210>   902
                                                   1027

              <211>   1102
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 902
              ctcttcctct cctctcctcg ctaggagccc caagcgagca cgccgcccac cacgatgcca     60
              gcgcgcacgg gagccggccg ctccgcctcc gcctcctctc cgctcccgca ccactagcgc    120
              gggagcccga tggcgagcag cagggggagg ctgaggctct ccccgcgcgc ggcggcggcg    180
<removed-apn>
              ccgcagctgg acgcgggcaa gtacgtgcgg tacacggcgg agcaggtgga agcgctggag    240
              cgcgcctacg gcgagtgccc caagcccagc tcgctgcgcc ggcagcagct catccgggac    300
              tgccccgtcc tcaccaacgt cgagcccagg cagatcaagg tctggttcca gaaccgcaga   360
              tgccgggaga agcagcggag ggagtcctct cgtctgcaga ccgtgaaccg gaagctgggt    420
              gccatgaaca agctgttgat ggaggagaac gaccggctgc agaagcaggt gtcccgtctc    480
              gtcttcgaca acgggtatat gaagaatcgg ctccacagtc cttctgtagc caccaccgac    540
              acaagctgcg agtctgtggt gacaagtggt cagcacaacc agcagcaaaa cccagcagtt    600
              ctgcatcctc cacaaaggga tgcgaacaac ccagcagggt aataagtctg gaacacggtt    660
              gcatttcgtt ttcaaactct atgcctgctc taatgctagt ttcccagtct actcgctatt    720
              gctgaggaga cattggcgga gttcatgtcc aaggcgaccg gaactgctgt caactgggtg   780
              cagatggttg ggatgaagcc tggtccggat tccgttggaa tcatcgctgt ttcgcacaac   840
              tgcagcggcg tagcagcacg agcttgcggc cttgtgagcc tcgagcccac aaaggttgcc    900
              gagatcctta aggatcgcgc atcgtggtat cgcgattgtc ggcgtgttga tatcctccat    960
              gttatcccta cgggtaacgg tggaacgatt gagctgatct atatgcagac ttatgcactg   1020
              acaactctgg cggaaccgcg cgacttttgg acactacgat acactagtgg tcttgacgat   1080
              ggcagtcttg tgatctgcaa aa                                            1102
              <210>   903
              <211>   474
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 903
              atgtatgaga tgcacccggc tttgttcctt aaaaccgggt gttacatgca tcctcagcgg     60
              gacgcgaata acctagctgg actactagct attgctgagg agaccttggc agagttcctg   120
                                                   1028

<removed-date>
              tcgaaagcaa caggaactgt tgtcgattgg gtgcaaatgg ttgggatgaa gcctggtccg    180
              gattccattg gaatcatcgt tgtttcgcac aattgcagtg gcgtagtagc ccaagcagat    240
              caaggtctgg ttccagaacc gcagattatt ccggacagga gaagcttttt ggaaaaacag   300
              actaagcgcg gaccgttcgg gcccttgcgg cggaccgtcc gcgacaccag gatgaccctc   360
              ggacagaacc aatgcaaaaa cccaagtcta cactacggac cgtccggagg gcaagcaagc   420
<removed-apn>
              accgtccgag accacgcgcg gaccgtctgg cctcaggcgc ggaccgtccg atag         474
              <210>   904
              <211>   2523
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 904
              atggctgcag cggtggcgat gcgaggggga agcagcgaca gcggaggatt tgacaaggtt     60
              cccgggatgg actcggggaa atacgtgcgc tacaccccgg agcaagttga ggtgctcgag    120
              cggctctaca tcgattgccc caagccaagc tcctcacggc ggcagcaact gctgcgcgag    180
              tgtcctatac tctccaacat tgagccgaag cagatcaagg tctggttcca gaaccgaagg   240
              tgccgcgata agcagcggaa ggagtcttcg cggcttcagg ctgtcaacag aaagctgacg   300
              gcaatgaaca agcttcttat ggaagagaat gagcgtcttc agaagcaagt ctctcagttg   360
              gttcatgaaa atgcgcacat gcggcagcag ctgcagaaca cttcattggc caatgataca   420
              agctgtgaat caaatgtcac tgcccctcca aacgctataa gggatgcaag taacccttct   480
              ggactccttg cgattgcgga ggagaccttc acagagttcc tctcaaaggc tactgggaca    540
              gctattgatt gggtccagat gcctgggatg aagcctggtc cggattcggt tggtattgtg    600
              gccatttcac atggttgccg tggcgttgct gcccgcgcct gtggtttggt gaatctagaa   660
              ccaacaaaag tcatagaaat cttgaaagat cgtccctctt ggttccgtga ttgtcgaagt   720
              ctggaagtgt ttacaatgtt tccagctgga aatgggggaa caattgaact tatctacatg   780
              cagatgtacg ccccaacaac tttagttcct gcacgtgact tttggacgtt gcgatacacg   840
              acaacaatgg aagatggcag ccttgtggtc tgtgagagat ccttgactgg ttctggaggc   900
              ggtccaaatg cagcttctgc acagcaattt gttagggctg agatgcttcc aagtgggtat   960
              ttagtgcgcc catgcgaagg tggaggttcg attgtgcata tagtggacca tctagatctt   1020
                                                   1029

<removed-date>
              gaggcatgga gtgttcctga agtgcttcga ccactatatg agtcttctag agtagttgct   1080
              cagaaaatga ctactgtggc actgcgccac cttagacaaa ttgctcaaga aacaagtgga   1140
              gaagtagtgt atgccttggg aaggcaacct gcagttctac ggacctttag tcaaagacta   1200
              agcagggggt ttaatgatgc cattagtggt ttcaacgatg atggttggtc tgtaatgggg   1260
              ggagatggca ttgaagacgt tgttgttgct tgcaactcaa ccaagaaaat taggaataat   1320
<removed-apn>
              agcaatgctg ggattacatt tggagcgcct ggaggcatta tttgtgcgaa ggcatccatg   1380
              ttactgcaga gcgtcccacc ggcagtactg gtccgatttc tgagggagca tagatctgaa   1440
              tgggccgatt acaatattga tgtgtatttg gcttcatcac tgaagaccag tgcgtgctca   1500
              cttcctgggt tgcgacccat gagattttct ggggggcaga tgatcatgcc acttgctcac   1560
              acagtggaga acgaggagat tcttgaagtt gtccgccttg aaggacaacc tcttactcat   1620
              gatgaagccc ttctttcaag ggacatccac cttctccagc tttgcactgg aatagatgag   1680
              aaatctgtgg gttcctcctt ccagcttgtg tttgcaccaa ttgatgagca ttttccggat   1740
              gatgctccat tgatttcctc tggctttcgt gtcataccac ttgatatgaa aacagatggt   1800
              gtatcctctg gtaggacgct agatttggca tctagtcttg atgtgggttc tgctgcaccc   1860
              caagcctcag gggatgcacc tccagatgac tgtaatttga gatctgtgct gacaatcgcc   1920
              tttcaattcc cttatgagat gcaccttcag gacagtgttg ctactatggc ccgtcaatat   1980
              gtgcgtagtg ttgtttctgc tgtgcaaagg gtgtcgatgg ctatatctcc ctcccaatct   2040
              ggtctaaatg ctgggcagag gatgctttcc ggcttccctg aagctgccac acttgctaga   2100
              tgggtttgcc agagttatca ctaccatcta ggtgtggaat tacttaacca atcagatgaa   2160
              gctggtgaag cattgttgaa aatgctctgg catcatccag atgctattct gtgctgctct   2220
              tttaaggaga aacctatgtt tacgtttgca aacaaggcag ggctcgacat gttagaaaca   2280
              tctcttattg cgctgcaaga cctgacgcta gacaagatct tcgacgagtc aggaaggaaa   2340
              gcaatattct cagatatctc aaaactaatg gaacagggct acgcgtacct gccgtcgggc   2400
              gtgtgcatgt caggaatggg tcggcatgtc tcattcgacc aagctgtagc gtggaaggtg   2460
              ctcggcgagg acagcagcgt ccactgcctg gcgttctgct tcgtcaactg gtccttcgtt   2520
              tga                                                                 2523
                                                   1030

<removed-date>
              <210>   905
              <211>   2571
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 905
              atgtcgacgg cgctggcggt ggtcgggggc ggcaaggacc ggccgtcgcc cggcggcggc     60
              ggggcgccgc aggtggacac gggcaagtac gtgcgctaca cccccgagca ggtcgaggcg    120
<removed-apn>
              ctcgagcgcg tctacagcga gtgccccaaa cccagctcgc tgcgcaggca gcagctcatc    180
              agggagtgcc ccatactcag caacatcgag cccaagcaga tcaaggtctg gttccagaac    240
              cgcagatgcc gcgagaagca gcggaaggag gcctcgcgcc tgcagactgt gaaccggaag    300
              ctgactgcga tgaacaagct gttgatggag gagaatgaca ggctgcagaa gcaggtctcc    360
              cgactcgtgt acgagaatgg atacatgcga cagcagcttc acaatccttc tgctgcgact    420
              acagacacga gctgtgagtc tgtggtcaca agtggtcagc accaccaaca gcaaaacaca    480
              gcagctccgc gtcctcaacg ggatgcaaac aacccagctg gtctcctagc tatcgctgag    540
              gagaccttgg cagagttctt gtcaaaagcg acaggaactg ctgtcgattg ggtgcaaatg    600
              gttgggatga agcctggtcc ggattccatt ggaatcatcg ctgtttcgca caattgtagt    660
              ggcgtagcag cccgagcttg cggcctagtg agccttgagc ccacaaaggt cgcggagatc    720
              ctcaaggatc gcccttcttg gtaccgcgat tgtcggtgtg tggatattct ccatgttatc    780
              cctacgggta atggtggaac tatcgagctt atctacatgc agacttacgc accgacaact    840
              ttggcggcac cgcgcgactt ttggactctc cgatacacta gtggtcttga ggatggcagt    900
              cttgtgatct gtgagagatc actgacacaa tcgactggag gtccatcagg acccaacact    960
              ccaaattttg taagagccga agtgcttcct agtggctatc taattcgacc ctgtgaggga   1020
              ggtggctcca tgattcacat tgtggatcat gttgatttag atgcttggag tgtgcctgag   1080
              gtccttagac cactttatga atccccaaag attcttgcac agaaaacaac tattgctgca   1140
              ctgcgtcaca ttaggcaaat tgcgcatgaa tcgagtgggg aaatgcccta tggagggggc   1200
              cgacagccag cagttttgag aacatttagc cagaggctta gcaggggttt caatgatgct   1260
              gtcaatgggt ttccagatga cggttggtca ctgatgagca gtgacggtgc tgaggatgtt   1320
              actattgcta tcaactcttc tccaaacaaa cttattggtc ctcatgtcaa ctcttcccag   1380
                                                   1031

              ctgtttactg cgatcggagg tggcatcctg tgtgctaagg catcaatgct gcttcagaat   1440
<removed-date>
              gtgccacctg ccctactagt acgatttctg agggagcatc gctccgaatg ggctgatcct   1500
              ggtgttgatg cttattctgc cgctgctctg agggctagtc catatgcagt tcctggcttg   1560
              cgtgctagtg ggtttatggg cagccaggtt attctgccgc ttgcacatac cttagagcat   1620
              gaagagttct tggaggttat taggcttgag ggacacagcc tctgccatga cgaagttgtt   1680
              ctgtcacgag atatgtatct tctgcagttg tgcagcggtg tggatgaaaa tgcagctggt   1740
<removed-apn>
              gcatgtgcac agcttgtgtt tgcacccatc gatgaatctt ttgccgacga tgcgccactg   1800
              ctaccctcag gcttccgtgt cattccactg gatgcaaaga cggatccacc atcaggcaca   1860
              cgcacacttg accttgcatc taccctcgag gttggatctg gtgggacaac gcgtgcttcg   1920
              agtgacgcct ccagcacctg caacacaaga tcagtgctga ccattgcttt ccagttctca   1980
              tatgaaaatc acctacgaga gagcgtcgca gccatggcca ggcaatacgt caggactgtg   2040
              gtggcatcgg tgcagagggt agccatggca atagctcctt cgcgcattgg tggacagctt   2100
              gaaatgaagc aaactccagg atctcctgag gcacacacgc tggcaaggtg gatcggcagg   2160
              agctacaggt tccacactgg agccgaactc ctccgcacgg acacccaatg cacggatgct   2220
              tccttgaaag cgctgtggca acactcggac tcgatcatgt gctgttccct gaaggctgct   2280
              cccgtgttca cctttgccaa ccaagccggc ctggacatgc tggagacgac gctgattgct   2340
              ctccaggaca tctcccttga gaagatcctt gacgacgatg gcaggaaggc gctctgcacc   2400
              gagtacccta agattatgca acagggcttc gcgtacctcc ccggtggcgt gtgtgtgtcg   2460
              agcatggggc ggccggtgtc gtacgagcag gcggtggcgt ggaaggtcct gagcgacgac   2520
              gacaccccgc actgccttgc cttcatgttc gtgaactggt ccttcgtgtg a            2571
              <210>   906
              <211>   2565
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 906
              atggcgagca gcagggggag gctgaggctc tccccgcgcg cggcggcgcc gcagctggac     60
              gcgggcaagt acgtgcggta cacggcggag caggtggatg cgctggagct tgcctacggc    120
              gagtgcccca agcccagctc gctgcgccgg cagcagctca tccgggactg cgccgtcctc    180
                                                   1032

              accaacgtcg agcccaggca gatcaaggtc tggttccaga accgcagatg ccgggagaag    240
<removed-date>
              cagcggaggg agtcctctcg tctgcagacc gtcaaccgga agctgggtgc catgaacaag    300
              ctgttgatgg aggagaacga ccggctgcag aagcaggtgt cccgtctcgt cttcgacaac    360
              gggtatatga agaatcggct ccacagtcct tctgtagcca ccaccgacac aagctgcgag    420
              tctgtggtga caagtggtca gcacaagcag cagcaaaacc cagcagttct gcatcctcca    480
              caaagggatg cgaacaaccc agcaggtcta ctcgctattg ctgaggagac attggcggag    540
<removed-apn>
              ttcatgtcca aggcgaccgg aactgctgtc aactgggtgc agatggttgg gatgaagcct    600
              ggtccggatt ccgttggaat catcgctgtt tcgcacaact gcagcggcgt agcagcacga    660
              gcttgcggcc ttgtgagcct cgagcccaca aaggttgccg agatccttaa ggatcgcgca    720
              tcgtggtatc gcgattgtcg gcgtgttgat atcctccatg ttatccctac gggtaacggt    780
              ggaacgattg agctgatcta tatgcagact tatgcactga caactctggc ggaaccgcgc    840
              gacttttgga cactacgata cactagtggt cttgacgatg gcagtcttgt gatctgcgaa    900
              aggtcattga cccactccac tggaggtcct tctggaccta aaactccaga ttttataaga    960
              gctgaggtgc ttcctagtgg ttatctgatt cgaccttgtg atgggggagg ttccatgatt   1020
              tacattgtgg atcatgttga tctgaatgct tgtagtgtcc ctgaggttct tcgaccgctc   1080
              tatgaatctc ctaagatact ggcacaaaag atgactgctg cggcgttgcg tcacattagg   1140
              caaattgcac acgaatcaag tggtgaaacg ccctatggtg ctgggcgaca gccagctgtt   1200
              ctcagaactt tcagtcaaag gctcagcaga ggcttcaatg atgctgtgag tggctttcca   1260
              gacgatggct ggtcttcttt gttgagcagt gatggtgctg aggatatttc aattacaatc   1320
              aactcatctc caaacaaact tattgggtct gatgtcagcc cttccccatt cttttctgcc   1380
              atggggggcg gcatcatgtg cgcaaaagcg tcaatgctac tgcagaatgt gccacctgct   1440
              ctacttgtgc gatttttgag ggagcatcgc tctgaatggg ctgaccctgg tgttgatgct   1500
              tattccgctg cctctctgag ggccaaccca tataatgttc cgggtttaag ggctggtggg   1560
              tttatgggca accaggttat actacccctt gcacgcaccg tggagcatga agagtgcttg   1620
              gaggttattc gacttcaagg acatggcttt agccatgacg aggttcttat gtccccggat   1680
              atgtttcttc tgcagttgtg cagcggcatc gatgaggatg cgccgggtgc ttgtgcacag   1740
              cttgtcttcg ctcctatcga tgaatctttt gctgacgatg caccgttgct accctctggc   1800
                                                   1033

<removed-date>
              ttccgtgtga taccgcttga tgctaagacg gatgtgccat ctgccacacg tacccttgac   1860
              cttgcttctg cgctcgaggt cggatcaggc ggaggtctgt gtgctttaag cgatagcggg   1920
              tcaggcacgc gcagcacgag gtcggtcctg accatcgcct tccagttctc gttcgagaac   1980
              cacctccgcg agagcgtggc agcgatggcc aggcagtatg tcagggcagt gatggcgatc   2040
              gtgcagaggg tggccatggc gatttctccc tctcgccttg gcccgcatgt cgaactgaag   2100
<removed-apn>
              catccgccag gctctcccga ggcactcgca ctagcttcgt ggattggcag gagctacagg   2160
              gcgcacactg gaacggagat ccgctggtcg gacactgaag acgcggcggg ctctcccctg   2220
              acgctgttct ggaagcacag cgacgccata atctgctgct ctctaaagcc ggctttcaca   2280
              ctcaagttcg ccaacagcgc cggcttcgac atactggaga cgacggtcgc gaacgtccag   2340
              gacctgcagc tggaggcggt ccttgatgac gggggacaga aggccctggt cgcacagctc   2400
              cccaagatca tgctgcaggg cctggcgtac ctccccggcg gcgtgtgcag gtcgagcatg   2460
              gggcggcagg cgtcgtacga gcaggcggtg gcgtggaagg tggtgggcga cgacggcgcg   2520
              ccgcagtgcc tggcgctcat gttcgtcaac tggaccttca tctga                   2565
              <210>   907
              <211>   3823
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 907
              tgaactatag aacaagtttg tacaaaaaag caggctggtg gccgggccgg ggcgccctcc     60
              tgcactctcc ccactcaaca atcaaccacg gcgtcacaac cgcacccctc cgaaccctag    120
              ctagcaccgc gcgccggagc cccggagtag gtgcctgctt gccctcctgc ggtggccgtc    180
              gcgctgccgc cgcctgatcc gattcgtcta gccgtgtcaa gcgccaccac cggtgatcga    240
              tgcgaggcgc cgcgggaggc ggctcgggct cgggcaggct gtgaggagag gctgtccgct    300
              cgctgcgtcg tgcgcctgtc tgcgcgcgcg tctgctccgc cgtccgcgcc aagccgtccc    360
              tcgccgaggg gggctgcctc tcacggccgc tcggcctcgc cgcgcgtctg cttcccacca    420
              cccacgcagg gatcctcgcg ggctggaggt cgaagcgcga gcggagagct aagagcaaca    480
              aggcgacgag atttgtgtgg ctacgatttt gcgttgccga cggaacatgg gaacaatggt    540
              tgcagcggtg gcgttgcgag ggggaagcag cgatagcgga ggatttgata aggttcccgg    600
                                                   1034

<removed-date>
              gatggactcg ggaaaatacg tgcgctacac cccggagcaa gttgaggtgc tcgagcggct    660
              ctacatagat tgccccaagc caagctcctc acggcggcag caactgctgc gcgagtgtcc    720
              tatactctcc aacattgagc caaagcagat caaggtctgg ttccagaacc ggaggtgccg    780
              cgataagcag cggaaggagt cttcgcggct tcaggctgtg aacagaaagt tgacggcaat    840
              gaacaagctt ctaatggaag agaatgagcg gcttcagaag caagtctctc agttggttca    900
<removed-apn>
              tgaaaacgcg cacatgcggc agcagctgca gaatacttca ttggccaatg acacaagctg    960
              tgaatcaaat gtcactaccc ctccaaaccc tataagggac gcaagtaacc cttctggact   1020
              ccttgcgatt gcagaggaga ccttcacaga gttcctctca aaggctactg ggacagctat   1080
              tgattgggtc cagatgcctg ggatgaagcc tggtccggat tcagttggta tcgtggccat   1140
              ttcgcatggt tgccgtggcg ttgctgcccg cgcctgtggt ttggtgaatc tagaaccaac   1200
              aaaaggcata gagatcttga aagatcgtcc ctcttggttc cgtgattgcc gaagtcttga   1260
              agtgtttaca aggtttccag ctggaaatgg gggaacaatt gaacttattt acatgcagat   1320
              gtatgcccca acaactttag tccctgcacg tgatttttgg acactacgat acacgacaac   1380
              aatggaagat ggcagccttg tggtctgtga gagatccttg agtggttctg gtggtggtcc   1440
              aaatgcagcc tctacacaac aatttgttag ggctgagatg cttccaagtg ggtatttagt   1500
              tcgcccatgc gaaggtggag gatcaattgt gcatatagtg gaccatctag atctcgaagc   1560
              atggagtgtt cctgaagtgc ttcgaccact gtatgagtct tctagagttg ttgctcagaa   1620
              aatgactact gtggcactgc gccaccttag acaaattgct caagaaacaa gtggagaagt   1680
              agtgtacgcc ttgggaaggc aacctgcagt cctacggacc tttagtcaaa gactaagcag   1740
              ggggtttaat gatgccatta gcggtttcaa tgatgatggc tggtctgtaa tggggggaga   1800
              tggcattgaa gacgttgtta ttgcttgcaa ctcaaccaag aaaattagga ataccagcaa   1860
              tgctgggatt acatttggag ccccaggagg cattatttgt gcgaaggcat ccatgttact   1920
              gcagagcgtc ccaccggcag tactggtacg atttctgagg gagcatagat ctgaatgggc   1980
              tgattacaat attgatgcgt atttggcttc atcattgaag accagtgcgt gctcacttcc   2040
              tgggttgcga cccatgagat tttctgaggg gcagatgatc atgccacttg ctcacacagt   2100
              tgagaacgag gagattcttg aagttgtccg ccttgaaggt cagcctctta ctcatgatga   2160
                                                   1035

              agctcttctt tcaagggaca tccaccttct ccagctttgc actggaatag atgagaaatc   2220
<removed-date>
              tgtgggttcc tccttccagc ttgtgtttgc accaattgat gagcatttcc cagatgatgc   2280
              tccattgatt tcttctggct ttcgtgtcat accacttgat gtgaaaacag atggtgtatc   2340
              ctctggtagg acgctagatt tggcatctag tcttgatgtg ggctctgctg caccccaagc   2400
              ctcaggggat gcatctccag atgactgcag tttgagatct gtgctgacaa tcgcctttca   2460
              attcccgtat gagatgcacc ttcaggacag cgttgcagca atggcccgtc aatatgttcg   2520
<removed-apn>
              tagtgtcatt tctgctgtgc aaagagtgtc gatggctata tctccctccc aatctggtct   2580
              aaatgctggg cataggatgc tttctggctt ccctgaagct gccacacttg ctagatgggt   2640
              ttgccagagt tatcactacc atctaggtat ggaattactt aatcaatcag atggagctgg   2700
              tgaagcattg ttgaaaatgc tctggcatca tccagatgct gttctgtgct gctcctttaa   2760
              ggagaaacct atgtttacgt ttgcaaacaa ggcagggctg gacatgttag aaacatctct   2820
              tgttgccctg caagacctga cgctagacaa gatcttcgac gagtcaggaa ggaaagcact   2880
              attctcagac atctcgaaac taatggaaca gggctacgcg tacctgccgt caggcgtgtg   2940
              catgtcagga atgggccgcc atgtttcttt cgaccaagct gtagcgtgga aggtgctcgg   3000
              cgaggatagc aacatccact gcctggcgtt ctgcttcgtc aactggtcct tcgtgtgact   3060
              gacgcccaac ccgtcgggtg gttatggcga gctgaccctt tttttgtatg gaaaatcatc   3120
              agctgtgaca aaaggcatat gttgcatgca ctagttgaag aaactggtcc aaatgctttt   3180
              tttgtttgtc attccattca gatgttgcta ggtgtggagt ggaaatgggg caatagtgtc   3240
              acggttacac atgacccagc attaaccaaa caaccgcgtc gccagtttct ttctattcga   3300
              tcagggagat gcattttctg gcaaaaatct cctatttttt tgttgcaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   3360
              aaaatggaac tgctgctgga cgccgaaaaa gcaagacata tgcggaaact cactatggct   3420
              cgaggaaaat atatgcctac actgtcttca aaaaacataa tgcagttttt tttttccaac   3480
              ccaaagcaca cttgacacaa agctggagca catgtaaaga ggcacgccaa atgagcaggt   3540
              agggtctctc gcaaggctga tgccaacaat taaaccgacg acccttcaca acaaaatcac   3600
              gattctttgt tctcatcctg ctccagttga ggctccttct ctgcagcctc ctcaaatgtc   3660
              tctccttgga caagctcagg gacgtcgtca tcatcctgtg cagctgcttc agcaccaggt   3720
              acctgcctct ggaaaatctc agccagcttc ttaaggttgt ccaggttatc agggcccagt   3780
                                                   1036

<removed-date>
              tggttgataa ttgatggcag aaggtcttgc atactttttg tct                     3823
              <210>   908
              <211>   867
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 908
              atggctgcag cggtggcgat gcgaggggga agcagcgaca gcggaggatt tgacaaggtt     60
<removed-apn>
              cccgggatgg actcggggaa atacgtgcgc tacaccccgg agcaagttga ggtgctcgag   120
              cggctctaca tcgattgccc caagccaagc tcctcacggc ggcagcaact gctgcgcgag   180
              tgtcctatac tctccaacat tgagccgaag cagatcaagg tctggttcca gaaccgaagg   240
              tgccgcgata agcagcggaa ggagtcttcg cggcttcagg ctgtcaacag aaagctgacg   300
              gcaatgaaca agcttcttat ggaagagaat gagcgtcttc agaagcaagt ctctcagttg    360
              gttcatgaaa atgcgcacat gcggcagcag ctgcagaaca cttcattggc caatgataca    420
              agctgtgaat caaatgtcac tgcccctcca aacgctataa gggatgcaag taacccttct    480
              ggactccttg cgattgcgga ggagaccttc acagagttcc tctcaaaggc tactgggaca   540
              gctattgatt gggtccagat gcctgggatg aagcctggtc cggattcggt tggtattgtg   600
              gccatttcgc atggttgccg tggcgttgct gcccgcgcct gtggtttggt gaatctagaa   660
              ccaacaaaag tcatagaaat cttgaaagat cgtccctctt ggttccgtga ttgtcgaagt   720
              ctggaagtgt ttacaatgtt tccagctgga aatgggggaa caattgaact tatctacatg   780
              cagatgtacg ccccaacaac tttagttcct gcacgtgact tttggacgtt gcgatacacg    840
              acaacaatgg aagatggcag ccttgtg                                        867
              <210>   909
              <211>   3034
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 909
              gaacaagttt ggtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaattcccgg gatctgcact     60
              ctccccactc aacaatcaac cacggcgtca caaccgcacc cctccgaacc ctagctagca   120
              ccgcgcgccg gagccccgga gtaggtgcct gcttgccctc ctgcggtggc cgtcgcgctg   180
                                                   1037

              ccgccgcctg atccgattcg tctagccgtg tcaagcgcca ccaccggtga tcgatgcgag    240
<removed-date>
              gcgccgcggg aggcggctcg ggctcgggca ggctgtgagg agaggctgtc cgctcgctgc    300
              gtcgtgcgcc tgtctgcgcg cgcgtctgct ccgccgtccg cgccaagccg tccctcgccg    360
              aggggggctg cctctcacgg ccgctcggcc tcgccgcgcg tctgcttccc accacccacg    420
              cagggatcct cgcgggctgg aggtcgaagc gcgagcggag agctaagagc aacaaggcga    480
              cgagatttgt gtggctacga ttttgcgttg ccgacggaac atgggaacaa tggttgcagc    540
<removed-apn>
              ggtggcgttg cgagggggaa gcagcgatag cggaggattt gataaggttc ccgggatgga    600
              ctcgggaaaa tacgtgcgct acaccccgga gcaagttgag gtgctcgagc ggctctacat    660
              agattgcccc aagccaagct cctcacggcg gcagcaactg ctgcgcgagt gtcctatact    720
              ctccaacatt gagccaaagc agatcaaggt ctggttccag aaccggaggt gccgcgataa    780
              gcagcggaag gagtcttcgc ggcttcaggc tgtgaacaga aagttgacgg caatgaacaa    840
              gcttctcatg gaagagaatg agcggcttca gaagcaagtc tctcagttgg ttcatgaaaa    900
              cgcgcacatg cggcagcagc tgcagaatac ttcattggcc aatgacacaa gctgtgaatc    960
              aaatgtcact acccctccaa accctataag ggacgcaagt aacccttctg gactccttgc   1020
              gattgcagag gagaccttca cagagttcct ctcaaaggct actgggacag ctattgattg   1080
              ggtccagatg cctgggatga agcctggtcc ggattcagtt ggtatcgtgg ccatttcgca   1140
              tggttgccgt ggcgttgctg cccgcgcctg tggtttggtg aatctagaac caacaaaagg   1200
              catagagatc ttgaaagatc gtccctcttg gttccgtgat tgccgaagtc ttgaagtgtt   1260
              tacaaggttt ccagctggaa atgggggaac aattgaactt atttacatgc agatgtatgc   1320
              cccaacaact ttagtccctg cacgtgattt ttggacacta cgatacacga caacaatgga   1380
              agatggcagc cttgtggtct gtgagagatc cttgagtggt tctggtggtg gtccaaatgc   1440
              agcctctaca caacaatttg ttagggctga gatgcttcca agtgggtatt tagttcgccc   1500
              atgcgaaggt ggaggatcaa ttgtgcatat agtggaccat ctagatctcg aagcatggag   1560
              tgttcctgaa gtgcttcgac cactgtatga gtcttctaga gttgttgctc agaaaatgac   1620
              tactgtggca ctgcgccacc ttagacaaat tgctcaagaa acaagtggag aagtagtgta   1680
              cgccttggga aggcaacctg cagtcctacg gacctttagt caaagactaa gcagggggtt   1740
              taatgatgcc attagcggtt tcaatgatga tggctggtct gtaatggggg gagatggcat   1800
                                                   1038

<removed-date>
              tgaagacgtt gttattgctt gcaactcaac caagaaaatt aggaatacca gcaatgctgg   1860
              gattacattt ggagccccag gaggcattat ttgtgcgaag gcatccatgt tactgcagag   1920
              cgtcccaccg gcagtactgg tacgatttct gagggagcat agatctgaat gggctgatta   1980
              caatattgat gcgtatttgg cttcatcatt gaagaccagt gcgtgctcac ttcctgggtt   2040
              gcgacccatg agattttctg aggggcagat gatcatgcca cttgctcaca cagttgagaa   2100
<removed-apn>
              cgaggagatt cttgaagttg tccgccttga aggtcagcct cttactcatg atgaagctct   2160
              tctttcaagg gacatccacc ttctccagct ttgcactgga atagatgaga aatctgtggg   2220
              ttcctccttc cagcttgtgt ttgcaccaat tgatgagcat ttcccagatg atgctccatt   2280
              gatttcttct ggctttcgtg tcataccact tgatgtgaaa acagatggtg tatcctctgg   2340
              taggacgcta gatttggcat ctagtcttga tgtgggctct gctgcacccc aagcctcagg   2400
              ggatgcatct ccagatgact gcaatttgag atctgtgctg acaatcgcct ttcaattccc   2460
              gtatgagatg caccttcagg acagcgttgc agcaatggcc cgtcaatatg ttcgtagtgt   2520
              catttctgct gtgcaaagag tgtcgatggc tatatctccc tcccaatctg gtctaaatgc   2580
              tgggcatagg atgctttctg gcttccctga agctgccaca cttgctagat gggtttgcca   2640
              gagttatcag taatttcctt cccgtgctgt ttctgatacc tcacctaaat ggtttggttc   2700
              ttttttattg taatctcata gctattcttt tgggccccaa tacagctacc atctaggtat   2760
              ggaattactt aatcaatcag atggagctgg tgaagcattg ttgaaaatgc tctggcatca   2820
              tccagatgct gttctgtgct gctcctttaa ggtatcagaa gagttttact caagtctgca   2880
              atattccaat cttctaaagt agaggcagac ccctccaccc atgttttaat gctttcacaa   2940
              cgaaattttc gtgctgcctt ttgtacctaa taatagatat ctatatatgg attatgcatg   3000
              ggagcagatg agcctgcacc cttctaaaaa aaaa                               3034
              <210>   910
              <211>   3327
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 910
              cgtcaatatg tgcgtagtgt gtttctgctg tgcaaagggt gtcgatggct atatctccct     60
              cccaatctgg tctaaatgct gggcagagga tgctttctgg cttccctgaa gctgccacac    120
                                                      1039

<removed-date>
              ttgctagatg ggtttgccag agttatcaca attcggcaga ggctttaagg ctgtcacctt    180
              cgacccacgc gtccgcccac gcgtccgcct gctcccgccc ctcaatcaat cacgacgcca    240
              cagccgcacc cccgcgaacc ctagctcgca gtcgcaccgc gcgccggacg ctgaccaggt    300
              gcctgctcta tctcctgcgg tggccgtcgc gctgccgccg ccagacccga tccgtccgac    360
              cgtgccaagc gccccccctc cggcgatcga tgcgaggcgc cgcgggaggc ggctcgggct    420
<removed-apn>
              cgggcaggct gtgaggagcc tgtccgctcg ctgcgtcgtg cgcctgcctt ccctctcacg    480
              gtcggcctcg ccgcgcgttt gctttcccgc ccacgcaggg atcttcgcgg gcggggagtt    540
              gaagcgcgag atttgcgcgg ctacgattct gcgttgccga gggagcaagg gaaccaatgg    600
              ctgcagcggt ggcgatgcga gggggaagca gcgacagcgg aggatttgac aaggttcccg    660
              ggatggactc ggggaaatac gtgcgctaca ccccggagca agttgaggtg ctcgagcggc    720
              tctacatcga ttgccccaag ccaagctcct cacggcggca gcaactgctg cgcgagtgtc    780
              ctatactctc caacattgag ccgaagcaga tcaaggtctg gttccagaac cgaaggtgcc    840
              gcgataagca gcggaaggag tcttcgcggc ttcaggctgt caacagaaag ctgacggcaa    900
              tgaacaagct tcttatggaa gagaatgagc gtcttcagaa gcaagtctct cagttggttc    960
              atgaaaatgc gcacatgcgg cagcagctgc agaacacttc attggccaat gatacaagct   1020
              gtgaatcaaa tgtcactgcc cctccaaacg ctataaggga tgcaagtaac ccttctggac   1080
              tccttgcgat tgcggaggag accttcacag agttcctctc aaaggctact gggacagcta   1140
              ttgattgggt ccagatgcct gggatgaagc ctggtccgga ttcggttggt attgtggcca   1200
              tttcacatgg ttgccgtggc gttgctgccc gcgcctgtgg tttggtgaat ctagaaccaa   1260
              caaaagtcat agaaatcttg aaagatcgtc cctcttggtt ccgtgattgt cgaagtctgg   1320
              aagtgtttac aatgtttcca gctggaaatg ggggaacaat tgaacttatc tacatgcaga   1380
              tgtacgcccc aacaacttta gttcctgcac gtgacttttg gacgttgcga tacacgacaa   1440
              caatggaaga tggcagcctt gtggtctgtg agagatcctt gactggttct ggaggcggtc   1500
              caaatgcagc ttctgcacag caatttgtta gggctgagat gcttccaagt gggtatttag   1560
              tgcgcccatg cgaaggtgga ggttcgattg tgcatatagt ggaccatcta gatcttgagg   1620
              catggagtgt tcctgaagtg cttcgaccac tatatgagtc ttctagagta gttgctcaga   1680
                                                   1040

              aaatgactac tgtggcactg cgccacctta gacaaattgc tcaagaaaca agtggagaag   1740
<removed-date>
              tagtgtatgc cttgggaagg caacctgcag ttctacggac ctttagtcaa agactaagca   1800
              gggggtttaa tgatgccatt agtggtttca acgatgatgg ttggtctgta atggggggag   1860
              atggcattga agacgttgtt gttgcttgca actcaaccaa gaaaattagg aataatagca   1920
              atgctgggat tacatttgga gcgcctggag gcattatttg tgcgaaggca tccatgttac   1980
              tgcagagcgt cccaccggca gtactggtcc gatttctgag ggagcataga tctgaatggg   2040
<removed-apn>
              ccgattacaa tattgatgtg tatttggctt catcactgaa gaccagtgcg tgctcacttc   2100
              ctgggttgcg acccatgaga ttttctgggg ggcagatgat catgccactt gctcacacag   2160
              tggagaacga ggagattctt gaagttgtcc gccttgaagg acaacctctt actcatgatg   2220
              aagcccttct ttcaagggac atccaccttc tccagctttg cactggaata gatgagaaat   2280
              ctgtgggttc ctccttccag cttgtgtttg caccaattga tgagcatttt ccggatgatg   2340
              ctccattgat ttcctctggc tttcgtgtca taccacttga tatgaaaaca gatggtgtat   2400
              cctctggtag gacgctagat ttggcatcta gtcttgatgt gggttctgct gcaccccaag   2460
              cctcagggga tgcacctcca gatgactgta atttgagatc tgtgctgaca atcgcctttc   2520
              aattccctta tgagatgcac cttcaggaca gtgttgctac tatggcccgt caatatgtgc   2580
              gtagtgttgt ttctgctgtg caaagggtgt cgatggctat atctccctcc caatctggtc   2640
              taaatgctgg gcagaggatg ctttccggct tccctgaagc tgccacactt gctagatggg   2700
              tttgccagag ttatcactac catctaggtg tggaattact taaccaatca gatgaagctg   2760
              gtgaagcatt gttgaaaatg ctctggcatc atccagatgc tattctgtgc tgctctttta   2820
              aggagaaacc tatgtttacg tttgcaaaca aggcagggct cgacatgtta gaaacatctc   2880
              ttattgcgct gcaagacctg acgctagaca agatcttcga cgagtcagga aggaaagcaa   2940
              tattctcaga tatctcaaaa ctaatggaac agggctacgc gtacctgccg tcgggcgtgt   3000
              gcatgtcagg aatgggtcgg catgtctcat tcgaccaagc tgtagcgtgg aaggtgctcg   3060
              gcgaggacag cagcgtccac tgcctggcgt tctgcttcgt caactggtcc ttcgtttgac   3120
              acgccatccc atggcctgtg tgatgagcag gccaattttt ttgtatggtg atcccaatat   3180
              ggggaaacca tcagctgtga cagaaggctt tatgttgcat gcactagttg tacgtcttga   3240
              atcgagtgta tttatgaaga aattggatac tgcgcaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagccg   3300
                                                   1041

<removed-date>
              cagaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa                                       3327
              <210>   911
              <211>   1354
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 911
              atggcagcag ccgtagcgat gcggagcggg agcagcgatg gcggcggcgg gtacgagaag     60
<removed-apn>
              agcgggatgg acacgggcaa gtacgtgcgg tacacgccgg agcaggtgga ggcgctggag    120
              cgggtgtacg ccgagtgccc caagcccagc tccgcgcgca ggcagcagct gctacgcgag    180
              tgccccatcc tctcaaacat cgaggccaag cagattaaag tctggttcca gaaccggagg    240
              tgccgtgaca agcaacgcaa tgagtcttcg aggctccagt ccgtgaacag aaagttgact    300
              gcaatgaaca agcttctcat ggaggagaat gagcgattgc agaagcaggt ttcccagctg    360
              gttcacgaga atgcgtacat gaagcagcag ctgcagaatc cgtcactggc aactgatgcg    420
              agctgtgagt caaatgcgac cactcctgca aacctaaggg atgcgagtaa cccatcaggg    480
              ctccttgcaa ttgcagagga gaccttgaca gagttcctct caaaggctac agggactgct    540
              attgattggg tccagatgcc tgggatgaag cctggtccgg attcttttgg tattgtgacc    600
              atttcacatg gtggccgtgg tgtcgctgcc cgtgcctgtg gtctggtgaa cctagaacca    660
              acaaagaaca ccaagctatc caatgacatg tgggtctggc tctacatgtc attgagaaag    720
              gctggtggtg taggtgaaaa gtgtatctca tgtggcggta cagatgataa tatcctgaag    780
              atgtatgctc ctactacttt agttcctgca cgtgactttt ggacactgag atacacaacc    840
              actatggagg acggcagtct tgtggtctgt gagagatcct taagtggttc aggagatggt    900
              caaagtgctg ccacaacaca acaatttgta agagctgaga tgcttcctag tggctattta    960
              gttcgccaat gtgagggtgg gggctcgatt gtgcgaatag tggaccatct ggatcttgac   1020
              gcttggagtg ttcctgaagt tcttcgtccc ctctacgagt cgtctcgggt ggttgcccag   1080
              aagatgacaa ccacagcgct acggcacctt agacaaattg ctcaagaaac aagtggagag   1140
              gttgtatatg cgctaggaag gcagccagct gttctacgga catttagtca gaggctgagt   1200
              agaggcttta atgatgctat aagtggtttc aatgatgatg gttggtccgt tatgtgtgga   1260
              gatggcatgg aagatgttat cattgcttgc aactcgaaga agatcaggag cagtagcaat   1320
                                                   1042

<removed-date>
              cctgctactg gttttggagc ccctggacct ggag                               1354
              <210>   912
              <211>   2214
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (391)..(391)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (430)..(430)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (442)..(442)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 912
              atggactcgg gaaaatacgt gcgctacacc ccggagcaag ttgaggtgct cgagcggctc     60
              tacatagatt gccccaagcc aagctcctca cggcggcagc aactgctgcg cgagtgtcct    120
              atactctcca acattgagcc aaagcagatc aaggtctggt tccagaaccg gaggtgccgc   180
              gataagcagc ggaaggagtc ttcgcggctt caggctgtga acagaaagtt gacggcaatg   240
              aacaagcttc taatggaaga gaatgagcgg cttcagaagc aagtctctca gttggttcat   300
              gaaaacgcgc acatgcggca gcagctgcag aattcgatag tgccaggctg ccagcaaatt   360
              aatgccgatg agatgttaag acttcattgg nccaatgaca caagctgtga atcaaatgtc   420
              actacccctn ccaaccctat angggacgca agtaaccctt ctggactcct tgcgattgca   480
              gaggagacct tcacagagtt cctctcaaag gctactggga cagctattga ttgggtccag    540
              atgcctggga tgaagcctgg tccggattca gttggtatcg tggccatttc gcatggttgc    600
              cgtggcgttg ctgcccgcgc ctgtggtttg gtgaatctag aaccaacaaa aggcatagag   660
              atcttgaaag atcgtccctc ttggttccgt gattgccgaa gtcttgaagt gtttacaagg   720
              tttccagctg gaaatggggg aacaattgaa cttatttaca tgcagatgta tgccccaaca   780
              actttagtcc ctgcacgtga tttttggaca ctacgataca cgacaacaat ggaagatggc   840
                                                      1043

<removed-date>
              agccttgtgg catggagtgt tcctgaagtg cttcgaccac tgtatgagtc ttctagagtt    900
              gttgctcaga aaatgactac tgtggcactg cgccacctta gacaaattgc tcaagaaaca    960
              agtggagaag tagtgtacgc cttgggaagg caacctgcag tcctacggac ctttagtcaa   1020
              agactaagca gggggtttaa tgatgccatt agcggtttca atgatgatgg ctggtctgta   1080
              atggggggag atggcattga agacgttgtt attgcttgca actcaaccaa gaaaattagg   1140
<removed-apn>
              aataccagca atgctgggat tacatttgga gccccaggag gcattatttg tgcgaaggca   1200
              tccatgttac tgcagagcgt cccaccggca gtactggtac gatttctgag ggagcataga   1260
              tctgaatggg ctgattacaa tattgatgcg tatttggctt catcattgaa gaccagtgcg   1320
              tgctcacttc ctgggttgcg acccatgaga ttttctgagg ggcagatgat catgccactt   1380
              gctcacacag ttgagaacga ggagattctt gaagttgtcc gccttgaagg tcagcctctt   1440
              actcatgatg aagctcttct ttcaagggac atccaccttc tccagctttg cactggaata   1500
              gatgagaaat ctgtgggttc ctccttccag cttgtgtttg caccaattga tgagcatttc   1560
              ccagatgatg ctccattgat ttcttctggc tttcgtgtca taccacttga tgatggtgta   1620
              tcctctggta ggacgctaga tttggcatct agtcttgatg tgggctctgc tgcaccccaa   1680
              gcctcagggg aatctccaga tgactgcagt ttgagatctg tgctgacaat cgcctttcaa   1740
              ttcccgtatg agatgcacct tcaggacagc gttgcagcaa tggcccgtca atatgttcgt   1800
              agtgtcattt ctgctgtgca aagagtgtcg atggctatat ctccctccca atctggtcta   1860
              aatgctgggc ataggatgct ttctggcttc cctgaagctg ccacacttgc tagatgggag   1920
              aaacctatgt ttacgtttgc aaacaaggca gggctggaca tgttagaaac atctcttgtt   1980
              gccctgcaag acctgacgct agacaagatc ttcgacgagt caggaaggaa agcactattc   2040
              tcagacatct cgaaactaat ggaacagggc tacgcgtacc tgccgtcagg cgtgtgcatg   2100
              tcaggaatgg gccgccatgt ttctttcgac caagctgtag cgtggaaggt gctcggcgag   2160
              gatagcaaca tccactgcct ggcgttctgc ttcgtcaact ggtccttcgt gtga         2214
              <210>   913
              <211>   2364
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1044

              <400> 913
<removed-date>
              atgggaacaa tggttgcagc ggtggcgttg cgagggggaa gcagcgatag cggaggattt     60
              gataaggttc ccgggatgga ctcgggaaaa tacgtgcgct acaccccgga gcaagttgag    120
              gtgctcgagc ggctctacat agattgcccc aagccaagct cctcacggcg gcagcaactg    180
              ctgcgcgagt gtcctatact ctccaacatt gagccaaagc agatcaaggt ctggttccag    240
              aaccggaggt gccgcgataa gcagcggaag gagtcttcgc ggcttcaggc tgtgaacaga    300
<removed-apn>
              aagttgacgg caatgaacaa gcttctaatg gaagagaatg agcggcttca gaagcaagtc    360
              tctcagttgg ttcatgaaaa cgcgcacatg cggcagcagc tgcagaatac ttcattggcc    420
              aatgacacaa gctgtgaatc aaatgtcact acccctccaa accctataag ggacgcaagt    480
              aacccttctg gactccttgc gattgcagag gagaccttca cagagttcct ctcaaaggct    540
              actgggacag ctattgattg ggtccagatg cctgggatga agcctggtcc ggattcagtt    600
              ggtatcgtgg ccatttcgca tggttgccgt ggcgttgctg cccgcgcctg tggtttggtg    660
              aatctagaac caacaaaagg catagagatc ttgaaagatc gtccctcttg gttccgtgat    720
              tgccgaagtc ttgaagtgtt tacaaggttt ccagctggaa atgggggaac aattgaactt    780
              atttacatgc agatgtatgc cccaacaact ttagtccctg cacgtgattt ttggacacta    840
              cgatacacga caacaatgga agatggcagc cttgtggcat ggagtgttcc tgaagtgctt    900
              cgaccactgt atgagtcttc tagagttgtt gctcagaaaa tgactactgt ggcactgcgc    960
              caccttagac aaattgctca agaaacaagt ggagaagtag tgtacgcctt gggaaggcaa   1020
              cctgcagtcc tacggacctt tagtcaaaga ctaagcaggg ggtttaatga tgccattagc   1080
              ggtttcaatg atgatggctg gtctgtaatg gggggagatg gcattgaaga cgttgttatt   1140
              gcttgcaact caaccaagaa aattaggaat accagcaatg ctgggattac atttggagcc   1200
              ccaggaggca ttatttgtgc gaaggcatcc atgttactgc agagcgtccc accggcagta   1260
              ctggtacgat ttctgaggga gcatagatct gaatgggctg attacaatat tgatgcgtat   1320
              ttggcttcat cattgaagac cagtgcgtgc tcacttcctg ggttgcgacc catgagattt   1380
              tctgaggggc agatgatcat gccacttgct cacacagttg agaacgagga gattcttgaa   1440
              gttgtccgcc ttgaaggtca gcctcttact catgatgaag ctcttctttc aagggacatc   1500
              caccttctcc agctttgcac tggaatagat gagaaatctg tgggttcctc cttccagctt   1560
                                                   1045

              gtgtttgcac caattgatga gcatttccca gatgatgctc cattgatttc ttctggcttt   1620
<removed-date>
              cgtgtcatac cacttgatga tggtgtatcc tctggtagga cgctagattt ggcatctagt   1680
              cttgatgtgg gctctgctgc accccaagcc tcaggggaat ctccagatga ctgcagtttg   1740
              agatctgtgc tgacaatcgc ctttcaattc ccgtatgaga tgcaccttca ggacagcgtt   1800
              gcagcaatgg cccgtcaata tgttcgtagt gtcatttctg ctgtgcaaag agtgtcgatg   1860
              gctatatctc cctcccaatc tggtctaaat gctgggcata ggatgctttc tggcttccct   1920
<removed-apn>
              gaagctgcca cacttgctag atgggtttgc cagagttatc actaccatct aggtatggaa   1980
              ttacttaatc aatcagatgg agctggtgaa gcattgttga aaatgctctg gcatcatcca   2040
              gatgctgttc tgtgctgctc ctttaaggag aaacctatgt ttacgtttgc aaacaaggca   2100
              gggctggaca tgttagaaac atctcttgtt gccctgcaag acctgacgct agacaagatc   2160
              ttcgacgagt caggaaggaa agcactattc tcagacatct cgaaactaat ggaacagggc   2220
              tacgcgtacc tgccgtcagg cgtgtgcatg tcaggaatgg gccgccatgt ttctttcgac   2280
              caagctgtag cgtggaaggt gctcggcgag gatagcaaca tccactgcct ggcgttctgc   2340
              ttcgtcaact ggtccttcgt gtga                                          2364
              <210>   914
              <211>   2691
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 914
              atgaacctct ccccgcccaa gatgtcggag ccatcacctg aaagtgacgg ggaacaaagg     60
              tgtctgaact cagagctatg gcatgcatgc gcagggcccc ttgtgtccct gcctgtggtt    120
              gggagccggg tcgtctactt tcctcagggc catagtgagc aggttgctgc atcaactaat    180
              aaagaagttg atgctcaaat cccaaactat ccaaacctac ctccacagtt aatatgccag    240
              cttcataatg tcacaatgca tgctgatgca gagactgaag aggtgtatgc ccaaatgaca    300
              ctgcaaccat tgagcccgga agagcaaaag gatccttttc ttccaattga attgggtgct    360
              ggtagcaagc agccaaccaa ttacttctgc aagacgttga ctgcaagtga tacgagtacc    420
              catggtggat tctctgttcc gcgccgagca gctgagaaag tcttccctcc attggatttt    480
              tcacaacagc ctccagtgca agagctggtt gcaagagatc tgcatgataa tgaatggaaa    540
                                                   1046

              tttcgtcata tttttcgtgg tcagccaaaa aggcatctac tgacgactgg ttggagtgtt    600
<removed-date>
              tttgtaagcg cgaaaagact agtagcaggg gattctatca tatttatctg gaatgataat    660
              aaccagcttc tcttgggaat tcgccgtgca agtcgtccac agactgtaat gccctcttct    720
              gtgctatcaa gcgatagcat gcacattggt cttcttgctg cagcagctca tgctgcagcc    780
              acaaacagtc gtttcactat tttctacaac cctcgggcta gcccttctga gtttgtcatt    840
              ccactggcta agtatgtgaa agctgtttac cacacgcgcg tatctgttgg aatgcggttt    900
<removed-apn>
              cggatgcttt ttgagacaga ggaatcaagt gtcagaagat acatgggtac aatcacaggc    960
              ataagtgatc tggactcaga gcgctggcca aactcgcact ggcgttctgt gaaggttggt   1020
              tgggatgagt ctacagctgg tgataaacag ccaagagttt cactctggga gattgagcca   1080
              ctgacaacct ttccgatgta cccaactgct tttccattaa ggctaaagcg tccgtgggct   1140
              tcaggactac ctatgttcaa tggtgggagg agcgacgagt tcgctcgtta ttcttctctc   1200
              atgtggcttc gagatggaaa ccgaggggct cagtcactga acttccaggg acttggagca   1260
              tcaccatggc ttcagccaag aatagattat ccattgttga gtctgaagcc agatacttac   1320
              cagcagatgg ctgccgccgc actagaagaa attagagctg gggatcattt gaagcaggca   1380
              tcttctctcc tgccagttca gcagactcaa actttgaatg gtggattaga tcatttgtat   1440
              ggaaatcctg ttctacagca gatgcagttc caatctcagc agtcaacact gcaagctgtg   1500
              cagcaaggtt atggtcagaa tgcaaacgac tctgggtatg ttcaaaatca actgcagcag   1560
              ctgcagctgc aaaagcagca ggagccacca ccaccacagc agcagcagca gacacaagtc   1620
              cttcagcgac aagcacatca ggaaatgcaa cagcacctct cagctagttg tcatgatatt   1680
              gctaatgtag cttctggtgt gtccatgtct ggatctgctt gtcaatcaca atcttctctg   1740
              ctttctgggt catcgttcta ccaacagaac atctttgatg gaaatggtgg tccagatctg   1800
              catctgcaca acagtttcca caacttttca agccaagagt cctccaacct tcttaacctc   1860
              ccaagaagtg gccaattaat ggcatcagag ggatggcctt caaagaggtt ggctgtggaa   1920
              tctcttgctg gtcatgagat ccaacctctg cagcacaagc ttgagaaagt tagtcaccag   1980
              agtactgtgt ctcactgttc tggcaccttg ccgccactat cagcaagaga cggttctagt   2040
              gcccaggctt gtggtacaaa tgttcagagt cacctgcttc catcatcatt tgcaatccat   2100
              gatggattgt caaccatcag gagtggtggt gttggcagtg gaactgatgc gataaccata   2160
                                                   1047

<removed-date>
              gcttcgttga gatatagtga tgcgaatttg ctacctgaaa actccatagc aacttccagt   2220
              tgtttgggtg aatcaggaac cttcaattct cttgacgatg tttgtggtgt aaacccatca   2280
              caaggtggaa cctttgtgaa ggtttacaaa tcagggtccc tcgggagatc gctcgacatc   2340
              accagattcg gcagctacta cgagttgcgt gtcgagctcg agcggttatt tggtctcgaa   2400
              ggccaactgg aggaccctgc aagatcaggc tggcagcttg tattcgtcga ccgggaaaac   2460
<removed-apn>
              gatgttcttc tcctcggcga cgacccgtgg caggagtttg tgaatagcgt agggtgcata   2520
              aagatcctct cgccgcaaga cctgcagcag atggcccgcg gcggcggagg tgaccttctg   2580
              tctgcgcctg gagcgaggat gctgcagggc agtgtctgtg acgactattc tgcaggccac   2640
              gacgtgcaga acctcaccgg cagcattgcg cctgtggtgc ctctggacta c            2691
              <210>   915
              <211>   4002
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 915
              aattcggcgc ggggcgaaag caagcaagga gcaccgcacc acgccactcc agtactccac     60
              tccactctcg tcccctcctc gatccagcca tggcggccta gccccccccc ctcccctagg    120
              gttctctgcc agcccccacc cacccaggcg cctcttgccg ctcccacccg gtggtcgcgc    180
              tgcccgcgtc gaatgggagg ccacccggcg ctcggagtcg ggcgtgaccg cgcgctgccg    240
              gaggttccct gagctcggcg gcggcgggag cgtggctggt ccggagcgcg ccgcgcgtgc    300
              aatgggaggt tcgagtgggg ttcctgcgag ccgccgcggc ggtctcggtt ctgcgagcgc    360
              gtggcccatg cttcgcgaag ggtagggttg tctgtctgtc tagctagctg ctagctgctt    420
              ggtctgatga gctcagctcc ggcgccccgc ctcggcttcc ccgcgcgctt gctccgtcgg    480
              ctgcccagaa cccagcttgc ccgctccggc gcttctcttc gcttcttcgg ggaaaggttg    540
              gagctttgag gtggtgcggg tgctcagccg aggactccgg gcgatgacgc ccgcagtggc    600
              gcgcgtttgc cgcgacagtc ctgggttcgg gtagcgagtt cctcgagcgg atttggctgc    660
              tgctgcgtcc tgcgtgggaa ggggaggcgg cggcggcggc agcagcagag gaaggggaac    720
              ggttgctctg aagcggaggg ggagcgggct gacattgctt ctgggagcat ggcgagcttc    780
              taaggacgcg cagctcccgc agcccagcca ttctcatcgc cgcaccttgg tgttcttgcc    840
                                                   1048

<removed-date>
              cccaggtcgt actggttggt gggagggaac atgaacctct ccccgcccaa gatgtcggag    900
              ccatcacctg aaagtgacgg ggaacaaagg tgtctgaact cagagctatg gcatgcatgc    960
              gcagggcccc ttgtgtccct gcctgtggtt gggagccggg tcgtctactt tcctcagggc   1020
              catagtgagc aggttgctgc atcaactaat aaagaagttg atgctcaaat cccaaactat   1080
              ccaaacctac ctccacagtt aatatgccag cttcataatg tcacaatgca tgctgatgca   1140
<removed-apn>
              gagactgaag aggtgtatgc ccaaatgaca ctgcaaccat tgagcccgga agagcaaaag   1200
              gatccttttc ttccaattga attgggtgct ggtagcaagc agccaaccaa ttacttctgc   1260
              aagacgttga ctgcaagtga tacgagtacc catggtggat tctctgttcc gcgccgagca   1320
              gctgagaaag tcttccctcc attggatttt tcacaacagc ctccagtgca agagctggtt   1380
              gcaagagatc tgcatgataa tgaatggaaa tttcgtcata tttttcgtgg tcagccaaaa   1440
              aggcatctac tgacgactgg ttggagtgtt tttgtaagcg cgaaaagact agtagcaggg   1500
              gattctatca tatttatctg gaatgataat aaccagcttc tcttgggaat tcgccgtgca   1560
              agtcgtccac agactgtaat gccctcttct gtgctatcaa gcgatagcat gcacattggt   1620
              cttcttgctg cagcagctca tgctgcagcc acaaacagtc gtttcactat tttctacaac   1680
              cctcgggcta gcccttctga gtttgtcatt ccactggcta agtatgtgaa agctgtttac   1740
              cacacgcgcg tatctgttgg aatgcggttt cggatgcttt ttgagacaga ggaatcaagt   1800
              gtcagaagat acatgggtac aatcacaggc ataagtgatc tggactcaga gcgctggcca   1860
              aactcgcact ggcgttctgt gaaggttggt tgggatgagt ctacagctgg tgataaacag   1920
              ccaagagttt cactctggga gattgagcca ctgacaacct ttccgatgta cccaactgct   1980
              tttccattaa ggctaaagcg tccgtgggct tcaggactac ctatgttcaa tggtgggagg   2040
              agcgacgagt tcgctcgtta ttcttctctc atgtggcttc gagatggaaa ccgaggggct   2100
              cagtcactga acttccaggg acttggagca tcaccatggc ttcagccaag aatagattat   2160
              ccattgttga gtctgaagcc agatacttac cagcagatgg ctgccgccgc actagaagaa   2220
              attagagctg gggatcattt gaagcaggca tcttctctcc tgccagttca gcagactcaa   2280
              actttgaatg gtggattaga tcatttgtat ggaaatcctg ttctacagca gatgcagttc   2340
              caatctcagc agtcaacact gcaagctgtg cagcaaggtt atggtcagaa tgcaaacgac   2400
                                                   1049

              tctgggtatg ttcaaaatca actgcagcag ctgcagctgc aaaagcagca ggagccacca   2460
<removed-date>
              ccaccacagc agcagcagca gacacaagtc cttcagcgac aagcacatca ggaaatgcaa   2520
              cagcacctct cagctagttg tcatgatatt gctaatgtag cttctggtgt gtccatgtct   2580
              ggatctgctt gtcaatcaca atcttctctg ctttctgggt catcgttcta ccaacagaac   2640
              atctttgatg gaaatggtgg tccagatctg catctgcaca acagtttcca caacttttca   2700
              agccaagagt cctccaacct tcttaacctc ccaagaagtg gccaattaat ggcatcagag   2760
<removed-apn>
              ggatggcctt caaagaggtt ggctgtggaa tctcttgctg gtcatgagat ccaacctctg   2820
              cagcacaagc ttgagaaagt tagtcaccag agtactgtgt ctcactgttc tggcaccttg   2880
              ccgccactat cagcaagaga cggttctagt gcccaggctt gtggtacaaa tgttcagagt   2940
              cacctgcttc catcatcatt tgcaatccat gatggattgt caaccatcag gagtggtggt   3000
              gttggcagtg gaactgatgc gataaccata gcttcgttga gatatagtga tgcgaatttg   3060
              ctacctgaaa actccatagc aacttccagt tgtttgggtg aatcaggaac cttcaattct   3120
              cttgacgatg tttgtggtgt aaacccatca caaggtggaa cctttgtgaa ggtttacaaa   3180
              tcagggtccc tcgggagatc gctcgacatc accagattcg gcagctacta cgagttgcgt   3240
              gtcgagctcg agcggttatt tggtctcgaa ggccaactgg aggaccctgc aagatcaggc   3300
              tggcagcttg tattcgtcga ccgggaaaac gatgttcttc tcctcggcga cgacccgtgg   3360
              caggagtttg tgaatagcgt agggtgcata aagatcctct cgccgcaaga cctgcagcag   3420
              atggcccgcg gcggcggagg tgaccttctg tctgcgcctg gagcgaggat gctgcagggc   3480
              agtgtctgtg acgactattc tgcaggccac gacgtgcaga acctcaccgg cagcattgcg   3540
              cctgtggtgc ctctggacta ctgaagagga ctgaggcgaa ggccgggatc tgaagctctg   3600
              aaccaaaacc ggcaatccag catttgcagg atttgccatc cgcaagtcgt ttcgttcctg   3660
              tgttatgatc ctctcagtct caggccctgt tgatcgggaa taacctagtc gtttaatata   3720
              gctagatgat gatccatgta tcattatggt aatggacatg ctgtacgata gctactgtag   3780
              ctctaaatgc aggcaaggca agaattgatc tatcaaagaa cgaatgaatg caggcactca   3840
              ctgtagaggt gatctagccc tgtactccta agtcctaaga tatattctca tagctaaaac   3900
              tgatggttcc atgtggcatt ggcacccaag ctattgaaac cagtcacctt tgccgattca   3960
              taaaacaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaattggtc ctgctgcatg cc                      4002
                                                   1050

<removed-date>
              <210>   916
              <211>   2106
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 916
              gtcagccaaa aaggcatcta ctgacgactg gttggagtgt ttttgtaagc gcaaaaagac     60
              tagtagcagg ggattctatc atatttatct ggaatgataa taaccagctt ctattgggaa    120
<removed-apn>
              ttcgtcgagc aaatcgtcca cagactgtta tgccctcttc cgtgctatca agcgatagca    180
              tgcacattgg tctccttgct gcagcagctc atgctgcagc cacaaacagt cgtttcacta    240
              ttttctacaa cccccgggcc agcccttctg agtttgtgat tccactggct aagtatgtga    300
              aagctgtcta ccacacacgt gtgtctgttg gaatgcggtt tcggatgctt tttgagacag    360
              aggaatcaag cgtcagacga tacatgggta cgatcacatg cataagtgat ctggactcag    420
              agcgttggcc aaattcacac tggcgttctg tgaaggttgg ttgggatgag tctacagctg    480
              gtgataaaca gccaagagtt tcactctggg agatgaacac tgatggcctt tccgatgtac    540
              ccaactgcct ttccattaag gctaaagcgt ccgtgggctt cagggctacc tatgttcaat    600
              ggtgggagga gtgatgagtt cgctcgttat tcttctctca tgtggctccg agatggaaac    660
              agaggggctc aatcactgaa cttccaggga cttggagcat caccatggct tcaaccaaga    720
              atagattatc cattattagg tctgaagcta gatacttacc agcagatggc tgctgctgca    780
              ctggaagaaa ttagagctgg ggatcatttg aagcagatat cttctctcct gccagtgcaa    840
              cagccacaaa atttgagtgg tggattagat cctttatatg gaaatcctgt tctgcagcag    900
              atgcagttcc aatctcagca gtcatccttg caagttgtgc agcaaggtta tggtccaaat    960
              gcaagcgact ctgggttcct tcaaaatcag ctgcagctgc aaaagcagca ggagccacta   1020
              ccacagcagc agcagcaagc tctgcaacaa caatcgcatc aggaaatgca acatcacctc   1080
              tcagctagct gtcatgatat tgctaatgta gcttctggtg tgtctgagtc tggatctgct   1140
              tctcaaacag aatcttcttt gctttctggg tcatcgtacc aacagatcta tgatggaaac   1200
              agtggtccag gtctgcatct gcacaacggt ttccacaact gttcaagcca agagtcctcc   1260
              aaccttctta atctctcaag aagtggacaa ttcatggcat cagagggatg gcctttgaag   1320
              aggttggctg tggaatctct ttctggtcat gagctccaac ctgtgcagca caagtttgag   1380
                                                   1051

<removed-date>
              aaagtgaatc accaaagtaa tgtgtctcac atttctagca ccttgccccc actgtcagca   1440
              agagacagtt atagtgccca ggctagtggt acaaatgatc agagtcacct gctttcatca   1500
              tcatttgcaa tccatgatgg cttgacagcc gtcaggagtg gtggtgttgg cagtggaact   1560
              gatgcgataa ccatagcttc gttgagatat aatgatatga atttgctacc tgaaaacccc   1620
              atcgcaactt ccagttgttt gggcgaatca ggaaccttca attctctcga cgatgtgtgt   1680
<removed-apn>
              ggtgtaaacc catcacaagg tggaaccttt gtgaaggttt acaaatcagg gtcccctggg   1740
              agatcgctcg acatcaccag gttcagcagc tactacgagt tacgtagcga gctcgagcgg   1800
              ttatttggtc ttgaaggcca actggaggac cctgtaagat caggctggca gcttgtattc   1860
              gttgaccggg aaaacgatat tcttctcgtc ggcgatgacc cgtggcagga gtttgtgaat   1920
              agtgtatggt gcataaagat cctctcgccg caagacgtgc agcagatggt ccgcggcgga   1980
              ggcgaccttc tgtctacaac tggagtgagg acactgcagg gcagtgtctg cgatgattat   2040
              tctgcaggcc acgacatgca gaatctcacc ggcagcatcg cacctgtggt gcctctggac   2100
              tactga                                                              2106
              <210>    917
              <211>    1767
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Zea mays
              <400> 917
              ttcatcagct ctacagcacg aaaacatgct ggaatcaaac ttccttcagg taagtcaaaa     60
              tccgtggatt tgtctagatt caaccaacca gtagttagcg agcagcagca gccgcaacaa    120
              caacacccac gcgtccgaaa gtttatgggc tcacagtcaa tgtcttttgg gggctcggtt    180
              tcgcttaact cgcccactag caaagatggt tctgttgaca acaaagttgg tcgtgatgtg    240
              cagaaccagt ccctttttag ccctcaagtc gactcttcct ccctactgta caatatggta    300
              cctaatctta cctcaaatgt tgctgataat aatatatcag cgtttccctc tggatcaaca    360
              tatctgcaaa gtccaatgta tggttgtctg gatgactctt ctggtttatt gcaaaataca    420
              ggagagaatg atccgacaac tagaactttt gttaaggtaa gtataatccg agtctactaa    480
              aaaacaaatt taagcccttc ctcatgtaat cattttttaa aattcaggtt tacaagtcag    540
              gatcagtggg gagatccttg gacatcaccc ggttctctaa ttatgctgaa cttcgagagg    600
                                                   1052

<removed-date>
              aactgggtca gatgttcggc attaagggtc agttggacga ccctgataga tcaggctggc    660
              agcttgtatt tgtcgacagg gagaacgatg tgcttctcct tggagacgac ccgtgggagt    720
              catttgtgaa tagtgtatgg tacatcaaga tactttcacc tgaggatgtg cataagatgg    780
              gaaagccagg aaacgatcca cgctacctat cttagctacc tatcttaaat cgatacatgg    840
              agctctttct ggctcccatg acgattctgc ggcacactgt agcactgttc acgacggcct    900
<removed-apn>
              gctctactgt gctcgcatgt tcgcccgtgt catctgtagc atgcaccacc gtgctcgtct    960
              tcagaagacg aactccccgt cgcttgtatc cggtgcaggt caccgctcct tcactgatat   1020
              tttgtagatc ccaagtaccc ggtcagtatc agcaactgcg tccgcccacg cgtccggtca   1080
              gatgttcggc attaagggtc agttggacga ccctgataga tcaggctggc agcttgtatt   1140
              tgtcgacagg gagaacgatg tgcttctcct tggagacgac ccgtgggagt catttgtgaa   1200
              tagtgtatgg tacatcaaga tactttcacc tgaggatgtg cataagatgg gaaagccagg   1260
              aaacgatcca cgctacctat cttagctacc tatcttaaat cgatacatgg agctctttct   1320
              ggctcccatg acgattctgc ggcacactgt agcactgttc acgacggcct gctctactgt   1380
              gctcgcatgt tcgcccgtgt catctgtagc atgcaccacc gtgctcgtct tcagaagacg   1440
              aactccccgt cgcttgtatc cggtgcaggt caccgctcct ggactgatat tttgtaggtt   1500
              ccacgtagga atcagtatca gcaactctat cctagtttgt ggtaggctcg cgcggcgctc   1560
              gttcctgtgt cgcatcagga tcttcggact aaaatgcgta gtcgaaaccg ttctcgtgat   1620
              tcgtaagcta ttcatgtatt tgaggattcc tcgacatgct ttcgacgatg aactgcaata   1680
              atctgaatgc aggaggattg tttgagattt aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1740
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaactcg agagggg                                       1767
              <210>   918
              <211>   3502
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 918
              atggaggctc agatccccaa ctatcctagt ctacctccgc agcttatatg ccaactgcat     60
              aatgtgacta tgcatgctga tgctgagaca gatgaggtgt atgcacagat gacactccag    120
              ccactcagtc cacaagagct caaggaccca tttttgcctg ctgagttagg cactgccagc    180
                                                   1053

<removed-date>
              aaccagccaa caaattattt ttgtaaaaca ctaactgcaa gtgatacgag tacacatggt    240
              gggttctctg ttccacgccg agcagctgag aaggtgtttc ctccactgga tttcaatcag    300
              caacctcccg cacaggagtt gattgcaaaa gatcttcatg gcaacgactg gaaatttcgc    360
              catatttttc gaggtcagcc aaagcggcat cttctgacaa caggttggag tgtctttgtt    420
              agtgcaaaga gactggttgc tggcgactct gtccttttta tctggaatga caacaaccag    480
<removed-apn>
              ctgcttctgg gaattcgccg ggcaaacaga ccacaaaccg tcatgccatc atcagtactt    540
              tctagtgata gcatgcatat tggcctgctc gctgctgcag ctcatgctgc atcaacaaat    600
              agccggttta ctatcttcta taatccaaga gcaagccctt gtgaatttgt catacccatg    660
              gctaagtatg tgaaagctgt gtaccatacc cgtatatctg tgggcatgcg tttccggatg    720
              ctttttgaga cggaggaatc tagtgtaagg cgttatatgg ggacaattac aggaataagt    780
              gatcttgatc ctgttcgctg gccaaactcg cactggcgct cagtaaaggt tggatgggac    840
              gagtcaactg ctggagagaa gcagccaagg gtatctcttt gggagattga accgttgaca    900
              acttttccaa tgtatccatc tccttttgct cttggattaa agcgcccatg gcctgcaggc    960
              ctgccttctt tatacggtgg aaggggtgat ggcttgacct cttctcttat gtggcttcga   1020
              gacagggcaa acccgggttt ccagtcactg aatttcagcg ggcttggtat gagtccctgg   1080
              atgcagccta ggctggataa ttccttactt ggtctccaat ctgacatgta ccagaccata   1140
              gcagcagcag cagcattaca aagcactacg aagcaagttc caccttcagc aatgcagttc   1200
              caacagcctc agaacattgc tgatagatct gctcttctat caagtcagat tctgcagcaa   1260
              gtacaacctc ggtttcagca aatttaccct caaaatctca acgaaaacaa aattcaaggt   1320
              catacacaac ctgagtacct ccaagtccaa cagcagcttc aacgctgcca atcatttaat   1380
              gagcagaagc ctccgatgca tccacagcaa caacagcagg aaccacagca gcagcaatgc   1440
              gtccaaacac cacaggatca acaaatgcaa gaacagaagc atctgcacaa cttccactcc   1500
              ttgccagatg cattatcggc cttttctcag ctttccccag ccactcactc cccaccttcc   1560
              gcattgcaga cagttccagc attctcgcat caacaaaact tcccagatac aaacattagc   1620
              tctctctcac catctactgg cccttcaatg catggcatgt tggggagatt accttccgaa   1680
              gcagcttcga gcctcccatg tgtggcaatg aacgcccctg tatcggtatc tgacccatgg   1740
                                                   1054

              tcatccaaga gagttgcagt ggagtctgtt aacccttgtc gacctcatgt ttcaccacat   1800
<removed-date>
              atagaacatt tggatatggc gacgtgtaac atgccgcaga gctctgcact agcaccatta   1860
              cctggacggg aatgcctagt ggatgaagat gggtgctctg atcctcaaaa tcacctcttg   1920
              tttggtgttc acatagactc gcattcactt ctgatgcaag ggggcattcc agcccttcag   1980
              aatgataaca gttcaggcac tattccatac tcaacctcca atttcctgag cccttctgag   2040
              aacgatttcc ccttgaatca accgctacgc agcgcgggct gcttagatga gtcggattat   2100
<removed-apn>
              cttccatgtg cagagaatgc cgaacaggca aatcaacagt ttgcaacctt tgtgaaggtt   2160
              tacaaatccg ggaccgtcgg aaggttgctc gacatcacta gattcagcag ctacgacgag   2220
              ctccgtagcg aggtggggcg tctgtttggc ctcgagggcc agctggaaga ccctctgaga   2280
              tcaggctggc agcttgtatt tgttgacagg gaggacgatg tccttctggt tggcgatgac   2340
              ccatggcagg aattcgtgaa cagtgtgtcc tgtataaaga tactttcacc ggaggaggtc   2400
              cagcggatgg gaaagccggg catccagctc ctgagctcgg ctccttcaag aaggctgggc   2460
              aatggctgcg acagctacgc gagcatgcag gagccgagag gcctggacgc tgggatggcg   2520
              ccgcacttgc tagctctgcg acttggaaca aagcacgtag atcaaatgga gctctgtgct   2580
              gctccccgtc tgatgatgtc ttatgtaaaa cctttttttt gtcataataa cctgtatatt   2640
              gaaactgttc ttggctccca cggtatacgg ctgacgacga gtgacgaggg aaactggaat   2700
              ttgggggcat ttcacagaat tgaaactact gataattcca acttaccgat gcaattccaa   2760
              ttccaacttg gtcagaccaa cattgccgtt gctgtcaatg tcacgataat tgctaaagct   2820
              accttcagta aaagcaaaag gcagtttgtt atgatcctgg aaaagttgag agatagatat   2880
              atagatatga tctctgaggg aattcattca ggtgcacctt tatgcttgca taatttggca   2940
              ctacttggtg cagacaacga cgccatggac cggtcctctt cctctcatag tctcatgtgc   3000
              tccctgggtc cctatctgac tgaaacccct gagtgcggcc ctcccctggc gaagaagaaa   3060
              aggatggcct cccgttccct gagggcgtcc gtaggagcga accccggtag cttctctggt   3120
              gatctctcca tcgctttcat catatcttcg gctgggcccc cggtccggca ccacttggag   3180
              cacacgctgg ccgtccggca ccgggcacgc agccgagcac gaaaccggca cgagcatccc   3240
              caacgcgtac ctgacccacc ggccggtcag ccgacggcgg cgcacgcgca cggaaccgag   3300
              ggcgggcacg gcgcgggcgt tgggcgtctg cgcgtgatgg gccttggagt ccgttccgtt   3360
                                                   1055

<removed-date>
              acgttcacgt gggacgggaa ggacgggcgg tccaaagctg gagggggcta cgggcccaag   3420
              tatttcctgt ggaagcaaga aggccgagtt cccgctcccg catgtaaatc agcccagtta   3480
              gcactgcaga tgctggctcg tg                                            3502
              <210>   919
              <211>   3241
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 919
              gaacaagttt agtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taaattcggc acgagcccgc catccacccc     60
              acaccctctc ccatctctct ctcggtgccc tcctcctcct ccccagtccg ccccaccctt    120
              ccggccctcc ccctctttta tatccagtac catggtgatc tccgagctcg ggtgagctga    180
              tgagaatgcg gccgatttga ggaaggctgt gggcgcgatg gatgcggttt cgggcggatt    240
              cgcgaggagg ctgtagaggt taggttccgg tgtcccccgg cccggccggt cgtgggagat    300
              gagctcctcg tccgcggcca gcatcgggca gccgccgccg cccgcgccgc cgccggaaga    360
              agagaagaag tgcctcaact cggagctgtg gcacgcctgc gccggcccgc tcgtctgcct    420
              ccccaccgtc ggtacgcgcg tcgtctactt cccgcagggc cacagcgagc aggtggcagc    480
              gtcgacgaac aaggaggtgg acgggcacat ccccaactac cccaacctgc cgccgcagct    540
              gatctgccag ctccatgatg tcacaatgca tgcggatgtg gagacagacg aagtgtacgc    600
              gcagatgacg ctgcagccgc tcaatccaca agagcagaac gacgcgtacc tgcctgccga    660
              gatgggaatc atgagcaagc agccgacgaa ttacttctgc aagacgctga ctgcgagcga    720
              caccagcacg cacggcgggt tctctgtgcc ccgtcgtgcg gccgagcgcg tcttcccccc    780
              gctggatttc acacagcagc ctccagcaca ggagcttatt gcacgggata ttcatgatgt    840
              tgagtggaag ttcaggcata tcttccgagg ccagcccaaa agacacctgc tgacgactgg    900
              ctggagtgtg tttgtcagtg ctaagagact tgttgctgga gattctgtgc tattcatatg    960
              gaatgagaaa aaccagcttt tgcttggaat cagacacgct acccggccac agactgtgat   1020
              gccctcttct gttctttcga gtgacagcat gcacatcgga ctccttgcag cagcagctca   1080
              tgctgctgca acaaacagcc gcttcacaat tttctataat cctagggcaa gtccaacaga   1140
              atttgttata cccctttcga aatacatcaa ggctgttttt cacacgcgga tatcagttgg   1200
                                                   1056

<removed-date>
              gatgcgattc aggatgttat ttgagactga ggaatcaagt gtccgcaggt acatggggac   1260
              aataacagaa gtgagtgatg ctgacccagt gcgttggcct agttcctatt ggagatcagt   1320
              gaaggttggt tgggatgaat caaccgcagg agaaaggcca cctagagttt ctctgtggga   1380
              aattgagcca ctgacaacct ttcctatgta tccatccctg ttcccactgc gagttaagca   1440
              tccttggtat tcaggacttg ctgctcttca tgatgacagc aatgctttga tgtggctgag   1500
<removed-apn>
              aggagtaacc ggtgaagggg gctttcattc tttgaacttc cagtcacctg gtataggttc   1560
              ctggggacaa cagagactcc atccatcctt acttagcaat gaccatgatc agtatcaagc   1620
              agtggttgct gccgcagctg cctcccagtc cggtggttat ctgaagcagc aattcctaca   1680
              ccttcaacaa cctatgcagt ccccacagga gcagtgcaat ctcaatccgc tgttgcagca   1740
              acaaatacta cagcaagcga gccaacagca gatggttagt tctgatgctc aaaatattca   1800
              gtccgtgctc aacccaggtg ctattcagca gcagctccac caactccagc agatgcagca   1860
              tactcataat gaccagaagc aaaagattca accagatcaa cagtaccaag ttgctagcag   1920
              tgcggttctc ccgagtccaa catcattacc aagccatttg cgtgaaaaat ttggcttctc   1980
              tgatcctaat gtgaactctt ccagcttcat cagctctagc agcaacgaaa acatgctgga   2040
              atcaaacttc cttcaggtaa gttcaaaatc cgtggatttg tctagattca accaaccagt   2100
              agttagcgag cagcagcagc cgcaacaaca acaggcatgg aagcaaaagt ttatgggctc   2160
              acagtcaatg tcttttgggg gctcggtttc gcttaactcg cccactagca aagatggttc   2220
              tgttgacaac aaagttggtc gtgatgtgca gaaccagtcc ctttttagcc ctcaagtcga   2280
              ctcttcctcc ctactgtaca atatggtacc taatcttacc tcaaatgttg ctgataataa   2340
              tatatcagcg tttccctctg gatcaacata tctgcaaagt ccaatgtatg gttgtctgga   2400
              tgactcttct ggtttattgc aaaatacagg agagaatgat ccgacaacta gaacttttgt   2460
              taaggtttac aagtcaggat cagtggggag atccttggac atcacccggt tctctaatta   2520
              tgctgaactt cgagaggaac tgggtcagat gttcggcatt aagggtcagt tggacgaccc   2580
              tgatagatca ggctggcagc ttgtatttgt cgacagggag aacgatgtgc ttctccttgg   2640
              agacgacccg tgggagtcat ttgtgaatag tgtatggtac atcaagatac tttcacctga   2700
              ggatgtgcat aagatgggaa agccaggaaa cgatccacgc tacctatctt agctacctat   2760
                                                   1057

              cttaaatcga tacatggagc tctttctggc tcccatgacg attctgcggc acactgtagc   2820
<removed-date>
              actgttcacg acggcctgct ctactgtgct cgcatgttcg cccgtgtcat ctctactctc   2880
              tagcatgcac caccgtgctc gtcttcagaa gacgaactcc ccgtcgcttg tatccggtgc   2940
              aggtcaccgc tcctggactg atattttgta ggttccacgt aggaatcagt atcagcaact   3000
              ctatcctagt ttgtggtagg ctcgcgcggc gctcgttcct gtgtcgcatc aggatcttcg   3060
              gactaaaatg cgtagtcgaa accgttctcg tgattcgtaa gctattcatg tatttgagga   3120
<removed-apn>
              ttcctcgaca tgctttcgac gatgaactgc aataatctga atgcaggagg attgtttgag   3180
              atttgtaaaa aaaaaacaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ctcgagaggg   3240
              g                                                                   3241
              <210>   920
              <211>   813
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 920
              ataattctga caaagtgaac cgaccaccag cgaccttcgt gaaggtttac aaatctggaa     60
              cctacgggag gtcgcttgat atcactaggt ttagcagcta tcacgagctc cgtagggaac    120
              tggggcgcct atttggcctt gagggccagt tggaagaccc attgagatca ggctggcagc    180
              ttgtattcgt cgaccgtgag gaggacgtcc ttctcgtggg cgacgaccct tggcaggaat    240
              tcgtgagcac ggtgtcctgc ataaagatac tctcgccgca ggaggtgcag cagatgggca    300
              agcagggcct ggagctcctg agctcggccc ccgcggcgcg gaggctaggt agcagctgcg    360
              acggctacgt tagcaggcag gagtcgagga gcctaagcac cgggatcgcg tccgtgggtt    420
              cggtcgagtt ctgaaacaga aggcaggagc tcgttacgcg ccccgagctt agtttagggc    480
              tggcctgtga cggacccgct agctcggctc gcgcttccga tgttttttgc agtccatggc    540
              gtcgaggtgg aagcagcacc agacccagca ttagctctcc ttccaggtta tgtactacca    600
              tctaataatt ctgtccagtc gtatatgaca cccaactccc aagtagaaga aactaccagc    660
              agccgctgtt ggtacacatg ctgaaacttc gctcttgtat ggagaaacac taatccttgt    720
              gaatgtagcc agctaggctc tgtaatgatc catgagttaa tagccctttt gttgcctagc    780
              acacggcaag cacaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaa                                 813
                                                     1058

<removed-date>
              <210>   921
              <211>   929
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 921
              gaattcccgg gtcgacccac gcgtccggac aaagtgaacc gaccaccagc gaccttcgtg    60
              aaggtttaca aatctggaac ctacgggagg tcgcttgata tcactaggtt tagcagctat   120
<removed-apn>
              cacgagctcc gtagggaact ggggcgccta tttggccttg agggccagtt ggaagaccca   180
              ttgagatcag gctggcagct tgtattcgtc gaccgtgagg aggacgtcct tctcgtgggc   240
              gacgaccctt ggcagtaagc actgcatgcg acgttgtttc tttttttttt ctgcattctt   300
              cctcacattg cgttggcaac ccaaccccac agggaattcg tgagcacggt gtcctgcata   360
              aagatcctct ccccgcagga ggtgcagcag atggggaagc agggcctgga gctcctgagc   420
              tcggcccccg cgcggaggct cggtagcagc tgtgacgact acgtcagcag gcaggagtcg   480
              agaagcctga gcaccgggat cgcgtccgtc ggttcggtcg agttgggatg agtagcaaga   540
              tagcgcgcac gcagcagcag cagcaggtta cgcatcctca gcctcagggt aggtagggga   600
              ctgaagggtt ggtctgcgac ttgatgaccc acgagctcct cgttgcgcgc ttcgttcgcc   660
              tccatgcgat ggatagaagt tcagcgcaga tcaagcctta gctctgcgag ctatgtatca   720
              tctaataatt ctgtccgtgt cgtaccatgt caactcctaa gtagaagaat tgaagaaact   780
              accagcagcc gctgtctggt atacacgctg aaacattttt tcttgtatgg agaaatacta   840
              atcatctgga tgtagccaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   900
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag ggcggccgc                                     929
              <210>   922
              <211>   734
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (577)..(577)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 922
              gaaggggacc gggccccccc tcgagttttt tttttttttt tttttctaga aaagtttagt    60
                                                   1059

<removed-date>
              taccctgaga cagctacata aaggttctta tgtttatgac gagagtgtct gtctaataca   120
              agctaaagta cgtcctaaag tttcaggacc catactcaca aatatgatta tgtttctttc   180
              taaaaaacgt caaaacgaga gagatgcgaa cgaatggcat ataaagatga gtggaaacga   240
              cttcaaatgg gaaacaaagg gctcccgcgt tgagcatgat gagactaaca ccgaagcagt   300
              tctagagatg ggtcgggttt tgcgggaata acccaccact gccttctcca tgatctccca   360
<removed-apn>
              tttgatgcac atcttctggt gatagtatct ttatgtacca aacgttattc acaaatgact   420
              cccatgggtc atcgccaagg agaagaatat cattttcctt gtcaacgaat acaagctgcc   480
              agcctgatct aagggggtct tccaacaacc cttcgatagc aaacatcttc cctaactctt   540
              ctcgcagctc gtggtagctg ctgaatcggg agatgtntaa tgaacgccca accgaaccag   600
              atttataaac ctttacaaag ttcttggttt ggttggacga gttaatctgt ccagctccat   660
              gcaataactc atgagttgtg tcttgcatgc agctatataa ggaattctga aatcctgaat   720
              ctgttagtga cata                                                     734
              <210>   923
              <211>   4218
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 923
              ccacgcgtcc gctcacgcac aggagatcaa tgcaaaagat cttcatgtga ccattgaaaa    60
              agacagcata tatgtagagg gcagagaaaa cggtatattc tgatctcagg gtggagtgta   120
              tttgttagag caaagagact ggttgctggc gactctgtcc tttttatctg gaatgacaac   180
              aaccagctga ttgtggtaat tcgactggca aacagaccac ataccgtcat gccatcatca   240
              gtactttcta gtgatagcat gcatattggt ctgctcgatg ctgtagctca tgctgcatca   300
              acaaatagtc ggtttactat cttctataat ccaagagcaa gcccttgtga atttgtcata   360
              cccatggcta agtatgtgaa agctgtgtac catacctgtc tatatatgtc catcaagttt   420
              caatctaaat tgcttaagtg cccttgcagt tatatgggga caattacagg aataagtgat   480
              cttgatcctg ttcgctggcc aaactcgcac tggcgctcag taaaggtagg tctcgaaaca   540
              aacacagctt tgtttttctt aatgccattc tacatgcctt cacacttctt taactgcgtc   600
              atgagtgaat tccgagttag atggtggtct ctactttcat acatatagta gtaagcatgc   660
                                                   1060

<removed-date>
              aaccaatttt cgcctgaatc atgcaggttg gatgggacga gtcaactgct ggagagaagc    720
              agccaagggt atctctttgg gagattgaac cgttgacaac ttttccaatg tatccatctc    780
              cttttgctct tggattaaag cgcccatggc ctgcaggcct gccttcttta tacggtacaa    840
              gtgacagtta cacacttagc aactcttcca gtatacagca ttgaacaatg gattatattg    900
              atactgctta tgtgctaatg tcactagtct tgtttctgat tgttttggta ggtggaaggg    960
<removed-apn>
              gtgatggctt gacctcttct cttatgtggc ttcgagacag ggcaaacccg ggtttccagt   1020
              cactgaattt cagcgggctt ggtatgagtc cctggatgca gcctaggctg gataattcct   1080
              tacttggtct ccaatctgac atgtaccaga ccatagcagc agcagcagca tttcaaagca   1140
              ctacgaagca agttccacct tcagcaatgc agttccaaca gcctcagaac attgctgata   1200
              gatctgctct tctatcaagt cagattctgc agcaagtaca acctcggttt cagcaaattt   1260
              accctcaaaa tctcaacgaa aacaaaattc aaggccatac acaacctgag tacctccaag   1320
              tccaacagca gcttcaacgc tgccaatcat ttaatgagca gaagcctccg atgcatccac   1380
              agcaacaaca gcaggaacca cagaagcagc aatgcgtcca aacaccacag gatcaacaaa   1440
              tgcaagaaca gaagcatctg cacaacttcc actccttgcc agatgcatta tcggcctttt   1500
              ctcagctttc cccagccact cactccccac cttccgcatt gcagacagtt ccagcattct   1560
              cgcatcaaca aaacttccca gatacaaaca ttagctctct ctcaccatct actggccctt   1620
              caatgcatgg catgttgggg agattacctt ccgaagcagc ttcgagcctc ccatgtgtgg   1680
              caatgaacgc ccctgtatcg gtatctgacc catggtcatc caagagagtt gcagtggagt   1740
              ctgttaaccc ttgtcgacct catgtttcac cacatataga acatttggat atggcgacgt   1800
              gtaacatgcc gcagagctct gcactagcac cattacctgg acgagaatgc ctagtggatg   1860
              aagatgggtg ctctgatcct caaaatcacc tcttgtttgg tgttcacata gactcacatt   1920
              cacttctgat gcaagggggc attccagccc ttcagaatga taacagttca ggcactattc   1980
              catactcaac ctccaatttc ctgagccctt ctgataacga tttccccttg aatcaaccgc   2040
              tacgcagcgc tggctgctta gatgagtcgg attatcttcc atgtgcagag aatgccgaac   2100
              aggcaaatca acagtttgca acctttgtga aggttagtga tgtgtctatc tcgtggacca   2160
              tttgctcaac aaaaagttgt tccattttga attctttccc atgaagcaac tttgctgaca   2220
                                                   1061

              aatgcgtgcc tgagccctat aggtttacaa atccgggacc gtcggaaggt tgctcgacat   2280
<removed-date>
              cactagattc agcagctacg acgagctccg tagcgaggtg gggcgtctgt ttggcctcga   2340
              gggccagctg gaagaccctt tgagatcagg ctggcagctt gtatttgttg acagggagga   2400
              cgatgtcctt ctggttggcg atgacccatg gcagtaagtt ccaccaacaa gcctaacaag   2460
              ttcctcaccg ccttccgttt tcgctgtccg tctcctgttt ctcatacgtt tgttgggctc   2520
              ggtgacgtgc agggaattcg tgaacagtgt gtcctgtata aagatacttt caccggagga   2580
<removed-apn>
              ggtccagcgg atgggcaagc cgggcatcca gctcctgagc tcggctcctt caagaaggct   2640
              gggcaatggc tgcgacagct acgcgagcat gcaggagccg agaggcctgg acgctgggat   2700
              ggcgccggtg ggttcggtcg agttctgaag acggcggagg ggagcccatg gccctcggct   2760
              cgaggattac tctccctcct gtatgtttct gcagcacttg ctagctctgc gacttggaac   2820
              aaagcacgta gatcaaatgg agctctgtgc tgctccccgt ctgatgatgt cttatggtat   2880
              agactcgtag cagtaactac tacatgttgt atacatgccg ggcacttcag ttcttatcga   2940
              gtagcaatac cgctagttta gtccatccaa tcaactacgt tcttgttcct atgatcctgt   3000
              tgttgcgatg cagtaaaact ttttttttgg tcataataac ctgtatattg aaactgttct   3060
              tggctcccac ggtatgctgc tgacgacgac tgacgaggaa aactggaatt tggggggatt   3120
              tcacagaatt gaaactactg ataattccaa cttaccgatg caattccaat tccaacttgg   3180
              tcagaccaac attgccgttg ctgtcaatgt cacgataatt gctaaagcta ccttcagtaa   3240
              aagcaaaagg cagtttgtta tgatcctgga aaagttgaga gatagatata tagatatgat   3300
              ctctgaggga attcattcag gtgcaccttt atgcttgcat aatttggcac cacttggtgc   3360
              agacaacgac gccatggacc ggtcctcttc ctctcatagt ctcatgtgct ccctgggtcc   3420
              ctatctgact gaaacccctg agtgcggccc tcccctggcg aagaagaaaa ggatggcctc   3480
              ccgttccctg aggtcagtgg tgcatcggtg agctgaatgc gacgccgctc tcgccatcac   3540
              agttcacgga tccactatcc ctgctccgat ccacctcacc tggggccgcc gccgccgcgc   3600
              cgggccttct gggatcgacc ggtttggtgg ctgcctgctc cgcctccgcg cggtggatcg   3660
              tgacaagatt ctgagtggga gcacgtggag tgcgacggca atggcggcgt gacacgcggg   3720
              cgagcacagc tcgcccgttc ttgtcgacgc tctgcgactc tgggcaggtc gtccgtagga   3780
              gcgaaccccg gtagcttctc tggtgatctc tccatcgctt tcatcatatc ttcggctggg   3840
                                                   1062

<removed-date>
              cccccgggtt tggatcccgg acgggtattg ccatccccgc caatcttggc cggcttttcg   3900
              cggtggggaa ggtagaaatc tctgttgcct cccaaaaatc tgtgcccttt ttggatgtct   3960
              atcgacaaca gtaacacgag cagagaccgt cagctcacac atatctatcg acgacagctc   4020
              gagatgcacg aggctttgac ttgttgcagc cttgcaggta catcaggtaa agtaccagcc   4080
              gtatctggaa aattgttggt cacctgctgg cgatgggtga tcatggtcat ggaaccctga   4140
<removed-apn>
              gaagagattc aactgagaac acaaggaaaa cgacggctct ggacacgctc ctgtccagct   4200
              ctggaaccgt gcggccgc                                                 4218
              <210>   924
              <211>   783
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 924
              agcagtggta caacgcagag tactggtacc gttttttttt tttttttttt ttttttaccg     60
              ctaattgagg tgaaaaaaat atgacaaagg tgacagggtt caatagttta ggcgccacat    120
              ggaaccgtca gcttttagat atgagaagat atagagaact acagggctag gtcacctcta    180
              cagtgagtgc ctgcatccat actttcatag agcaattctt gcctgccatt tagagcttag    240
              gctatggcta cacgtagcta caacagctat cgtacaacat gtccattacc ataatgatac    300
              aatggatcta gctatattaa cgactaggtt atttctgacc aacacaactt gagagaagat    360
              agatcatagg aaccgaaaag actcgtggac ggcaatcctg cggtgctgaa ttgccggttt    420
              tggttcagaa cttcagtttc tggtcttcat ctcggtctca gtagtccaga ggcaccacag    480
              gtgcgatgct gccggtgaga ttctgcatgt cgtggcctgc agaataatca tcgcagacac    540
              tgccctgcag tgtcctcact ccagttgtag acagaaggtc gcctccgccg cggaccatct    600
              gctgcacgtc ttgcggcgag aggatcttta tgcaccatac actattcaca aactcctgcc    660
              acgggtcatc gccgacgaga agaatatcgt tttcccggtc aacgaataca agctgccagc    720
              ctgatcttac agggtccctc cagttggcct tcaagaccaa ataaccgctc gagctcgcta    780
              cgt                                                                  783
              <210>   925
              <211>   2860
                                                   1063

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 925
              gaagcattgg gcggggaggg cgttatcacc cgtgaagcgg aggtgggaac gggggcagtg     60
              tgggcggggg gggggaagag gaggaactga actgtttaga ggagatccag ggggatggga    120
              gggtgtcagt aggggaatat gtattcggag gattgttgat ctgggaagtg gggggaggtg    180
              aggagaatgg ggcagaatgg aggaaggggg tgggggagat ggacgccggg gggggcggta    240
<removed-apn>
              gtatctcgga aagaaaagag gaaacggtcc gcaagccccc cccccgactg gttatgagga    300
              ggttaggaac acgcaagatt gggaaatcgg ttaaaaggaa gtgggcgatg cgggggggga    360
              agagaagggg gagtggcacg aaggggcggt caggcgcgca ggaccgggaa aaagaagagg    420
              ggtccgcgag gggggggcgg gggtgggggg gggatgtctt acacccacag ggtgcgggga    480
              agtttaagcg accaagaacc taaggatgaa gaaggcgtcg cccaattaga ccgggtgttt    540
              ctaagcttgg ctttacgggg ggcaaacgga ggcgggcggg ggccggtgag gggggggtgg    600
              tgttttaagt tttggacccc cggggggggg cgggctcact agtccccccc cccccccccg    660
              cttcccaatc ggatggttat ccgaagcagc aattcctaca ccttcaacaa cctatgcagt    720
              ccccacagga gcagtgcaat ctcaatccgc tgttgcagca gcaaatacta cagcaaggga    780
              gccaacagca gatggttagt cctgatgctc aaaatatcca gtccgtgctc aacccaaatg    840
              ctattcagca gcagctccaa caactccagc agatgcagca tgctcataat gaccagaagc    900
              agaagattca accagatcag ccgtatcaag ttcctagcag tgcggttctc tcgagtccaa    960
              catcattacc aagccatttg cgggaaaaat ttggcttttc tgatcctaat gtcaactctt   1020
              ccagcttcat cagctctagc agcaacgaga atatgctgga atcaaacttc cttcagggaa   1080
              gctcaaaatc tgtggatttg tctagattca accaacctgt agttagcgag catcagcagc   1140
              aacaggcatg gaagcaaaag tttatgggct cacagtcgat gtcttttggg ggctcggttt   1200
              cacttaactc acccactacc aaagatggtc ctgttgacaa caaaattggt cgtgatgtgc   1260
              agaaccagac cctttttagc cctcaagttg actcttcctc cctactgtac aatatggtac   1320
              ctaatttgac ctcaaatgtt gcggataata atatatcaac gattccctct ggatcaacat   1380
              atctgcaaag tccaatgtat ggttgtctgg atgactcttc tggtttattg caaaatacag   1440
              gagagaatga tccgacaact agaacattcg ttaaggttta caagtcagga tcggtgggga   1500
                                                   1064

<removed-date>
              gatccttgga catcacccgg ttctctaatt atgctgaact tcgagaggaa ctgggtcaga   1560
              tgttcggcat taagggtcag ttggatgacc ctgatagatc aggctggcag cttgtatttg   1620
              tcgacaggga gaacgatgtg cttctccttg gagacgaccc gtgggagtca tttgtgaata   1680
              gtgtatggta catcaaaata ctttcacctg aggatgtgca taagatggga aagccaggaa   1740
              acgatccacg ctacctatct taaattgata cccagagctc tttcgggctc ccgtgacgat   1800
<removed-apn>
              tctgtggcac actgtagcac tgtccatggc ggtccggtgt gctgtgctcc catgttcgct   1860
              ggtgtcacct ctagcatgta caccgtgcgc gtcttcagaa ctcccccgtt acttgtatcc   1920
              ggtgcaggcc accgctctgg actgatgtct tgtaggttcc acttaggaat cagtatcagc   1980
              gactctatcc tagttggttt gtagctcgca cggcactcgt tcttgtgtcg catcgaaatc   2040
              ttcaggctaa atgcttagtt gaaactgttc ccgtgattct taagctatct atgtatttga   2100
              ggattccccg gcatgctttc gacgatgaac tgcaataatt cgaatgcagg aggattgttt   2160
              gaatgcaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaccatggaa aaaaaaaaaa   2220
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaacaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaccc   2280
              gaaaaaaaaa aagaaaacgc cggggggggg gcccgaaccc ccttaccccc gggggggggg   2340
              cgaatgaaac tccccgggcc ggggggatag gtttacggga ttcaaaagga atccaggggt   2400
              ttctcgaatc tcttttaaca aataaaagtt tggccaaaca ccccaggccg ggatccggaa   2460
              aaaaagaacc ccccccgcgt acaaacctcc cacattatca ccaactttgg actaacccgg   2520
              aaagagtacc ctaaaaaacc caacacgctt aacaaatgta ttaaaaggcc acatttatgg   2580
              ggagaagggg cattttgttg atgttaataa agtttgtcgg gaaattttcg tcaaaaattt   2640
              aaaataaaat cgcaagtttt tttagtgaaa tgggtgtaag aaaggaaaac ctccccaatt   2700
              aatgaccctc caaaaaaaag ccccgaaaag ggttgtggtg gggggttcgc cgtttggaaa   2760
              caaaaccccc catttttaaa taggggaaca cccgccaaca aatggggaaa aaaccagttg   2820
              ttcggggcgg aggggcccgc gtaagggaac cctcccccaa                         2860
              <210>   926
              <211>   5838
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1065

              <400> 926
<removed-date>
              cgctcctcgc aatccatcat cgtgaatcgc gtccgcttcc tcccgctctc tccatccgcg     60
              aatcgtgtcc ctcgagtctg ggggctcgca atcccgctcg tgaatcgcgt ccgcttcctc    120
              catctctctc tagccgtgag aaaccgcgtc cgcttcctcc tgctctctcc atctgcgaat    180
              cgcgtcctgc aatcccagcc gcgagaaact gtgtccgctt cctccgctca ttccctgctc    240
              tctccatcca cgaatcgtgt ccgcttcctc gaatcacgta tgcttcccta ctccccaagg    300
<removed-apn>
              ttttcttcgc cctccgtcgg gatccacaga ttccccatcc accctccgct cggatcgaca    360
              gacgcaatcc ctgctctctc ctcgccctcc gcccggatca ccaggtcata cttatggcgt    420
              cgccaccaca accaaagcag ctggtgctcg ctatgtcatc cacggattcg gacctggctg    480
              ccttggacct ccacaccggc gtggaggact catccatgga tctaggccca gctgcctggg    540
              acctccgcac ccggtgtgga ggacatttgc ctctgcccct tcgcttccca ccctcggtcg    600
              ctcgcctcag ttgtcgaccg cttcctcgcc ttcgctcagg cttttcccgc tggccacaac    660
              tctaggacca tccacatcta ctactgggac gttgctgtcg cttaattttc aagtttgctg    720
              acattggaac ccagtaacta tgcaatctga agggtgagat aaagaattat agctatttat    780
              ctttattttt cttctcatat attcatgtgt gatacttaga ccttctttgc tttggttcag    840
              tggtataatc tgcatcttag actgggcgga tattattaac gctcacatag ttcctggacc    900
              taggattgta gatggcttga agttgaaggt actttatgac atatatgcgt aagccttttg    960
              caattactga gttaaagaga atagtcaatg ctacaactgc taatatctaa tatattgcat   1020
              ttctcatagt aactattgtg ttctggcatt gaagggttta cctaaaggaa aggactactt   1080
              ttgcttgctg aaatgagctc agctggcaac ctttcttaga ctacactgct gcggttgtaa   1140
              agattatcga gcaacatcct gctttgtaat aggatctata tcagtaaatc ctgcatcttg   1200
              gtctctagca ccgtcgagcc ctgcattcat ccatgccact cttggagttt agatggctgc   1260
              tggaggatat gcccttggga aacaatataa tactcccatt tttgtgagtg tgtttttgcc   1320
              attcggttct tgttggatgg ctcacttgct tcttgttgac tggggattag gtgtgttggg   1380
              ttgtggccac tagccggcgt cagctaggaa caacaacctg tagtaggtgt caattgaggc   1440
              gacattgtgt caggaagcag aagacatgca cgcaattggt gaatgacaac tttgcatctg   1500
              tgatttggcc caagaaagta tgttctcctt tgcgtccaaa atatatggat gggcaggaga   1560
                                                   1066

              ggcgagggtc gcctcaccgt agatggaacc cacgaggcgc gcaaggagtg gcgccggcgc   1620
<removed-date>
              gccttctctg gctccttgct ccgctccaat ggcatcaatg tccatgtgcc acatcatgga   1680
              gcggatgcag cacaattggc tagtaccaag aagcagaaga agaaaacacc tgggagcagt   1740
              aatgccaacc atggtcatcc aagacataag cgtcggcacg cagacaagta aaacattgat   1800
              caaccatggt cattattttt ttataactga tacaaccatt attttcccta tactatagat   1860
              ccatttcccc tttaggtttg ggaataatac aaaatatggt tgtgtaagat agggtttggc   1920
<removed-apn>
              tttccaatgg ccttttgaaa ttcggcacga ggcaaacttg ggaatagcag cggccggccg   1980
              gaagcgagcg gagaccgagg ggagggggtg aagaagcaac gagacgcagc gagcaagcga   2040
              aagcatacca gagcaccaag catagggacg cgcgcgcttc tccagttctc cctccctgcc   2100
              ctgcaaggcg gctgcaactg ttccagctag cccctctccc agcctctggg tcgtagacgt   2160
              agtagtagca gccgcagcag cagaagcggc ggcgagcatg ctcttggcac ccctccccgg   2220
              cgccgggcgg atctgccgga gggcggcggc cggggcgctt ggagcgcggc gctaaccgcg   2280
              ttcgacggac ctcgggatct gacgccgggc ctcccctaat cggtcgactc catcggtggc   2340
              ggcggcggcc gaggcgccag cagccgggtc tctcggctcc gggacaaggg aaagattgcg   2400
              cttgcgcttg cttgggcgcc ggccgcgccg gtggcggtaa tcttcgagag ccgcggtcgc   2460
              ggcgcgcggc tgaagagaaa aaaaggtgtg tgtgtgtgag agagagagga ggctccctgc   2520
              cctctcgcgg tgacttggcg aggaggggga gggactggga aagcgaatgg ttttcgggaa   2580
              ggcgctgtga tttggcctgg aaaggaggaa cctttccttc ctcttcccgt cctttgccgg   2640
              ctcttgtacc gccctcagat cggcgacccg gttgtttctt cggcaacggg cggaaatgag   2700
              gctctcgtcg tcgtccggca gcgtcctgcc ggctcagccg ggctcgccgg aagctgtgga   2760
              ggagcacaag tgcctgaact cggagttgtg gcatgcttgt gccggcccgc ttgtttcctt   2820
              gcccgcggtg ggtagccgag ttgtgtactt ccctcagggc cacagcgagc aggtagcagc   2880
              atcaacaaac aaggaaatag agtctcagat ccccaactat cctaatctgc cgccacagct   2940
              tatatgccaa cttcataatg tgacgatgca tgctgatgca gagacagatg aggtatatgc   3000
              acagatgaca ctacaaccac tcaacccgca agaactgaag gacccatatt tacctgcaga   3060
              attaggttcg gccaataaac agccaacaaa ctatttctgc aaaacattaa cagcaagtga   3120
              taccagtacc catggtgggt tctccgttcc ccgtcgagca gctgagaaag tgtttcctcc   3180
                                                   1067

<removed-date>
              actggatttc acccagcaac ccccatgcca ggagttgatg gcaaaagatc ttcatggcaa   3240
              tgagtggaaa ttccgtcaca tctttcgtgg ccagccaaag cggcatcttc taactacagg   3300
              ttggagtgtc tttgtaagtg caaagagact cgttgctggc gactctgtcc tttttatctg   3360
              gaatgacaat aaccagcttc tgctgggaat tcgtcgtgca aatcggccac aaactgtcat   3420
              gccatcttca gtcttatcaa gcgatagcat gcatatcggt cttcttgctg cagctgctca   3480
<removed-apn>
              tgctgcttcg acaaatagcc gatttacaat tttttacaac ccaagggcaa gcccttcaga   3540
              gtttgtcata ccactcgtaa agtatgttaa ggctgtgtat catacccgca tatctgtggg   3600
              gatgcgattc aggatgcttt ttgagacaga agagtctagc gttaggagat acatggggac   3660
              aattaccgga atctgtgatc ttgattctgt tcggtggcca aattcacact ggcgttctgt   3720
              taaggttggc tgggatgagt caactgctgg tgagcgacaa ccaagggtgt cactatggga   3780
              gattgaaccc ctgacaactt tcccaatgta tccatctcct tttccgctca ggctcaagcg   3840
              tccatggcca acaggcttgc cttctctgca tggtgggaag gatgatgacc tggctaactc   3900
              tctcatgtgg cttcgagata ccgcaaatcc tggttttcag tcgttaaatt ttggtggact   3960
              tggtatgagc ccttggatgc agccaaggct ggatgctacc ttacttggtc tgcaacctga   4020
              catgtatcag gcgatggcca cagctgcttt tcaggatgca acaaagcagg catcgcccac   4080
              aatgctgcag ttccagcagc cccagaacat agctggccgg gcttccccgc ttctttcaag   4140
              tcagattttg cagcaagcac atcatcaatt tcagcagcaa ccgtaccttc aaaacatctc   4200
              tgagagcaca atccaagcac agggtcagtc tgagttcctc aagcagcaga tccaacgcag   4260
              ccagtcattc aatgagcaga agccccagat gcaacaccag caagaatcac agcagcagca   4320
              gcaaccacag tgtctgccag tcccccaaca tcagcaaatg caacaacaga ttatgaccaa   4380
              ctaccagtct atatctaatg cattatcacc gttttctcag ctgtcgccag tttctcagtc   4440
              ttcacctatg gcgctgcaga ctatattacc gttctcgcag gcacagagct tcacagacac   4500
              gaatgtaggt tcattgtctc catccaatgg taacaccatg caaaacacac tgaggccgtt   4560
              ctcatcagaa gcagtttctc acctcagtat gccgaggccc actgcgatac ctgtcgcaga   4620
              cccatggtcg tcgaagcgtg tcgcggtgga gtctctgctt ccttctcggc ctcaggtttc   4680
              atcccagatg gaacaattgg accctgcacc agctagtata cctcatagct ctgcgttggc   4740
                                                   1068

              accacttccc ggaagagggt gcttggttga ccaagatgtg aactctgatc ctcaaaatca   4800
<removed-date>
              tctcttgttc ggtgttagta tagactcgca gtcactgcta atgcaagggg gcattcctgg   4860
              tctccaaaac gggaatgatt cagctgctat accttattcc acttccaatt tcctcagccc   4920
              ttctcagaat gactttcctc tggaccatac actaaattct tcaggctgct tagatgattc   4980
              tgggtacgtc ccgccatgtt cagataattc tgacaaagtg aaccgaccac cagcgacctt   5040
              cgtgaaggtt tacaaatctg gaacctacgg gaggtcgctt gatatcacta ggtttagcag   5100
<removed-apn>
              ctatcacgag ctccgtaggg aactggggcg cctatttggc cttgagggcc agttggaaga   5160
              cccattgaga tcaggctggc agcttgtatt cgtcgaccgt gaggaggacg tccttctcgt   5220
              gggcgacgac ccttggcagg aattcgtgag cacggtgtcc tgcataaaga tcctctcccc   5280
              gcaggaggtg cagcagatgg ggaagcaggg cctggagctc ctgagctcgg cccccgcgcg   5340
              gaggctcggt agcagctgtg acgactacgt cagcaggcag gagtcgagaa gcctgagcac   5400
              cgggatcgcg tccgtcggtt cggtcgagtt gggatgagca gcaagatagc gcgcacgcag   5460
              cagcagcagc agcaggttac gcatcctcag cctcagggta ggtaggggac tgaagggttg   5520
              gtctgcgact tgatgaccca cgagctcctc gttgcgcgct tcgttcgcct ccatgcgatg   5580
              gatagaagtt cagcgcagac caagccttag ctctgcgagc tatgtaccat ctaataattc   5640
              tgtccgtgtc gtaccatgtc aactcctaag tagaagaatt gaagaaacta ccagcagccg   5700
              ctgtctggta tacacgctga aacatttttt ttcttgtatg gagaaatact aatcatctgg   5760
              atgtagccag gcctatgctc tctaatggtt gatcgggtaa tacagcccct cgcacaaaaa   5820
              aataagtcga cgcggccg                                                 5838
              <210>   927
              <211>   2884
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 927
              gtcgacccac gcgtccggtc tacctccgca gcttatatgc caactgcata atgtgactat     60
              gcatgctgat gctgagacag atgaggtgta tgcacagatg acactgcagc cactcagtcc    120
              acaagagctc aaggacccat ttttgcctgc tgagttaggc actgccagca accagccaac    180
              aaattatttt tgtaaaacac taactgcaag tgatacgagt acacatggtg ggttctctgt    240
                                                   1069

              tccacgccga gcagctgaga aggtgtttcc tccactggat ttcaatcagc aacctcccgc    300
<removed-date>
              acaggagttg attgcaaaag atcttcatgg caacgactgg aaatttcgcc atatttttcg    360
              aggtcagcca aagcggcatc ttctgacaac aggttggagt gtctttgtta gtgcaaagag    420
              actggttgct ggcgactctg tcctttttat ctggaatgac aacaaccagc tgcttctggg    480
              aattcgacgg gcaaacagac cacaaaccgt catgccatca tcagtacttt ctagtgatag    540
              catgcatatt ggcctgctcg ctgctgcagc tcatgctgca tcaacaaata gtcggtttac    600
<removed-apn>
              tatcttctat aatccaagag caagcccttg tgaatttgtc atacccatgg ctaagtatgt    660
              gaaagctgtg taccataccc gtatatctgt gggcatgcgt ttccggatgc tttttgagac    720
              ggaggaatct agtgtaaggc gttatatggg gacaattaca ggaataagtg atcttgatcc    780
              tgttcgctgg ccaaactcgc actggcgctc agtaaaggtt ggatgggacg agtcaactgc    840
              tggagagaag cagccaaggg tatctctttg ggagattgaa ccgttgacaa cttttccaat    900
              gtatccatct ccttttgctc ttggattaaa gcgcccatgg cctgcaggcc tgccttcttt    960
              atacggtgga aggggtgatg gcttgacctc ttctcttatg tggcttcgag acagggcaaa   1020
              cccgggtttc cagtcactga atttcagcgg gcttggtatg agtccctgga tgcagcctag   1080
              gctggataat tccttacttg gtctccaatc tgacatgtac cagaccatag cagcagcagc   1140
              agcatttcaa agcactacga agcaagttcc accttcagca atgcagttcc aacagcctca   1200
              gaacattgct gatagatctg ctcttctatc aagtcagatt ctgcagcaag tacaacctcg   1260
              gtttcagcaa atttaccctc aaaatctcaa cgaaaacaaa attcaaggcc atacacaacc   1320
              tgagtacctc caagtccaac agcagcttca acgctgccaa tcatttaatg agcagaagcc   1380
              tccgatgcat ccacagcaac aacagcagga accacagcag cagcaatgcg tccaaacacc   1440
              acaggatcaa caaatgcaag aacagaagca tctgcacaac ttccactcct tgccagatgc   1500
              attatcggcc ttttctcagc tttccccagc cactcactcc ccaccttccg cattgcagac   1560
              agttccagca ttctcgcatc aacaaaactt cccagataca aacattagct ctctctcacc   1620
              atctactggc ccttcaatgc atggcatgtt ggggagatta ccttccgaag cagcttcgag   1680
              cctcccatgt gtggcaatga acgcccctgt atcggtatct gacccatggt catccaagag   1740
              agttgcagtg gagtctgtta acccttgtcg acctcatgtt tcaccacata tagaacattt   1800
              ggatatggcg acgtgtaaca tgccgcagag ctctgcacta gcaccattac ctggacgaga   1860
                                                   1070

<removed-date>
              atgcctagtg gatgaagatg ggtgctctga tcctcaaaat cacctcttgt ttggtgttca   1920
              catagactca cattcacttc tgatgcaagg gggcattcca gcccttcaga atgataacag   1980
              ttcaggcact attccatact caacctccaa tttcctgagc ccttctgata acgatttccc   2040
              cttgaatcaa ccgctacgca gcgctggctg cttagatgag tcggattatc ttccatgtgc   2100
              agagaatgcc gaacaggcaa atcaacagtt tgcaaccttt gtgaaggttt acaaatccgg   2160
<removed-apn>
              gaccgtcgga aggttgctcg acatcactag attcagcagc tacgacgagc tccgtagcga   2220
              ggtggggcgt ctgtttggcc tcgagggcca gctggaagac cctttgagat caggctggca   2280
              gcttgtattt gttgacaggg aggacgatgt ccttctggtt ggcgatgacc catggcagga   2340
              attcgtgaac agtgtgtcct gtataaagat actttcaccg gaggaggtcc agcggatggg   2400
              caagccgggc atccagctcc tgagctcggc tccttcaaga aggctgggca atggctgcga   2460
              cagctacgcg agcatgcagg agccgagagg cctggacgct gggatggcgc cggtgggttc   2520
              ggtcgagttc tgaagacggc ggagggaagc ccaccatggc cctcgggtcg aggattactc   2580
              tccctcctgt atgtttctgc agcacttgct agctctgcga cttggaacaa agcacgtaga   2640
              tcaaatggag ctctgtgctg ctccccgtct gatgatgtct tatggtatag actcgtagca   2700
              gtaactacta catgttgtat acatgccggg cacttcagtt cttatcgagt agcaataccg   2760
              ctagtttagt ccatccaatc aactacgttc ttgttcctat gatcctgttg ttgcgatgca   2820
              gtaaaacttt ttttttcata aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagggcgg   2880
              ccgc                                                                2884
              <210>   928
              <211>   2248
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 928
              gaaaaaccag cttttgcttg gaatcagaca cgctacccgg ccacagactg tgatgccctc     60
              ttctgttctt tcgagtgaca gcatgcacat cggactcctt gcagcagcag ctcatgctgc    120
              tgcaacaaac agccgcttca caattttcta taatcctagg gcaagtccaa cagaatttgt    180
              tatacccctt tcgaaataca tcaaggctgt ttttcacacg cggatatcag ttgggatgcg    240
              attcaggatg ttatttgaga ctgaggaatc aagtgtccgc aggtacatgg ggacaataac    300
                                                   1071

<removed-date>
              agaagtgagt gatgctgacc cagtgcgttg gcctagttcc tattggagat cagtgaaggt    360
              tggttgggat gaatcaaccg caggagaaag gccacctaga gtttctctgt gggaaattga    420
              gccactgaca acctttccta tgtatccatc cctgttccca ctgcgagtta agcatccttg    480
              gtattcagga cttgctgctc ttcatgatga cagcaatgct ttgatgtggc tgagaggagt    540
              aaccggtgaa gggggctttc attctttgaa cttccagtca cctggtatag gttcctgggg    600
<removed-apn>
              acaacagaga ctccatccat ccttacttag caatgaccat gatcagtatc aagcagtggt    660
              tgctgccgca gctgcctccc agtccggtgg ttatctgaag cagcaattcc tacaccttca    720
              acaacctatg cagtccccac aggagcagtg caatctcaat ccgctgttgc agcaacaaat    780
              actacagcaa gcgagccaac agcagatggt tagttctgat gctcaaaata ttcagtccgt    840
              gctcaaccca ggtgctattc agcagcagct ccaccaactc cagcagatgc agcatactca    900
              taatgaccag aagcaaaaga ttcaaccaga tcaacagtac caagttgcta gcagtgcggt    960
              tctcccgagt ccaacatcat taccaagcca tttgcgtgaa aaatttggct tctctgatcc   1020
              taatgtgaac tcttccagct tcatcagctc tagcagcaac gaaaacatgc tggaatcaaa   1080
              cttccttcag gtaagttcaa aatccgtgga tttgtctaga ttcaaccaac cagtagttag   1140
              cgagcagcag cagccgcaac aacaacaggc atggaagcaa aagtttatgg gctcacagtc   1200
              aatgtctttt gggggctcgg tttcgcttaa ctcgcccact agcaaagatg gttctgttga   1260
              caacaaagtt ggtcgtgatg tgcagaacca gtcccttttt agccctcaag tcgactcttc   1320
              ctccctactg tacaatatgg tacctaatct tacctcaaat gttgctgata ataatatatc   1380
              agcgtttccc tctggatcaa catatctgca aagtccaatg tatggttgtc tggatgactc   1440
              ttctggttta ttgcaaaata caggagagaa tgatccgaca actagaactt ttgttaaggt   1500
              ttacaagtca ggatcagtgg ggagatcctt ggacatcacc cggttctcta attatgctga   1560
              acttcgagag gaactgggtc agatgttcgg cattaagggt cagttggacg accctgatag   1620
              atcaggctgg cagcttgtat ttgtcgacag ggagaacgat gtgcttctcc ttggagacga   1680
              cccgtgggag tcatttgtga atagtgtatg gtacatcaag atactttcac ctgaggatgt   1740
              gcataagatg ggaaagccag gaaacgatcc acgctaccta tcttagctac ctatcttaaa   1800
              tcgatacatg gagctctttc tggctcccat gacgattctg cggcacactg cagcactgtt   1860
                                                   1072

              cacgacggcc tgctctactg tgctcgcatg ttcgcccgtg tcatctctac tctctagcat   1920
<removed-date>
              gcacaccgtg ctcgtcttca gaagacgaac tccccgtcgc ttgtatccgg tgcaggtcac   1980
              cgctcctgga ctgatatttt gtaggttcca cgtaggaatc agtatcagca actctatcct   2040
              agtttgtggt aggctcgcgc ggcgctcgtt cctgtgtcgc atcaggatct tcggactaaa   2100
              atgcgtagtc gaaaccgttc tcgtgattcg taagctattc atgtatttga ggattcctcg   2160
              acatgctttc gacgatgaac tgcaataatc tgaatgcagg aggattgttt gagatttgta   2220
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaggaa actcgagg                                      2248
              <210>   929
              <211>   1306
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 929
              ggtggtccag atctgcatct gcacaacagt ttccacaact tttcaagcca agagtcctcc     60
              aaccttctta acctcccaag aagtggccaa ttaatggcat cagagggatg gccttcaaag    120
              aggttggctg tggaatctct tgctggtcat gagatccaac ctctgcagca caagcttgag    180
              aaagttagtc accagagtac tgtgtctcac tgttctggca ccttgccgcc actatcagca    240
              agagacggtt ctagtgccca ggcttgtggt acaaatgttc agagtcacct gcttccatca    300
              tcatttgcaa tccatgatgg attgtcaacc atcaggagtg gtggtgttgg cagtggaact    360
              gatgcgataa ccatagcttc gttgagatat agtgatgcga atttgctacc tgaaaactcc    420
              atagcaactt ccagttgttt gggtgaatca ggaaccttca attctcttga cgatgtttgt    480
              ggtgtaaacc catcacaagg tggaaccttt gtgaaggttt acaaatcagg gtccctcggg    540
              agatcgctcg acatcaccag attcggcagc tactacgagt tgcgtgtcga gctcgagcgg    600
              ttatttggtc tcgaaggcca actggaggac cctgcaagat caggctggca gcttgtattc    660
              gtcgaccggg aaaacgatgt tcttctcctc ggcgacgacc cgtggcagga gtttgtgaat    720
              agcgtagggt gcataaagat cctctcgccg caagacctgc agcagatggc ccgcggcggc    780
              ggaggtgacc ttctgtctgc gcctggagcg aggatgctgc agggcagtgt ctgtgacgac    840
              tattctgcag gccacgacgt gcagaacctc accggcagca ttgcgcctgt ggtgcctctg    900
              gactactgaa gaggactgag gcgaaggccg ggatctgaag ctctgaacca aaaccggcaa    960
                                                   1073

              tccagcattt gcaggatttg ccatccgcaa gtcgtttcgt tcctgtgtta tgatcctctc   1020
<removed-date>
              agtctcaggc cctgttgatc gggaataacc tagtcgttta atatagctag atgatgatcc   1080
              atgtatcatt atggtaatgg acatgctgta cgatagctac tgtagctcta aatgcaggca   1140
              aggcaagaat tgatctatca aagaacgaat gaatgcaggc actcactgta gaggtgatgt   1200
              agccctgtac tcctaagtcc taagatatat tctcatagct aaaactgatg gttccatgtg   1260
              gcattggcac ccaagctatt gaaaccagtc acctttgccg attctt                  1306
<removed-apn>
              <210>   930
              <211>   754
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (68)..(68)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 930
              aagtccaatg tatggttgtc tggatgactc ttctggttta ttgcaaaata caggagagaa     60
              tgatctgnca actagaacat tcgttaaggt ttacaagtca ggatcggtgg ggagatcctt    120
              ggacatcacc cggttctcta attatgctga acttcgagaa gaactgggtc agatgttcgg    180
              cattaagggt cagttggatg accctgatag atcaggctgg cagcttgtat ttgtcgacag    240
              ggagaacgat gtgcttctcc ttggagacga cccctgggag tcatttgtga atagtgtatg    300
              gtacatcaaa atactttcac ctgaggatgt gcataagatg ggaaagccag gaaacgatcc    360
              acgctaccta tcttaaattg atacccagag ctctttcggg ctcccgtgac gattctgtgg    420
              cacactgtag cactgtccat ggcggtccgg tgtgctgtgc tcgcatgttc gcccgtgtca    480
              tctatagcat gtacaccgtg cgcgtcttca gaactccccc gttacttgta tccggtgcag    540
              gccaccgctc tggactgata tcttgtaggt tccacttagg aatcagtata agcgactcta    600
              tcctagttgg tttgttgaaa ctgttcccgt gattcttaag ctatctatgt atttgaggat    660
              tcctcggcat gctttcgacg atgaactgca ataatttgaa tgcaggagga ttgtttgaaa    720
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa actcgagaag gggc                                754
              <210>   931
                                                      1074

              <211>   412
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 931
              cagctacgac gagctccgta gcgaggtggg gcgtctgttt ggcctcgagg gccagctgga    60
              agaccctctg agatcaggct ggcagcttgt atttgttgac agggaggacg atgtccttct   120
              ggttggcgat gacccatggc aggaattcgt gaacagtgtg tcctgtataa agatactttc   180
<removed-apn>
              accggaggag gtccagcgga tgggaaagcc gggcatccag ctcctgagct cggctccttc   240
              aagaaggctg ggcaatggct gcgacagcta cgcgagcatg caggagccga gaggcctgga   300
              cgctgggatg gcgccgcact tgctagctct gcgacttgga acaaagcacg tagatcaaat   360
              ggagctctgt gctgctcccc gtctgatgat gtcttatggt atagactcgt ag           412
              <210>   932
              <211>   922
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 932
              ttaccaagcc tttgcgtgaa aaatttggct tctctgatcc taatgtgaac tcttccagct    60
              tcatcagctc tagcagcaac gaaaacatgc tggaatcaaa cttccttcag gtttacaagt   120
              caggatcagt ggggagatcc ttggacatca cccggttctc taattatgct gaacttcgag   180
              aggaactggg tcagatgttc ggcattaagg gtcagttgga cgaccctgat agatcaggct   240
              ggcagcttgt atttgtcgac agggagaacg atgtgcttct ccttggagac gacccgtggg   300
              agtcatttgt gaatagtgta tggtacatca agatactttc acctgaggat gtgcataaga   360
              tgggaaagcc aggaaacgat ccacgctacc tatcttagct acctatctta aatcgataca   420
              tggagctctt tctggctccc atgacgattt tgcggcacac tgcagcactg ttcacgacgg   480
              cctgctctac tgtgctcgca tgttcgcccg tgtcatctct actctctagc atgcacaccg   540
              tgctcgtctt cagaagacga actccccgtc gcttgtatcc ggtgcaggtc accgctcctg   600
              gactgatatt ttgtaggttc cacgtaggaa tcagtatcag caactctatc ctagtttgtg   660
              gtaggctcgc gcggcgctcg ttcctgtgtc gcatcaggat cttcggacta aaatgcgtag   720
              tcgaaaccgt tctcgtgatt cgtaagctat tcatgtattt gaggattcct cgacatgctt   780
              tcgacgatga actgcaataa tctgaatgca ggaggattgt tcgagatttg tacttcaaaa   840
                                                   1075

<removed-date>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagggcgg ccgctctaga gtatccctcg aggggcccta    900
              agcttacgcg taccctagct tt                                             922
              <210>   933
              <211>   1094
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 933
              cccacgcgtc cggggctcac agtcgatgtc ttttgggggc tcggtttcac ttaactcacc     60
              cactaccaaa gatggtcctg ttgacaacaa aattggtcgt gatgtgcaga accagaccct    120
              ttttagccct caagttgact cttcctccct actgtacaat atggtaccta atttgacctc    180
              aaatgttgcg gataataata tatcaacgat tccctctgga tcaacatatc tgcaaagtcc    240
              aatgtatggt tgtctggatg actcttctgg tttattgcaa aatacaggag agaatgatcc    300
              gacaactaga acattcgtta aggtttacaa gtcaggatcg gtggggagat ccttggacat    360
              cacccggttc tctaattatg ctgaacttcg agaggaactg ggtcagatgt tcggcattaa    420
              gggtcagttg gatgaccctg atagatcagg ctggcagctt gtatttgtcg acagggagaa    480
              cgatgtgctt ctccttggag acgacccatg ggagtcattt gtgaatagtg tatggtacat    540
              caaaatactt tcacctgagg atgtgcataa gatgggaaag ccaggaaacg atccacgcta    600
              cctatcttaa attgataccc agagctcttt cgggctcccg tgacgattct gtggcacact    660
              gtagcactgt ccatggcggt ccggtgtgct gtgctcgcat gttcgcccgt gtcatctata   720
              gcatgtacac cgtgcgcgtc ttcagaactc ccccgttact tgtatccggt gcaggccacc    780
              gctctggact gatatcttgt aggttccact taggaatcag tatcagcgac tctatcctag    840
              ttggtttgta gctcgcacgg cactcgttct tgtgtcgcat cgaaatcttc aggctaaatg    900
              cttagttgaa actgttcccg tgattcttaa gctatctatg tatttgagga ttccccggca    960
              tgcttttgac gatgaactgc aataatttga atgcaggagg attgtttgaa tgctaaaaaa   1020
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc   1080
              agagcttacg cgta                                                     1094
              <210>   934
              <211>   2301
                                                   1076

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 934
              atgaggctct cgtcgtcgtc cggcagcgtc ctgccggctc agccgggctc gccggaagct     60
              gtggaggagc acaagtgcct gaactcggag ttgtggcatg cttgtgccgg cccgcttgtt    120
              tccttgcccg cggtgggtag ccgagttgtg tacttccctc agggccacag cgagcaggta    180
              gcagcatcaa caaacaagga aatagagtct cagatcccca actatcctaa tctgccgcca    240
<removed-apn>
              cagcttatat gccaacttca taatgtgacg atgcatgctg atgcagagac agatgaggta    300
              tatgcacaga tgacactaca accactcaac ccgcaagaac tgaaggaccc atatttacct    360
              gcagaattag gttcggccaa taaacagcca acaaactatt tctgcaaaac attaacagca    420
              agtgatacca gtacccatgg tgggttctcc gttccccgtc gagcagctga gaaagtgttt    480
              cctccactgc aacccccatg ccaggagttg atggcaaaag atcttcatgg caatgagtgg    540
              aaattccgtc acatctttcg tggccagcca aagcggcatc ttctaactac aggttggagt    600
              gtctttgtaa gtgcaaagag actcgttgct ggcgactctg tcctttttat ctgggcaagc    660
              ccttcagagt ttgtcatacc actcgtaaag tatgttaagg ctgtgtatca tacccgcata    720
              tctgtgggga tgcgattcag gatgcttttt gagacagaag agtctagcgt taggagtcta    780
              accagatcaa atgcattcaa ttccagatac atggggacaa ttaccggaat ctgtgatctt    840
              gattctgttc ggtggccaaa ttcacactgg cgttctgtta aggttggctg ggatgagtca    900
              actgctggtg agcgacaacc aagggtgtca ctatgggaga ttgaacccct gacaactttc    960
              ccaatgtatc catctccttt tccgctcagg ctcaagcgtc catggccaac aggcttgcct   1020
              tctctgcatg gtgggaagga tgatgacctg gctaactctc tcatgtggct tcgagatacc   1080
              gcaaatcctg gttttcagtc gttaaatttt ggtggacttg gtatgagccc ttggatgcag   1140
              ccaaggctgg atgctacctt acttggtctg caacctgaca tgtatcaggc gatggccaca   1200
              gctgcttttc aggatgcaac aaagcaggca tcgcccacaa tgctgcagtt ccagcagccc   1260
              cagaacatag ctggccgggc ttccccgctt ctttcaagtc agattttgca gcaagcacat   1320
              catcaatttc agcagcaacc gtaccttcaa aacatctctg agagcacaat ccaagcacag   1380
              ggtcagtctg agttcctcaa gcagcagatc caacgcagcc agtcattcaa tgagcagaag   1440
              ccccagatgc aacaccagca agaatcacag cagcagcagc aaccacagtt ttctcagtct   1500
                                                   1077

<removed-date>
              tcacctatgg cgctgcagac tatattaccg ttctcgcagg cacagagctt cacagacacg   1560
              aatgtaggtt cattgtctcc atccaatggt aacaccatgc aaaacacact gaggccgttc   1620
              tcatcagaag cagtttctca cctcagtatg ccgaggccca ctgcgatacc tgtcgcagac   1680
              ccatggtcgt cgaagcgtgt cgcggtggag tctctgcttc cttctcggcc tcaggtttca   1740
              tcccagatgg aacaattgga ccctgcacca gctagtatac ctcatagctc tgcgttggca   1800
<removed-apn>
              ccacttcccg gaagagggtg cttggttgac caagatgtga actctgatcc tcaaaatcat   1860
              ctcttgttcg gtgttagtat agactcgcag tcactgctaa tgcaaggggg cattcctggt   1920
              ctccaaaacg ggaatgattc agctgctata ccttattcca cttccaattt cctcagccct   1980
              tctcagaatg actttcctct ggaccataca ctaaattctt caggctgctt agatgattct   2040
              gggtacgtcc cgccatgttc agataattct gacaaagtga accgaccacc agcgaccttc   2100
              gtgaaggttt acaaatctgg aacctacggg aggtcgcttg atatcactag gtttagcagc   2160
              tatcacgagc tccgtaggga actggggcgc ctatttggcc ttgagggcca gttggaagac   2220
              ccattgagat caggctggca gcttgtattc gtcaaccgtg aggaggacgt ccttctcgtg   2280
              ggcgacgacc cttggcagta a                                             2301
              <210>   935
              <211>   3139
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 935
              atgaggctct cgtcgtcgtc cggcagcgtc ctgccggctc agccgggctc gccggaagct     60
              gtggaggagc acaagtgcct gaactcggag ttgtggcatg cttgtgccgg cccgcttgtt    120
              tccttgcccg cggtgggtag ccgagttgtg tacttccctc agggccacag cgagcaggta    180
              gcagcatcaa caaacaagga aatagagtct cagatcccca actatcctaa tctgccgcca    240
              cagcttatat gccaacttca taatgtgacg atgcatgctg atgcagagac agatgaggta    300
              tatgcacaga tgacactaca accactcaac ccgcaagaac tgaaggaccc atatttacct    360
              gcagaattag gttcggccaa taaacagcca acaaactatt tctgcaaaac attaacagca    420
              agtgatacca gtacccatgg tgggttctcc gttccccgtc gagcagctga gaaagtgttt    480
              cctccactgg atttcaccca gcaaccccca tgccaggagt tgatggcaaa agatcttcat    540
                                                   1078

<removed-date>
              ggcaatgagt ggaaattccg tcacatcttt cgtggccagc caaagcggca tcttctaact    600
              acaggttgga gtgtctttgt aagtgcaaag agactcgttg ctggcgactc tgtccttttt    660
              atctggaatg acaataacca gcttctgctg ggaattcgtc gtgcaaatcg gccacaaact    720
              gtcatgccat cttcagtctt atcaagcgat agcatgcata tcggtcttct tgctgcagct    780
              gctcatgctg cttcgacaaa tagccgattt acaatttttt acaacccaag ttgcttttgc    840
<removed-apn>
              agggcaagcc cttcagagtt tgtcatacca ctcgtaaagt atgttaaggc tgtgtatcat    900
              acccgcatat ctgtggggat gcgattcagg atgctttttg agacagaaga gtctagcgtt    960
              aggagataca tggggacaat taccggaatc tgtgatcttg attctgttcg gtggccaaat   1020
              tcacactggc gttctgttaa ggttggctgg gatgagtcaa ctgctggtga gcgacaacca   1080
              agggtgtcac tatgggagat tgaacccctg acaactttcc caatgtatcc atctcctttt   1140
              ccgctcaggc tcaagcgtcc atggccaaca ggcttgcctt ctctgcatgg tgggaaggat   1200
              gatgacctgg ctaactctct catgtggctt cgagataccg caaatcctgg ttttcagtcg   1260
              ttaaattttg gtggacttgg tatgagccct tggatgcagc caaggctgga tgctacctta   1320
              cttggtctgc aacctgacat gtatcaggcg atggccacag ctgcttttca ggatgcaaca   1380
              aagcaggcat cgcccacaat gctgcagttc cagcagcccc agaacatagc tggcggggct   1440
              tccccgcttc tttcaagtca gattttgcag caagcacatc atcaatttca gcagcaaccg   1500
              taccttcaaa acatctctga gagcacaatc caagcacagg gtcagtctga gttcctcaag   1560
              cagcagatcc aacgcagcca gtcattcaat gagcagaagc cccagatgca acaccagcaa   1620
              gaatcacagc agcagcagca accacagtgt ctgccagtcc cccaacatca gcaaatgcaa   1680
              caacagaata tgaccaacta ccagtctata tctaatgcat tatcaccgtt ttctcagctg   1740
              tcgccagttt ctcagtcttc acctatggcg ctgcagacta tattaccgtt ctcgcaggca   1800
              cagagcttca cagacacgaa tgtaggttca ttgtctccat ccaatggtaa caccatgcaa   1860
              aacacactga ggccgttctc atcagaagca gtttctcacc tcagtatgcc gaggcccact   1920
              gcgatacctg tcgcagaccc atggtcgtcg aagcgtgtcg cggtggagtc tctgcttcct   1980
              tctcggcctc aggtttcatc ccagatggaa caattggacc ctgcaccagc tagtatacct   2040
              catagctctg cgttggcacc acttcccgga agagggtgct tggttgacca agatgtgaac   2100
                                                   1079

              tctgatcctc aaaatcatct cttgttcggt gttagtatag actcgcagtc actgctaatg   2160
<removed-date>
              caagggggca ttcctggtct ccaaaacggg aatgattcag ctgctatacc ttattccact   2220
              tccaatttcc tcagcccttc tcagaatgac tttcctctgg accatacact aaattcttca   2280
              ggctgcttag atgattctgg gtacgtcccg ccatgttcag ataattctga caaagtgaac   2340
              cgaccaccag cgaccttcgt gaaggtttac aaatctggaa cctacgggag gtcgcttgat   2400
              atcactaggt ttagcagcta tcacgagctc cgtagggaac tggggcgcct atttggcctt   2460
<removed-apn>
              gagggccagt tggaagaccc attgagatca ggctggcagc ttgtattcgt cgaccgtgag   2520
              gaggacgtcc ttctcgtggg cgacgaccct tggcaggaat tcgtgagcac ggtgtcctgc   2580
              ataaagatcc tctccccgca ggaggtgcag cagatgggga agcagggcct ggagctcctg   2640
              agctcggccc ccgcgcggag gctcggtagc agctgtgacg actacgtcag caggcaggag   2700
              tcgagaagcc tgagcaccgg gatcgcgtcc gtcggttcgg tcgagttggg atgagcagca   2760
              agatagcgcg cacgcagcag cagcagcagc aggttacgca tcctcagcct cagggtaggt   2820
              aggggactga agggttggtc tgcgacttga tgacccacga gctcctcgtt gcgcgcttcg   2880
              ttcgcctcca tgcgatggat agaagttcag cgcagaccaa gccttagctc tgcgagctat   2940
              gtaccatcta ataattctgt ccgtgtcgta ccatgtcaac tcctaagtag aagaattgaa   3000
              gaaactacca gcagccgctg tctggtatac acgctgaaac attttttttc ttgtatggag   3060
              aaatactaat catctggatg tagccaggcc tatgctctct aatggttgat cgggtaatac   3120
              agcccctcgc acacaaaaa                                                3139
              <210>   936
              <211>   4109
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 936
              ctcctcgaag gcgaagcaaa gctaccaacg catacaagag tgagagcagg gagcacgagc     60
              gctctgagtg agtggaagac gagaggagtt cgagtccccc agggctaggg tttcattcgc    120
              cacccgcgcc gcccttccct tccccagcat ccgtccgcca tggtgaggaa gaaaagaact    180
              ggccctggag agagttctgg ggaggcttct ggagcgcctg gtcatggctc ctcacagcgt    240
              cctcaggcaa cacaacaggg tacccgtggt ggagggcaac accagggccg tggtggatat    300
                                                   1080

              ctgggccctg gagtgctgcc ttcacagcac ccaggtggtg gcccacctga gtatcatcaa    360
<removed-date>
              ccgcttgact accagggacg tggtggatat cagggccgtg gtggaccacc ttcacagcat    420
              cctggtggtg ggacaccccc tgggtctcaa ctgcgtggct accaggggca cggtggatac    480
              cagggccgtg gcgggccacc ttcacagtat cctggtggtg ggacaccccc tgggtctcaa    540
              ccacgtgact accacggacg tggtggtcca cgtcccagag ggggaatgcc acagtcatac    600
              cgtggcgggc atgtgggagg tagtgttata ccaagtgttc cttcaggtcc atctaggcca    660
<removed-apn>
              gttcccgagc tgcaccaagc cccagatgtc caacatcaag cccctgtggt ggcaacacca    720
              tcttcgccag gagctggctc gtcctcgcag cctgggaagg ctgaggtgag cactggacaa    780
              gtccagcaac agttccagca acttgcgatt cgtaaccaaa gcttagccag ccaagctggt    840
              cagatggcac cagcgtcaag caaatctgtt aggttcccat tgcgccctgg caagggtacg    900
              catgggtcca ggtgcattgt gaaggcaaat catttctttg ctgagctgcc taataaagac    960
              cttcaccaat acgatgtatc aataacaccc gaggttactt cacgcggcgt caatcgtgct   1020
              gtcatggcag agctagtaaa actttacaga cactcccatt tggatgggcg tctgcctgca   1080
              tacgatggaa ggaagagtct ttatacagct ggagcgttgc catttgcttc gaagacattc   1140
              gaaattactc tgcaagatga ggaagacagt cttggtggag gccaaaggcg ccagagggta   1200
              tttcgggtga ccatcaaatt tgctgctcgc gctgatctcc accatttggc tatgtttctt   1260
              gctgggaggc agccagatgc ccctcaagag gctcttcaag tacttgacat cgtgctacgt   1320
              gaaatgccta ctgccaagta ttgtcctgtt ggtagatcat tttattctcc caagttaggg   1380
              agacctcagc aacttggtga aggtttggaa acttggcgtg gtttctacca aagcataagg   1440
              cccacacaga tgggtctttc tctgaatatt gatatgtcct ctactgcatt ttttgaggcc   1500
              ctccctgtaa ttgattttgt ttctcagctt cttaatagag atatctcagt tagaccattg   1560
              tctgattctg atcgcgtgaa gattaaaaaa gccctacgag gtgtgaaagt ggaggtcaca   1620
              caccgtggaa acatgcgtag gaaatatcgg atatctggcc ttactccaca agcaacaagg   1680
              gagttatcat tccctattga tgatcgtggt actgttaaga ctgtggtgca atacttcctg   1740
              gagacttatg gtttcagtat tcagcacacc actttacctt gtttgcaagt gggcaatcag   1800
              caaagaccaa attatctgcc tatggaggtc tgtaagatag ttgaggggca gcgctactca   1860
              aaacgactta atgataaaca gatcactgct ctactgaagg tgacttgcca acgtccccaa   1920
                                                   1081

<removed-date>
              gcgcgtgaga aggacatctt ggagactgtg tatcacaatg cctactccaa ggatccttat   1980
              gcccaggaat ttggtataac gattgatgag cgtcttgcat cggttgaagc tcgtgttctg   2040
              cctcccccaa ggctgaaata ccatgatagt ggcagagaaa gggatgtatt gccaaaagtt   2100
              ggccagtgga acatgatgaa taagaaaatg gtcaatggtg gtagagttag cagctgggca   2160
              tgcattaact tctcacggaa tgtgcaagat ggtgctgccg ggggtttctg tcatgaattg   2220
<removed-apn>
              gctttgatgt gccaagtatc aggaatggat tttgtacttg aacctgtgct gtcaccttgc   2280
              tatgcaaggc ctgaacttgt tgaaagagca ctaaagggac gctatcaaga tgcgatgaac   2340
              atactcgggc ctcagggccg agaactcgac ttgctgattg ttatactgcc tgacaataat   2400
              ggttctcttt acggggatgt caaaaggatc tgtgagacta atcttggatt ggtctcccaa   2460
              tgctgtctga ctaaacatgt tttcaaggtg aacaagcagc agtatcttgc aaatgttgcc   2520
              ctgaaaataa atgtgaaggt tgggggaagg aatactgtgc ttgttgatgc tttggcaagg   2580
              agaatccccc ttgtcagtga catagcgact attatctttg gtgctgatgt gacccatccc   2640
              catcctgggg aagattctag tccttccatt gcagctgtgg ttgcttctca agactggcct   2700
              gaggttacaa agtatgcagg attggtgagt gctcaagccc atcgtcaaga attgatacag   2760
              gatcttttca aggtatggca agatcccgaa agggggactg tctctggtgg catgatcagg   2820
              gagcttctca tatctttctg gagggcaact ggacagaaac caaagaggat catattctac   2880
              agggatggcg tcagtgaggg acaattctac caagttctgt tgtatgaact tgatgccatt   2940
              agaaaggcct gtgcgtcatt ggagtctgac taccagcctc cagttacttt tgtcgtggtc   3000
              cagaagcgtc atcacaccag gttgtttgct aataatcaca atgataatcg tgctgtcgat   3060
              aaaagcggga acatactgcc tggcaccgtg gtggactcga agatctgcca tccaactgag   3120
              tttgatttct acctgtgcag ccatgctggc attcagggaa caagccgccc tgcccattac   3180
              catgttctgt gggatgagaa caactttacg gctgatgggt tgcaaactct caccaacaac   3240
              ttgtgttaca cgtatgctag gtgcacacgc tcagtatcga ttgttcctcc tgcatactat   3300
              gctcacctgg cagccttccg agctcggttc tacatggagc cagatacgag tgacagtgga   3360
              tctatggcaa gccgtggccc tccaccaggg gggcgcaaca ccaaggctgc cggtgttggg   3420
              aatgttgctg tgaggccatt acctgccctc aaggaaaacg tgaagcgggt catgttctac   3480
                                                   1082

              tgctaagact gatgctgtta aggcagagct accttttatt attacagtat atcgtgaaga   3540
<removed-date>
              ctagagtatt tttttccacg tacttgatga tgctgagcta ccttttatta tgtcgtacga   3600
              tatatatgcg tggtattgta tactggttac agtaacttta gttgtgtgtt ccatcgtgct   3660
              ggtgggcagg tggtgttacg tgaaaaacat tctcctctaa aattcatcaa atttggacat   3720
              agactgaaca tatcacgaaa aagaggatgt atttcactta ccccatcctt acttcttggg   3780
              cctcgtgatg aaaagagctt gattaataaa ttcggaagga aatgatattt tgaacggaaa   3840
<removed-apn>
              gaccttggca tcgtcagccg taccgtaggt attatattat actaaatacg taattaatta   3900
              agtgactgaa aatatgacga ttgaggtgac gcatgttcgt ctcatctgtt gactgcgaat   3960
              agccgccggc tgtcggcggc gtgcagctgc ctgccttctt cctcactttt catctttctt   4020
              ttggctgcag catcatcatc gtcgactcta taaattaatg taatggctgt ccatctctcc   4080
              tcacattgct taccttcgtt gctccattc                                     4109
              <210>   937
              <211>   852
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (798)..(798)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 937
              caagcggccg tcgccttccc ccctcccctc ctcaaaaagg cggagaggtg gtggtgctcg     60
              tgggcacgca gtggagcacc cagtacagca gcagcgctgc ggcagtggag ttaggagctt    120
              agcactcccc ctccgttccc atcccgcgcg cagccgtcgg ccgagcctgc tcagtgccca    180
              tcatggtgag gaagaagaga actggccctg gcggctctgg agaaacttct ggagagtctt    240
              caggagcttc tggacaaggt tcctcacaga ggcctgaacg gactcaacaa cctggggcag    300
              gacgtggctg ggtgcctcag cagggtggcc gtggtggcgg gcaacaccag ggtcgtggtg    360
              gacattatca aggccgtgga gggccaggtc cacatcaccc tggtggactg cctgagtatc    420
              accagcgtga ataccaggga cgaggtggtg agtaccaggg acagtaccag gggcgtggtg    480
              gtgcccgttc cagaggtgga atttcacagc catactatgg tgggcatagg ggaggtagtg    540
                                                   1083

              ttggacgaaa tgttcctcca ggtccatcca gaacagttcc cgagctgcac caagccccat   600
<removed-date>
              acgtccagta tcaagccccg gtgatttcac catccccatc gggacctggc tcatcctcac   660
              agcctatggc agaggtgagc tctggacaag tccagcaaca gtttgagcaa cttgccattc   720
              atggtcagag ttccatgagt caagaagttc aagtggcacc agcatcaagc aaatcggttc   780
              gattcccatt acgccccngc aggggcactt atggggacag gtgcattgtg aaggcgaatc   840
              attttttgct ga                                                       852
<removed-apn>
              <210>   938
              <211>   3799
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (928)..(934)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 938
              gccggccggg tcgggaataa ccacaagcga ccgtcgcctt cccccacctc ctcccttcct    60
              caaaaaaagg cggaggcggg agtggtggtg gtgctcgtgg gcacgcagcg gagcaccctg   120
              tacagcagca gcgctgcggc agtagagagt gccattggtg gagctggtaa ctagccctcc   180
              cccctccgtt cccgtcccgc gcgcagccgt ctgccgagcc tgctcagtgc ccatcatggt   240
              gaggaagaag agaactggcc ctggtggctc tggagaaact tctggagagt cttcaggagc   300
              ctctggacaa ggttcctcac agcagcctga gcgaactcaa caacctgggg gaggacgtgg   360
              ctgggtgcct caacagggtg gccatggtgg tgggcaacac cagggtcgtg atcgacatta   420
              tcagggacgt ggaggaccag ggccacatca ccttggtagt ggggcacctg agtatcaccc   480
              gcgtgaatac cagggacgtg gtggtgaata tcagggacat ggtggtgagt accagggacg   540
              gggtggtgac taccagggac gtggtggtgg ccgctccaga ggtggaatgc cacagccata   600
              ctatggtggg cataggggag gtaatgttgg acgcaatgtt cctccaggtc cgtccaggac   660
              agttcccgag ctgcaccaag ccccatatgt ccagtatcca gccccggtgg tttcgccctc   720
              cccatcggga cctggctcat cctcacagcc tatggcagag gtgagctctg gacaagtcca   780
              gcaacagttt cagcaacttg ccgatcgtgg tcagagttcc acgagccaag aaattcaagt   840
                                                   1084

              ggcaccagca tcaagcaaat cggttcgatt cccgttacgg cccggcaagg gcacttatgg    900
<removed-date>
              ggacaggtgc attgtgaagg caaatcannn nnnngctgag cttcctgaca aagaccttca    960
              ccaatatgat gtatctataa cacctgaggt tacttcacgt ggcgtcaatc gtgctgtcat   1020
              gggtgagctt gtaacaatat atagacaatc ccatttgggt gggcgtctac ctgcatacga   1080
              tggaagaaag agcctgtata ctgctggacc attgccattt acttctatgg catttgaaat   1140
              taccttgcaa gatgaggaag atagtcttgg cggtcgccaa ggtggacata ggcgtgagag   1200
<removed-apn>
              agtatttagg gtggtgatca aatttgcagc ccgtgctgat ctccaccatc tggctatgtt   1260
              tctagctgga aggcaagcag atgcccctca ggaagctctt caagtgcttg acattgtact   1320
              acgtgaattg cctaccgcga ggtattctcc tgtcggtagg tcattttact ctcccaactt   1380
              agggagacgt caaaaacttg gtgagggatt ggaaagttgg cgtggttttt accaaagcat   1440
              aagggccgac acagatgggc ctttcactga atattgatat gtcctctact gcatttatcg   1500
              agcctctccc tgtgatcgat tttgttgctc agcttcttaa cagagatatc tcagttaggc   1560
              cattgtctga ttctgatcgc gtgaagatta aaaaagccct aagaggtgtg aaggttgagg   1620
              tgactcacag gggaaacatg cgcagaaaat atcgcatttc tggcctcacc tcacaagcaa   1680
              caagagagct atcattccct gttgatgatc gtggtactgt gaagactgtg gtgcaatact   1740
              tcatggagac ttatggtttt agtatccagc acaccacttt accatgcttg caagtgggta   1800
              atcaacaaag accaaattat ctgcctatgg aggtttgcaa gatagttgaa ggacagcgtt   1860
              actcaaagcg actcaatgag aaacaaatca ctgctctact gaaagtgacc tgccagcgcc   1920
              ctcaagagcg cgagctggac atcttacaga ctgtgcatca caatgcatac tatgaagacc   1980
              cctatgcact ggaatttggt ataagaattg atgaacgtct tgctgcagtt gaagctcgtg   2040
              ttctgccacc accaagactt aaataccatg atagtggccg agagaaggat gttttgccca   2100
              gagttggcca atggaacatg atgaataaga aaatggttaa tggtggcaga gtgagcaact   2160
              gggcatgtat taacttctct cggaatgtgc aagatagtgc cgctaggggt ttctctcatg   2220
              agttggcagt catgtgccaa atatcaggaa tggattttgc tcttgagcct gtgctgcctc   2280
              cagtgactgc aaggccagaa catgttgaga gagcgttaaa ggcacgttat caagatgcaa   2340
              tgaacatact gaggccacag ggaagggaac ttgatctgct gatcgtaata ctgcctgaca   2400
              acaatggttc tctttatggg gatctcaaaa ggatctgtga gactgaactc ggattggtct   2460
                                                   1085

<removed-date>
              cccagtgttg tctgactaaa catgttttta agatgagcaa gcagtacctt gcaaatgttg   2520
              cactcaaaat aaatgttaag gttgggggaa ggaatactgt acttttagat gctttgtcaa   2580
              ggagaatccc ccttgtcagt gacagaccga ccataatatt tggtgctgat gttacccatc   2640
              cacatcctgg agaagattcc agtccttcca ttgcagccgt tgttgcttcg caagactggc   2700
              ccgaggtcac gaaatacgct ggactagtga gtgcgcaagc ccatcgccag gagctgatac   2760
<removed-apn>
              aggatctttt caaagtatgg caggacccgc agagaaggac ggtaactggc ggcatgataa   2820
              aggaacttct catttctttc aagagggcaa ctggacagaa gccccagagg atcatattct   2880
              acagggatgg tgtcagtgag ggacagttct atcaagtatt gctgtacgaa cttgatgcca   2940
              ttagaaaggc ctgtgcgtcc ctggagccca actaccagcc tccagttact tttgtcgtgg   3000
              tacagaagcg ccatcacact aggctgtttg cgaacaacca cagtgatcag cgcacagtcg   3060
              atagaagcgg aaacatactg cctggcaccg tggtcgattc gaagatttgc catcctactg   3120
              agtttgactt ctacctgtgt agccatgctg gcattcaggg aacgagccgc cctgctcact   3180
              accatgtcct gtgggacgag aacaagttca cagctgacga gctgcagacc ctgacgaaca   3240
              acctgtgcta cacgtacgct aggtgcaccc gctccgtgtc catcgtgccc ccggcgtact   3300
              acgctcatct ggcagccttc cgagctcgct tctacatgga gccagacacc tctgacagcg   3360
              ggtcactggc cagcggtgcc cgtggccccc cacccggtgc ggcacgcagc agcacgagag   3420
              gggccgggag tgtcgaggtc aggcccctac ctgctctcaa ggagaacgtg aagcgtgtca   3480
              tgttttactg ctgagacgct ggtgggctgc cttcgccaag gaaaatgccc tggagcattc   3540
              ccatgtaccc gcactgtttc ggtgatacag tactatctaa cgccgatttt gcgcgttaag   3600
              acttccagtg atctgggaaa tttcttgtac gactgttgta gtgttgtgta ttcgtaatgt   3660
              gatgacgcgg cagttcttct aggagcttag tgccgtgtaa aatatctgtt gtaagttgta   3720
              acctgtcacc ctctagtgtt atgtcatgat gaaccaaatt atttgttgtc attcaaaaaa   3780
              aaaaaaaaaa aaagtacct                                                3799
              <210>   939
              <211>   1532
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1086

              <400> 939
<removed-date>
              aattcggcac gaggctcctc gaaggcgaag caaagctacc aacgcataca agagtgagag     60
              cagggagcac gagcgctctg agtgagtgga agacgagagg agttggagtt ccccagggct    120
              agggtttcat tcgccacccg cgccgccctt cccttcccca gcatccgtcc gccatggtga    180
              ggaagaaaag aactggccct ggagagagtt ctggggagtc ttctggagcg cctggtcatg    240
              gctcctcaca gcgtcctcag gcaacacaac agggtgcccg tggtggaggg caacaccagg    300
<removed-apn>
              tgcgtggtgg atatctgggc cctggagtgc cgccttcaga gcacccaggt ggtgggccgc    360
              ctgagtatca tcaaccgctt gactaccagg gacgtggtgg atatcagggc cgtggtggac    420
              caccttcaca gcatcctggt ggtgggacac cccctgggtc tcaaccgcgt ggctaccagg    480
              ggcacggtgg ataccagggc cgtggcgggc caccttcaca gtatcctggt ggtgggacac    540
              cccctgggtc tcaaccacgt gactaccacg gacgtggtgg tccgcgtccc agagggggaa    600
              tgccacagtc ataccgtggc gggcatgtgg gaggtagtgt tgtaccaagt gttccttcag    660
              gtccatctag gccagttccc gagctgcacc aagccccaga tgtccaacat caagcccctg    720
              tggtggcaac accatcttcg ccaggagctg gctcgtcctc gcagcctggg aaggctgagg    780
              tgagcgctgg acaagtccag caacagttcc agcaacttgc gattcgtaac caaagcttag    840
              ccagccaagc tggtcagatg gcaccagcgt caagcaaatc tgttaggttc ccattgcgcc    900
              ctggcaaggg tacgcatggg tccaggtgca ttgtgaaggc aaatcatttc tttgctgagc    960
              tgcctaataa agaccttcac caatacgatg tatcaataac acctgaggtt acttcacgcg   1020
              gcgtcaatcg tgctgtcatg gcagagctag taaaacttta cagacactcc catttggatg   1080
              ggcgtctgcc tgcatatgat ggaaggaaga gtctttatac agctggagcg ttgccatttg   1140
              cttcgaagac attcgaaatt actctgcaag atgaggaaga cagtcttggt ggaggccaaa   1200
              ggcgccagag ggtatttcgg gtgaccatca aatttgctgc tcgcgctgat ctccaccatc   1260
              tggctatgtt tcttgctggg aggcagccag atgcccctca agaggctctt caagtacttg   1320
              acatcgtgct acgtgaaatg cctactgcca agtattgtcc tgttggtaga tcattttatt   1380
              ctcccaagtt agggagacct cagcaacttg gtgaagatat gtcctctact gcattttttg   1440
              aggccctccc tgtaattgat tttgtttctc agcttcttaa tagagatatc tcagttagac   1500
              cattgtctga ttctgatcgc gtgaaggttt ga                                 1532
                                                    1087

<removed-date>
              <210>   940
              <211>   698
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 940
              aattcggcac gaggcgggag tggtggtggt gctcgtgggc acgcagcgga gcaccctgta    60
              cagcagcagc gctgcggcag tagagagtgc cattggtgga gctggtaact agccctcccc   120
<removed-apn>
              cctccgttcc cgtcccgcgc gcagccgtct gccgagcctg ctcagtgccc atcatggtga   180
              ggaagaagag aactggccct ggtagctctg gagaaacttc tggagagtct tcaggagcct   240
              ctggacaagg ttcctcacag cagcctgagc gaactcaaca acctggggga ggacgtggct   300
              gggtgcctca acagggtggc cgtagtggtg ggcaacacca gggccgtgat cgacattatc   360
              agggacgtgg aggaccaggg ccacatcacc ttggtagtgg ggcacctgag tatcgcccgc   420
              gtgaatacca gggacgtggt ggtgaatatc agggacatgg tggtgagtac cagggacggg   480
              gtggtgacta ccagggacgt ggtggtggcc gctccagagg tggaatgcca cagccatact   540
              atggtgggca taggggaggt aatgttggac acaatgttcc tccaggtcca tccaggacag   600
              ttcccgagct gcaccaagcc ccatatgtcc agtatccagc cccggtggtt tcaccctccc   660
              catcgggacc tggctcatcc tcacagccta tggcagag                           698
              <210>   941
              <211>   1695
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 941
              gtgacactat agaacaagtt tgtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaattcccgg    60
              gatgtccgag acacttacaa taatccttgc ccaatcccgt ctttagccgc tagggttacg   120
              cgtccacggc gacgacctct gcgcagagcg tgctgcgatt ggccggcctt cctgggatcc   180
              tccccgcgcc cgacacccgg aaacgcgcgc gcgcgcgagg gagagacaga gtgaggaaac   240
              gagggaagga gacgacgcgc tcgcctattg gccgccggct ccgctccttc gcgcccagtg   300
              cgacggccac ggcctgagcg gcgctgccag caaggcggct agtatgagca gcatggagtc   360
              gcggccgggc cgaacgaacc tggtggagcc catagggcac ggcgccgcgc tgccgtccgg   420
              cggccaggca gtgcagccgt ggtggacgag ctccggggct gtgctcggtg cagtctcgcc   480
                                                   1088

<removed-date>
              agccgtcgtg gcggtggcgc ccgggagcgg gacggggatt agcctgtcga gcagcccggc    540
              aggtggtagt ggtggtggcg gcgcggctaa aggagccgcg agtgacgaga gcagcgagga    600
              ttcacggaga tctggggaac caaaagatgg aagcgctagt caagaaaaga accatgccac    660
              atcgcagata cccgctctgg cgccagagta tttggcacca tactcgcagc tggaactgaa    720
              ccaatcaatt gcttctgcag catatcagta cccagatcct tactatgcag gcatggttgc    780
<removed-apn>
              tccctatgga agtcatgctg tggctcattt tcagctacct ggactaactc aatctcgaat    840
              gccattacct cttgaagtat ccgaggagcc tgtttatgta aatgccaagc agtaccatgg    900
              tatcttaaga cgacggcagt cccgtgctaa ggctgaactt gagaaaaagg tggtcaaagc    960
              cagaaagcca taccttcacg agtctcgtca tcagcacgcg atgaggaggg caagaggaaa   1020
              cgggggacgc ttcctgaaca caaagaaaag tgacagtggt gctcccaatg gaggcgaaaa   1080
              cgccgagcat ctccatgtcc ctcccgactt actacagcta cgacagaacg aggcttgaag   1140
              tagcggtatg gctctggcat ccttgaacag cagttcctgt ccacgggcgt aggcattcga   1200
              gaccggattc atatagctct ccacagcata cgcgcagcca tctctgcggt aacgcacgtt   1260
              ctcctgaacg agctttgtag cgagataggt atgcaagtgc aatctgggcg caggaatcca   1320
              tcatcaagtg cccaatgccc atggggtagg tacgctgttt caggcaattc attcttggct   1380
              ttcacgttcc acccttgtgt aactggtgtg ttgtaaatgt gtggaaaact aagcttgtgc   1440
              tctgtatcgg gccgttcagc ggaactgcaa aacgcctgta taattaagat cgaactttgg   1500
              attaactcgg taatgctttg tctggttttc ttttagcttt tcaactgtaa cacggccaca   1560
              gctgattcat gtgatgtgct tgcttatctt tccttgtgca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1620
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagggcggc cgctctagag tatccctcga ggggcccaag   1680
              cttacgcgta cccag                                                    1695
              <210>   942
              <211>   2096
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (962)..(966)
                                                   1089

              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-date>
              <400> 942
              accatttgct ccctctcctc gctacctgtc ctcgttcgct gcctgggcgt gccacccctc     60
              ctcctctagc agtcctctct ctccgctcgt gtgctggtcc atcgcctgcc tcctcggttt    120
              atcctgaatc cttggaccga cgcacgcaca caagctcagc tcagctcagc tcaggctgct    180
              gctgctggat tctttggtgt tccatcaggc caaggatccc gcaaagagct ccggagccaa    240
<removed-apn>
              gcctgctgca gccgtcgcgt cgggtgaggc aggcttcagc ttcagtctcc tactcgacga    300
              ggcaagcgga tcggagcggg cctccgctcc gccatgatga gcttcaaggg ccacgagggg    360
              tttggccagg tggccgccgc cggtgccggg agccaggctg cctcccatgg tggagcaggc    420
              ccgctgccat ggtgggcggg gccccagctg ctgttcggcg agccggcgcc cccgtcaccg    480
              gaggagacgc gccgggacgc ccagttccag gtcgtgccgg gggttcaggg cacgccggat    540
              ccagcgccgc ccaagacagg gacacctgag gtcctcaaat tctctgtctt tcaagggaat    600
              ttggagtcgg gtggtaaagg agagaaaacc ccaaagaact ctaccactat tgctcttcag    660
              tcaccgttcc cagaatacaa tggccgtttc gagattggtc ttggtcaatc tatgctggcc    720
              ccttccaatt atccttgtgc tgaccagtgc tatggcatgc ttgcggctta tggaatgaga    780
              tccatgtctg gtgggagaat gctgttgcca ctaattgcgc cagccgatgc acccgtttat    840
              gtgaacccga aacagtacga aggcatcctc cgtcgtcgcc gtgctcgcgc taaggcggag    900
              agcgagaaca ggctcaccaa aggcagaaag gtgtgagaag actcttcttg tagctgggtg    960
              annnnnttga cccttcctac ttccatgaca gttgacagcg agctaccatc gcaagcagca   1020
              tttgcgatgc tcccatgctt tacagtcacc acgttgactg gtgatcagtg atcgctgtgt   1080
              gcctgttcat gctgcagcct tatctccatg agtcgcgcca cctccacgcg atgcgccggg   1140
              tgagaggctc cggcgggcgc ttcctcaaca cgaataaagg agggcacggc acggacgttg   1200
              ctgcaaacgg gggcagcaag atggcggcgg cggcggcacc atcccgtctc gccatgcccc   1260
              ctagcgctga gcctccatgg ctgtcagggc tcagcgacgg cagcaacccg tgctgccact   1320
              cccggagtag tgtctccagc ttgtccgggt cctacgtggc gagcatctac ggtggcttgg   1380
              agcagcacct ccgggcgccg cccttcttca ccccgctgcc gcccgtcatg gacggcgacc   1440
              acggcggccc cacggccgcc accatctcct ccttcaagtg ggcggccagc gacggctgct   1500
                                                   1090

              gcgagctcct cagggcgtga accgaggagg gaggggatgg ctactcagac gaacggcctt   1560
<removed-date>
              ctccccgatg gctggttgtc tgtaggcaaa tcattcttgg ctgttctgca ttggggtgcg   1620
              acctacacat catccgccta ccgtacctac cccacccgtg tccctgaaat tccagggtgc   1680
              ttgggttact tacaggggtc ttgtgtggtg atgtggctcc cccatatgca tttgctgtaa   1740
              catagcgtac ccaaaccact gttgcttggt acttctcgct atcactgcct catcagtatg   1800
              gattctgcat ttctgcgttg tcacagtgta tgaataattg aggcgtcaga cttcagggtt   1860
<removed-apn>
              gctccagttc ttggagatag gtctgggttt gtttgaagct tgcctggagg tctgaaactt   1920
              tgtgtttggt gaagatgcta cgttattgca gtttgaatct gtaagtttgg gatcagcatt   1980
              cagttgttgc atcgtctgtg ctctggtgcc gaggtgttcg ttctgaatat ttgattcaat   2040
              tcaaaatctt cagctaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aacgagacgc tcgaggtacc caatcg       2096
              <210>   943
              <211>   1149
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 943
              gctcattttc agctacctgg actaactcaa tctcgaatgc cattacctct tgaagtatcc     60
              gaggagcctg tttatgtaaa tgccaagcag taccatggta tcttaagacg acggcagtcc    120
              cgtgctaagg ctgaacttga gaaaaaggtg gtcaaagcca gaaagccata ccttcacgag    180
              tctcgtcatc agcacgcgat gaggagggca agaggaaacg ggggacgctt cctgaacaca    240
              aagaaaagtg acagtggtgc tcccaatggt aaggctgaac ctgagaaagc tagtacaatt    300
              gttgcataat ctcttcatac tgcacttgat atgagtgcac gcatttctgt ttctttatac    360
              cctgctcccg catgccctag gaggcgaaaa cgccgagcat ctccatgtcc ctcccgactt    420
              actacagcta cgacagaacg aggcttgaag tagcggtatg gctctggcat ccttgaacag    480
              cagttcctgt ccacgggcgt aggcattcga gaccggattc atatagctct ccacagcata    540
              cgcgcagcca tctctgcggt aacgcacgtt ctcctgaacg agctttgtag cgagataggt    600
              atgcaagtgc gatctgggcg caggagtcca tcatcaagtg cccaatgccc atggggtagg    660
              tacgctgttt caggcaattc attcttggct ttcacgttcc acccttgtgt aactggtgtg    720
              ttgtaaatgt gtggaaaact aagcttgtgc tctgtatcgg gccgttcagc ggaactgcaa    780
                                                   1091

              aacgcctgta taattaagat cgaactttgg attaactcgg taatgctttg tctggttttc    840
<removed-date>
              ttttagcttt tcaactgtaa cacggcccca gctgattcat gtgatgtgct tgcatatctt    900
              tccttgtgcc aatttttgtt cgggggacgc agtaatttta tattttttat tttcgggagt    960
              ccccccaatc gtgtaaggtt cctgggaacc agttgggact ttaattgaac cccccgaatt   1020
              catatgaaaa tcctacaaag tttttgggaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1080
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gggcggccgc tctagagtat ccctcgaggg gcccaagctt   1140
<removed-apn>
              acgcgtacc                                                           1149
              <210>   944
              <211>   1215
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 944
              aggccctcct ctgtctgtgt gcgagcccaa gagaaaggga gtcagagaga gagagagacg     60
              tggaggagac cttgcagagg agcgaagcaa gcaaggtggg aaagaggcag cagcaagggc    120
              ggcgggctgc cggaagggga acatgctccc tcctcatctc acagagaatg gcgcggtgat    180
              gattcagttt ggccatcaga tgcctgatta cgactccccg gctacccagt caaccagtga    240
              gacgagccat caagaagcgt ctggaatgag cgaagggagc ctcaacgagc ataataatga    300
              ccattcaggc aaccttgatg ggtactcgaa gagtgacgaa aacaagatga tgtcagcgtt    360
              atccctgggc aatccggaaa cagcttacgc acataatccg aagcctgacc gtactcagtc    420
              cttctacgca ccttttcagg ccatatcata cccatatgcc gatccatact acggtggcgc   480
              ggtggcagca gcttatggcc cgcatgctat catgcaccct cagctggttg gcatggttcc    540
              gtcctctcga gtgccactgc cgatcgagcc agccgctgaa gagcccatct atgtcaacgc    600
              gaagcagtac cacgctattc tccggaggag acagctccgt gcaaagctag aggcggaaaa    660
              caagctcgtg aaaagccgca agccgtacct ccacgagtct cggcacctgc acgcgatgaa    720
              gagagctcgg ggaacaggcg ggcggttcct gaacacgaag cagcagccgg agtcccccgg    780
              cagcggcggc tcctcggacg cgcaacgcgt gcccgcgacc gcgagcggcg gcctgttcac    840
              gaagcatgag cacagcctgc cgcccggcgg tcgccaccac tatcacgcga gagggggcgg    900
              tgagtaggga gccccgacac tggcaactca tccttggctt atcagcgatt cgactcggct    960
                                                   1092

              ctccctcgtc tgaaactgaa ctctctgcaa ctactgtaac tgtaactaaa ctgggtgtgc   1020
<removed-date>
              ccggattggc ggtcgttctg ttctactact agtacctgct acgcgtcgtt gggttgggtc   1080
              tggactagag agcgtgctgg ttctttgatg aacttggctg gacttgaggg tgttgactag   1140
              cgcgaagctg agttccatgt aaaacttttg cttcaagacc gatgactggc ggcataataa   1200
              gtagcagtaa taacc                                                    1215
<removed-apn>
              <210>   945
              <211>   2291
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 945
              aaagcaggct ggtaccggtc cggaattccc gggatgtgcg agcgcaagag aaagggagtc     60
              agagagagag agagagggag gagaccttgc agaggagcga agcaagcaag gtgggaaaga    120
              ggcagcagca agggcggcgg gctgccggaa ggggaacatg ctccctcctc atctcacagg    180
              tcttccttcc tgctcgctga cttgcctctc tccaccctct ctgatctgag ctctacggct    240
              cttcctttcc ctgcggtgat accggagctc tctgctccca cctcccagta ccagccgacc    300
              tgtttttttt tcgtttgttt gggggtgggt ggatgtgggg gagggatcgt ttctcggttc    360
              ttctggacga tttgtggtgg atctggctgg ttccttggtt gctcggctgg tcttttgagt    420
              tgatacggtg ctgggatttg taggcgcatt tctgggtgga ggtggccggt ggggtaatgg    480
              ctccagcatg tgatccttgc taaggcctta cagttacagc acactgcatg ccggatttgt    540
              gttgctttat ttatgttcct gcccgtgtat ctaatcgttt tgaactcaag gggagaacta    600
              gtgacctact gatgagatta agatgcagca ctgtttttgc tagcgggagg cctatctgca    660
              gaactaacta gtcatgtctg aggccctcag cacatatact ctggttgcat gaaggattct    720
              tagaattcag agggcgctac cgagttgatg catggtactg atacagcgct agcgctagcg    780
              ctagctagct tactactagt acctttagag catgtgcatg cccaagttac acatctcgcc    840
              tcgcgtgatc aattgagggc ctactagctt actactgctg ccttagtttc ctttttcatg    900
              aatacagtta cggtgggaag gtcaaattct gttgtgtatt catgcatcag ctgtgctcct    960
              taaggcttgc agaccttaat acccagtacg tgtttcgaat ctcgtatgtt tatttctggg   1020
              aactgacctg tgtttatata tgtttggaca gtacgaactg aaaaacaaga gtaaagaatt   1080
                                                   1093

              tccgtgagat gagacagaat ggcgcggtga tgattcagtt tggccatcag atgcctgatt   1140
<removed-date>
              acgactcccc ggctacccag tcaaccagtg agacgagcca tcaagaagcg tctggaatga   1200
              gcgaagggag cctcaacgag cataataatg accattcagg caaccttgat gggtactcga   1260
              agagtgacga aaacaagatg atgtcagcgt tatccctggg caatccggaa acagcttacg   1320
              cacataatcc gaagcctgac cgtactcagt ccttcgccat atcataccca tatgccgatc   1380
              catactacgg tggcgcggtg gcagcagctt atggcccgca tgctatcatg caccctcagc   1440
<removed-apn>
              tggttggcat ggttccgtcc tctcgagtgc cactgccgat cgagccagcc gctgaagagc   1500
              ccatctatgt caacgcgaag cagtaccacg ctattctccg gaggagacag ctccgtgcaa   1560
              agctagaggc tgaaaacaag ctcgtgaaaa gccgcaagcc gtacctccac gagtctcggc   1620
              acctgcacgc gatgaagaga gctcggggaa caggcgggcg gttcctgaac acgaagcagc   1680
              agccggagtc ccccggcagc ggcggctcct cggacgcgca acgcgtgccc gcgaccgcga   1740
              gcggcggcct gttcacgaag catgagcaca gcctgccgcc cggcggtcgc caccactatc   1800
              acgcgagagg gggcggtgat tagggagccc cgacactggc aactcatcct tggcttatca   1860
              gcgattcgac tcggctctcg ctcgtctgaa actgaactct ctgcaactac tgtaactgta   1920
              actaaactgg gtgtgcccgg attggcggtc gttctgttct actactacta gtaccttagt   1980
              acctgctacg cgtcgttggg tctggactag agagccgtgc tggttctttg atgaacttgg   2040
              ctggacttga ggtgttgact agcgcgaaac tgagttccat gtaaactttt gcttcaagac   2100
              cgatgactgg cggcataata agtagcagta ataaccattc ttccaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2160
              aagtcatcgg tgctggtttt ttgatgaact tggctggact tgagggtgtt gactagcggg   2220
              aagctgagtt ccatgtaaaa tttttgtttc aagaccgatg acggggggca taataagtag   2280
              cagtaatacc c                                                        2291
              <210>   946
              <211>   1588
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 946
              gacactatag aacaagtttg tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccgga attcccggga     60
              tcatgcccaa gttacacatc tcacctcgcg tgatcaattg agggcctact agcttactac    120
                                                   1094

              tgctgcctta gtttcctttt tcatgaatac agttacggtg ggaaggtcaa attctgttgt    180
<removed-date>
              gtattcatgc atcagctgtg ctccttaagg cttgcagacc ttaataccca gtacgtgttt    240
              cgaatctcgt atgtttattt ctgggaactg acctgtgttt atatatgttt ggacagtacg    300
              aactgaaaaa caagagtaaa gaatttccgt gagatgagac gtacgtaagg ataatcccca    360
              agacattgct caatctgttt ctctctctct ctctctcttt tcggcgagca gtttgtcctt    420
              tttctttcaa tttcttttac tactacaccc gttatcgaat atttgtcatc cgctggctca    480
<removed-apn>
              tttataaact aaaacacgat aaataaagaa ggaaagaacg gagagagtag tagtggttta    540
              gtttcatgca gctagaattc taacgccctc ctggatcctt gtgcagagaa tggcgcggtg    600
              atgattcagt ttggccatca gatgcctgat tacgactccc cggctaccca gtcaaccagt    660
              gagacgagcc atcaagaagc gtctggaatg agcgaaggga gcctcaacga gcataataat    720
              gaccattcag gcaaccttga tgggtactcg aagagtgacg aaaacaagat gatgtcagcg    780
              ttatccctgg gcaatccgga aacagcttac gcacataatc cgaagcctga ccgtactcag    840
              tccttcgcca tatcataccc atatgccgat ccatactacg gtggcgcggt ggcagcagct    900
              tatggcccgc atgctatcat gcaccctcag ctggttggca tggttccgtc ctctcgagtg    960
              cccctgccga tcgagccagc cgccgaagag cccatctatg tcaacgcgaa gcagtaccac   1020
              gctattctcc ggaggagaca gctccgtgca aagctagagg ctgaaaacaa gctcgtgaaa   1080
              agccgcaagc cgtacctcca cgagtctcgg cacctgcacg cgatgaagag agctcgggga   1140
              acaggcgggc ggttcctgaa cacgaagcag cagccggagt cccccggcag cggcggctcc   1200
              tcggacgcgc aacgcgtgcc cgcgaccgcg agcggcggcc tgttcacgaa gcatgagcac   1260
              agcctgccgc ccggcggtcg ccaccactat cacgcgagag ggggcggtga gtagggagcc   1320
              ccgacactgg caactcatcc ttggcttatc agcgattcga ctcggctctc gctcgtctga   1380
              aactgaactc tctgcaacta ctgtaactgt aactaaactg ggtgtgcccg gattggcggt   1440
              cgttctgttc tactactagt acctgagtac ctgctacgcg tcgttgctgg ttctttgatg   1500
              aacttggctg gacttgaggt gttgactagc gcgaagctga gttccatgta aacttttgct   1560
              tcaagaccga tgactggcgg cataataa                                      1588
              <210>   947
              <211>   1723
                                                   1095

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 947
              ccgcttcaaa tcttttcgcc ctttccctgc accggctggg gctcgatcag cgtcagttac     60
              cacgacgacc gatcttgctc gccagcgaga gcgacccctc ccctccctac ttcccatgct    120
              gatctcggcg cgcttctctt cctcctcccc cagagccggg cactgatttc ccttggctgc    180
              tgctgctgga ttctttggtg ttccatcagg ccaaggatcc cgcaaagagc tccggagcca    240
<removed-apn>
              agcctgctgc agccgtcgcg tcgggtgagg caggcttcag cttcagtctc ctactcgacg    300
              aggcaagcgg atcggagcgg gcctccgctc cgccatgatg agcttcaagg gccacgaggg    360
              gtttggccag gtggccgccg ccggtgccgg gagccaggct gcctcccatg gtggagcagg    420
              cccgctgcca tggtgggcgg ggccccagct gctgttcggc gagccggcgc ccccgtcacc    480
              ggaggagacg cgccgggacg cccagttcca ggtcgtgccg ggggttcagg gcacgccgga    540
              tccagcgccg cccaagacag ggacacctga ggtcctcaaa ttctctgtct ttcaagggaa    600
              tttggagtcg ggtggtaaag gagagaaaac cccaaagaac tctaccacta ttgctcttca    660
              gtcaccgttc ccagaataca atggccgttt cgagattggt cttggtcaat ctatgctggc    720
              cccttccaat tatccttgtg ctgaccagtg ctatggcatg cttgcggctt atggaatgag    780
              atcgatgtct ggtgggagaa tgctgttgcc actaaatgcg acagctgatg cacccatcta    840
              tgtgaatccg aagcagtacg aaggcatcct ccgccgtcgc cgtgctcgcg ccaaggcgga    900
              gagcgagaac aggctcgcca aaggcagaaa gccctatctc cacgagtcgc gccacctcca    960
              cgcgatgcgt cgggtaagag gcaccggcgg gcgcttcctc aacacgaaga aaggagggcg   1020
              cggcacgggc gttgctgcaa acgggggcag caagatggcg gcggcggcgg caccatcccg   1080
              tctcgccatg ccccctagcg ctgagcctcc atggctgtca gggttcagcg acggcagcaa   1140
              cccgtgctgc cactcccgga gtagtgtctc cagcttgtcc gggtcctacg tggcgagcat   1200
              ctacggtggc ttggagcagc acctccgggc gccgcccttt ttcaccccgc tgccgcccgt   1260
              catggacggc gaccacggcg gccccacggc cgccaccatc tcctccttca agtgggcggc   1320
              cagcgacggc tgctgcgagc tcctcagggc gtgaaccgag gagggagggg atggctattc   1380
              agacgaacgg ccttctcccc gatggctggt tgtctgtagg caaatcattt ttggctgttt   1440
              tgcattgggg tgcgacctac acatcatccg cctaccgtac ctaccccacc cgtgtccctg   1500
                                                   1096

<removed-date>
              aaattccagg gtgcttgggt tacttacagg ggtcttgtgt ggtgatgtgg ctcccccata   1560
              tgcatttgct gtaacatagc gtacccaaac cactgttgct tggtacttct cgctatcact   1620
              gcctcatcag tatggattct gcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagggcgg   1680
              ccgctctaga gtatccctcg aggggcccaa gcttacgcgt acc                     1723
              <210>   948
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1871
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 948
              attttatacg cgcctccccc gtcccgtctc gtcccctctc tctctctccc tctcgcgtct     60
              cgtcttggcc actcacccca cccgccccct ctctctttct ctctctctgc cacagtgcac    120
              tgctcagtcg gcagtcgcag cgctgcggct gtggttcttc ttgtcctgtt ccgccgcccg    180
              cccgcccgct gctactgctg ggatagtgaa acctggtgcc tggtggttcg gttaggtgct    240
              tccctcgtca acgtcagacg cccccacttc cgccagcaac aacaccagca gcagcacgat    300
              gatgagcttc aggagcagca gccacgaggg cttcggcttc ggccacgccg ccgccgcggc    360
              cagcggagcg ccgctgccgt ggtgggcagg gccggccccg atgctgagcg gcgagccgct    420
              ggccctgtcg ccggaggccc actgccggga cggccgcatc caggcccccc agggacctcc    480
              cgtgccgtcg gtcaaggctc ctgtactggc accccagcag ccgcctccgc tgccggagag    540
              ggggatccct gagctcctca acctctccgt ggatcctcaa ggtaaaggga agaaaggatc    600
              tgatcactct gccactattg ctttgcaatc accatttgca atatacaatg ctcattttga    660
              gctgggcctt ggtcaatcaa tgatttccgc tgataattct tatgctgatc aacactatgg    720
              cctgctttct ccttatccag tgggtgcaac gcctggaggt cgtctgctta taccactgaa    780
              taggccaaca gaagcaccaa tttatgtgaa cgctaagcaa tatgacgcca tcatgcgtcg    840
              gcgctgtgcc cgtgccaaag cagagaggga aaataggctg gtcaaaggca ggaagccata    900
              tctccatgag tcacgccatc agcatgcact gcgtcgcccg cgaggctctg gcggacgctt    960
              cctgaacaca aagaaagaat ccagcgggaa ggatgctggt ggtggcagca aggcaatgtt   1020
              cagcaacccc ctcatgcgcc aggtggcgtc tccaagctca gagatccagc agtcagacct   1080
              gggcaacccg agcagcgtgt ccagcctgtc gggttcagag gtgtcaagca tgtacgacca   1140
                                                   1097

<removed-date>
              tgaagacgcg ggtcactgcc acggcttgga tcaccccttc ttcacccggc tcccgagcat   1200
              catggacggc ggcgagcacg gggtcatcgt ctgcaacccc ttcaagtggg cagcggcctc   1260
              tgaagtctgc tgcgacctcc tgaaagcatg actagagggg ttaccggacg gccaaacgct   1320
              aggagctggt gactgctggc ggtttccagc tccgggtcag gggttgtccc tccctccgtt   1380
              tggctcccgg taggcaaatc attcttggct gaaggcaacg tgagcgttcc actcgtccca   1440
<removed-apn>
              cctatttctc ctggaaactc tggctcctag tttctgggat cttgtggtga gtgcaacatc   1500
              ccttgcctaa aaaaacaaaa aaaaatcact agttgattgt actatctacc aacttctaaa   1560
              tggtttcacc ttagctttct gaataataaa gcctgaaact tcggactcgt ctgaagtttc   1620
              agaggtactg gagttctgct atgtatggat tctgttaagc gtcaagacta aggttctgtt   1680
              ggtgatgaat tgtagtgtga ttggagcttg ggtggtcttg attcctactt tgtaatgtgc   1740
              tgaaagcttg tgctagagta atgtattgga actggagctt ggtttgtaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1800
              aaagctatcg atacgtcaac ctcagggggg gcccggacaa atttcgccat agggagcgaa   1860
              ttacccccct a                                                        1871
              <210>   949
              <211>   1529
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 949
              gaacaagttt gtacaaaaaa gcaggctggt accggtccgg aattcccggg atcgcgtcca     60
              cggcgacgac ctctgcgcag agcgtgctgc gattggccgg ccttcctggg atcctccccg    120
              cgcccgacac ccggaaacgc gcgcgcgcgc gagggagaga cagagtgagg aaacgaggga    180
              aggagacgac gcgctcgcct attggccgcc ggctccgctc cttcgcgccc agtgcgacgg    240
              ccacggcctg agcggcgctg ccagcaaggc ggctagtatg agcagcatgg agtcgcggcc    300
              gggccgaacg aacctggtgg agcccatagg gcacggcgcc gcgctgccgt ccggcggcca    360
              ggcagtgcag ccgtggtgga cgagctccgg ggctgtgctc ggtgcagtct cgccagccgt    420
              cgtggcggtg gcgcccggga gcgggacggg gattagcctg tcgagcagcc cggcaggtgg    480
              tagtggtggt ggcggcgcgg ctaaaggagc cgcgagtgac gagagcagcg aggattcacg    540
              gagatctggg gaaccaaaag atggaagcgc tattcaagaa aagaaccatg ccacatcgca    600
                                                   1098

<removed-date>
              gatacccgct ctggcgccag agtatttggc accatactcg cagctggaac tgaaccaatc    660
              aattgcttct gcagcatatc agtacccaga tccttactat gcaggcatgg ttgctcccta    720
              tggaagtcat gctgtggctc attttcagct acctggacta actcaatctc gaatgccatt    780
              acctcttgaa gtatccgagg agccggttta tgtaaatgcc aagcagtacc atggtatctt    840
              aagacgacgg cagtcccgtg ctaaggctga acttgagaaa aaggtggtca aagccagaaa    900
<removed-apn>
              gccatacctt cacgagtctc gtcatcagca cgcgatgagg agggcaagag gaaacggggg    960
              acgcttcctg aacacaaaga aaagtgacag tggtgctccc aatggcgaaa acgccgagca   1020
              tctccatgtc cctcccgact tactacagct acgacagaac gaggcttgaa gtagcggtat   1080
              ggttttggca tccttgaaca gcagttcctg tccccgggcg taggcattcg agaccggatt   1140
              catatagctc tccccagcat acgcgcagcc atttttgcgg taacgcacgt tttcctgaac   1200
              gagctttgta gcgagatagg tatgcaagtg caatctgggc gcaggaatcc atcatcaagt   1260
              gcccaatgcc catggggtgg gtacgctgtt tcaggcaatt catttttggc tttcacgttc   1320
              cccccttgtg taactggtgt gttgtaaatg tggggaaaac taagcttgtg ctttgtatcg   1380
              ggccgttcag cggaactgca aaacccctgt ataattaaga tcgaactttg gattaactcg   1440
              gtaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag ggcggccgct ctagagtatc   1500
              cctcgagggg ccccaagctt acgcgtacc                                     1529
              <210>   950
              <211>   582
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 950
              agaaagccat accttcacga gtctcgtcat cagcacgcga tgaggagggc aagaggaaac     60
              gggggacgct tcctgaacac aaagaaaagt gacagtggtg ctcccaatgg aggcgaaaac    120
              gccgagcatc tccatgtccc tcccgactta ctacagctac gacagaacga ggcttgaagt    180
              agcggtatgg ctctggcatc cttgaacagc agttcctgtc cacgggcgta ggcattcgag    240
              accggattca tatagctctc cacagcatac gcgcagccat ctctgcggta acgcacgttc    300
              tcctgaacga gctttgtagc gagataggta tgcaagtgca atctgggcgc aggaatccat    360
              catcaagtgc ccaatgccca tggggtaggt acgctgtttc aggcaattca ttcttggctt    420
                                                   1099

<removed-date>
              tcacgttcca cccttgtgta actggtgtgt tgtaaatgtg tggaaaacta agcttgtgct   480
              ctgtatcggg ccgttcagcg gaactgcaaa acgcctgtat aattaagatc gaactttgga   540
              ttaactcggt aatgctttgt ctggttttct tttagctttt ca                      582
              <210>   951
              <211>   766
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 951
              acccatatgc cgatccatac tacgggggcg cgggggcagc agcttatggc ccgcatgcta    60
              tcatgcaccc tcagctggtt ggcatggttc cgtcctctcg agtgccactg ccgatcgagc   120
              cagccgctga agagcccatc tatgtcaacg cgaagcagta ccacgctatt ctccggagga   180
              gacagctccg tgcaaagcta gaggcggaaa acaagctcgt gaaaagccgc aagccgtacc   240
              tccacgagtc tcggcacctg cacgcgatga agagagctcg gggaacaggc gggcggttcc   300
              tgaacacgaa gcagcagccg gagtcccccg gcagcggcgg ctcctcggac gcgcaacgcg   360
              tgcccgcgac cgcgagcggc ggcctgttca cgaagcatga gcacagcctg ccgcccggcg   420
              gtcgccacca ctatcacgcg agagggggcg gtgagtaggg agccccgaca ctggcaactc   480
              atccttggct tatcagcgat tcgactcggc tctccctcgt ctgaaactga actctctgca   540
              actactgtaa ctgtaactaa actgggtgtg cccggattgg cggtcgttct gttctactac   600
              tagtacctgc tacgcgtcgt tgggttgggt ctggactaga gagcgtgctg gttctttgat   660
              gaacttggct ggacttgagg gtgttgacta gcgcgaagct gagttccatg taaaactttt   720
              gcttcaagac cgatgactgg cggcataata agtagcagta ataacc                  766
              <210>   952
              <211>   1791
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 952
              atgggggtcg gcggcggcga cagctgggac gccatgctcg gcaatgccgc tgcggcgggg    60
              caggaccaga cgttcttgaa ctggatcatt ggggccgccg gcgacctgga tcagccaggg   120
              ccgccgcttc ccgtgcacca gcagccgctc cttgacaatg tgggcttcgg gttcccggca   180
                                                   1100

              gcggaccccc ttggtttcac gctcgatcca cacctctgcg gccttgcctg tgacatgtcg    240
<removed-date>
              tcccctggtg cggtgtcgca cactaccaac agtagcggcg gtggcaacaa ggcgtcctcg    300
              gccttcggcc tcttctcacc ggagtctgct tccctccagc cgccgccgcc cccggtgctg    360
              ttccacgaag gtatcgacac aaagccccct cttcttggtg cgcagctgcc cggcctcctc    420
              caccagtacc agcaccagcc gacccccggc acaaccttct tcatgcccat cccctccttc    480
              cccgacccca atcagcgctc gccactcatc caaccaccgc ccaaacgtcc tcaatccata    540
<removed-apn>
              ggggatgacc tctatctcgc ccgaaaccgg cttctgccgc cgccggcggg gcaaggtcat    600
              gcctttccac cattaaatgg cccttctccg ttccagctcc agccttcgcc accgctgtcc    660
              cacggggcga tgaagacaac ggctgcggag gcggcgcagc agcagttgct ggacgagctg    720
              gcggcggcgg caaaggccgc cgaagctggc aattccattg gcgcgcgaga gatattggcg    780
              cggctcaatc accagcttcc cttgctcggg aagccgttcc tccgctccgc ctcctacctc    840
              aaggaggccc tcctcctcgc gctcgccgaa ggccaccacg gcggctgcca cctcacgtcg    900
              cccctcgacg ttgccctcaa gctcgcggcg tacaagactt tctctgacca ctcgcccgtg    960
              ctccagttca ccaacttcac cgcgacacag gcacttatcg acgaaattgc ccgcagcaca   1020
              tcgtcctgca tccatgtcat cgattttgat cttggtgttg gaggccagtg ggcttctttc   1080
              ttgcaggagc tcgcacaccg ccgtggcgca ggcggtgcgg ctctgccgtc cgtgaagctc   1140
              actgcctttg tatcagctgc ttcccaccat ccactggagc tgcgtctcac gcgtgacaac   1200
              attgcacagt ttgctgcaga ccttgggatt ccctttcagt tcagtgctat cagcgctgat   1260
              acgatcaacc ctgcagagct cgtttctgcc accgctgatg aagttgtagc tgttgtcctc   1320
              ccggttggtt gctctgctcg tgcaccaccg ctgccagcga tccttcggtt ggtgaaacag   1380
              ctggctccta agattgtgat agccatagac catggcgctg atcgtgctga ccttcccttc   1440
              tcgcagcact tcttgaattg cttccagtcc tgcatgttcc tccttgattc gcttgatgct   1500
              gctggcattg atgctgattc tacctgcaag attgagaagt tcctgattca gccaagaatt   1560
              gaggatgcgg tgcttgggcg gggcaaggtg gacaagccaa ttgcatggag aagtgcattt   1620
              gcagctgctg ggttcgcacc tgttccaccc agcaatttgg cggaggcaca ggccgactgc   1680
              ctcctgaagc gggtgcaggt ccgcggtttc cacgtggaga aatgcggggt cgggctcaca   1740
              ctatactggc agtgtggcga gcttgtcact gtatcagcat ggcggtgctg a            1791
                                                   1101

<removed-date>
              <210>   953
              <211>   1916
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 953
              aagaaagaaa gggaaggcgg ggggaggccg gccaaggcac caccacacca ccacccgacg     60
              aattcaagca tgaggccgcc gccgccgccg gcggccacga ccatgcgttt ccacgacggt    120
<removed-apn>
              gccgacataa agcccccgct tctgggagtc ccgtcggcag gtctacttca tcaacaccag    180
              acgctgccgg cggcctcctt cttcatgccg ctcccctcct tccccgacca tcagcaccag    240
              ccacatctcc cgcccccgcc gaagcgccac cactctatgc ccgacaacct gttcctcctc    300
              caaaaccagc tccagccgcc gccgtcgcag ggtctaccat tcccgccact gcataccacc    360
              acgcccttcc agctccagcc accactgcaa ccgccgcggg gagcgatgaa aacaaccccg    420
              gcggcgcagc aacatcaaca gcttcaggat gagcttgcgg cagaggcaaa agcggctgag    480
              gtcggcaact ccatcagcgg gcgcgagata ttggtgcggc tcaatcagca gcttccccca    540
              atctggaagc ctttcctccg ctccgcttcc tacctcaagg aggccctcct cctcgcgctc    600
              accgacggcc accgaggctc cactcaccta tcctcccctc tcgacgtcgc cctcaagctc    660
              ggtgcataca agtccttctc cgacctctcg cctgtgctcc agttcgccaa tttcacgacc    720
              acccaggcgc tcctcgatga gatcacctca acaacttcat cttgtatcca cattattgat    780
              ttcgaccttg gtgttggcgg ccagtggact tccttcttgc aggatcttgc acactgccgt    840
              ggaactggga acgccccctg ccaatgttga agctcacagt cttcgtctca agtgcttccc    900
              acaatcccct tgagctgcat cttactcggg agaacctcac gcaatttgtt gtggaccttg    960
              gcattccatt tgagttcact aacatcaatc ttgatgtgtt tgatcccaca gaactcattg   1020
              ctcctagccc aatgaggttg tggttgtttg cctccctgtt ggttgctctg cacgcacgcc   1080
              accgctccct atgttgcttc agttggtgaa acagcttgcg cctaagattg ttgtggctat   1140
              tgaccatggc agttaccggg gtgacctccc attttcacaa cacttcatga attgcttcca   1200
              gtcttgtatg ttccttctcg actcacttga tgctgctggc accaacgtgg atgctgccag   1260
              taggattgag aggtttctga tccaaccgag agtagaggat gcagtacttg gccgatggaa   1320
              agctgaaaaa gcaatggctt ggtgggcagt gtttacatcg gccgggtttg ctccggtacc   1380
                                                   1102

<removed-date>
              gctcaacaac ctcgcagaag cacaagctga ctgcctgttg aagcgcgtgc aggtctgagg   1440
              attccatgtg gagaagtgtg gaatgggtct agcactctac tggcagagta gcgagctcgt   1500
              gtctgtctcg gtatggtggt cctgatcata cggactccat ccatcaacca tcatgacacc   1560
              tacaccaatt tgcaggcatg tttagccctg gtaatgtgca ttttgtcttg caatttcaaa   1620
              catcgcgaag aaaactattg tattggttgt tccacgcctc tgattgcttt gctgatgttg   1680
<removed-apn>
              gagtactgca taggcctaat gaatttagcc agtatggtgt gggaatctct acaatgtaac   1740
              atgttggtct cttaactctg ttcttgctct cttcttggtt agccagagga caatttggca   1800
              aatctgtggc aatgatgttg ttattttact aggtaattca gatgaaaact gaaatggact   1860
              gaaatggttg ggtatattaa ctttcttggc ttcatattcc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa       1916
              <210>   954
              <211>   2207
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 954
              atgggggtcg gcggcggcga cagctgggac gccatgctcg gcaatgccgc tgcggcgggg     60
              caggaccaga cgttcttgaa ctggatcatt ggggccgccg gcgacctgga tcagccaggg    120
              ccgccgcttc ccgtgcacca gcagccgctc cttgacaatg tgggcttcgg gttcccggca    180
              gcggaccccc ttggtttcac gctcgatcca cacctctgcg gccttgcctg tgacatgtcg    240
              tcccctggtg cggtgtcgca cactaccaac agtagcggcg gtggcaacaa ggcgtcctcg    300
              gccttcggcc tcttctcacc ggagtctgct tccctccagc cgccgccgcc cccggtgctg    360
              ttccacgaag gtatcgacac aaagccccct cttcttggtg cgcagctgcc cggcctcctc    420
              caccagtacc agcaccagcc gacccccggc acaaccttct tcatgcccat cccctccttc    480
              cccgacccca atcagcgctc gccactcatc caaccaccgc ccaaacgtcc tcaatccata    540
              ggggatgacc tctatctcgc ccgaaaccgg cttctgccgc cgccggcggg gcaaggtcat    600
              gcctttccac cattaaatgg cccttctccg ttccagctcc agccttcgcc accgctgtcc    660
              cacggggcga tgaagacaac ggctgcggag gcggcgcagc agcagttgct ggacgagctg    720
              gcggcggcgg caaaggccgc cgaagctggc aattccattg gcgcgcgaga gatattggcg    780
              cggctcaatc accagcttcc cttgctcggg aagccgttcc tccgctccgc ctcctacctc    840
                                                   1103

<removed-date>
              aaggaggccc tcctcctcgc gctcgccgaa ggccaccacg gcggctgcca cctcacgtcg    900
              cccctcgacg ttgccctcaa gctcgcggcg tacaagactt tctctgacca ctcgcccgtg    960
              ctccagttca ccaacttcac cgcgacacag gcacttatcg acgaaattgc ccgcagcaca   1020
              tcgtcctgca tccatgtcat cgattttgat cttggtgttg gaggccagtg ggcttctttc   1080
              ttgcaggagc tcgcacaccg ccgtggcgca ggcggtgcgg ctctgccgtc cgtgaagctc   1140
<removed-apn>
              actgcctttg tatcagctgc ttcccaccat ccactggagc tgcgtctcac gcgtgacaac   1200
              attgcacagt ttgctgcaga ccttgggatt ccctttcagt tcagtgctat cagcgctgat   1260
              acgatcaacc ctgcagagct cgtttctgcc accgctgatg aagttgtagc tgttgtcctc   1320
              ccggttggtt gctctgctcg tgcaccaccg ctgccagcga tccttcggtt ggtgaaacag   1380
              ctggctccta agattgtgat agccatagac catggcgctg atcgtgctga ccttcccttc   1440
              tcgcagcact tcttgaattg cttccagtcc tgcatgttcc tccttgattc gcttgatgct   1500
              gctggcattg atgctgattc tacctgcaag attgagaagt tcctgattca gccaagaatt   1560
              gaggatgcgg tgcttgggcg gggcaaggtg gacaagccaa ttgcatggag aagtgcattt   1620
              gcagctgctg ggttcgcacc tgttccaccc agcaatttgg cggaggcaca ggccgactgc   1680
              ctcctgaagc gggtgcaggt ccgcggtttc cacgtggaga aatgcggggt cgggctcaca   1740
              ctatactggc agtgtggcga gcttgtcact gtatcagcat ggcggtgctg atcagcgatc   1800
              cacgcctgtg cgcaccatgt tccaccaaca tttgctggca tcttcaaccc gagtaatgtg   1860
              tattttgtct tgcaattaaa tgctactaag gaaactgata tattgctgtt gaaccctcca   1920
              tgttcatcat ctttgcaact tacgagctag aactagtgga tttttagcaa tgttggtgcc   1980
              aatatctcta gtgtaatgat gttggcctaa gattttaccc tgcttgctct cagctcacta   2040
              gacattccca tgtcatttgg aacactgctt gtgaggagag gttataatta acctatcaaa   2100
              tgtctgtggt atagtaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2160
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa                 2207
              <210>   955
              <211>   2752
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1104

              <400> 955
<removed-date>
              gcacaccgct cctcctcgct gttctacgcc cacccgcaca agcaatcgtc gcatcgccac     60
              caccaccacc gagaagcagc cgcctcgcgc cccagatctc gccggcaggg gtcgcacgcc    120
              ctagcatgcg cgagtaagta catgagggcg gcgcccttca gtgccgacgg gaaaggggcg    180
              gggaccatag aggcgctgct ttggccgaac gggaagggcg gcggcggagg ggacctgctg    240
              ttggagccga cgtcggtgct ggactgtaga cggagcccga gcccgcggta ctcgtcatcg    300
<removed-apn>
              acgctgtctt cgtccctggg tggcgccgcg ggagactcct cttccggcgt ggcggcggtt    360
              tcggagaaca gcgccgccgc cgccgccgaa gccaccaaat gggcggcgcc aggcgagcac    420
              cgcggcggcg gcgaaggagg cggaggcgga ggaagcagga aggagtggtc cggcggtgag    480
              ctgccgccca taccggggac cctggacatc ggattcggcg cggaggaggg ctgggatgcc    540
              atgctcggcg acgccgcggc ggtggtcggg caggaccaga cattcctcaa ctggatcatg    600
              accgcgccgg gcgacatgga accgccggcg ctggcgctcc tcggtaatgc cgccggcttc    660
              gagttcccgg cctcggaccc gatcgggttc tccctgcagc atcaccccac cggcggcggc    720
              acctcggttg gggcgctggc ctccgaccta tcgtccccca gcgcgaggtc gctcaccagc    780
              agcagcggca gcagcagtaa ggccacttcc actttcggcc tcctacgaac cgaggcagtt    840
              tttcagccgc cgccgccggc cacgaccatg cctttccacg acggtgccga cataaagccc    900
              gctcaccttg gagtcccgtc ggcaagtcta ctcctcaatc aacaccaagc gttgtcagca    960
              gcctccttca tgccgctccc ctccttccct gaccatcagc accagccaca tctcccgccc   1020
              ccgccgaagc gccaccactc tatgcccgac aacctgttcc tcctccaaaa ccagctccag   1080
              ccgccgccgc cgccgtcgca gggtctacga ttcccgccac tgcataccac cgcgcccttc   1140
              cagctccagc caccactgca accgccgcgg ggagcgatga aaacaacccc ggcggcgcag   1200
              caacatcaac agctcctgga cgagcttgct gcggcggcaa tggcggctga ggtcggcaac   1260
              tccatcggcg cgcgagagat attggcgcgg ctcaatcagc agcttccccc aatcgggaag   1320
              cctttactcc gctccgcttc ctacctcagg gaggccctcc tcctcgcgct caccgacggc   1380
              caccaaggct ccactcgcct aacctccccg ctcgacgtcg ccctcaagct cggtgcatac   1440
              aagtctttct ccgacctctc gcctgtgctc cagttcgcca attttacggc cacacaggcg   1500
              cttcttgacg agatcgcctc aacaacttcg tcttgtatcc gcatcattga tttcgacctt   1560
                                                   1105

              ggtgttggcg gccagtgggc ttccttcttg caggagctcg cataccgccg tggaactggg   1620
<removed-date>
              aacggtcccc tgccaatgtt gaagctcaca gccttcgtgt caagtgcttc ccaccacccg   1680
              cttgagctgc atcttactcg ggagaacctg tcgcaatttg ctgtggacct tggcattcca   1740
              tttgagttca ctgccatcaa tctcgatgcg tttgatcccg cagagctcat tgctcctagc   1800
              gccgatgagg ttgtcgctgt ttgcctcccc gttggttgct ctgcacgcac gccaccgctc   1860
              ccgatgttgc ttcagttggt gaaacagctt gctcctaaga ttgttgtggc tattgaccac   1920
<removed-apn>
              ggcagtgacc ggggtgacct cccgttttcg cagcacttca tgaattgctt ccagtcctgt   1980
              atgttccttc tcgactcact cgatgctgct ggcaccaatg cggatgctgc cagtaagatc   2040
              gagaggtttc tgatccaacc gagagtagag gatgcagtgc ttggccgtcg gaaggctgaa   2100
              aaggcaatgg cttggcgggc agtttttaca tcggctgggt ttgctccagt gccactcagc   2160
              aaccttgcag aggcacaagc tgactgcctc ttgaagcggg tgcaggtccg aggattccat   2220
              gtggagaagt gtggaatggg tctagcactg tactggcagc ggggcgagct cgtgtctgtc   2280
              tcggcgtggc ggtgctgatc atagcaacct catccgtcaa ccatcgtcgt cgtcgcgcct   2340
              acactattcg caggcatgtt taactccggt aatatgcgtt ttatcttgca aacattgcaa   2400
              agaaactatt gtcatggttg ttccacgcct ctgattgctt tactgctgtt tttggagtat   2460
              tagctaggcc taatgaatgt tgcaatcttg gtgtgggtgt ccccctacaa tgtaacatgt   2520
              tggtactagg gtctcaacgc tgttcgtgct ctcttcttgg ttagccggag gctactttgg   2580
              cgtatttgtg gcaatggtgt tcgttatttt actaggtaaa tcagatgaag actgacatat   2640
              gaactgaaat ggttgggcat tttttttcaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag   2700
              ggcggccgct ctagagtatc cctcgagggg cccaagctta cgcgtaccca gc           2752
              <210>   956
              <211>   536
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 956
              cctgcaagaa agaagcccac tggcctccaa cgccaagatc aaaatcgatg acatggatac     60
              aggacgacgt gctgccacca atttcgtcaa gaagtgcctg cgttgcggtg aagttggtga    120
              actggagcac gagcgagtgg tcaaagaaag tcttgtacgc cgcgatgatg gcagccgccg    180
                                                   1106

              tgatggcctt cggcgagcgc gaggagggcc tccttgaggt aggaggcgga gcggaggaac    240
<removed-date>
              ggcttcccga gcgggggaag ctggtgattg agccgcgcca atatcgctcg cacgccaatg    300
              gaattgccag cttcagcggc ctttgccgcc gccgccagct cgtccagcaa ctgctgctgc   360
              gccgcctccg cagccgtcct cttcatcgcc ccgtggggca gtggcggcga aggctggagc   420
              tggaatggag caggaccatt tagtggtgga aaggcatgac cttgccccgt cggcggcggc   480
              ggcagaagcc gagttcgggc tggtggtgca cgggaagcgg cggtcctgac tgatcc       536
<removed-apn>
              <210>   957
              <211>   2623
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 957
              gcggaacggg gctgcggacc ccatcggagg cggaaagacg ctgttctggc cggaggggaa     60
              ggcgaagacg ctgttggagc cgtggtccgt gctggactgc acgcggagcc ccagcaactc    120
              aacgtcgacg ctgtcgtcgt ccctgggcag cggcgctgag gactcgaccg gcgtggcggt    180
              ggtttcggac agaagcgccg ccgccgaagc caccaaatgg ggagcccccg gcgagcacgg   240
              cggcggcggc gggaaggagg actgggccgg cggctgtgag ctgccgccga ttcccaccgg   300
              cctcgacatg ggggtcgtgg tcgccgacag ctgggacgcc atgctcggca acgccgctgc   360
              ggcggcgcag gaccagacgt tcttgaactg gttcattggg gccgccggcg acttggatca   420
              gtcaggaccg ccgcttcccg tgcaccacca gccgctcctc gacaatgtgg gcttcgggtt   480
              cccggcagcg gaccctctgg gtttcacgct cgatccccac ctcggcggcg ttgcctctga    540
              catgtcgtcc cctggtgcgg tgtcgcaaac taccaacagt ggcggcggtg gcaacaaggc    600
              gtcctcggcc ttcggcctct tatccccgga gtctgcttcc ttccattcgc cgccgcttcc   660
              ggtgctgttc catgaaggca tcgacacaaa gccccctctt gatacgcagt cgcccggcct   720
              cctccaccag taccagcacc agccgagccc cgccacaacc ttcctcatgt ccatcccctc   780
              cttccccagc tacaatcagc agtcgccact catccaacca ccgcccaaac gtcatcaatc   840
              cataggaggc gacctctatc tcgcccgaac tcggcttctg ccgccgccgc cgacggggca   900
              aggtcatgcc tttccaccac taaatggtcc tgctccattc cagctccagc cttcgccgcc   960
              actgccccac ggggcgatga agaggacggc tgcggaggcg gcgcagcagc agttgctgga   1020
                                                   1107

              cgagctggcg gcggcggcaa aggccgccga agctggcaat tccattggcg cgcgagagat   1080
<removed-date>
              attggcgcgg ctcaatcacc agcttccctt gctcgggaag ccgttcctcc gctccgcctc   1140
              ctacctcaag gaggccctcc tcctcgcgct cgccgaaggc caccacggcg gctgccacct   1200
              cacatcgccc ctcgacgttg ccctcaagct cgcggcgtac aagactttct ctgaccactc   1260
              gcccgtgctc cagttcacca acttcaccgc gacacaggca cttatcgacg aaattgcccg   1320
              cagcacatcg tcctgcatcc atgtcatcga ttttgatctt ggtgttggag gccagtgggc   1380
<removed-apn>
              ttctttcttg caggagctcg cacactgccg tggcgcaggc ggtgcggctc tgccgtccgt   1440
              gaagctcact gcctttgtat cagctgcttc ccaccatcca ctggagctgc gtctcacgcg   1500
              tgacaacatt gcacagtttg ctgcagacct tgggattccc tttgagttca gtgctatcag   1560
              cgctgatacg atcaaccctg cagagctcgt ttctgccacc gctgatgaag ttgtagctgt   1620
              tgtcctcccg gttggttgct ctgctcgtgc accaccgctg ccagcgatcc ttcggttggt   1680
              gaaacagctg gctcctaaga ttgtgatagc catagaccat ggcgctgatc gtgctgacct   1740
              tcccttctcg cagcacttct tgaattgctt ccagtcctgc atgttcctcc ttgattcgct   1800
              tgatgctgct ggcattgatg ctgattctac ctgcaagatt gagaagttcc tgattcagcc   1860
              aagaattgag gatgcggtgc ttgggcgggg caaggtggac aagccaattg catggagaag   1920
              tgcatttgca gctgctgggt tcgcacctgt tccacccagc aatttggcgg aggcacaggc   1980
              cgactgcctc ctgaagcggg tgcaggtccg cggtttccac gtggagaaat gcggggtcgg   2040
              gctcacacta tactggcagt gtggcgagct tgtcactgta tcagcatggc ggtgctgatc   2100
              agcgatccac gcctgtgcgc accatgttcc accaacattt gctggcatct tcaaccccag   2160
              taatgtgtat tttgtcttgc aattaaatgc tgctaaggaa actgatatat tgctgttgaa   2220
              ccctccatgt tcatcatctt tgcaacttac gagctagaac tagcggattt ttagcaatgt   2280
              tggtgccaat gtctctagtg taatgatgtt ggtctaggtt tttaccctgc ttgctctcgg   2340
              gtcactagac attctcatgt gacttgaaac actgcttgtg aggagagggt ataattaacc   2400
              tatcaaatgt ctgtggtaca gtattaatac gtgtttcatg ttcttttata tcagttattg   2460
              ttcttatggt ttttcattgt gcagttcaat tgttttgggt caaacatcaa tatgttttgt   2520
              tcccttaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc   2580
              ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc taagcttacg cgt                     2623
                                                   1108

<removed-date>
              <210>   958
              <211>   2010
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 958
              gcacgagacc attacctaga acatcctaat caaaaaaata ccaacagcaa caccatgacc     60
              tccgaatccg atcccccaca cgcccacacc accttggtgg tgggtcttgg ttcatgctgc    120
<removed-apn>
              ccactccggc actcctcttc tcatgacaag cgcgctgccg cacatgtctg agctcccgga    180
              cggcggcgcc ggcggaaatg gccaagacga agccgccgcc ttcgcctcgc cggccaagcg    240
              cctccgtagg tcgccggcgc tcgagcccac ctccgtgctc tacaaccgca gcccgagccc    300
              gcccacatcc tcctccctgg tctcctccgc cgcgcccgag ccgcccccca tcagcgccga    360
              ggattgggag gccgtcctct ccggcggcga catggccgcg ccaccagccg ccgcgcggtc    420
              tcaagacgcc tctttcctcc gctggatcat ggacgccgac gcccaagtcg acgccttcga    480
              tcccttcctg ccttgccaag agaccgccgt cgtcgagccc ttcttgcagc cgcagctccc    540
              gctccccgtg gccgacgacc tcgagccagg ggcgacggtt gacgagctcc tcgaggcggt    600
              gcgccgcgcc gacgccgggg actccactgg cgcgcgcgag atattggcgc ggctcaatca    660
              ccggctcccc tcaccgccgg ggcacccgca ccctccactc ctccgcgccg cggctcacct    720
              ccgggacgcg ctcctgcgcg tcctcgtcac gtccgcgccc gcacccgccg ccgtctcgac    780
              gaccccgctc gacgtcgcgc tcaaggtagc cgcgcacagg gccctggcgg acgcgtcacc    840
              gaccgtccag ttcgccaact tcacgtccac gcaggcgctc ctcgacgcgc tcggcaccgc    900
              gcgccgcgtg cacgtcgtcg acttggacgt cggcttcggc ggccggtggg cgccgctcat    960
              gcaggagctc gcgctccagt ggcgccgagc acccgtctcg ccgctgccgc cgccgtgctt   1020
              gaaggtgacg gccttggtct cgccagggtc atcagcgcac cccttggagc tccacctcac   1080
              gcaccagggc ctgacgcgct tcgccgccga cctcggcatc tcgttcgagt tcaacgccgt   1140
              cgcgttcgac cccttggacc cgttgccccc cacggggctg tccgtcgcgc ccggcgatgc   1200
              cgtcgccgtt cacctctccg tcggctccgg ggtcccgtcg gcagctactc tccgcgtcgt   1260
              gaagcagctc cgccctgccg tcgtggtgtg cgtcgaccac ggatgccacc gcggcgacct   1320
              gccgctgtcg caccacgcgc tgagcgtcgt gcgctccagc gcggcgttcc tcgagtcgct   1380
                                                   1109

<removed-date>
              ggacgcggcc ggggcgccgg cggacgcggt ggcgaggctg gaggagtacg tcgtgcgtcc   1440
              cagggtggag cgcctgttgc taggcgacag gatgcctcca tggcggacca tgcttgactc   1500
              cgccggattc gcgccggtgc agctcagcaa cgccgccgag gcacaggccg aatgcctcgt   1560
              caggcgcacg cccacgccgg gcttccatgt ggagaagcgg caggcggcgc tcgcgttgcg   1620
              gtggcaggac tcggagctgg tgatggtgtc ggcgtggcgg tgctgaatcg gggcactggg   1680
<removed-apn>
              acagttcctg taaagattga acctttttct gttctcatgt gcagtaaaat tagctagtaa   1740
              cttgttgtca agctgtttat tttacaattt tagttgcgat gatgtagcaa ttgggagcat   1800
              gtgaattttc atcatctgtg atatgacagt tctgaggaac gattggaagc cacagatctg   1860
              cagctaatag ccccatttgc catgcccata ttcctgcagt tagttgctag gtccattaat   1920
              tgttagcatt agttgggcat gcatgtggtc cataatctac atttcagatc cattcagagc   1980
              tggtacaaac aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                                    2010
              <210>   959
              <211>   2256
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 959
              atggggatga tccgcaagat taatctaatg ggtgtgcccc tgcaggtcga agatattctc     60
              tttaatattg acaagaaaaa gcaaagaaag agaggatgct tcgcatgtgg ggagaagggc    120
              cacttcaggg acaactgtcc aactatgacc gaacctaaaa aggaaaggag caaaggcaag    180
              gcgctaacaa gtgtaaagac ttgggatgat tctttaagtg aagatgaacc tccaaggacg    240
              cgcagccacc ggtcctcatc acgctcatca tggtcatcac gcaaatgcct tatggcaaga    300
              ggtaaaatga gcattccatc ctctagtgat gaaagtagta gtgatgatga agacgacgac    360
              acatcgaggg atgcccctcg ccggagccgc gacggccgcg aacctgccac gactcgcccc    420
              ctacgcccaa gtaccagccc gcccaccacg ctgtcttcgc cactcggcat cgccgacgtg    480
              gcggccctcg ccgacgccga cgccgacgcc aagagcgtct ccccgcccgc atggccggac    540
              gacgacgacg acgacgtcgc cgggagggac gactgggtcc accatctccc gccccttgac    600
              atgcacatgc cgccgctcgg cctcggcgcc gcagaggcct gggagcccca cgcgcaacct    660
              ccgggtccgg gcggcctcac cctctcgcac gcccagcaga cccacgacag caccttcctc    720
                                                   1110

<removed-date>
              ggctggttta ttgccgacga cgtcgccatg tcgggcgtca tggacgacca caactcccac    780
              tcggtacttc atgacctcga ccacataccc tcttcctccg tgccgccgcc gcagttccag    840
              cctctcgcgc cccacgtgca ctacccgccc aagctgcacc accaccaaaa ccccgtggtg    900
              cccgcgtcgc ctcccaagca cacgctcctg aaacccaagc cggaggcgcc ggggaccgac    960
              gacgcttcca cggcggtgga ccagctcgcc gaggccgcca agcttgccga agccggagac   1020
<removed-apn>
              gttttcggcg cccgcgagat actggcgcgg ctcaactacc tgctcccgcc cggcgccgcg   1080
              acggcgacgc cactgctccg ctccgccttc tacttcaagg aggctctgcg cgctgccctg   1140
              tccaccaccg cctccgcaac cgccgccgcc gccgccgcgc cggtggacgt gctcctaaag   1200
              ctcggtgcct acaaggactt ctccgagctc tgccccgtgc tccagttcgc gcacttcacc   1260
              tgcgtccagg ccatgctcga cgagctgggt ggcgctgcct gcatccacgt gctggacttg   1320
              gacatcggcg tcggcgagca gtgggcgtcg ctcatgcagg agctggccag ccgccgcccg   1380
              ggcgccgcgc tcaaggtcac cgcattggtg tccgcggcgt cgcaccaccc gctggagctg   1440
              cagctcgtcc acgagaacct gtccaacttc gcggccgaga cgcgcgtccc gttccagctg   1500
              gccttcttca acctcgacgc catggacccc gcggagctgc tcgctaccgc cgccggcgac   1560
              gccgtcgccg tccacctccc ggccggctcc gtgcacgccc ccgcggtgcc gtccgtcctt   1620
              cacctcgtca ggcggcttgg cgccaagctt gtcgtctccg tggaccgcag ctgtgaccgc   1680
              ggcgagctgc ccttcgccgc gcacttccag tcctgcgtgt tcctgctcga gtccctggac   1740
              gccgtcggca cgggccccga catcaccgcc aagatcgagc gcttcttgat ccagccgagg   1800
              atcgagaggt gcctggcgga gaggtaccgc gccgcggcgg cgggcgacaa gacgccgccc   1860
              tggcgggcaa tgctcgtgtc ggccggcttc gtgccggtgc aggcaagcag cttggcggag   1920
              gcgcaggcgg aggcgttgct caagaaggtg cccgtgcggg gcttccgcgt cgagaagcgc   1980
              gccggctcgc tcgtcctgca ttggcaacgc ggggagctgc tctccgtgtc cgcctggaga   2040
              tgctagcacc ttgctgctgc tcaatctgcc attgtttaag gatcctgata tatgtatctt   2100
              agatagaatc cacaagtctg ctcgtgcttt gtacaatcaa atgggggtta tatggtgtat   2160
              gaaatgttcc ctgcactcag gcattggatg cttgtttttt ctgtgaagtt catgatcatg   2220
              agattcagaa ctatgaatgg aaattaagtt cctctt                             2256
                                                   1111

<removed-date>
              <210>   960
              <211>   2326
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 960
              caccaacgac aggggctcgc cgccggcaaa ctctcaggcg ccggcgacct ctgggagccc     60
              acctcggtgc ttgaccgccg acacagcccc agcccgagcc cgccgacctc ggttcccacg    120
<removed-apn>
              ctgtcgtcgc ccctgggcgc cgcgaccgcc ggtgtggcgg ccctcgccgg tgctaacgcc    180
              aagaacgtct ccccgccgcc ggtggcggcg gcggcggcat ggccaggggg aggaggggcg    240
              gaggaggccg tggcgggggg caaggaggag tggcagctca caccgcttga catgggcctt    300
              ggcgccggcg aggggtggga cgcggccgac cccgcggcgc cgccggggct cgcccccaac    360
              cacaccttcc tcaggtggat catcggcggc gaggacgcgt ctgcggccat ggggtctgtc    420
              atggacccgc cggtccttga gctggaccac gcgccgtcca tgatgtcgcc ggcgtttggg    480
              tccaccatgc cgttcgcgcc ggccatggag gacgccaagc cggtgccctt cggccacacg    540
              cccaacttcc tgctccacca ctgccaccag caccaccccc agccgcacgc cgccttcttc    600
              ggctcgcacc cgtccctgga cgcggcgccg cagccgaagc gaccacaccc gatggccggg    660
              gcgccggcgc cgaagctgcc gtctttccct gggcctgtcg cccaggcggg cggcgggttc    720
              gtgtcggcct tgaagcccaa ggcggaggcg ggtaacgacg aggcggccgc tgcggtggac    780
              cagcttgccg aggcggccag acttgccgag gccggcgacg ccttcggcgc ccgcgagata    840
              ttggcgcggc tcaattatcg gctccccgcc gtgcccacgg ccgggacgcc gctgctccgc    900
              tcggccttct acttcaagga ggccctgcgc gttgcgctct ccccgaccgg cgaggccctt    960
              gcgcccccgg cggtgtcgac gccgtacgac gtggtcctga agctcggcgc gtacaaggcc   1020
              ttctccgagg tgtcccccgt gctccagttc gcgcacctga cctgcgtgca ggcggtgctg   1080
              gacgagctcg gggccgccgg gcgcatccac gtgctggacc tggacatcgg catgggcgag   1140
              cagtgggcgt cgctgatgca ggagctggcg cagcgcagcc ccgcggcgac gctcaaggtg   1200
              accgcattgg tgtcgccggc gtcgcaccac ccgctggagc tgaacctcat ccacgagaac   1260
              ctgtcgggct tcgcccgcga gctcggcgtg ttcctccagt tcgcggcgta caacgtggac   1320
              gccctggacc ccgcggagct ggtggccatc accagcggcg acgccgtggc cgtccacctc   1380
                                                   1112

              cccgtggggt cggcccacgt ggccgcaatg ccggccgtgc tccgcctcgt gaagcggctc   1440
<removed-date>
              ggcgccaagg tggtggtgtc cgtggaccgc ggctgcgacc gcacggagct gtcgttcagc   1500
              acgcacctgt tacaggcgtt ccagtcctgc gtgtccctgc tggactccat cgacgccgtg   1560
              gggggcgcgg acgccgaggc ggtcggcagg atcgagcgct tcatggtcca gcccgacgtg   1620
              gagcggcgcg tagtgtcgcg ccaccgcgcg gcagtggccg tggacaagcc gccgccgctg   1680
              ccgtggcgga ccgtgctcgc gtcggcgggg ttcgtgccgg tgcaggccag cacgttcgcc   1740
<removed-apn>
              gagtcgcagg ccgaggccct actcaagcgg atggcgctga tggggttccg cgtcgagaag   1800
              cgcggcggcg cgctctgcct ctactggcag cgcggcgagc tggtctccgt gtcggcgtgg   1860
              cggtgctgac cgccgggagt acgccgccgc cgccgcaacc aagagccagc cgtgaatcta   1920
              ccacaagccc gggttagcta ggactaatga tcctactact gcaagcaaaa aaatattttc   1980
              caccgtcgtc gtttgtaacg atctcatctg gtctggtctc gtctgtctgc ttattagtgt   2040
              gtcctacccg attaatcgtg gagtacgtcg tccgttgcct ggctttgcag cctcggtggg   2100
              ctctgctcat gttgatttgc ggagcgcgcc gtggtttgca ggttgtaaaa cgtaggcgtg   2160
              gtgcagtgca gtgaccagcg catcctaccg cccgtcgtgt tgctactctt ttttttccat   2220
              tgctgtgaaa tcaattaatg gttatggcgt ttgaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2280
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa                  2326
              <210>   961
              <211>   1695
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 961
              atggaagtga ctatggacga cgtggccggg gatctcgagt tctctggctg cagctccacg     60
              accacctcgc cgtcgtcgcc atcgctggac gacggcatgg ggatgtacgc gtggaatgct    120
              ctgtccccgg tgaccgactg gggctcgctc tgtcctgacg acggcgccca ggatctgcac    180
              ggcctcatcg agtccatgct ctacgacgac acgctcctcg gctcggccga cctcaacccg    240
              gccatgttcc cggacgacgt gtactgctgc tccaatggct ccgccccgag cagcaccacc    300
              acgacgaacc ccggcacgcc cgtgaacgac ggcgacgcgc agaagggcga ctgccacgag    360
              aagggcctgc gcctgctgca cttgctcatg gcggcggccg aggcgctctc cggcccgcaa    420
                                                   1113

              aagagccggg agctggcccg ggtgatattg gttcggctca agcagatggt ctcccacatc    480
<removed-date>
              ggcgacaacg ccgccgtctc caacatggag cgcctcgcta cgcacttcac agacgcgctg    540
              caggggctgc tcgacggctc gcaccccgtc gggggagccg gcaagcaggc cgccgcggcc    600
              gcgtcccacg gccaccagca gcacaccggc gacgtgctga cggcattcca gatgctgcag    660
              gacatgtcgc cttacatgaa attcggccac ttcaccgcga accaggccat cctggaggcg    720
              gtggcgggcg agcggcgcgt gcacgtcgtc gactacgaca tcgccgaggg cgtccagtgg    780
<removed-apn>
              gcgtcgctga tgcaggccat gacctcgcgc cccgacggcg tgccgccgcc gcacctgcgc    840
              ataaccgccg tctcccgagg aggcggtggc agcgcccggg cggtgcagga ggccggccgt    900
              cgcctggccg ccttcgcggc gtccgtcggg cagcccttct cgttcgggca gtgccgtctc    960
              gattcagacg agcggttccg tccggcgacg gtccggatgg tcaaggggga gaccctcgtc   1020
              gccaactgtg tgctcaacca agccgccgcg acaaccaccg tcaggcgtcc caccggctcg   1080
              gtggcgtctt tcttggctgg catggccacg ctcggggcca aggtcgtgac ggtggttgag   1140
              gaggatcaag ggcacgcgga gaaggacgac gagggggcgg gcggcttcgt ggcgcggttc   1200
              atggaggagc tgcaccggta ctcggcggtg tgggactcgc tggaggccgg gttccctacg   1260
              cagagtcgtg ttcgcggcct agtggagcgg gccatcctcg ccccaaacat cgcaggcgcc   1320
              gtgagccgag cgtaccgcgc cgtggacggc gatggcgagg cgagggccgg gtggggggag   1380
              tggatgcgcg gcaacgggtt cagggcagtg ccgttgagct gcttcaacca cagccaggcc   1440
              aggctgctgc tcggtctgtt caacgacggg tacacgatgg aggagacgtc gccgaacaag   1500
              atcgtgctcg gctggaaggc gcggaggctg ctgtcggcgt cagtgtgggc gccgcctccg   1560
              gtgtcggtgc cgtcgtcgcc gacggagggg gcgttccagc ccgtggggat gtcgccggac   1620
              agcggtggcg tgggccgcgt ggacttcgac tacattgatt cgttcttcgt cgagcccgct   1680
              tatgcactag tttaa                                                    1695
              <210>   962
              <211>   1007
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 962
              atgccgttcg cgccgaccat ggaggacgcc aagccgccga agcgacccca cccgatggcc     60
                                                   1114

              ggcgcgccaa cgccgaagct gccgtctttc cctgggcctg tcgcccaggc gggtggcggg    120
<removed-date>
              ttcgcgtccg ccttgaagcc caaggcgaag gcgggtaacg acgaggcggc cgctgcggtg   180
              gaccagcttg ccgagggccc gaggccggcg acgccttcgg cgcccgcgag atattggcgc   240
              ggctcaatta tcggctcccc gccatcccca tggccgggac gccactgctc cgctcagcct   300
              tctacttcaa ggaggccctg cgcgttgcgc tctccccgac cggcgaggcc ctggcgcccc   360
              cgcgcggtgt tgacgtcgta cgacgtggtc ctgaagctcg gcgcgtacaa ggtcttctcc   420
<removed-apn>
              gaggtgtccc ccatgctcca gttcgcgcac cccacctgcg tgcaggcggt gctggacgag   480
              ctcgacgtgt tcctccagtt cgcggcgtac aacgaggacg ccctggacgc cgcggagctg    540
              gtggccatca ccagcggcga cgccgtggcc gtacacctcc ccgtggggtc ggcccacgtg    600
              gccgcaatgc cggccgtgct ccgcctcgtg aagcggctcg gcgccaaggt ggtggtgttc   660
              gtggaccgcg gctgcgacag cacggagctg ccgttcgcca cgcacctgtt acaggcgttc   720
              cagtcctgcg tgtccctgct gcgtgtccct gctggactcc gtcgacgccg tgggggggga   780
              gcgaacgccg aggcggtcgg caagatcgag cggttgatgg acaagccgcc accgctgccg   840
              tggcggacca tgctcgcgtc ggcggggttc gtgctggtgc aggccagcac gttcgccgag   900
              tcgcaggccg aggccctact caagcggata gcgctgatgg agttccgcgt ggagaagcgc   960
              ggcgagctgg tctccatgtc gggcgtggca gtgctgaccg tcggagg                 1007
              <210>   963
              <211>   2444
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 963
              atgccaccgc caccgcctcc gcctcctctc actccttatt gccgccgctg ccctccccca     60
              cacctccctc cgcctcctcc ttcttcccca aaccacttcc tcctccacta cctccatcag   120
              ctagaccacc aagaagccgc cgccgccgcc atggtccgca agcgccccgc gtccgacatg   180
              gacctcccgc cgccgcgccg ccacgtcacg ggcgacctct ccgacgtcac ggcggccgct   240
              gccgccggtg ttggtggtag tggcgcgccg tcctccgcca gcgcgcagct gcccgcgctg   300
              cccacccagc tccaccagct gccccccgcg ttccagcacc acgcgccgga ggtggacgtg   360
              cccgcgcacc cggccccggc cgcccacgcg caggcgggcg gcgaggcaac cgcgtccacg    420
                                                   1115

              accgcgtggg tggacggcat catccgcgac atcatcggga gcagcggcgg cgccgcggtc    480
<removed-date>
              tccatcacgc agctcatcca caacgtccgc gagatcatcc acccctgcaa ccccggcctc    540
              gcgtcgctcc tggagctccg cctccgctcc ctcctcgcag ccgacccggc cccactgccg    600
              ccgccgccgc agccgcagca gcatgctctc ctgcacggcg ctccggccgc cgctcccgcg    660
              gggctgacgc tccctccccc gccaccgctt ccggacaagc gccgccacga gcatccaccg    720
              ccgtgccagc agcaacagca ggaggaaccg catccggcgc cgcagtcgcc caaggccccg    780
<removed-apn>
              accgcggaag agaccgcagc ggcggccgcc gccgcacaag cagcagctgc tgcggccgcc    840
              aaggagcgga aggaggagca gcggcggaag cagcgcgacg aggagggcct ccacctgctg    900
              acgctgctgc tgcagtgcgc cgaggccgtg aacgcggaca acctggacga cgcgcaccag    960
              acgctgctgg agatcgcgga gctagcgacg ccgttcggca cctcgacgca gcgcgtggcc   1020
              gcctacttcg cggaggccat gtcggcgcgg ctcgtcagct cctgcctggg cctgtacgcg   1080
              ccgctgccgc cgggctcccc cgccgcggcg cgcctccacg gccgcgtcgc cgccgcgttc   1140
              caggtgttca acggcatcag ccccttcgtc aagttctcgc acttcaccgc caaccaggcc   1200
              atccaggagg cgttcgagcg ggaggagcgc gtgcacatca tcgacctcga catcatgcag   1260
              gggctgcagt ggccggggct cttccacatc cttgcctccc gccccggggg cccgcccagg   1320
              gtgaggctca ccggcctcgg ggcgtccatg gaggcgctcg aggccacggg gaagcgcctc   1380
              tccgatttcg ccgacacgct cggcctgccc ttcgagttct gcgccgtcgc cgagaaggcc   1440
              ggcaatgttg acccggagaa gctaggggtc acgaggcggg aggccgtcgc cgtccactgg   1500
              ctgcaccact cgctctacga cgtcactggc tccgactcca acacgctctg gctcatccaa   1560
              aggctggccc ccaaggtggt gacaatggtg gagcaggacc tgagccactc gggctccttc   1620
              ctggcgcgct tcgtggaggc catccactac tactcggcgc tgttcgactc gctggacgcg   1680
              agctacggcg aggacagccc cgagcggcac gtcgtggagc agcagctgct gtcgcgggag   1740
              atccgcaacg tgctggccgt gggcgggccg gcccgcaccg gcgacgtcaa gttcggcagc   1800
              tggcgcgaga agctggcgca gtccgggttc cgcgccgcct cgctcgccgg cagcgccgcg   1860
              gcgcaggcgt ccctgctgct cggcatgttc ccctccgacg ggtacacgct ggtggaggag   1920
              aacggcgcgc tgaagctcgg gtggaaggac ctctgcctgc tcaccgcgtc ggcctggcgc   1980
              cccatccagg tgccgccgtg ccgttgatga gacctctgcc tgctcctgct tgcgttgaga   2040
                                                   1116

<removed-date>
              ggccgccact ccacttgttt tgcatctgta gctgctcggt ttggtcatca gctgggagat   2100
              aagaaaagcg gaaacgtact aattgctctg gagtagatcc atccattcac agtgatagtt   2160
              actgatgtac taagctttaa ttagttcaat gctagatcgt tcttgttcag gtgtcgatcg   2220
              ggtatccttg tccttggtct ccttttcatt ttggtgcttt gtctagtcgc tttcccggct   2280
              aatgccgtgc tcttcatgcg cgttgtagtg aagattcttg ccgagaatat tagcatagtg   2340
<removed-apn>
              tttcaggtaa agtagccgtg caagcaagta ttaatttgtg ggtgcgtgtc aatgacatcc   2400
              taaggccatg ttttgaacac cttttgcatc ctaatcctag aatc                    2444
              <210>   964
              <211>   1413
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 964
              atgcagctgg atctgaacgt ggccgaggcg ccgccgccgg tggagatgga ggcgagcgac     60
              tcggggtcgt cggtgctgaa cgcgtcggaa gcggcgtcgg cgggcggcgc gcccgcgccg    120
              gcggaggagg gatctagctc aacgccggcc gtgctggagt tcagcatcct catccggagc    180
              gatagcgacg cggccggcgc ggacgaggac gaggacgcca cgccatcgcc tcctcctcgc    240
              caccgccacc agcaccagca gcagctcgtg acccgcgagc tgttcccggc cggcgccggt    300
              ccgccggccc cgacgccgcg gcattgggcc gagctcggct tcttccgcgc cgacctgcag    360
              cagcaacagg cgccgggccc caggatcgtg ccgcacccac acgccgcgcc gccgccggcc    420
              aagaagagcc gccgcggccc gcgctcccgc agctcgcagt accgcggcgt caccttctac    480
              cgccgcacag gccgctggga gtcccacatc tgggattgcg gcaagcaggt gtacctaggt    540
              ggattcgaca ccgctcacgc cgctgcaagg gcgtacgacc gggcggcgat caagttccgc    600
              ggcgtcgacg ccgacatcaa cttcaacctc agcgactacg aggacgacat gaagcagatg    660
              gggagcctgt ccaaggagga gttcgtgcac gtcctgcgcc gtcagagcac cggcttctcg    720
              agaggcagct ccaggtacag aggcgtcacc ctgcacaagt gcggccgctg ggaggcgcgc    780
              atggggcagt tcctcggcaa gaagtacata taccttgggc tattcgacag cgaagtagag    840
              gctgcaagag cctacgacaa ggccgccatc aaatgcaatg gcagagaggc cgtgacgaac    900
              ttcgagccga gcacgtatca cggggagctg ccgactgaag ttgctgatgt cgatctgaac    960
                                                   1117

<removed-date>
              ctgagcatat ctcagccgag cccccaaaga gacaagaaca gctgcctagg tctgcagctc   1020
              caccacggac cattcgaggg ctccgaactg aagaaaacca agatcgacga tgctccctct   1080
              gagctaccgg gccgccctcg tcagctgtct cctctcgtgg ctgagcatcc gccggcctgg   1140
              cctgcgcagc cgcctcaccc cttcttcgtc ttcacaaacc atgagatgag tgcatcagga   1200
              gatctccaca ggaggcctgc aggggctgtt cccagctggg catggcaggt ggcagcagca   1260
<removed-apn>
              gctcctcctc ctgccgccct gccgtcgtcc gctgcagcat catcaggatt ctccaacacc   1320
              gccacgacag ctgccaccac cgccccatcg gcctcctccc tccggtactg cccgccgccg   1380
              ccgccgccgt cgagccatca ccatccccgc tga                                1413
              <210>   965
              <211>   2933
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 965
              ccgcttgtgc aagcgatgtc catttcatgc tcatctctct ctctgtctct cattggcagg     60
              gactgtggga aacaggtgta cttgggtgag ttcccgtcca atcgaaaaga actgagactc    120
              gaattacgta ctacactagc atcatttcat ggcatttaat caggtgtccg aattgctctt    180
              tttctaggtg gattcgacac ggcgcaggcc gctgcgaggt tcatagattt cttcttcctc    240
              gcgcgcatct gttccatctt ctcgtcttat cttatatatc tatatatcta tgaatctatc    300
              tgcagggcct acgaccaagc cgcgatcaag ttccgcggcg tgaacgcgga catcaacttc    360
              accctggacg actacaagga cgagatgaag aaggtgattc cccccctgtt gcaattgcga    420
              atcgaacgac caacaccggt agaagaagga gcccacacac accgccatga atggagtgtg    480
              aatagaacaa gttaagaaca taaaattagg ctggtacagg tatggtaatt cccgggatcc    540
              cctttctctc ttctatctat atattacccc cctcaggccg gccgggccgg gctccccacc    600
              ctccttcctc agctccgttg cgcaccgcca ccgccggccg gccagccgcc ggagcaccga    660
              aagacccccg ttctttcctg taaaaaaaaa cccgccgcct ttagctagct aaccggtcgt    720
              cctcttcacc ccctagcttt gctagctcta gctaggaacg aaagaaatta aaggataact    780
              gagattgctg attggtggtc cgggtacggt gttcttgagt cgtgaagcga cagtacagtg    840
              gctagggtcg tgccgcccct gcagtctccg gggttgcgtg caggatggtc gtcagggatc    900
                                                     1118

<removed-date>
              gggagtgagg aggcatcagc tctcgcggtc gtggagccta aatgtaccgc aacaacgact    960
              cggcactctc ctgcttctac ctcttcctcc tctggttctt cttcttgaag tagacaccac   1020
              cagttcgcca ggtagttagc agcccagttg cgactgggga tcggtggcgg gctgccgctt   1080
              gcgagttgta agcttggagg ggaggggagc aggagcagga gatgcagctg gatctgaacg   1140
              tggccgaggc gccgccgccg gtggagatgg aggcgagcga ctcggggtcg tcggtgctga   1200
<removed-apn>
              acgcgtcgga agcggcgtcg gcgggcggcg cgcccgcgcc ggcggaggag ggatctagct   1260
              caacgccggc cgtgctggag ttcagcatcc tcatccggag cgatagcgac gcggcccggc   1320
              gcggacgagg acgaggacgc cacgccatcg cctcctcctc gccaccgcca ccagcaccag   1380
              cagcagctcg tgacccgcga gctgttcccg gccggcgccg gtccgccggc cccgacgccg   1440
              cggcattggg ccgagctcgg cttcttccgc gccgacctgc agcagcaaca ggcgccgggc   1500
              cccaggatcg tgccgcaccc acacgccgcg ccgccgccgg ccaagaagag ccgccgcggc   1560
              ccgcgctccc gcagctcgca gtaccgcggc gtcaccttct accgccgcac aggccgctgg   1620
              gagtcccaca tctgggattg cggcaagcag gtgtacctag gtggattcga caccgctcac   1680
              gccgctgcaa gggcgtacga ccgggcggcg atcaagttcc gcggcgtcga cgccgacatc   1740
              aacttcaacc tcagcgacta cgaggacgac atgaagcaga tggggagcct gtccaaggag   1800
              gagttcgtgc acgtcctgcg ccgtcagagc accggcttct cgagaggcag ctccaggtac   1860
              agaggcgtca ccctgcacaa gtgcggccgc tgggaggcgc gcatggggca gttcctcggc   1920
              aagaagtaca tataccttgg gctattcgac agcgaagtag aggctgcaag agcctacgac   1980
              aaggccgcca tcaaatgcaa tggcagagag gccgtgacga acttcgagcc gagcacgtat   2040
              cacggggagc tgccgactga agttgctgat gtcgatctga acctgagcat atctcagccg   2100
              agcccccaaa gagacaagaa cagctgccta ggtctgcagc tccaccacgg accattcgag   2160
              ggctccgaac tgaagaaaac caagatcgac gatgctccct ctgagctacc gggccgccct   2220
              cgtcagctgt ctcctctcgt ggctgagcat ccgccggcct ggcctgcgca gccgcctcac   2280
              cccttcttcg tcttcacaaa ccatgagatg agtgcatcag gagatctcca caggaggcct   2340
              gcaggggctg ttcccagctg ggcatggcag gtggcagcag cagctcctcc tcctgccgcc   2400
              ctgccgtcgt ccgctgcagc atcatcagga ttctccaaca ccgccacgac agctgccacc   2460
                                                   1119

              accgccccat cggcctcctc cctccggtac tgcccgccgc cgccgccgcc gtcgagccat   2520
<removed-date>
              caccatcccc gctgagagaa tcaagaagcc gcactgtaaa tctgccggga agctagcatt   2580
              ttccccccgg cccctccccc tctccgggcg ttgcgacttt ttcagttttg cgccgccggc   2640
              cggggtggtg gtttcttgta gccgatcgat tggattcctc gtattactgc tgcttacact   2700
              cccaattaag tgcttgttcg gctattggct actctttccc ctaccccccc tgttagctga   2760
              tcgattggac gtacttgcta gctgctgttg ctgctgctag cttgagattg actaacttca   2820
<removed-apn>
              gcacttggat tgatttaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaagg gcggccatcc   2880
              cgggaattcc ggaccggtac cagcctgctt ttttgtacaa acttgttcta tag          2933
              <210>   966
              <211>   2125
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 966
              aattcggcac gaggatttct tccctggctg aaggcgtggg tctcgagagc tgcttaaaaa     60
              gctttgcaca aaaatggctt cgccggcgat accattcgcc cccctcacgt cccatcgcgc    120
              cgctcccttc gtcctggggt gtcctcctcc atggccaccg ccaccgccgc ctgccgctcg    180
              cccacggccg ccgccgccgc gccctgacgc tgctgctgct gctagactgc tagaggagga    240
              ggccggggca ggcagctcgc gagctcgatc gcctggcggg cccgagctgg agtcgatggt    300
              gctggatctc aatgccgagt cgccgacgcc cggctcggcc tcggccgcct cgagctccag    360
              cgtcgtagtg ggcgggggct tcttccggtt cgacctgctc ggagggacac ccgacgagga    420
              gggttgctcg ccctcgccac ccatcgtgac gcgccagctc ttccccttgc cgtacccgga    480
              cgctgcaggt agcaccgccg cctcgacggc gtcgaacggg tcgccgccgc cggaggtggc    540
              gggggcatgg gcgcgccgcc cagcggatct cggggcgccg gcgctggcac aggggaaggt    600
              ggtgtctgcg ccttcgtcgc ccgcggttgt gtctcctgcc gccgggaaga agagccggcg    660
              ggggcccagg tcgcggagct cgcaataccg gggcgtcacc ttctacagga ggaccggccg    720
              ctgggagtca cacatctggg actgcgggaa gcaggtctac ctgggtggat ttgatactgc    780
              gcacgccgca gcaagggcct atgatcgcgc tgccatcaag ttcagaggcc ttgacgccga    840
              catcaacttc cagttgaagg actatgaaga tgacttgaag cagatgagga attggactaa    900
                                                   1120

              ggaggagttt gttcacatac tccgacgtca aagcactggg tttgccaggg ggagctcaaa    960
<removed-date>
              gtaccgtggt gtgacactac acaagtgtgg tcggtgggaa gctcggatgg ggcagcttct   1020
              cggaaagaag tacatctacc ttggtctatt tgacagtgaa atcgaagcag caagagcgta   1080
              tgatagggca gccattcgct tcaatggacc ggatgctgtt acgaactttg attctgtttc   1140
              ctatgatgga gatgtcccac ttccacctgc agttgagaaa gatgtggttg atggagacat   1200
              ccttgatctg aatttgagga tttcacaacc taacgtgcat gatctcagaa gtgatggtac   1260
<removed-apn>
              cctgactggt tttggattaa gttgtaattc tcctgaagct tcaagctcca ttgtttctca   1320
              gccaatgggc ccccagtggc ctgtccatcc tcacagcaga tcgatgcggc cccagcatcc   1380
              acatctgtat gcatctcctt gtccaggctt ctttgtgaac ctcagggagg cgcctatgca   1440
              ggaagaggag aaccggtccg agccgggcgt gtccccagcc gttcccctcc tggtcctggg   1500
              catggcaaac gcagggctcc cgtgccccag ttctccctgc caccactgca gcatcatcag   1560
              gattctctac cgccgctgcc accggcgtgg acgcggccac agccggccac agcgtgccgc   1620
              cgccgtctgg tagcctccgg cagttctcgg gctaccacca gctccgcttc cccccaaccg   1680
              cctgacggag acagaccacc tcctgttgag ttggcggcgg cggcggcgtc tcatagctgg   1740
              ccggtggttg gctggctgcc catgcaacgc cacgccggtg ggtgcgggtc ggtattcggt   1800
              aacagtcgcc actgttgggt atggttttgt gggactacag aggatgcagt gatctctcgc   1860
              tgctgctgtg tgctgtctct ctcgctccct ctacccaccc acacctgttt gtaatatgaa   1920
              tttatcgccc tctcgcgctc gtgattcgtc catcttcgtt tcgttttgat ggccaccgga   1980
              tgggatcatg agcgtgttgc gagaaattgt gtaataaacc atgcgtattt ttatttatat   2040
              ttatttattg tgacgatggt aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg cggccgctct agagtatccc   2100
              tcgaggggcc caagcttacg cgtac                                         2125
              <210>   967
              <211>   2205
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 967
              ctctgcttgt gcttgtgcaa tgcagggatt gcggcaagca ggtctatttg ggcgggtttg     60
              acaccgctca tgcggcggct cgggcgtacg atcgggcggc gatcaagttc cgcggcgtgg    120
                                                   1121

              aggccgacat caatttcagt ctggaggatt accaggacga catgaagcag gtgatttata    180
<removed-date>
              ctcctatacg gagcatgtag cgagaaagat acatgtaatt ttttctttcc ttcgtctacc    240
              agcagatggg ccacctgagc aaggaggagt tcgttcacgt gctccggcgg cagagcacgg    300
              ggttcccccg gggcagctcc aagtacagag gcgtgacgct ccacaagtgc gggaggtggg    360
              aggcgcgcat gggccagttc ctcggcaaga agtacgtcta cttgggcctg ttcgacaccg    420
              aggaggaagc cgccaggtaa aataattgga ccgcactgtg tgcccgcgag gcgtttctcg    480
<removed-apn>
              gagcaccgcc acccccctct gggccgcgaa actgactgat ggatggatgc cccgtgtctg    540
              tgggattgtc gggtcgtgtg tgtgtgtgtg tgtgtgcagg gcgtacgacc gcgcggccat    600
              caagtgcaac ggcaaggacg cggtgacaaa cttcgatccc agcatttacg ccgaggagct    660
              cgagccggcg ggttcgtcta tcccccgccc gcgatctccg ccacgatcgc gccccctcgt    720
              cgctgtgcgg cgatttcgct acaggctaca gcctatacag gcaagctctg acggtccgct    780
              gtttcgccgt gcagcgtcga cgggcggcgg tggcgatgac cacaatcaca acctggacct    840
              gtcgctgggg agctcggcgg ggaacaaaag gggcagcctt gacgacggcg gcggcggagg    900
              aggcggcggc gacgacgaga cctcggacca gcgcgtcccc atggcgttcg acgtcgactg    960
              gcagacggcc gcgccccgga gcacgaaagc aaagctggac gcgagctcca agcaacccca   1020
              gacccagatg ctgcctcctc cgcctcctgc tgtcttgcga gtcgcccacc agctgccgtt   1080
              gccgttcggt cccaggcatc cgcaatcgca gttcctgagc aacggcggcg attcggggac   1140
              ctcgggaggc ctgtccctcg cgatcggcgg cgcgggcggc gggcactggc ctccccagct   1200
              gcagcacctg cagcagcaga ggctgcacgg cgcctgggcc aacggcggcg gcacgagctg   1260
              gccgcctccg ccgcacccgc acccgcaccc gcacccgccg ccaccgagca ccgccgcgac   1320
              cgcagctgca gcatcatcac gattccctcc ctacgttgtt actacgacgc aaggcccggc   1380
              aggctgggct cagaagaatg ggttccattc gctggccagg ccaacctagt atgccaagaa   1440
              ccacgactgg ccggagcgtt cattcgtcgt cgatcgtcga cccagggcaa acgacacctc   1500
              caaccactgc acgacgacgt tttaatttac cggatgccat tctctctctc ccctcccccc   1560
              ttcccttctc ccttctccct tctcccttct ctgtgttctt gattgggtga gacatggatc   1620
              cgaggatgga tggacggcct gtacctgagg agttcccggg aagaagacga gtgagtgagt   1680
              gagtgattgg tagggtaggc gactaggcgt cgcgtcaggc agtacgtcct tttggcgcct   1740
                                                   1122

<removed-date>
              tttttcttct ttcactcacc attggcgacc accaatgaat gatgacactg actggggtgt   1800
              caacatcgca gctggttttg tttggtctca tgttgcatca ctcgctgctc cacgatgcct   1860
              tgctatggtt ggggggagat ttgctccatc caccccacgc cggtcaggcg acagagcctc   1920
              cgctgcgtcg tctcatccgt ctggtgagtt gccactgtct tagaatctga gtggtacggt   1980
              acgtgtggat ctcgcgcgcg tgtaaaccta gtattatgta ctacaaactg tcatcatcgg   2040
<removed-apn>
              agatcactcg aataagatat cgatcttgag attacgggcg gcggctcctg tcatgtgctt   2100
              actacagcaa agctgataaa ctgtccgagt ctgaacagct catgtaatgg aacgccgcat   2160
              agatatttcc ttcttgttag gggtactttg gaaccccaat ttttt                   2205
              <210>   968
              <211>   2242
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 968
              acgacgcgga cgacgactcg gccgccgccg ccgcggaagc cgtcgtcacg cgccagttct     60
              tcccggcccc ggccgccgtc ggcgcggcgc ccgggcccgg ctcgtcgagc gcgcgcgcgg    120
              gctggcttcg cctggccgcc gcggctccac cgcccgcggc gggcggcagt aacggcgtcg    180
              cgcaaaccgg tggccccgcg gcggcggcgg cggcggctgg caagaagagc cggcgcgggc    240
              cgcggtcgcg cagctcgcag taccgcggcg tcacgttcta ccgccggacg gggcggtggg    300
              agtcgcacat atgggattgc ggcaagcagg tctatttggg taagtttcgt tcatgtccat    360
              gcatacacat ccgtacttgg gagagaggtg ggtgactgcc ccaatccgag gcgttttcgg    420
              ttctggatcc ctcacaaatg gcttggcttg tggacgactt gcaggcgggt ttgacaccgc    480
              tcatgcggcg gctcgggcgt acgatcgggc ggcgatcaag ttccgcggcg tggaggccga    540
              catcaatttc agtctggagg attaccagga cgacatgaag cagatgggcc acctgagcaa    600
              ggaggagttc gttcacgtgc tccggcggca gagcacgggg ttcccccggg gcagctccaa    660
              gtacagaggc gtgacgctcc acaagtgcgg gaggtgggag gcgcgcatgg gccagtgtca    720
              ctgcaggtac gtctacttgg gcctgttcga caccgaggag gaagccgcca ggtaaaataa    780
              ttggaccgca ctgtgtgccc gcgaggcgtt tctcggagca ccgccacccc cctctgggcc    840
              gcgaaactga ctgatggatg gatgccccgt gtctgtggga ttgtcgggtc gtgtgtgtgt    900
                                                   1123

<removed-date>
              gtgtgtgtgt gcagggcgta cgaccgcgcg gccatcaagt gcaacggcaa ggacgcggtg    960
              acaaacttcg atcctagcat ttacgcggag gagctcgagc cggcggcgtc gacgggcggc   1020
              ggtggcgacg accacaacct ggacctgtcg ctggggagct cggcggggaa caaaaggggc   1080
              agccttgacg acggcgtcgg cggcggcggc gaagacgaga cctcggacca gcgcgtcccc   1140
              atggcgttcg acgtcgactg gcagacggcc gcgccccgga gcacgaaagc aaagctggac   1200
<removed-apn>
              gcgagctcca agcaacccca gacccagatg ctgcctcctc cgcctcctgc tgtcttgcga   1260
              gtcgcccacc agctgccgtt gccgttcgga cccaggcatc cgcaatcgca gttcctgagc   1320
              aacggcgatc cggggacctc gggaggcctg tccctcgcga tcggcggcgc gggcggcggg   1380
              cactggcctc cccagctgca gcacctgcag cagcagaggc tgcacggcgc ctgggccaac   1440
              ggcggcggca cgagctggcc gcctccgccg cacccgcacc cgcacccgcc gccaccgagc   1500
              accgcagctg cagcatcatc acgattccct ccctacgttg ttactacgac gcaaggcccg   1560
              gcaggctggg ctcagaagaa tgggttccat tcgctggcca ggccaaccta gtaggccaag   1620
              aaccacgact ggccggggcg ttcattcgtc gtcgatcgtc gacccagggc aaacgacacc   1680
              tccaaccact gcacgacgac gttttaagtt accggatgcc attctctctc tccccctccc   1740
              ccttcccttc tcccttctcc cttctctgtg ttcttgattg ggtgagacat ggatccgagg   1800
              atggatggac ctgtacctga ggagttcccg ggaagaagac gagtgagtga gtgagtgatt   1860
              ggtagggtag gcaactaggc gtcgcgtcag gcagtacgtc cttttggcgc ctttttttct   1920
              tctttcactc accattggcg accaccaatg aatgatgaca ctgactgggg tgtcaacatc   1980
              gcagctggtt ttgtttggtc tcatgttgca tcactcgctg ctccacgatg ccttgctatg   2040
              gttgggtgag atttgctcca tccaccccac gccggtcagg cgacagagcc tccgctgcgt   2100
              cgtctcgtcc gtctggtgag ttgccactgt cttagaatct gagtggtacg gtacgtgtgg   2160
              atctcgcgcg cgtgtaaacc tagtattatg tactacaaac tgtcatcatc ggagatcact   2220
              cgaataagat atcgatcttg ag                                            2242
              <210>   969
              <211>   2246
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1124

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (26)..(26)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (28)..(28)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 969
              cccctccccc cttcccttct cccttntntg tgttcttgat tgggtgagac actctgcttg     60
              tgcttgtgca atgcagggat tgcggcaagc aggtctattt gggcgggttt gacaccgctc    120
              atgcggcggc tcgggcgtac gatcgggcgg cgatcaagtt ccgcggcgtg gaggccgaca    180
              tcaatttcag tctggaggat taccaggacg acatgaagca ggtgatttat actcctatac    240
              ggagcatgta gcgagaaaga tacatgtaat tttttctttc cttcgtctac cagcagatgg    300
              gccacctgag caaggaggag ttcgttcacg tgctccggcg gcagagcacg gggttccccc    360
              ggggcagctc caagtacaga ggcgtgacgc tccacaagtg cgggaggtgg gaggcgcgca    420
              tgggccagtt cctcggcaag aagtacgtct acttgggcct gttcgacacc gaggaggaag    480
              ccgccaggta aaataattgg accgcactgt gtgcccgcga ggcgtttctc ggagcaccgc    540
              cacccccctc tgggccgcga aactgactga tggatggatg ccccgtgtct gtgggattgt    600
              cgggtcgtgt gtgtgtgtgt gtgtgtgcag ggcgtacgac cgcgcggcca tcaagtgcaa    660
              cggcaaggac gcggtgacaa acttcgatcc cagcatttac gccgaggagc tcgagccggc    720
              gggttcgtct atcccccgcc cgcgatctcc gccacgatcg cgccccctcg tcgctgtgcg    780
              gcgatttcgc tacaggctac agcctataca ggcaagctct gacggtccgc tgtttcgccg    840
              tgcagcgtcg acgggcggcg gtggcgatga ccacaatcac aacctggacc tgtcgctggg    900
              gagctcggcg gggaacaaaa ggggcagcct tgacgacggc ggcggcggag gaggcggcgg    960
              cgacgacgag acctcggacc agcgcgtccc catggcgttc gacgtcgact ggcagacggc   1020
              cgcgccccgg agcacgaaag caaagctgga cgcgagctcc aagcaacccc agacccagat   1080
              gctgcctcct ccgcctcctg ctgtcttgcg agtcgcccac cagctgccgt tgccgttcgg   1140
              acccaggcat ccgcaatcgc agttcctgag caacggcgat ccggggacct cgggaggcct   1200
              gtccctcgcg atcggcggcg cgggcggcgg gcactggcct ccccagctgc agcacctgca   1260
                                                   1125

<removed-date>
              gcagcagagg ctgcacggcg cctgggccaa cggcggcggc acgagctggc cgcctccgcc   1320
              gcacccgcac ccgcacccgc cgccaccgag caccgcagct gcagcatcat cacgattccc   1380
              tccctacgtt gttactacga cgcaaggccc ggcaggctgg gctcagaaga atgggttcca   1440
              ttcgctggcc aggccaacct agtatgccaa gaaccacgac tggccggagc gttcattcgt   1500
              cgtcgatcgt cgacccaggg caaacgacac ctccaaccac tgcacgacga cgttttaatt   1560
<removed-apn>
              taccggatgc cattctctct ctcccctccc cccttccctt ctcccttctc ccttctctgt   1620
              gttcttgatt gggtgagaca tggatccgag gatggatgga cctgtacctg aggagttccc   1680
              gggaagaaga cgagtgagtg agtgagtgat tggtagggta ggcgactagg cgtcgcgtca   1740
              ggcagtacgt ccttttggcg ccttttttct tctttcactc accattggcg accaccaatg   1800
              aatgatgaca ctgactgggg tgtcaacatc gcagctggtt ttgtttggtc tcatgttgca   1860
              tcactcgctg ctccacgatg ccttgctatg gttgggggag atttgctcca tccaccccac   1920
              gccggtcagg cgacagagcc tccgctgcgt cgtctcgtcc gtctggtgag ttgccactgt   1980
              cttagaatct gagtggtacg gtacgtgtgg atctcgcgcg cgtgtaaacc tagtattatg   2040
              tactacaaac tgtcatcatc ggagatcact cgaataagat atcgatcttg agattacggg   2100
              cggcggctcc tgtcatgtgc ttactacagc aaagctgata aactgtccga gtctgaacag   2160
              ctcatgtaat ggaacgccgc atagatattt ccttcttgtt aggggtactt tggaacccca   2220
              attttttaag agatttttat ttttcc                                        2246
              <210>   970
              <211>   1351
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 970
              ggcaggccat gctctctctc tctctctctc ttcctcctcc tctccctctg ggtgtccccg     60
              tcccctgcct ctctctctct ctcacatccc catgctctct gcttgtgctt gtggcaatgc    120
              agggattgcg gcaagcaggt ctatctgggc ggatttgaca ccgcccatgc ggctgctcgg    180
              gcgtacgatc gagcggcgat caagttccgc ggcgtggagg ccgacatcaa tttcagcttg    240
              gaggattacc aagacgacat gaagcagaca aatgtgccac ctgagcaagg aggagttcgt    300
              tcacgtgctc cggcggcaga gcacggggtt cccccggggc agctccaagt acaggggcgt    360
                                                   1126

<removed-date>
              gacgctccac aagtgcgggc ggtgggaggc gcgcatggcc cagttcctcg gcaagaaata    420
              tgccggtacg tctacttggg cctgttcgac accgaggagg aagccgccag ggcgtacgac    480
              cgcgcggcca tcaagtgcaa cggcaaggac gcggtgacaa acttcgatcc cagcatttac    540
              cccgaggagg aggtcgcgcc ggcggcggcg acgggcggcg ccgccggcga cgagcacaac    600
              ctggacctgt cgctgggaag ctcggcgggg aacaaaaggg gcagccttga cggcggcggc    660
<removed-apn>
              ggcggcggcg gcgacgacaa gtcctcggac cagcgcgtcc ccatggcgtt cgacatcgac    720
              tggcagacgg ccgcacgtcg gagcaccaag gcaaagctcc tgagcaacgg cgatccgggg    780
              accgcggcgg gaggcctttc cctggcgatc ggcggcggag gcgggcactg gcctccgcag    840
              ctgcagcatc agcagcagca gcagaggctc cacggcgcca ggaacaacgg cggcggcacg    900
              agctggccgc cgccgcccgc ccccgtgccc gccgccagta ccggccgccg ccgcgaccgc    960
              agctgcagca tcatcacgat tccatcccta cgttgttacg agtacgacgc aaagcccggc   1020
              cggctgggtc cagaagaatg ggttccattc gctggccagg cccacgtaga ccaagaacca   1080
              ggactgggcg ttcgtccttc gatcgtattc cacggcgaag gtccatcatt tgacccaagg   1140
              gcaaacggct cgtcgatcca ccgatttaca ccccctcccc ctttctttcc cttttccatt   1200
              ctctgtgttc ttgattgggt gagacatgga tccgaggatg gatgggcctg ctgcccccct   1260
              gctgtaaatg aggagtttcc gggaagaaga cgagtgcttt ggtaggcgac taggcgtcgc   1320
              gtcaggcagt gcgtcctttt gccgcttttt a                                  1351
              <210>   971
              <211>   3098
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (303)..(303)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (305)..(306)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400>   971
                                                   1127

              atgcatcccg gcgcatagat agagagagag aagagagagc cccgactcga gagccaagaa     60
<removed-date>
              cgccgtgtgc tgtgtttgtg tgcatctatc tccgtacacg cacgctcgca cgcaccagct    120
              agcacgaccg ccatggccgc caccaggaga gcattcttcc acagcgccgt cgacggcatt    180
              gcgcgcgccg ggccggggga agccgagctg ctgccggcgc cgccgcaggt cgggcgaccg    240
              gtggaaggcg ccagcagcat ggtcttcggc ttccccgtgc cgcggcccac gatgccggac    300
              agncnnggcg gcgccgtcac caagcagttc tttccgccca ctactacggc ggcgcaccag    360
<removed-apn>
              gcgacaatgg aagagagaat ggcacgtgcc ccgccggtag gggggcggag caatggtgtt    420
              catcagttcg tcaggaaggt cctagaatga gagaacattc agtttattaa agagtgatgc    480
              atgcagaatt cggcacgagg tccttctcct attctatcta tatatcaccc gcctcttttt    540
              ccgccctcgc cacgacgcac cttccctctt cttcctcagc tccgtcgccc accgccggag    600
              ctccgaaagg ccccgcgctc gccgcctttc ctgtaaaaaa cccaaccttt agctagctaa    660
              ccgctcctct tctcccccta cgtactcccc ttgcccaaat cagagaagat atttaacgga    720
              ggaggggaag gagaggatat ttagctgatt gttgattggt ggtccggggt acggtgttct    780
              tgagtcgtga agcgaccgta cggtggctag ggccgtctcc gggttgcgtg caggatggtc    840
              gtcagagatc gggagtgagg aggcagctcg tggtcgtgga ggctaaatgt accgcaagaa    900
              cgactcggca ctctcctgtt tctacctctt cctcctctgg ttcttcttct tgaaatagac    960
              cagcgccagc caccaggtag ctacctacta gctagcagcc cagttgcgac tggggacggg   1020
              ctgctgcttg caagttggaa tcttggagca ggagcagagg agcgggagat ggagctggat   1080
              ctgaacgtgg ccgaggtggc gccggagaag ccatcggcgg cgctggaggc gagcgactcg   1140
              gggtcctcgg gctcgtcggt gctgaacgcg gaggcggcat cggcgggcgg cggggggccc   1200
              gcgccggggg aggaggggtc aagctcgacg ccggccgtgc tcgagttcag catcctcagg   1260
              agcgacagcg acgcggccgg cgcggacgcc gacgacggcg acgccacgcc gtcgccacct   1320
              cgccaccacc agcagcagct cgtcacccgg gagctcttcc cggcgccgca gcattgggcc   1380
              gagctcggct tcttccgcgc cggcccgcag cagcagccgg acatcagggt cctgccgcac   1440
              ccgcacccgc acccgccccc gccgccgccc gcgcagccgc agccggccaa gaagagccgc   1500
              cgcggcccgc gctcccgcag ctcgcagtac cgcggcgtca ccttctaccg ccgcaccggc   1560
              cgctgggagt cccacatctg ggattgcggg aagcaggtgt acttaggtgg attcgacact   1620
                                                   1128

<removed-date>
              gctcatgccg ctgcaagggc gtacgaccga gcggcgatca agttccgcgg cgtcgacgcc   1680
              gacataaact tcaacctcag cgactacgac gacgatatga agcagatgaa gagcctgtcc   1740
              aaggaggagt tcgttcacgc cctgcggcgg cagagcaccg gcttctcccg cggcagctcc   1800
              aagtacaggg gcgtcaccct gcacaagtgc ggccgctggg aggcgcgcat ggggcagttc   1860
              ctcggcaaga agtacatata tcttgggcta ttcgacagcg aagtagaggc tgcaagggcg   1920
<removed-apn>
              tacgacaagg ccgcgatcaa atgcaacggt agagaggccg tgacgaactt cgagcccagc   1980
              acgtacgacg gggagctgct gctgactgct gaagctagcg cagaagttgc tgacgacgtt   2040
              gatctgaact tgagcatctc gcaaccggca tcgtcccaga gccccaaaag agacaagaac   2100
              tgccttggtc cgcagctcca ccaccaccat gggcggccgt ttgacggctc cgccgttctg   2160
              aagaaaacca agatcgatgc tccgtctgag ctgtcgtcgg cgggccgccc tcaccggtcg   2220
              ttcctccctc atctcgtggc tgccgagcat ctaccgcctc ggtctcaccc cttcttcatc   2280
              acacaccatg agagtgatgc atcaagaaga gatcccagct gggcagcagc agcagcatgg   2340
              aaggtgaccg cagctgcacc tcctcctcct accaccaccc tgttgccgtt gccgctgccg   2400
              tcgacgtcgt ccgctgcagc atcatcagga ttctccaata ccgccacgac agctgccgcc   2460
              gccccatcgg ccgcctcctc ccgccggttc gacccgccgc caccgtcgtc gtcctcctcc   2520
              tcgagccatc accaccacca ccaccgccgc tgagaatcga agaagccaca ctgtaaatct   2580
              gccgggaagc ggctggtggc atccggcccg ctcctccctc cggggcgccg caactttttt   2640
              cgatcggttt tgcgccgccc gggacgggtt gtagttgatc gattggattc ttcataactg   2700
              tatttgcgta ctgcttacac tacccaagtg aaatcgaaaa tggcgccttc tctcgttgaa   2760
              taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa ctcgaggaaa actcgaaggg gcgggtctgg   2820
              cggggtggga aaaaggtctg agcagttttg agcgtccgga ggagctggag gatttcctgc   2880
              cctggaatag tcacttgggg tggccactag ttattatttt ctttccttcc ccctcgttga   2940
              ttctgctacc cattaatagc ttctgtatct agctacatgc atgatgctgc tctagcgctg   3000
              ttggacgttg atggcacggt gtacggatat gggacagggt tcgtgtgacc ccatgtccac   3060
              tgctaggcct gtttccaaat ggaaaataaa aaaaaaaa                           3098
              <210>   972
                                                   1129

              <211>   1821
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 972
              actcggggtc gtcggtgctg aacgcgtcga aagcggcgtc ggcgggcggc gcgcccgcgc     60
              cggcggagga gggatctagc tcaacgccgg ccgtgctgga gttcagcatc ctcatccgga    120
              gcgatagcga cgcggccggc gcggacgagg acgaggacgc cacgccatcg cctcctcctc    180
<removed-apn>
              gccaccgcca ccagcaccag cagcagctcg tgacccgcga gctgttcccg gccggcgccg    240
              gtccgccggc cccgacgccg cggcattggg ccgagctcgg cttcttccgc gccgacctgc    300
              agcagcaaca ggcgccgggc cccaggatcg tgccgcaccc acacgccgcg ccgccgccgg    360
              ccaagaagag ccgccgcggc ccgcgctccc gcagctcgca gtaccgcggc gtcaccttct    420
              accgccgcac aggccgctgg gagtcccaca tctggtcagt actaccactg tctacaacta    480
              gccacaccac accgattgct tccgactctc attaatttct gacacaaact cgccgccctc    540
              ccccccggct cccccgccgc tgggattgcg gcaagcaggt gtacctaggt ggattcgaca    600
              ccgctcacgc cgctgcaagg gcgtacgacc gggcggcgat caagttccgc ggcgtcgacg    660
              ccgacatcaa cttcaacctc agcgactacg aggacgacat gaagcagatg gggagcctgt    720
              ccaaggagga gttcgtgcac gtcctgcgcc gtcagagcac cggcttctcg agaggcagct    780
              ccaggtacag aggcgtcacc ctgcacaagt gcggccgctg ggaggcgcgc atggggcagt    840
              tcctcggcaa gaaagcttac gacaaggccg ccatcaaatg caatggcaga gaggccgtga    900
              cgaacttcga gccgagcacg tatcacgggg agctgccgac tgaagttgct gatgtcgatc    960
              tgaacctgag catatctcag ccgagccccc aaagagacaa gaacagctgc ctaggtctgc   1020
              agctccacca cggaccattc gagggctccg aactgaagaa aaccaaggca agcgctaacg   1080
              atagatatac cttgacaagc tagtatcaaa caaaaccagt aaaaaaagtt tactttcttg   1140
              tcgaatttca ttgcctacct gtacgtactt gtgcttctgc acaaaataac gaaatccttt   1200
              tgccctctga tgatgatgca gatcgacgat gctccctctg agctaccggg ccgccctcgt   1260
              cagctgtctc ctctcgtggc tgagcatccg ccggcctggc ctgcgcagcc gcctcacccc   1320
              ttcttcgtct tcacaaacca tgagatgagt gcatcaggag atctccacag gaggcctgca   1380
              ggggctgttc ccagctgggc atggcaggtg gcagcagcag ctcctcctcc tgccgccctg   1440
                                                   1130

              ccgtcgtccg ctgcagcatc atcaggattc tccaacaccg ccacgacagc tgccaccacc   1500
<removed-date>
              gccccatcgg cctcctccct ccggtactgc ccgccgccgc cgccgccgtc gagccatcac   1560
              catccccgct gagagaatca agaagccgca ctgtaaatct gccgggaagc tagcattttc   1620
              cccccggccc ctccccctct ccgggcgttg cgactttttc agttttgcgc cgccggccgg   1680
              ggtggtggtt tcttgtagcc gatcgattgg attcctcgta ttactgctgc ttacactccc   1740
              aattaagggc ttgttcggct attgatatta catgtgtatt ggagtgtatt gagtgggatt   1800
<removed-apn>
              gtgatgtatt ttgacttgtt a                                             1821
              <210>   973
              <211>   1455
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 973
              atgtgggacc ttaacgactc gccggccgcc gaggccgccc cgccttcccc gtccgccgac     60
              gactccggcg cgtcctcctc gtcggcggcc gcgctggtcg agatacccga cgacgcggac    120
              gacgactcgg ccgccgccgc cgcggaagcc gtcgtcacgc gccagttctt cccggccccg    180
              gccgccgtcg gcgcggcgcc cgggcccggc tcgtcgagcg cgcgcgcggg ctggcttcgc    240
              ctggccgccg cggctccacc gcccgcgggc gggcggcact cgcagtaccg cggcgtcacg    300
              ttctaccgcc ggacggggcg gtgggagtcg cacatatggg cgtacgatcg ggcggcgatc    360
              aagttccgcg gcgtggaggc cgacatcaat ttcagtctgg aggattacca ggacgacatg    420
              aagcagcaga tgggccacct gagcaaggag gagttcgttc acgtgctccg gcggcagagc    480
              acggggttcc cccggggcag ctccaagtac agaggcgtga cgctccacaa gtgcgggagg    540
              tgggaggcgc gcatgggcca gttcctcggc aagaagtacg tctacttggg cctgttcgac    600
              accgaggagg aagccgccag ggcgtacgac cgcgcggcca tcaagtgcaa cggcaaggac    660
              gcggtgacaa acttcgatcc cagcatttac gccgaggagc tcgagccggc ggcgtcgacg    720
              ggcggcggtg gcgatgacca caatcacaac ctggacctgt cgctggggag ctcggcgggg    780
              aacaaaaggg gcagccttga cgacggcggc ggcggaggag gcggcggcga cgacgagacc    840
              tcggaccagc gcgtccccat ggcgttcgac gtcgactggc agacggccgc gccccggagc    900
              acgaaagcaa aggtacccgt tcggttcggt ctcgcgttcc gcatcaacga ggcgtgtctt    960
                                                   1131

              gtaaaatgtt gcctaataaa gcaagctttg tcacgtttca accaccgggt acggtggccg   1020
<removed-date>
              gcgcagctgg acgcgagctc caagcaaccc cagacccaga tgctgcctcc tccgcctcct   1080
              gctgtcttgc gagtcgccca ccagctgccg ttgccgttcg gtcccaggca tccgcaattc   1140
              ctgagcaacg gcggcgatcc ggggacctcg ggaggcctgt ccctcgcgat cggcggcgcg   1200
              ggcggcgggc actggcctcc ccagctgcag cacctgcagc agcagaggct gcacggcgcc   1260
              tgggccaacg gcggcggcac gagctggccg cctccgccgc acccgcaccc gcacccgcac   1320
<removed-apn>
              ccgccgccac cgagcaccgc cgcgaccgca gctgcagcat catcacgatt ccctccctac   1380
              gttgttacta cgacgcaagg cccggcaggc tgggctcaga agaatgggtt ccattcgctg   1440
              gccaggccaa cctag                                                    1455
              <210>   974
              <211>   690
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 974
              atgaggaatt ggactaagga ggagtttgtt cacatactcc gacgtcaaag cactgggttt     60
              gccaggggga gctcaaagta ccgcggtgtg acactacaca agtgtggtcg gtgggaagct    120
              cggatgggtc agcttctcgg aaagaagtac atctaccttg gtctatttga cagtgaaatc    180
              gaagcagcaa gagcgtatga tagggcagcc attcgcttca atggaccgga tgctgttagg    240
              aactttgatt ctgtttccta tgatggagat gtcccacttc cacctgcaat tgagaaagat    300
              gtggttgatg gagacatcct tgatctgaat ttgaggattt cacaacctaa cgtgcatgat    360
              ctcagaagtg atggtaccct gactggtttt ggattaagtt gtaattctcc tgaagcttca    420
              agctccattg tttctcagga ggcgcctatg caggaagagg agaaccggtc cgagccggcg    480
              tgtccccagc cgttcccctc ctgggcatgg caaacgcagg gctcccgtgc cccagttctc    540
              cctgccacca ctgcagcatc atcaggattc tctaccgccg ctgccaccgg cgtggacgcg    600
              gccacagccg gccacagcgt gccgccgccg tctggtagcc tccggcagtt ctcgggctac    660
              caccagctcc gcttcccccc aaccgcctga                                     690
              <210>   975
              <211>   1143
              <212>   DNA
                                                   1132

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 975
              atggctcttg acgacttcca tttcctcctc ctcctttcgc tgctgctcct gcttgatttg     60
              agcagggatt gcgggaagca agtctaccta ggtggttttg acactgcgca cgcagccgcg    120
              aggttaggga gcgtttgctt gtttgaattc gcgtccattt gcatttctgt gatcgatagg    180
              cgcgttgaca cggtcaagtt tggatcaagc agggcatacg atcgagctgc gatcaagttc    240
<removed-apn>
              cgcggcctcg acgctgacat caacttcagt ctgagcgact acgaggatga tttgaagcag    300
              atgaggaatt ggaccaagga ggagttcgtg cacatactcc ggcgccagag cacggggttc    360
              gcgaggggaa gctccaagta ccgtggcgtg acgctgcaca agtgcggccg ctgggaagct   420
              aggatggggc aacttcttgg caagaagtac atctatcttg ggctctttga cagcgaagtt    480
              gaggcggcaa gggcttatga cagggctgcc cttcgcttca atgggaggga agctgttact    540
              aactttgagc ctagctccta caatgcagga gataataacc tgcgtgacac cgaaaccgag    600
              gtatctgagg tgtatctcat ggttctctct acgttgtcag caattgatga tggtgatgcc    660
              attgatttgg atttgcggat ttcacagcct aatgtgcaag accccaaaag ggacaatacc    720
              ttagctggcc tccagccaac atgtgattcc cctgaatctt caaatacgat ggcttctcag    780
              aatcatgaaa gattaatcat gctcgccgat atccaatctt ggttgtttgt tcgctctgtt   840
              tcctgtgaac gacttaaagg tggaaacgtt cactgtggtc aaaacctgac aaacaaagct    900
              catgctcgtg ctgctgcgat cctgcaggtc caggaaaggc cggtggagcg aaggcctgag    960
              ctgggcgccc agccattccc ctcatgggca tggcaagcgc agggctcccc tcacgtgccg   1020
              ttgcaccact ctgcagcatc atcaggattc tctaccgccg ccggggccaa cggcggcatg   1080
              cccctgccgt ctcacccgcc ggcgcagttc ccgactacta caaacccgtt cttcttcccc   1140
              tag                                                                 1143
              <210>   976
              <211>   1752
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 976
              tttttttttt ttttttttga gtcataaaat ctcagctctt caaagatcca gttataatga     60
              tgtacacgca tggtccacta caacaaaata ctactactgt ctcggaaaac aatccatgca   120
                                                   1133

<removed-date>
              tggagatatc ccatacccta acaggcacat accagaggga gaccagccat gtcgcttctt    180
              attatggctc tctctctctc tctcacacac acaaaacaca atcactttct tccatcacca    240
              gagctgctag acgccacacg caagaccagc tgccatccca gacgccgagc gagagctgag    300
              ccgaaacagc aagctgtcat gtcaaaagcg atctagggga agaagaacgg gtttgtagta    360
              gccgggaact gcgccggcgg gtgagacggc aggggcatgc cgccgttggc cccggcggcg    420
<removed-apn>
              gtagagaatc ctgatgatgc tgcagagtgg tgcaacggca cgtgagggga gccctgcgct    480
              tgccatgccc atgaggggaa tggctgggcg cccagctcag gccttcgctc caccggcctt    540
              tcctggacct ggtggttcgg aaagaagcca tgacaagctg acgagtacaa gcgctgatgg    600
              tgagatgaca ctgctgggtt ttggtgatac ccgggccaag gggatgatga gctcattggc    660
              tgagaagcca tcgtatttga agattcaggg gaatcacatg ttggctggag gccagctaag    720
              gtattgtccc ttttggggtc ttgcacatta ggctgtgaaa tccgcaaatc caaatcaatg    780
              gcatcaccat catcaattgc ctcggtttcg gtgtcacgca ggttattatc tcctgcattg    840
              taggagctag gctcaaagtt agtaacagct tccctcccat tgaagcgaag ggcagccctg    900
              tcataagccc taccaaattg caacaagcat taaaaaaaat cagcagcgaa gttaacaaag    960
              ctgatgaatg aaaccagcat gtccttagaa aatgagacgt ggaaggcagc tacagtggca   1020
              ccatgccgcc tcaacttcgc tgtcaaagag cccaagatag atgtacttct tgccaagaag   1080
              ttgccccatc ctagcttccc agcggccgca cttgtgcagc gtcacgccac ggtacttgga   1140
              gcttcccctc gcgaaccccg tgctctggcg ccggagtatg tgcacgaact cctccttggt   1200
              ccaattcctc atctgcttca aatcatcctc gtagtcgctc agactgaagt tgatgtcagc   1260
              gtcgaggccg cggaacttga tcgcagctcg atcgtatgcc ctcgcggctg cgtgcgcagt   1320
              gtcaaaacca cctaggtaga cttgcttccc gcaatccctg ctcaaatcaa gcaggagcag   1380
              cagcgaaagg aggaggagga aatggaagtc gtcaagagcc atagattagc acagtagtag   1440
              atggtaatta cgaagggtgc agacgaggtc agaggctgag taccagatgt gcgattccca   1500
              gcggcccgtc ctcctgtaga aggtgacgcc cctgtactgc gagctccgcg acctaggccc   1560
              gcgcctggtc ttcttcgctg gcgccaccgg cctctgggcc atgccgagat cctcggcgcg   1620
              ctgcggctgc cacaccggca ccggcgccgc caccggctcc ggctccggct cggccggcgg   1680
                                                   1134

              ggtcggggac gggaagagct gccgcgtcat gaaccccgtg gacgcgccag gcgccatctc   1740
<removed-date>
              accggagcag tc                                                       1752
              <210>   977
              <211>   890
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 977
<removed-apn>
              catatatctt gggctattcg acagcgaagt agaggctgca agggcgtacg acaaggccgc     60
              gatcaaatgc aacggtagag aggccgtgac gaacttcgag cccagcacgt acgacgggga   120
              gctgctgctg actgctgaag ctagcgcaga agttgctgac gacgttgatc tgaacttgag   180
              catctcgcaa ccggcatcgt cccagagccc caaaagagac aagaactgcc ttggtccgca   240
              gctccaccac caccatgggc ggccgtttga cggctccgcc gttctgaaga aaaccaagat   300
              cgatgctccg tctgagctgt cgtcggcggg ccgccctcac cggtcgttcc tccctcatct    360
              cgtggctgcc gagcatctac cgcctcggtc tcaccccttc ttcatcacac accatgagag    420
              tgatgcatca agaagagatc ctagctgggc agcagcagca gcatggaagg tgaccgcagc    480
              tgcacctcct cctcctacca ccaccctgtt gccgttgccg ctgccgtcga cgtcgtccgc   540
              tgcagcatca tcaggattct ccaataccgc cacgacagct gccgccgccc catcggccgc   600
              ctcctcccgc cggttcgacc cgccgccacc gtcgtcgtcc tcctcctcga gccatcacca   660
              ccaccaccac cgccgctgag aatcgaagaa gccacactgt aaatctgccg ggaagcggct   720
              ggtggcatcc ggcccgctcc tccctccggg gcgccgcaac ttttttcgat cggttttgcg    780
              ccgcctggga cgggttgtag ttgatcgatt ggattcttca taactgtatt tgcgtactgc    840
              ttacactacg acccaagtga aatcgaaaat ggtgccttct ctcgttgaat               890
              <210>   978
              <211>   2285
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 978
              ggatctttcg ctttccttac cccgttagcg ttcctgcttg atacactacg actgcagatt     60
              ctttggcaga ccgctaccaa gtgcaagtgt gcaacgcaca cacatcactc acagtctcac   120
              ggtgtctctg tgcgcgcgcg tgggacacag gagggagaga gacacagaga agggggcggg   180
                                                   1135

<removed-date>
              acgatcagct ctagctcagc tggtatcgtc taaactgcat aaaaggggag ggaaaaaaag    240
              ttgcaatgat gcatcccggc gcatagatag agagagagag agaagagaga gccccgactc    300
              gagagccaag aacgccgtgt gttgtgtttg tgtgcatcta tctccgtaca cgcacgctcg    360
              tacgcaccag ctagcacgac cgccatggcc gccaccagga gagccttctt ccacagcgcc    420
              gtcgacggca ttgcgcgcgc cgggccgggg gaggccgagc ggctgccggc gccgccgcag    480
<removed-apn>
              gtcgggcgac cggtggaagg cgccagcagc atggtcttgg gcttccccgt gccgcggccc    540
              acgatgccgg accgccggcc ggccgccgtc acccagcagt tctttccgcc cactactacg    600
              gccgcgcagc aggcgacgat ggaggagcaa tgccacgtgc ccgccggtag cgcggcggag    660
              cagtgggtcc ggtcgtcggc gtccaggaag agccggcgcg gcccgcggtc acggagctcg    720
              cagtaccgcg gcgtcacctt ctaccgccgc accggccgct gggagtccca catctgggac    780
              tgtgggaaac aggtgtactt gggtggattc gacacggcgc aggccgctgc gagggcctac    840
              gaccaagccg cgatcaagtt ccgcggcctg aacgcggaca tcaacttcac cctggacgac    900
              tacaaggacg agatgaagaa gatgaaggac ttgagcaagg aggagttcgt gttggtgctc    960
              cggcggcagg gcgccggctt cgtcaggggc agctccaggt tccggggagt cacccagcac   1020
              aagtgcggca agtgggaggc caggatcggc cagctcatgg gcaagaagta tgtgtacctg   1080
              ggcctgtatg acacagagac ggaggctgcc caggcatatg acaaggctgc catcaagtgc   1140
              tacggcaagg aggcggtgac caacttcgat gcccagagct acgacaagga gctccagtcg   1200
              cagccctggg acggcgagct ggatctcgag ctcagtctgg gctgcgccag cagcgatccg   1260
              tccacggtcg ccgtcgaggc gttcagcccc gcgacgagca gcagtagccg caagcagagg   1320
              acgatgacgc tgacgctcgg tctgccggag gaggaggaga cgggcgccgg ctaccctcac   1380
              cctgctgccg gcatgttcgg gcgcccggct gatggccacg tccacgtagc accgccgcca   1440
              caccggcaat ggcagcagca gcagcaggga cagcacgcag ctccagatgc ggcgcctgag   1500
              cgacgagcgg cagagccagc agatcggcag cggtggggcc ggggcgcgcg ctggcccatc   1560
              gccagcgcca gcggcattaa ctgggcctgg gcgccgccgt acgccaccgc ccgcgccggc   1620
              accgacgacg acgacgccag cagcgccgcc gctgcagcat catcaggatt cccactgtgg   1680
              cagctgggtg cggcgtcgtc caggtccagc tggcccagct gctgagcctt tcctgtcgtc   1740
                                                   1136

              ccgcgccacc aacagtgacg ctgctgggcc acgtactgac ggcgactggt gacctgctgg   1800
<removed-date>
              aaccgccgcc ggcctgtttc ccttttctag gtaaaagcag tggcagaggg gcgagctagc   1860
              gacagcgtgc ctcgtcatcc atcgtccctg cgccgtggct ggcggggtgg gaaaaagtct   1920
              gagcagtttt gagcgtccgg aggagctcga gatttcctcc ctcgaatagt cacttggggt   1980
              ggccactagt tattatttct ttccttcccc ctcgttgatt ctgctaccca ttatagcctc   2040
              tgtatctagc tacatgcatg atgctgctct agcgctgttg gacgttgatg gcacggtgta   2100
<removed-apn>
              cggatatggg acagggttcg tgtgacccca tgtccactgc taggcctgtt tccaaatgga   2160
              gtatttctgc agtaccatgg cttatagaaa tgccgagtat tttaaaccat taggtgcttg   2220
              gttactttcc caaaaactag gttttcaaag ctatggtata atgaatacca cggtatatat   2280
              ttttc                                                               2285
              <210>   979
              <211>   441
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 979
              atgggatatt ggcaattcaa tgccattgtc gtgagaatca gaattcacat tcttcttgtc     60
              aaaggattgt ggaagatgac gtctttaaac tttttgtttg gagtgtctag agtcgagctc    120
              attaagtggt cacttgatgt tgctccatta gtgttgatca aaggagtatt gatatgcaaa    180
              ttctttgtct gcaatgcagg ctggaacatg aaatggaaac ctgctttctg cagccactct    240
              gaagttggag tagctgttgg agctatttgg ggtgagaatc ctgatgatgc tgccatttcg    300
              accacaggaa gatcaggact attggaatgc agttgcctag tccatcctga ttgctgttcc    360
              agtggcaaag agggtactac agttgacaaa cccccaactc ttttgtcttt caatccatca    420
              acaagatttg gtaccttgta a                                              441
              <210>   980
              <211>   1338
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 980
              atggccgcca ccaggagagc cttcttccac agcgccgtcg acggcattgc gcgcgccggg     60
              ccgggggagg ccgagcggct gccggcgccg ccgcaggtcg ggcgaccggt ggaaggcgcc    120
                                                   1137

<removed-date>
              agcagcatgg tcttgggctt ccccgtgccg cggcccacga tgccggaccg ccggccggcc    180
              gccgtcaccc agcagttctt tccgcccact actacggccg cgcagcaggc gacgatggag    240
              gagcaatgcc acgtgcccgc cggtagcgcg gcggagcagt gggtccggtc gtcggcgtcc    300
              aggaagagcc ggcgcggccc gcggtcacgg agctcgcagt accgcggcgt caccttctac    360
              cgccgcaccg gccgctggga gtcccacatc tgggactgtg ggaaacaggt gtacttgggt    420
<removed-apn>
              ggattcgaca cggcgcaggc cgctgcgagg gcctacgacc aagccgcgat caagttccgc    480
              ggcctgaacg cggacatcaa cttcaccctg gacgactaca aggacgagat gaagaagatg    540
              aaggacttga gcaaggagga gttcgtgttg gtgctccggc ggcagggcgc cggcttcgtc    600
              aggggcagct ccaggttccg gggagtcacc cagcacaagt gcggcaagtg ggaggccagg    660
              atcggccagc tcatgggcaa gaagtatgtg tacctgggcc tgtatgacac agagacggag    720
              gctgcccagg catatgacaa ggctgccatc aagtgctacg gcaaggaggc ggtgaccaac    780
              ttcgatgccc agagctacga caaggagctc cagtcgcagc cctgggacgg cgagctggat    840
              ctcgagctca gtctgggctg cgccagcagc gatccgtcca cggtcgccgt cgaggcgttc    900
              agccccgcga cgagcagcag tagccgcaag cagaggacga tgacgctgac gctcggtctg    960
              ccggaggagg aggagacggg cgccggctac cctcaccctg ctgccggcat gttcgggcgc   1020
              ccggctgatg gccacgtcca cgtagcaccg ccgccacacc ggcaatggca gcagcagcag   1080
              cagggacagc acgcagctcc agatgcggcg cctgagcgac gagcggcaga gccagcagat   1140
              cggcagcggt ggggccgggg cgcgcgctgg cccatcgcca gcgccagcgg cattaactgg   1200
              gcctgggcgc cgccgtacgc caccgcccgc gccggcaccg acgacgacga cgccagcagc   1260
              gccgccgctg cagcatcatc aggattccca ctgtggcagc tgggtgcggc gtcgtccagg   1320
              tccagctggc ccagctgc                                                 1338
              <210>   981
              <211>   1119
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 981
              atggctgcaa gaaagaaaaa gcctttgctt attgcttgcc aagcaaccag tgccagaata     60
              acaagatctc aggctgctgc aaatagtaca agatctgggc tggctccttc tgtaccagta    120
                                                   1138

<removed-date>
              cctctgaaaa cggagcataa ccatccagcg aaaaaaaaga tgaaaaggga agcttcagat    180
              gaaaatgctt ctgctgatgc tggagcttca gctcctctgc ctaaaaggcg tacagttctc    240
              aagaatgtaa ctaacataag ctgtgctaaa atttccaaaa ggtgcactgc tgtgactggg    300
              ctgaagttgg gtccctccca gaaggctggg cagagcataa acaagcaatg cacaaacaag    360
              atctccatgc ttctccctct ggctgttgga gggagttcac ttgtggatga ttctaataat    420
<removed-apn>
              gctgaagaaa cacaaatggt agaccttttg gcacagaaag agaagcagat tgttttgctt    480
              aaggaggctc agccattaca gaatactgaa caaaacaaag gcggtgcttg tgatgaggca    540
              tctgttgagg aaagaaatgc catgaatgta cacgaaactg ctgccttaaa ggctggggtc    600
              tctaatggtt taaacattgt agatattgac aaaaataatg gtgatcctca aatgtgtgtt    660
              acctacgttg cagagatata cagaaatcta atggcctcag aggtttcgga cgaatataag    720
              cttgtggcag atacacttta ccttacagta tatcttattg accaatttct ttctcagaac    780
              tgtatccaaa cgcacaagct gcaacttctt gggataacta gtatgctgat tgcctcgaaa    840
              tatgaagagt attctgctcc tagtgctgaa gaattttgta acataacggc tggtacatat    900
              gcaaaggctg aggttctgga aatggagcaa caagtgctta atgatctggg ctttcattta    960
              tctgttccaa caacaaacac atttctcagg agattcctta gagcagcaca ggcttctcgt   1020
              acagtaagat cagtacccaa accacattgc aacgagtcct ttcagtctat atgtattgtc   1080
              ctcaacacta agttggcaag ctacatttcc aggctcatc                          1119
              <210>   982
              <211>   1664
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 982
              aaagcaggct ggtaccggtc cggaattccc gggatggccg cccttttttt tttttttttt     60
              tttttcaacg tcaatcactt cagagagttt ttttttaaaa gaaccaaaga ctcctgtccc    120
              catccgctta attatcaggc taacaacaac aacaacgaca tccgctggct ggcgctgctc    180
              tgccgcttat agctgctccc tgaaccccag gaggaagcac actagcttaa cccccatcga    240
              tccgtgcaga gcgccagcga gaacaacagc aaaattaaga tgcaaaagct tgagaactac    300
              tacagcaact agaacatcaa ctaaacctac tgtaacaacg cagcaaacgg acaagcagca    360
                                                   1139

<removed-date>
              agagatctag tgaagaaaga acctgctggc tagccaatgt gctgcgttct cacaggccta    420
              atttctaaga agagaagctc cgagtgagtg agtgtgagtg agtgagttct tggagcaaaa    480
              accagtgacg tacacaaagc agcgagagat gtagagaaac cgaccgaccg gccaaccaac    540
              caaccaacca gccagtcaaa aagagtgctt cgctcccaac cttgctcctc cattttgctg    600
              cagccatccg ttgtcgtagg aagcagcagc aaagtaacta cctgggcggt gcatgttgag    660
<removed-apn>
              gagctagctg acggtgatat atgtttgctg aattcatgca tggtatgctg ctgaaatgct    720
              cgtgatggtg gttggtggca tggtgggcgc gcggagtaat ctgcgctcca ctgctctgcc    780
              gtcgtcagtg gtgagaagcc gaggacacgg acggcggcgg cggcttgtcg ccattgccgc    840
              cgccgttgtg ctcctcgtcg ccctgcatcc tggtggggat gcggatcccg gagaagccga    900
              cgccgggcga gaacccgatg gccgacacag cggggctgag cccgccgtgc tgcatcgggt    960
              tgtcggcttc gacgctctcc ggccatcctc gctcggaggg ctggttactg gactgaaggg   1020
              gtcccctctg gaagaagaac tggctctggc cgccaaacgc cgcctgcatg tgcgccgcct   1080
              gctgcgacac gttgaacagg tagccaccag cgctcccgcc gcctgggtcg ggcacggtcc   1140
              acggcaccat gcgctggctc tgcgcctggt cgtgccacat ggcgccgccg ccaaacgagt   1200
              agctggcggc gccggagaag agcgcctgct gcgccgagcc attgccgccg tgggcttccg   1260
              accggtcctg ctgctggtgg aacatggggt ctgggagaga ctgcagcgac agccggagct   1320
              cctggctgtg gcggccggtg cgcgacagga ggtcgggcgt gtagctttgg aggcccatgg   1380
              ccgacgactg cgccgccgcc gtggacaacg acgcctcgcc gccgccacca acgccagcca   1440
              tgggaaagaa cgacttgatc gtgtccggaa cagagtcccg cccgagctac gccggctggg   1500
              gtcgggcggc gccgccgctt gctccaccgg cgccggagaa gtcgaacgga gcgtgcgcgg   1560
              cgacggtgat ggcctgcgcc tggtcgtcgg agttctcggc ggagtcgatc ccgggaattc   1620
              cggaccggta ccagcctgct tttttgtaca aacttgttct atag                    1664
              <210>   983
              <211>   618
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 983
              tttttttttt ttttttgacc cggaagctca gtagttcgat ttacggcttt cctcgctgtg     60
                                                   1140

<removed-date>
              ggtaaataca gtgctgtcgc cttataagaa tctcgaatag atattctcac atcccaacta   120
              gggtgcacat tgtaggatct ggcgtgtgat attttattga ttatctcgct gcactgatca   180
              atggtcatgc tggttggatg gagtgatctg tgctccactg ctgctgtcac tggtcattat   240
              acctaggaaa cagatcgatg ccgccgctga ttgtctccat tgtcgactcc gctctgttgt   300
              gctcctcttc gccctggatc ctggtgggga tacggatccc agaaaagcct gcacctggtg   360
<removed-apn>
              cgattacgat ggtttgccca ccatggtgta tcgggctgcc tgcttcaacc gtctccgggc   420
              gacctcgctc caagtcagat ggctggctac tggactgaag gggtccccct ctgaagaaga   480
              actggttctg gcctcccagc tcagtctgtt gcgaccgcta ctcgttaagc atgcagacac   540
              gggggttaac aactgctggg cccgggcgag gtcgatggcc cctccgcttg gccctgcgcg   600
              ttgctaggac tcccgctg                                                 618
              <210>   984
              <211>   1930
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 984
              gacactatag aacaagtttg tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccgga attcccggga    60
              tcccacactc ccgaggggaa aaagaaagcg agaaagcttc gagctttgcc tcccccgtcc   120
              ccccaccccc acccccaagg gtaaaatgtg atgttgccat ccatccgaat ccgagaatcc   180
              gattgcttct agtttgtctc cccaactcct cgcctcgcct ctcctcctgg ttatgggcgc   240
              cggcgagttg gatggacgcg ccttgtcgga cgcggagcag cagtagcggc gggcaaccag   300
              gcgggggatc tggatccgag gcaccaccac cgggctcctc acggcggcga cgcaggcggc   360
              ggcggagaag gaggaggagg cggaggagcg cagcaagaag cagatgagca gcagcggcac   420
              cacaacaacc ggctgctgca gttccaccag caagtgcagc agaaccaaga cccgccgccg   480
              agaactccga cgaccaggcg caggccatca ccgtcgccgc gcacgctccg ttcgacttct   540
              ccggcgccgg tggagcaagc ggcggcgccg cgggcttcct cccggcgtcg ctcgactcgg   600
              actccatcgc ggacacgatc aagtcgttct ttcccatggc tggcacgggt ggcggcggcg   660
              aggcgtcgtc gtccacggcg gcggcgcagt cgtcggccat gggcttccaa agctacacgc   720
              ccgacctcct gtcgcgcacc ggcagccaca gccaggaggg ggggctgtcg ctgcagtctc   780
                                                   1141

<removed-date>
              tcccagaccc catgttccac cagcggtcgc acggccacgg ccacggcggc gatggctccg    840
              cgcagcaggc gctcttcccc ggcgccgcca gctactcgtt cggcggcggc gctgcgtggg    900
              ccgagcacgc gcagagccag cgcgtggcgc cgtggaacgc gcccgaccca ggcggcggga    960
              gcactggcgg ctacctgctc aacgtgtcgc agtcgcagca ggcggcgctt ggtggccaga   1020
              gccagttctt cttccagagg ggaccccttc agtccagtaa ccagccctcc gactccgagc   1080
<removed-apn>
              gaggatggcc ggagaccgtc gaagccgaca acccgatgca gcatggtggg ccgaccatcg   1140
              ggttcgcgcc cggtaccagc ttctccggga tccgcatccc caccaggata cagggcggcg   1200
              aggagcacaa cggcggcagc ggcaatggcg acaagccgcc gccgcctccg tctgtttcct   1260
              cggcttctcg ccagtgacag cagcagtgga gcacagatta ctccatccaa ccagcatgac   1320
              cattgatcag tgcagcgtgt atcactaaaa tctcacacgc cagctcctca acgtgcaccc   1380
              ttgttgtgat gtgagaatct ctttcgtgat tcttcttcgt tgtagcactg tattttccca   1440
              ccgcaggatt gccgtttctt gtactactga gtttctggtg cagttctgtt gtccccattc   1500
              caggttagtt aatttgctgc ttcttcatac gacaacggat ggctgcagca aaatggagga   1560
              gcaaggttgg gagcgaagca ctctttttga ctggctggct ggttggttgg ttggttggtt   1620
              ggccggtcgg tcggtttctc tacatctctc gctgctttgt gtacgtcact ggtttttgct   1680
              ccaagaacga actcactcac actcactcac tcggagcttc tcttcttaga aattaggcat   1740
              gtgagaacgc agcacattgg ctagccagca ggatctcttg ctgcttgtcc gtttgctgcg   1800
              ttgttacagt aggtttagtt gatgttctag ttgctttagt agatctcaag caaatgcatc   1860
              ttaattttgc tgttgttctc gctggcgctc tgcacggatc gatgggggtt agctagtgtg   1920
              cttcctcctg                                                          1930
              <210>   985
              <211>   563
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 985
              tcggtttttt tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttggaaa     60
              aaaaaaaata atatatggaa tagggtaaaa cggtagtagc agtagcaaga actaatgaaa    120
              cagtaccggt tgtctagttt caagctaggg aacggtttga ttaaacctta tttacacagg    180
                                                   1142

<removed-date>
              cacacggtcg ctcaaatata gccgcagcag cagcagctaa taactaataa ggcgaaaatc   240
              ccatcaccta ataaacaaac tccttacctc gtagtcgtag ttaagcacgt acgttaatca   300
              ctttctcatc gtttcgcttc cttgctcctc ctggccctgg acccgttggc ccgcggccgg   360
              cggcgcgagg aaccccatga acccgccgcc ggcgccaacc aaatggttga agccgacctg   420
              cccagccatc gccgacggtt gttggtggat cgcggccaaa gggtcgagcc aagggcgggc   480
<removed-apn>
              cgcaaacggc cagccgccac tggactgaag gggttcccct tgggaaaaga gctgcccgcc   540
              ctggtggtct agcccccctt gcc                                           563
              <210>   986
              <211>   690
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 986
              ggtacgcgta agctctgggc ccctcgaggg atactctaga gcggccgccc tttttttttt    60
              tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttg aagaagcagc aaattaacta   120
              acctggaatg gggacaacag aactgcccca aaaactcagt agtacaagaa acggcaatcc   180
              tgggggggga aaatacagtg ctacaacgaa aaaaaatcac gaaagaaatt ctcacatccc   240
              aacaagggtg cacgttgagg agctgggggg tgagatttta gtgatacccg ctgcactgat   300
              caatggtcat gctggttgga tggagtaatc tgtgctcccc tgctgctgtc actggcgaaa   360
              agccgaggaa acagacggag gggggggcgg cttgtcgcca ttgccgctgc cgccgttgtg   420
              ctcctccccg ccctgtatcc tgggggggat gcggatcccg gagaagctgg taccgggcgc   480
              gaacccgatg gtcggcccac catgctgcat cgggttgtcg gcttcgacgg tctccggcca   540
              tcctccctcg gagtcggagg gctggttact ggactgaagg ggtcccctct ggaaaaagaa   600
              ctggctctgg ccaccaagcg ccgcctgctg cgactgcgac acgttgagca ggtagccgcc   660
              cgtgctcccg ccgcctgggt cggggcgcgt                                    690
              <210>   987
              <211>   710
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   987
                                                   1143

              gaaagctggg tacgcgtaag cttgggcccc tcgagggata ctctagagcg gccgcccttt    60
<removed-date>
              tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttg cggggggaaa atacagtgct   120
              acaacgaaaa aaaatcacga aagaaattct cccatcccaa caagggtgca cgttgaggag   180
              ctggggtggg aaattttaat gataccccct gcactgatca atgggcatgc tggttggatg   240
              gagtaatctg tgctcccctg ctgctgtcac tggcgaaaaa cccaagaaac agaaggaggg   300
              gggggcggct tgtccccctt gccgctgccg ccgttgtgct cccccccccc ctgtatcctg   360
<removed-apn>
              ggggggatgc ggatcccgga aaaactggta ccgggcgcga accccatggg ccgcccccca   420
              tgctgcatcg ggttgtcggc ttccacggtc tcccgccctc ctccctcgga atcggagggc   480
              tggttactgg actgaagggg tcccctctgg aaaaaaaact gggtctggcc accaagcgcc   540
              gcctgctgcg actgcgacac gttgagcagg tagcccccag tgctcccccc gcctgggtcg   600
              ggcgcgttcc acggcgcccc gcgctggctc tgcgcgtgct ccgcccacgc agcgcccccc   660
              cccaacgaat agctggcggc gcccgggaag aacgcctgct gcgcggaacc              710
              <210>   988
              <211>   2314
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 988
              aaagcaggct ggtaccggtc cggaattccc gggatcacca ccaccgttgt acaaaaaagc    60
              aggctggtac cggtccggca gtcactccag tcagcccctc ctccctctac gctccccaaa   120
              aatcgcgcct cccgagttcg tccgcccgat caaccgccgc cctcgccagt cgccacgcca   180
              gatctgacga cgacggacct caccgccgcg ccgatcgctt gctctcgtcc cgtcccgcac   240
              gcaccctcat tcgcacaccc accaccactc cgattacttc gtacacgccc tccgaattgc   300
              gcccgtccgg gtgggaagcc gacgccgcgg gcggcaatgc ggggcgtgcc ggccgggggg   360
              acgtggtagg ggtccgccgt cgccgccgcc gccgcgatgg aggtggaggc cgtgggctgc   420
              gtcggcgcgg ggggcaagcg ggcccgggcg aaaggcgcgg gcgcggagcc ggagcctaag   480
              cgccgcgcgg tggcgatggc cgtgccgccg cccgccgccg cgccgtgggc gcagcagcac   540
              cctgcctcgc ggatctaccg cgtctcccgg ggctccggcg gcaaggaccg ccacagcaag   600
              gtgtacacgg ccaagggcat ccgggaccgc cgcgtccgcc tctccgtcgc caccgccatc   660
                                                   1144

              cagttctacg acctgcagga ccgcctcggc tacgaccagc ccagcaaggc catcgagtgg    720
<removed-date>
              ctcatcaggg ccgccgccga cgccatcgac aagctcccct cgctcgacac cgccgcaggc    780
              ttccccgcgc acccggcctc cgccaaggac cacgccccgc ctgctggtga caacgacgac    840
              caccaccacc agcagcagct cacgaggtcc ggatgcagca gcacgtccga gaccagcaag    900
              ggctccgtcc tctccctctc ccgctccgag agccgggtca aggcgcggga ccgcgccagg    960
              gagcggagcg ccgttgccag ggacaaggac aaggaccccg ccgctgactc caggcgcgcc   1020
<removed-apn>
              gcggctacaa gctcagcgca ggcggcatcc ttcaccgagc tgctcacggg gatggctgcg   1080
              gccagcagcg ccgcccccgc cgaacacaag caccaccagc agtcgttggt gtcctggcag   1140
              ccgccgaccg tctccgccac caccgactac atcgggttcg cgcagccccg gaagggcggg   1200
              ggacacgcgg tggcgcacgc ttttgcctcc cccgctcccc acctcggcaa cattgcgtcc   1260
              atcgccatgg ccccggcgca gcactaccac cacttggcca gcggtgccgt cactgtcgcc   1320
              tctggcggcg gcgagccgca cgccgatatg acgcacttct cgttcttgca ggaccacttc   1380
              atgcccgtcc acgcgatgcc ggcgtcggct cccgccggag aatacaacct caacttctcc   1440
              atgtcctcgg gtcttttggg tgtcaacagt agggggaccc ttcagtccaa ttcgcagccg   1500
              catatctccg gccaccatca ccaccaccaa cagctccaga ggctgtctac tccactggac   1560
              gctcccaaca taccattcat gttcagctcg gccgccgctg ccgctgccgc tgcggcggtc   1620
              accacgccca ccacggccga cggccagttc gccgcgttcc agctctggaa cgggttccag   1680
              cacgcagaca tgaaggagaa gggcaagcac tgatcgacac ctgcccagcg cagtgcgctg   1740
              ctatctggat gggcgtggaa aggcgtcaaa taatcgcagc ctgtccctac aagcaccatc   1800
              cattattgcc tgaagctgct gccatgattg cagtggggat ggttcctccc cccgaattct   1860
              tggaagtaga tcatccttat ttcaggctat cacactgaag aacctcgtcg tccttactct   1920
              ggcaaataac cttccgcact tctttttctg cctgctgttg tactcatttc ctggaggcga   1980
              ggttttcggg ggcatgattt gccagaccag agcgcccccg tcagaaatgt actgtgatca   2040
              ttcccactcg aaaactttgc cggtggatgg gttcggtttg gcccccttga tcggctctct   2100
              ctcgagcttt agtgatcagt tagttagttt ttatatccct gccatttgta tggttttcgg   2160
              ttgtgtgttg cacgaggagt gggaggactc cagtgcatga cgtgtgtgtg caagtttgtg   2220
              cccctgttgt gtactactgg catagtgaga gttctcctcg tatgtaaatt ttatttttat   2280
                                                   1145

<removed-date>
              tgtttcacag tggttatctc gtgttgctcc ctac                               2314
              <210>   989
              <211>   1562
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 989
              atggaggcag cagccgtggg cgccggcgcg cccggccgct cccagcagca gggctccaag     60
<removed-apn>
              cgcggccgcg gcggcgccgt gaggggcagc gaggcggagg cggcgtgggg ccagccgccg    120
              ccgccgccgc cgccgctggg cccgggggcg gggtcccgga tctaccgcgt gcgggctagc    180
              gggggcaagg accggcacag caaggtgtac acggccaagg gcatccgcga ccgccgcgac    240
              cgcctcggct tcgaccagcc cagcaaggcc atcgaatggc tcatcaacgc cgccgccgcc    300
              gccatcgaca agctcccgga gctcgacccg gccgccttcg ccgccctccc cgcgccgggc    360
              gacgcggatg ccgccggcaa ggacaagcag cagcagggga gcaagtccgc gggcagcagc    420
              acgtcggaga cgagcaaggg atccgagctc tcgctctcgc gctccgacag ccgcgggggc    480
              gcctccgccc gggacaggga ggtcaccgtg gccagcacct cggcgcaggc cgcgtccttc    540
              accgagctgc tcaccggggt ggcgtcggcc ggcgccatta gcgccgccga gcacaggcag    600
              tcctggcatc accagcccaa cgtctccgcg gccgccgccg gctgcgtcgg cattgcgcac    660
              aacgggaaag gtgcgcacgg gctgtcgacg cacgcctttt ctggccctgc cgccgccaag    720
              ttcggcagcg cgcctccgtt cggcctggtt ccggcgcagc ccttcaactt caccagcccc    780
              atcgagatgc ctcacttctc gctcggccag gacactctgg cggcgtcctc ggctgccgcc    840
              ggggactaca gcctcggttt ctccatgtcc gtcaggtttc ttgggtgcca gtagggggac    900
              ccttcagtcc aattcgcagt cgaacttctc aggccatcat caccaccagc tccagaggct    960
              ggatggcccg ctcttgtttg gtcacgttca cggtgcggcg gtggcgcatc ccgcatccga   1020
              gaaccagctc acatcatccg cggcgttaca gctgtgggac ggtctccggc actccggcat   1080
              gaaggagaag agcaaaaact gattgctcat tcttcaacga aaactgaaac cacatccagt   1140
              tgctgggacc ggttcgggca tatatggatt catccttcgg agctgctacc gtttgttgcg   1200
              gtgatgacca tcagattgcc gcacacaagg ctgctatggt ggccatcgtc aaccatccac   1260
              caccatcagg caccagccct gctgccgtcg atcaagcaat cctgtgcttt cttttttttc   1320
                                                      1146

<removed-date>
              ccttcttctc tcttccattc ctttcctagg tgctgttgta caaattttgt gggagatgag   1380
              agtttaaaca ggctgtttgt aagagtgtgc tcggtagccg cggttcttag tgctccccgc   1440
              gcctaactgc tggtctagac tattctggag tttgtatgaa caggtccatc ggacaaccgt   1500
              tgtgctcata gtttctctta gcatatatat cccccaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaacccgcgg   1560
              cc                                                                  1562
<removed-apn>
              <210>   990
              <211>   1817
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 990
              gccaccagcg cgcgcaggag cagcttggtg tggttctatc tgcctgcccc tgcctcctgc     60
              ggacggagtc cttgtgcttg tggacggtgt gggggagtgc ggaagtgagt tcgctcaagc    120
              tggaggagga caagaaccag ttgtccaagg gcttggaccc ttggagcaac cctaccgccg    180
              ccaccagcac cctgcactac ctgctccagg agaaggagag agcgcaggcg catgagcagc    240
              tccagatcta tcaccagcaa ggattcagct acctccagca ccgcgggagg cagcagcagc    300
              agcagcagca gcagcagccg ccgagggctg caggagctgg cggtgatggc gtcagcagcg    360
              gcgagtcgac gcccgtggac gccctggcga ccgcattcgg gagcggccgc atcgtgcggt    420
              ctgccgccgg gcgcaaggac cgccacagca aggtgtgcac cgcgcgcggg ctgcgcgacc    480
              gccgtgtccg cctcgccgcg cacacggcca tccggttcta cgacgtgcag gaccggctag    540
              gctacgaccg ccccagcaaa gccgtcgact ggctcatccg taacgctaag gccgccatcg    600
              acgagctttc ggccgaccgg gaagaggggc agcctgccgc ggaggcagcg gatgccacta    660
              ctaccgagcc ggccgagcag gtgacctcga cgtcctacgg gttcggcggc aaccccggtg    720
              gcgccatcgg tggtgtggcc ggctccttca tgccacattc ggtcggtgcc gatgacgtct    780
              ccggctccgg ctccggctcc ggctccggca acgtcaagtc tttgttcccc tcgtcgtcga    840
              caacgagcac tacccccacc caggacgagt acaggggctc cccgccggac cttctgtcgc    900
              gcacgaccag cagcaaccag cctcaggagc tttgcctcac tctccagtct accaataacc    960
              accaccacca gcagcagcag cagcagcaga tcttcagcca tgtgtccccg aaccaccacg   1020
              gtagtatgat ctccgttgca ggcgtccaag gctggccgga ggcgcacggc cagagaatgc   1080
                                                   1147

<removed-date>
              cgccgtggca tgctccagag aacagcggcg cgggagacga cgggcgcggg gccgccggaa   1140
              atggcgacag ttacatgttc ggcgtgcccg gcccacggca agggttagac cacctgcagg   1200
              gccagctgat cttctcccaa ggggaacccc ttcagtccag tggcggcggc tggccgtcgt   1260
              cgtctgcccg cgcttggctc gaccccctcg tcgcgatcca ccagcaccag ccgtcgacga   1320
              tgtccgggca ggtcggcttc ggtcatctgg ttggcggcgc cggaagcggg tttatggggt   1380
<removed-apn>
              tcctcgcgcc gccggcccag cggctgcagc tgcagagcga ggacgagcaa ggaagcgaag   1440
              caatgaggga gtgatgagcg tgattagcta ctactgctga ggtacggtgt gcgagcttac   1500
              cacgcactgc tctccattga tctgctcagt tatatgtcat tgtcatttca tgtaggagtt   1560
              tgtttaggtg atggaatttc gcatcattaa ttattagctg ctgcaatatt caatcatgcc   1620
              tctgtataag tcgtccttgg aacctgacag cgttactgtt acattagtgg ctactactac   1680
              gtacttttgt ttttttattt cattcttttt ttttccattt catggttgtc aacatggata   1740
              agatgtgtgg tgatgatgag atagacggga cgagatgtga tctcgatggg gtttcccctc   1800
              tttggaccaa aaaaaaa                                                  1817
              <210>   991
              <211>   1650
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1622)..(1622)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1644)..(1645)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 991
              cccagcaagg ccatcgagtg gctcatcagg gccgccgccg acgccatcga caagctcccc     60
              tcgctcgaca ccgccgcagg cttccccgcg cacccggcct ccgccaagga ccacgccccg    120
              cctgctggtg acaacgacga ccaccaccac cagcagcagc tcacgaggtc cggatgcagc    180
              agcacgtccg agaccagcaa gggctccgtc ctctccctct cccgctccga gagccgggtc    240
                                                   1148

              aaggcgcggg accgcgccag ggagcggagc gccgttgcca gggacaagga caaggacccc    300
<removed-date>
              gccgctgact ccaggcgcgc cgcggctaca agctcagcgc aggcggcatc cttcaccgag    360
              ctgctcacgg ggatggctgc ggccagcagc gccgcccccg ccgaacacaa gcaccaccag    420
              cagtcgttgg tgtcctggca gccgccgtcc gtctccgcca ccaccgacta catcgggttc    480
              gcgcagcccc ggaagggcgg gggacacgcg atggcgcaca cttttgcctc ccccgctccc    540
              cacctcggca acattgcgtc catcgccatg gccccggcgc agcactacca ccacttggcc    600
<removed-apn>
              agcggtgccg tcactgtcgc ctctggcggc ggcgagccgc acgccgatat gacgcacttc    660
              tcgttcttgc aggaccactt catgcccgtc cacgcgatgc cggcgtcggc tcccgccgga    720
              gaatacaacc tcaacttctc catgtcctcg ggtctttttc gggttaacag tagggggacc    780
              cttcagtcca attcgcaacc gcacatctct ggccaccacc accaccacca acagctccag    840
              aggctgtcta ctccactgga cgctcccaac ataccattca tgttcagctc ggccgcggct    900
              gccgctgcgg cggccaccac gcccaccacg gccgagggcc agttcgccgc gttccagctc    960
              tggaacggtt tccagcacgc agacatgaag gagaagggca agaactgacc gacacctgcc   1020
              catcgcggtg cagtgctatc tggatggatg tgaaggcatc aaataattgc aacctgtccc   1080
              tgcaagcacc atttcattgc tcgaagctgc cataagtgcg ttggggacga tgtttccccg   1140
              aattattttg gaagcagatt catccttcag acacttgtac tctggtcatc actgaagaac   1200
              ctcatcgtcc ttactctgac gaccttctgg acttcttttt tccgcctgct gttgtactcg   1260
              tttcctggag gtgagattct cggagcgtga tttgccagtg tgccctgtca gaaagccatt   1320
              gtaatcattc ccattatgaa ctttaccaac gggtggagat tcgattcggc cccttgatcg   1380
              gcccgctctt tcgagtttcg gggatcagtt atatccctgg catttttatg gttctcggtt   1440
              gtgtgttgta cgagaaagtg agaggactcc tatgaatgga ttgaactcat atgtgggcaa   1500
              ctttgtgccc ccctgttgtg tgctgaaata ctggcataat gggagtctca gatgtaaatt   1560
              tgctttcttg ttttgcagca attatttcgt attgctctct gatttgtgaa aagctagcac   1620
              anattgcggt cgatacatgc tggnntatat                                    1650
              <210>   992
              <211>   2058
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1149

<removed-date>
              <400> 992
              atggcggcgg cgggcgtttc tccggcattt ctccttcgtt tgctctcccg atgttcagat     60
              ctgagcgggt tttgtgtcgg gcggctcaag ttccagccgc ggtcaagacc tcgtctacca    120
              agggacgcaa tctcgcctcg cccgagcccg gcctcgggcg gggacagtag tcccagacga    180
              attcacgcct cgcccgaggg cctcctcagg cgtcacttcg ccctttcact gaccgacctg    240
              ataggaaaac agcgccgctc gcgctgctcc gactgctgtg ccacccaccg gggtaagact    300
<removed-apn>
              gacaacagcc gagttcagcc tcgggggcaa caggaagctg cgcctcgccc gaccttaggc    360
              ctcggcctcg ggaggaggtc tccgcctcgc ccgaccccag gaagctccgc ctcgcccgac    420
              cttaggcctc ggcctcgaaa ggaggtctcc gcctcgcccg accccaaggc tcggactcag    480
              cttcggcctc gggaggaatc gcgtcctcgc ccgaccccgg cctcggcctc aggagaagtc    540
              tccgcctcgc ccgaccttgg gctcggaccg accgcgccac aggggataca tcattaccct    600
              accctagcta actcaggcta cgagggaaca agatcggcgt cccatctggc tcgccccggg    660
              ctcaagcact tctccgacga ccacgttatc gcgtacacat ggctcaagca cttctccgac    720
              aaccacgttg gcatggctgc aggcgtcgca gcaccggccc gagtactccg ttgtcccgtt    780
              gtccgctccc actccactcc ggcccagctg cgtgctgctc ccgtgctccg gcaccggcag    840
              gcggataagc ccagcaggca agcatgcagg agactaggag aggaggagag ctcagctgca    900
              gcactgcacg cgcgctcccc tccccttgct ggccaaatcg atcggtcccc ttcaggctcc    960
              aggctccgga gcttgcttta cttcagattt gcgcgattcc ccttccaaaa agaaccaatc   1020
              ggtttgctac tagatcggtg cgcgaggcta gactttttct gggaattcaa ccggcgaatg   1080
              ggcagggacg gcggccgcgt gcgcatgagc cgcgtattgg caactgggga tgagcgcggc   1140
              atgggcgagg tagcaggcgt ggagcgcgcc gcctgcaagc gcccgcgcgg cgcgctcgac   1200
              ggcggcgggt cggcgtcggc ggccgcgtgg ccggcgtgcc gggtggctcg cgccgcggcc   1260
              ggcggcaagg accgccacag caaggtggtg acggcgcggg ggctccggga ccgccgcgtc   1320
              cgcctctcgg tgcccacggc catccagttc tacgacatcc aggaccgcct cggcgtcgac   1380
              cagcccagca aggccatcga gtggctcatc cgcgccgccg ccgccgccat cgacggcctc   1440
              ccgtcgctcg actgctcctt cgtcttcccc cacgccgccg cctctccgcc gggcggcgct   1500
              gccgacgacg ccgagctcag cacctccgag accagcaaga gctccgttct ctcgcttgcc   1560
                                                   1150

<removed-date>
              aacgccccgg ttgacaacac cgccgccacc gccgctcact ctcagcaagc caatcacgcc   1620
              tacaacaaca acgccgccgc cggtggtggc gcgttcgccg agctgatcct gcactgctcc   1680
              gccaacaaca gcagcaagcc aatgcagcag cacccgacgc tcgcttacta cgccacccag   1740
              cccccgaacg ctcactccgc gtcggccatg tccttcgaga cgatgctgcc ccacttctcc   1800
              ttccttcagg agcagtctca ccacgcaatc gccttcgacc ggggcacact tcagtccaat   1860
<removed-apn>
              gccgccgttg ctgcgccgct gtggccgacg tctcagcatg cgtgcctgct gcagaggttc   1920
              gccgcttctc cagctgatgc caccggactg ccgtcgttct ttcttggaag cggtgctgct   1980
              ggtgcttctc cggtggtgcc ggccaatgca gagccgaggc ttcagctctg ggacttcaag   2040
              caggaacgga agacctga                                                 2058
              <210>   993
              <211>   1998
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 993
              gcccctcgag ggatactcta gagcggccgc cgcgacgatg gaggtggagg ccatgggcgg     60
              cgccgggggc aagcggggca gggccaaggg cgcgggcgcg ggcgcgggcg ccgagccgga    120
              gccgaagcga cgcgcgatgg cggtggccgt gcagccgccc gccgccgcgc cgtgggcgca    180
              gcagcacccg gcctcgcgga tctgccgcgt ctcccgggcc tccggcggca aggaccgcca    240
              cagcaaggtg tacacggcca agggcatcag ggaccgccgc gtccgcctct ccgttgccac    300
              cgccatccag ttctacgacc tgcaggaccg cctcggctac gaccagccca gcaaggccat    360
              cgagtggctc atcagggccg ctgccgaggc catcgacaag ctcccctcgc tcgacgccgc    420
              cgcgggcttc cccgcgcacc cggcctccgc caaggaccac gccccgcctg tcggtgacga    480
              cgacgaccac caccaccagc agcagcagca gctcacgagg tccggatgca gcagcacgtc    540
              cgagaccagc aagggctccg tcctctccct ctcccgctcc gagagccggg tcaaggcgcg    600
              ggagcgcgca agggagcgga acaccgttgc cagggacaag gaccccgccg ccaacgacac    660
              caccgccacc acctcggcgc aggcggcgtc cttcaccgag ctgcttacgg ggatggccgc    720
              ggccagcgcc gcccccgctc aacacaagca ccagctgcgg cagtcgtcgg tgtcctggca    780
              gccgacgatt gtctccgcca ccaccgacta catcgggttc gcgcagcccc ggaagggcgg    840
                                                   1151

<removed-date>
              ggggcacgcg atggcgcacg ccttcgcctc ccccgctcct cacctcggca acattgcgtc    900
              catcgccatg gccccagcgc agcacttcgg cttggccagt ggtgccgtca ccgtcgcctc    960
              cgggggcggc ggcgagccgc acgccgagat gacgcacttc tcgttcttgc aggaccattt   1020
              catgcccgtc cacgcggcac cggcgccggc cccggcgtcg gctcccgccg gagaatacaa   1080
              cctcgacttc tccatgtcct cgggtcttat gggtgtcaac actagggggg cccttcagtc   1140
<removed-apn>
              caattcgcag ccgcatatct ccggccacca tcaccagcag cagcagctcc agaggctgtc   1200
              tactccactg gacgctccca acataccctt cctgtacagc tctgccgccg ctgcagctgc   1260
              ggcggtcacc acgcccacca cggccgaggg ccagttcgcc gcgttccagc tttggaacgg   1320
              tttccagcac gcagacatga aggagaaggg caagaactga ccgacacctg cccatcgcgg   1380
              tgcagtgcta tttggatgga tgtgaaggca tcaaataatt gcaacctgtc cctgcaagca   1440
              ccattcattg cttgaagctg ccataagtgc gttgtggacg atgtttcccc gaattctttt   1500
              ggaagcagat tcatccttca gacacttgtg ctttggtcat cactgaagaa cctcatcgtc   1560
              cttactctga cgaccttctg gacttctttt ttccacctgc tgttgtactc gtttcctgga   1620
              ggtgagattc tcggagcgtg atttgccagt gtgccctgtc agaaagccat tgtaatcatt   1680
              cccattatga actttaccaa cgggtggaga ttcgattcgg ccccttgatc ggcccgctct   1740
              ttcgagtttc ggggatcagt tatatccctg gcatttttat ggttttcggt tgtgtgttgt   1800
              acgagaaagt gagaggactc ctatgaatgg attgaactca tatgtgggca actttgtgcc   1860
              cccctgttgt gtgctgaaat actggcataa tgggagtttc agatgtaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1920
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta tccctcgagg ggcccaagct   1980
              tacgcgtacc cagctttc                                                 1998
              <210>   994
              <211>   2172
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 994
              aaagcaggct ggtaccggtc cggaattccc gggatccagc aatcagcttc tgccgcgccg     60
              cggccccccc cccgtgtgcc cggggtcggt gatacagtgg cagcgagctt gcagccgagc    120
              agctagaaaa aagtccagtg tgccagcgcg tgccagagcc ggagaaaaat gctggcacga    180
                                                   1152

<removed-date>
              ttgtaggagc acgggcgatg cactaggcgc gggcagcgta gggataagac agcagcacag    240
              cagccgggcc gacggctgga cgtggccggc gcgcatgacc agcaagcagc acgccgggga    300
              gcaccagccg ttgccgcatt ccagcagcga caggcaccga gccgaaaatc gccaggcgcc    360
              agcccacgcc gccaggccta gtgctccctc ataaaagcgt cgcattcctc tcacggtcac    420
              ggcactcgcc gcgccagcag ccagcctatg agcagcgctt gcggcggcgg cggttgtagg    480
<removed-apn>
              gaatggaggc agcagccgtg ggcgacggcg cgccagcggg ccgctcccat cagggcgcca    540
              agcgcgcgcg cggcggcgcc gtgaagggca gcgagacgga agcggcggcg tggggtcagc    600
              cgccgccgct cccgccgccg ccgggcccgg gggcggggtc ccggatctac cgcgtggggg    660
              cgagcggggg caaggaccgc cacagcaagg tgtacacgac caagggcatc cgcgaccgcc    720
              gcgtgcgccc tgtcggcgcc caccgccatc cagttctacg acctgcagga ccgcctcggc    780
              ttcgaccagc ccagcaaggc catcgaatgg ctcatcaacg ccgccgcctc cgccatcgag    840
              aagctcccgg agctcgaccc ggccgccttc gccgcccttc ccgcgccggg cggcgcggat    900
              gccgccggca atgataagca gcagcagcag gggagcaagt ccgcgggcag cagcacgtcg    960
              gagacgagca aggggtccga gctctcgctc tcgcgctccg acggccgtgg gggcgccgcc   1020
              gcgcaggaca gggtggtcac cgtggccagc acctcggcgc aggccgcgtc cttcaccgag   1080
              ctgctcaccg gggtggcgtc ggccggcgcc attagcgccg gcgagcacag gcagtcgtgg   1140
              catcagcagc ccaacgtctc cgccgccgcc ggcgccgacc gcgtcggcat tgcgcacaac   1200
              gggaaaggcg cgcacgggct gtcgacggcg acgcacgcct tttctggccc cgccgccgcc   1260
              aagtttggca atgcgcctcc gttcggcctg gtgccggcac agcctttaga cttcaccatc   1320
              cccatcgaga tgcctcactt ctcgctcggt caggacactt cggcggcgtc ctcgtctggc   1380
              gccggggact acagcctcag tttttccatg tcctcgggtt tcttgggtgc caataggggg   1440
              acccttcagt ccaattcgca gtcgaacttc tcaggccatc atcaccagca gctccagagg   1500
              ctggacggcc cgctcttgtt tggccacgcc cacgccgcgg cggcgatgca tcccgcatcc   1560
              gagaaccagc tgaccgcatc ggcggcgtta cagctctggg acgggctccg gcactccggc   1620
              atgaaggaga agggcaggag ctgattgcac attcttcaat agaaaaccga agacgacgtc   1680
              ctattgctgg gggccgttcc ggcaagaatt ctattgtgga gctgctacca ttttgttgcg   1740
                                                   1153

              gtgacgactt gtcagatcgc cgcacgcaag gctgctatgg tcaccatatc aaccatccat   1800
<removed-date>
              cagcgatagc tgctgccgtt gatcaaacaa tcctgtgcct tcttatttct ttttttcttt   1860
              catttccgtc gttgatgctg ttgtacagat tttgtgggat atgagagttt aaacaagtag   1920
              tcgtaggagt gctcggtaat cgcgagagtt ctagtggctc cccgcgtctg actgctggtc   1980
              tacattattt tgaggttttg gatgaacagg tccactggac aagtgttgtg gtccctgatg   2040
              gctcgttcta ggtgtgatgg gatgaatatt tcgatatgga aagatgatcc actcggtcaa   2100
<removed-apn>
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaacgaga cgctcgaggt actatccctc gaggggccca agcttacgcg   2160
              tacccagctt tc                                                       2172
              <210>   995
              <211>   1826
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 995
              gtgaactata gaacaagttt gtacaaaaaa gcaggctggt acccggccgg acccccccgc     60
              ctctcctctc ctctggcccg tggcctgggt cagtgtccat ccctccctgt ccctgcccac    120
              cacttcgtct gctctccatc cctcatccgt ccccatgccg cgcccgccgc cgcctacttc    180
              ttctccactt ttttgactgt ttttcctgcc atcctagcta tgggctccgc cgaggcggat    240
              ggaagcgcat tgccggacgc ggagcagcag tagcagcggc ggccaagcaa gcgggggatc    300
              tggatccgag gttctaccat cgggctcctc acggcggcgg cggcggagaa ggaggcggag    360
              cgcagcaaga cgcagatgag cagcggcggc aacaccaccg gctgctgcag ctccaccaac    420
              aagtgcagca ggaccaagac ccaccaccgg cccccctctt ccagctccag cacctgcagg    480
              ccgcggcggc ggcggccgtg aggcagcggg gcggcttgtt gtccgccggg tatgcccttc    540
              tcgcccccat gggcgacgct agccagtccc actcccactc ccactcccaa caccacggct    600
              tccagccgca gctcctatcc ttcgggggag ccggccagca ccacgcgcac cagttcacgg    660
              cgcaggcggc gtcccacttg cggccacgag gacggggagc ggtgggcgcg ggcggcgagg    720
              ccgtggccac gacgtccgcg tcgcgctcgc gcgtgagggg cggcggcggg gaggccgtgg    780
              cggtgcaggg aggccacatt gcgcgctcca cggggcgcaa ggacagccac agcaaggtgt    840
              gcacggcgcg cgggacgcgg gaccggcgcg tgcggctggc ggcgcacacc gccatccagt    900
                                                   1154

              tctacgacgt gcaggaccgg ctgggctacg accgccccag caaggccgtc gactggctca    960
<removed-date>
              tcaagaacgc caaggacgcc atcgacaggc tcgagacgac gctgcccgcg gccaatgccg   1020
              cgccgccgtc ctcctcctgg acgcacccag actccgccga gaactccgac gaccaggcgc   1080
              aggccatcac cgtcgcgcac acggccttcg acttccccgg cgccgacggt ttcctagttc   1140
              cggcgtcgct cgactcggac acgatcaagt cgttctttcc cgtggctggc acgggaggcg   1200
              gcgaggccga ggcgtcttcg tccgcgacgg cggcgcagtc gtcggccatg gggtaccaaa   1260
<removed-apn>
              gctacacgcc tgacctgctg tcccgcaccg gcggacacag ccaggagctg cggctgtcgc   1320
              tgcagtctct cccagacccc atgttccacc accggtcgca cggccacggc cacggcggcg   1380
              atggctccgc gcagcaggcg ctcttccccg gcgccgccag ctactcgttc ggcggcggcg   1440
              ctgcgtgggc cgagcacgcg cagagccagc gcgtggcgcc gtggaacgcg cccgacccag   1500
              gcggcgggag cactggcggc tacctgctca acgtgtcgca gtcgcagcag gcggcgcttg   1560
              gtggccagag ccagttcttc ttccagaggg gaccccttca gtccagtaac cagccctccg   1620
              actccgagcg aggatggccg gagaccgtcg aagccgacaa cccgatgcag catggtgggc   1680
              cgaccatcgg gttcgcgccc ggtaccagct tctccgggat ccgcatcccc accaggatac   1740
              agggcggcga ggagcacaac ggcggcagcg gcaatggcga caagccgccg ccgcctccgt   1800
              ctgtttcctc ggcttctcgc cagtga                                        1826
              <210>   996
              <211>   2032
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1399)..(1443)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 996
              atgggcgacg ccggccagtc ccactcccac caccaccacc acggcttcca gccgcagctc     60
              ctgtccttcg gaggagtcgg tcagcaccac atgcaccagt tcacggcgca ggcgctcgcg    120
              gcgtctcact cctcgcggcc gcggatagga ggggtgggcg cgggcggcga ggccgcggcc    180
              gccacgtccg cgtcgcactc gcgcgcgagg ggcggcgccg gggagatcgt ggccgtgcag    240
                                                   1155

              ggagggcaca ttgtgcgctc cacggggcgc aaggaccgcc acagcaaggt gtgcacggcg    300
<removed-date>
              cgcgggccgc gggaccggcg cgtgcgcctc tctgcgcaca ccgccatcca gttctacgac    360
              gtgcaggacc ggctgggcta cgaccgcccc agcaaggccg tcgactggct catcaagaac    420
              gccaaggacg ccatcgacaa gctcgagacg ctgcccgcgt ggcagcccac ggccaatgcc    480
              gccgcgccac cgtcctcctc gacgcacccc gactccgccg agaactccga cgaccaggcg    540
              caggccatca ccgtcgccgc gcacgctccg ttcgacttct ccggcgccgg tggagcaagc    600
<removed-apn>
              ggcggcgccg cgggcttcct cccggcgtcg ctcgactcgg actccatcgc ggacacgatc    660
              aagtcgttct ttcccatggc tggcacgggt ggcggcggcg aggcgtcgtc gtccacggcg    720
              gcggcgcagt cgtcggccat gggcttccaa agctacacgc ccgacctcct gtcgcgcacc    780
              ggcagccaca gccaggagct ccggctgtcg ctgcagtctc tcccagaccc catgttccac    840
              cagcagcagg accggtcgga agcccacggc ggcaatggct cggcgcagca ggcgctcttc    900
              tccggcgccg ccagctactc gtttggcggc ggcgccatgt ggggcgagca ggcgcagagc    960
              cagcgcatgg tgccgtggac cgtgcccgac ccaggcggcg ggagcgctgg cggctacctg   1020
              tttcacgtgt cgcagcaggc ggcgcacatg caggcggcgt ttggcggcca gagccagttc   1080
              ttcttccaga ggggacccct tcagtccagt aaccagccct ccgagcgagg atggccggag   1140
              agcgtcgaag ccgacaaccc gatgcagcac ggcgggctca gccccgctgt gtcggccatc   1200
              gggttctcgc ccggcgtcgg cttctccggg atccgcatcc ccaccaggat gcagggcgac   1260
              gaggagcaca acggcggcgg caatggcgac aagccgccgc tcgtcgtccg tgtcctcggc   1320
              ttctcaccac tgacgacggc agagcagtgg agcgcagatt actccgcgcg cccaacatgc   1380
              caccaaccac catcacgann nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn   1440
              nnncaccgtc agctagctcc tcaacatgca ccgcccaggt agttactttg ctgctgcttc   1500
              ctacgacaac ggatggctgc agcaaaatgg aggagcaagg ttgggagcga agcactcttt   1560
              ttgactggct ggctggttgg ttggttggtt ggttggccgg tcggtcggtt tctttacatc   1620
              tctcgctgct ttgtgtacgt cattggtttt tgctccaaga acgaactcac tcacactcac   1680
              tcactcggag cttcttttct tagaaattag gcatgtgaga acgcagcaca ttggctagcc   1740
              agcaggattt cttgctgctt gtccgtttgc tgcgttgtta cagtaggttt agttgatgtt   1800
              ctagttgctt tagtagttct caagcttttg cattttaatt ttgctgttgt tctcgctggc   1860
                                                   1156

<removed-date>
              gctttgcacg gatcgatggg ggttagctag tgtgcttcct cctggggttc agggaggagc   1920
              tataagcggc agagcagtgc cagccagcgg atgttgttgt tgttagcctg ataattaagc   1980
              ggatggggac aggagtcttt ggatggttaa aataatctct ctgatgtgat tg           2032
              <210>   997
              <211>   1359
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 997
              atggaatcgc ctcaatcatt tccggcggaa ccctttgtgc gttatcgtct cctcttcttt     60
              actgaaaagg ctgcaggcgt cgcagcaccg gcccgagtac tccgctgtcc gctcccactc    120
              cactccggcc cagctgcgtg ctgctccggc accggcaggc ggataagccc agcaggtaaa    180
              gcaggcagga gaggaggaga gctcagcact gcacgcgcgc tcccctcccc ttcccttgct    240
              ggccaaatcg atcggtcccc ttcaggctcc aggctccgga gcttgcttta cttcagattt    300
              gcgcgattcc ccttccaaaa agaaccaatc ggtttgctac tagatcggtg cgcgaggcta    360
              gactttttct gggaattcaa ccggcgaatg ggcagggacg gcggccgcgt gcgcatgagc    420
              cgcgtattgg caactgggga tgagcgcggc atgggcgagg tagcaggcgt ggagcgcgcc    480
              gcctgcaagc gcccgcgcgg cgcgctcgac ggcggcgggt cggggtctgc ggccgcgtgg    540
              ccggcgtgcc gggtggcgcg cgccgcggcc ggcggcaagg accgccacag taaggtggtg    600
              acggcgcggg ggctccggga ccgccgcgtc cgcctctcgg tgcccacggc catccagttc    660
              tacgacatcc aggaccgcct cggcgtcgac cagcccagca aggccatcga gtggctcatc    720
              cgcgccgccg ccgccgccat cgacggcctc ccgtcgctcg actgctcctt cgtcttcccc    780
              cacgccgccg catctccgcc gggcggcgct gccgacgacg ccgagctcag cacctccgag    840
              accagcaaga gctccgttct ctcgcttgcc aacgccccgg ttgacaacac cgccgctcac    900
              tctcagcaag acagtcacgc ctacaacaac aacgccgccg ccggtggtgg cgcgttcgcc    960
              gacctgatcc tgcactgctc cgccaacaac agcagcaagc cagtgcagca gcagccgacg   1020
              ctcgcttact acgccaccca gcccccgaac gcgcactccg cgtcggccat atccttcgag   1080
              acgatgctgc cccacttctc cttccttcag gagcagcctc accacgcaat cgccttcgac   1140
              cggggcacac ttcagtccaa tgccgccgtt gctgcgccgc tgtggccgac gtctcagcat   1200
                                                   1157

<removed-date>
              gcgtgcctgc tgcagaggtt cgccgcttct ccagctgatg ccaccggact gccgtcgttc   1260
              tttcttggaa gcggtgctgc tggtgcttct ccggtggtgc cggccaatgc agagccgagg   1320
              cttcagctct gggacttcaa gcaggaacgg aagacctga                          1359
              <210>   998
              <211>   1474
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 998
              gccagcctat gagcagcgct tgcggcggcg gcggttgtag ggaatggagg cagcagccgt     60
              gggcgacggc gcgccagcgg gccgctccca tcagggcgcc tgtcggcgcc caccgccatc    120
              cagttctacg acctgcagga ccgcctcggc ttcgaccagc ccagcaaggc catcgaatgg    180
              ctcatcaacg ccgccgcctc cgccatcgag aagctcccgg agctcgaccc ggccgccttc    240
              gccgcccttc ccgcgccggg cggcgcggat gccgccggca atgataagca gcagcagcag    300
              gggagcaagt ccgcgggcag cagcacgtcg gagacgagca aggggtccga gctctcgctc    360
              tcgcgctccg acggccgtgg gggcgccgcc gcgcaggaca gggtggtcac cgtggccagc    420
              acctcggcgc aggccgcgtc cttcaccgag ctgctcaccg gggtggcgtc ggccggcgcc    480
              attagcgccg gcgaacatag gcagtcgtgg catcagcagc ccaacgtctc cgccggcgcc    540
              ggcgccgacc gcgtcggcat tgcgcacaac gggaaaggcg cgcacgggct gtcgacggcg    600
              acgcacgcct tttctggccc cgccgccgcc aagtttggca atgcgcctcc gttcggcctg    660
              gtgccggcac agcctttcga cttcaccatc cccatcgaga tgcctcactt ctcgctcggt    720
              caggacactt cggcggcgtc ctcgtctggc gccggggact acagcctcag tttttccatg    780
              tcctcgggtt tcttgggtgc caataggggg acccttcagt ccaattcgca gtcgaacttc    840
              tcaggccatc atcaccagca gctccagagg ctggacggcc cgctcttgtt tggccacgcc    900
              cacgccgcgg cggcgatgca tcccgcatcc gagaaccagc tgaccgcatc ggcggcgtta    960
              cagctctggg acggactccg gcactccggc atgaaggaga agggcaggag ctgattgcat   1020
              attcttcaat agaaaaccga agacgtccta ttgctggggg ccgttccggc aagaattctc   1080
              ttgtggagct gctaccattt tgttgcggtg acgacttgtc agatcgccgc acgcaaggct   1140
              gctatggtca ccatatcaac catccatcag cgatagctgg tgccgttgat caaacaatcc   1200
                                                   1158

<removed-date>
              tgtgccttct tttttctttc atttccgtcg ttgatgctgt tgtacagatt ttgtgggaga   1260
              tgagagttta aacaagtcgt cgtaggagtg ctcggtaatc gcgagagttc tagtggctcc   1320
              ccgcgtctga ctgctggtct acattatttt gaggttttgg atgaacaggt ccactggaca   1380
              agcgttgtgg tcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg cggccgctct agagtatccc   1440
              tcgaggggcc caagcttacg cgtacccagc tttc                               1474
<removed-apn>
              <210>   999
              <211>   1275
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 999
              ctagaaaaaa gacgccagtc caccaccgct tcccgtgcag cgccctccct atacgttccc     60
              ccatttcctg tgttggcggc gatggcgcgg cacttcgtgc tcaacaccgg cgccaagatc    120
              ccctccgtgg ggctcggcac ctggcagtct gaccccggcg tcgttggcaa cgctgtctac    180
              gccgccgtca aggcgggtta ccgacatatc gattgtgcca gagtttacgg caacgaaaag    240
              gagattggtt tggcgctgaa gaagctattt gaagagggtg tagtgaagcg agaagatatg    300
              tttatcacct ctaagctatg gaatgatcat catgctcctg aagatgtgcc tgaggcacta    360
              aatgacagcc tgaatgattt gcagcttgag tacctggatc tttatcttat ccattggcca    420
              tttagagtca agaagggaac aaataccagc cctgaaaatt ttgttacacc tgacttccct    480
              gctacttggg gggcaatgga aaagttatat gatgctggca aagctcgcgc tattggtcaa    540
              actaagctcc atagcttttg tcagtcaact ggtgttcatc taactgctta ctcaccacta    600
              ggttcacctg gtacaacttg gatgaatggt aatgtcctta aagaaccaat aatcatctca    660
              atagctgaga aactcgggaa aacttctgca caagtggctc tgcgctggaa cattcagatg    720
              ggtcacagtg ttcttccaaa gagcacgaat gaagaaagga taaagcaaaa ccttgatgtt    780
              tatgattggt caattccaga tgacttgctt gcaaagttct ctgagattaa gcaggctagg    840
              ctacttagag gcaacttcat tgttaatcca gagagcgttt acaagaccca tgaggagctc    900
              tgggatggtg aactttaaga aggacgccgt tgtccctcct gactcctgag cagggagcaa    960
              gcagcgttcc attagggctc gttagatcat ttcacctcca aagttgctct tttgaaatga   1020
              aggttcagtg ctcggaagct ctggtgccat cctgtatcac gaactattga gaaatttgtc   1080
                                                      1159

<removed-date>
              ggtgatttta ctttgtgcta cgggatgtgc tgctgcagtc tatcctagtg tcagttgatt   1140
              ttttctggta aaactgtgac caaataagtt aattcgccag gcatcattac tattggaaaa   1200
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1260
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                                                    1275
              <210>   1000
<removed-apn>
              <211>   779
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1000
              aacgaagcaa accagctcgg aaacagagca gagagagaga gagagaaacc agcagcgaat     60
              cccacacagg atccgccttc ccttcctttt cctacccccg atcgaaacag agagctagct   120
              agagagatag atattcccgc gaatcttctg ctccgattcc aagcccgtcc cggtctcggt   180
              cccgtcccac gccccctccc tccgccttca atccttcttc atcggtacca gagcacccct    240
              gcggcggcgg cagttcgagt cgaatcgctc ctcctccttc gtcttcgtca ggcatgtgcg    300
              tggagggatt cgaggacgcg cagatcgaga ggccggcaga tttcgcgatg gagagagtct    360
              gtgagaacac agtgtccatt gatttcaagc aagccaagat ggtgactgcg atgggagaaa    420
              gttggcacaa ttttgttcca gctatccgct caggggattg gtctgacatt ggtggccgtg   480
              attacatgga agatccgcat gtgtgcatcc ccaacctagc caagaatttt ggttacaaca   540
              tggtgggatg atgaagttat ttccttctat ggggtatttg atggacatgg tggaaaagat   600
              gccgcacagt atgttcgcga caacttgccg cgggtcatcg tggaagatgc tgcttttcct    660
              cttgagcttg agaaggcagt caggaggtcg tttatgcaaa ctgacagtca gtttgcagag    720
              aagtgctctc tccaggatgg gccttcttct ggaacaactg cacttacagc aatgaattt     779
              <210>   1001
              <211>   1492
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1001
              caccgcttcc cgtgcagcgc cctccctcta cgttccccca tttcctgtgt tggcggcgat     60
              ggcgcggcac ttcgtgctca acaccggcgc caagatcccc tccgtggggc tcggcacctg    120
                                                   1160

              gcagtctgac cccggcgtcg ttggcaacgc tgtctacgcc gccgtcaagg cgggttaccg    180
<removed-date>
              acatatcgat tgtgccagag tttacggcaa cgaaaaggag attggtttgg cgctgaagaa    240
              gctatttgaa gagggtgtag tgaagcgaga agatctgttt atcacctcta agctatggaa    300
              tgatcatcat gctcctgaag atgtgcctga ggcactaaat gacagcctga atgatttgca    360
              gcttgagtac ctggatcttt atcttatcca ttggccattt agagtcaaga agggaacaaa    420
              taccagccct gaaaattttg ttacacctga cttccctgct acttgggggg caatggaaaa    480
<removed-apn>
              gttatatgat gctggcaaag ctcgcgctat tggtgtgagt aacttctcct caaagaaatt    540
              gggtgacttg cttgctgtag ctcgtgtacc tccagctgtt gatcaggtgg aatgtcatcc    600
              tggttggcag caaactaagc tccatagctt ttgtcagtca actggtgttc atctaactgc    660
              ttactcacca ctaggttcac ctggtacaac ttggatgaat ggtaatgtcc ttaaagaacc    720
              aataatcatc tcaatagctg agaaactcgg gaaaacttct gcacaagtgg ctctgcgctg    780
              gaacattcag atgggtcaca gtgttcttcc aaagagcacg aatgaagaaa ggataaagca    840
              aaaccttgat gtttatgatt ggtcaattcc agatgacttg cttgcaaagt tctctgagat    900
              taagcaggct aggctactta gaggcaactt cattgttaat ccagagagcg tttacaagac    960
              ccatgaggag ctctgggatg gtgaacttta agaaggacgc cgttgtccct cctgactcct   1020
              gagcagggag caagcagcgt tccattaggg ctcgtcagat catttcacct ccaaagttgc   1080
              tcttttgaaa tgaaggttca gtgctcggaa gctctggtgc catcctgtat cacgaactat   1140
              tgagaaattt gtcggtgatt ttactttgtg ctacgggatg tgctgctgca gtctgtccta   1200
              gtgtcagttg atttttctgg taaaactgtg accaaataag ttaattcgcc aggcatcatt   1260
              actattggaa tttcatcgtt ttatctcctc actatttttt tatgctccat gtattctcta   1320
              tgatgagacc ctgttgagta gttcactcat atagggggcg tttggtttct aggactaatg   1380
              tttagtccct ccattttatt ttaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1440
              aagggcggcc gctctagagt atccctcgag gggcccgaag cttacgcgta cc           1492
              <210>   1002
              <211>   1587
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1002
                                                   1161

              gtccaccacc gcttcccgtg cagcgccctc cctatacgtt cccccatttc ctgtgttggc     60
<removed-date>
              ggcgatggcg cggcacttcg tgctcaacac cggcgccaag atcccctccg tggggctcgg    120
              cacctggcag tctgaccccg gcgtcgttgg caacgctgtc tacgccgccg tcaaggtccg    180
              cacaaacccg cgcccgcgtc ctgttttctt ctccctccgt tgactatcca gattgcattc    240
              ttttttctcc tccctccttt atactaatcc ctttatgaat cctgtttcct gggatacggg    300
              agatctttct tccccgagga atttcacatg attgcgtacg gatcttgcag gcgggttacc    360
<removed-apn>
              gacatatcga ttgtgccaga gtttacggca acgaaaagga gattggtttg gcgctgaaga    420
              agctatttga agagggtgta gtgaagcgag aagatatgtt tatcacctct aagctatgga    480
              atgatcatca tgctcctgaa gatgtgcctg aggcactaaa tgacagcctg aatgatttgc    540
              agcttgagta cctggatctt tatcttatcc attggccatt tagagtcaag aagggaacaa    600
              ataccagccc tgaaaatttt gttacacctg acttccctgc tacttggggg gcaatggaaa    660
              agttatatga tgctggcaaa gctcgcgcta ttggtgtgag taacttctcc tcaaagaaat    720
              tgggtgattt gcttgctgta gctcgtgtac ctccagctgt tgatcaggtg gaatgtcatc    780
              ctggttggca gcaaactaag ctccatagct tttgtcagtc aactggtgtt catctaactg    840
              cttactcacc actaggttca cctggtacaa cttggatgaa tggtaatgtc cttaaagaac    900
              caataatcat ctcaatagct gagaaactcg ggaaaacttc tgcacaagtg gctctgcgct    960
              ggaacattca gatgggtcac agtgttcttc caaagagcac gaatgaagaa aggataaagc   1020
              aaaaccttga tgtttatgat tggtcaattc cagatgactt gcttgcaaag ttctctgaga   1080
              ttaagcaggc taggctactt agaggcaact tcattgttaa tccagagagc gtttacaaga   1140
              cccatgagga gctctgggat ggtgaacttt aagaaggacg ccgttgtccc tcctgactcc   1200
              tgagcaggga gcaagcagcg ttccattagg gctcgttaga tcatttcacc tccaaagttg   1260
              ctcttttgaa atgaaggttc agtgctcgga agctctggtg ccatcctgta tcacgaacta   1320
              ttgagaaatt tgtcggtgat tttactttgt gctacgggat gtgctgctgc agtctatcct   1380
              agtgtcagtt gattttttct ggtaaaactg tgaccaaata agttaattcg ccaggcatca   1440
              ttactattgg aatttcatcg ttttatctcc tcactatttt ttatgctcca tgtattctct   1500
              atgatgagac catgttgagt agttcactca tatagtcaca caaaacactg ttttacatta   1560
              tcaacagagt aagctgctga acgtgct                                       1587
                                                   1162

<removed-date>
              <210>   1003
              <211>   1770
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1003
              atgggccgcg gcggcgcgcg cgcggccccc gccgccgcgg tgccgccctg gcacgcgctc     60
              ccggacgagg tctgggagca cgccttctcc ttcctccccg cggactcgga ccggggcgcc    120
<removed-apn>
              gccgcgtgcg cctgccacgc ctggctccgc ttcgagcgcc gctcgcgccg ccgccttgcc    180
              gtcgccaact gctacgccgc gtccccgcgc gacgccgtcg agcgcttccc cgccgtccgc    240
              gccgtcgagg tcaagggcaa gccccacttc gccgacttcg gcctcgttcc gcccgcctgg    300
              ggcgccgacg ccgcgccctg ggtcgccgcc gccgccgccg gctggccgct gctcgaggag    360
              attagcttta agcgcatggt cgtcaccgac gactgcctcg agatgatcgc ggcctccttc    420
              aggaacttcc aggtgctgcg cctcgtctcc tgcgagggct tcagtacagc cggcctcgct    480
              gccattgccg ctgcttgcag aaatctaaga gaacttgacc ttcaggagaa tgagattgag    540
              gattgctcta ttcattggct cagtctattt ccagtatctt tcacttcttt ggtaactcta    600
              aatttttcat gcctagaggg ggatgtcaat atcactgtac ttgaacaatt agtaaccaga    660
              tgcagcaacc tcaagactct caagctcaac aatgctatac ctcttgacaa gcttgctaac    720
              ctccttcgca aggctcctca gattgtagaa ctcggaacag gaagattctc tgcagattac    780
              catccggatc tcttttcgaa gcttgaagca gcatttgctg gctgtaaaag cttaagaagg    840
              ctctctgggg cttgggatgc cgttccagaa tacctgccag cattttattg tgtatgcgaa    900
              ggcctcacat cactaaatct gagctatgct actgtacgag gccctgaact gattaaattc    960
              attagcagat gcaaaaattt gcaactctta tgggtgatgg acttgattga agaccatggt   1020
              cttgctgttg tggcatcgtc ttgtaacaaa ctgcaggagt tgcgggtttt cccttctgct   1080
              cctttcgaag cagctgagca ggtctctttg actgaaagag gtcttgttga tgtatctgcc   1140
              agttgcccaa tgctggagtc agtcctctac ttttgcagac ggatgaccaa cgaggccctt   1200
              attaccatcg cgaagaaccg gcccaacttc acttgcttcc gcctatgcat cattgagcct   1260
              cacacaccag attacattac acaccagcct cttgatgcag gttttagtgc cattgtggaa   1320
              tcatgcaagg gcctcaggcg gctttctgtt tcaggccttc tcacggacag tgtatttaaa   1380
                                                   1163

<removed-date>
              tccatcgggg cacatgctga ccgtcttgag atgctctcga ttgccttcgc cgggaacagt   1440
              gatttgggcc tccattacat cctatcgggc tgcaagagct tgaagaagct agagattagg   1500
              gactgcccat ttggtgacaa gcccttgctg gcaaacgctg ccaagctgga gacaatgcga   1560
              tccctttgga tgtcgacgtg ctcaatgacc ttgggcgcat gccggcagct tgcgcgcaag   1620
              atgccccgtc ttagtgtgga ggtcatgaat gatcctcgac ggggattccc cttggactct   1680
<removed-apn>
              ctaacagatg agagccctgt tgagacgttg tatgtctacc ggacaatttc aggtccaagg   1740
              tccgacacac cagcttgtgt ccagattctc                                    1770
              <210>   1004
              <211>   1770
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1004
              atgggccgcg gcggcgcgcg cgcggccccc gccgccgcgg tgccgccctg gcacgcgctc     60
              ccggacgagg tctgggagca cgccttctcc ttcctccccg cggactcgga ccggggcgcc    120
              gccgcgtgcg cctgccacgc ctggctccgc ttcgagcgcc gctcgcgccg ccgccttgcc    180
              gtcgccaact gctacgccgc gtccccgcgc gacgccgtcg agcgcttccc cgccgtccgc    240
              gccgtcgagg tcaagggcaa gccccacttc gccgacttcg gcctcgttcc gcccgcctgg    300
              ggcgccgacg ccgcgccctg ggtcgccgcc gccgccgccg gctggccgct gctcgaggag    360
              attagcttta agcgcatggt cgtcaccgac gactgcctcg agatgatcgc ggcctccttc    420
              aggaacttcc aggtgctgcg cctcgtctcc tgcgagggct tcagtacagc cggcctcgct    480
              gccattgccg ctgcttgcag aaatctaaga gaacttgacc ttcaggagaa tgagattgag    540
              gattgctcta ttcattggct cagtctattt ccagtatctt tcacttcttt ggtaactcta    600
              aatttttcat gcctagaggg ggatgtcaat atcactgtac ttgaacaatt agtaaccaga    660
              tgcagcaacc tcaagactct caagctcaac aatgctatac ctcttgacaa gcttgctaac    720
              ctccttcgca aggctcctca gattgtagaa ctcggaacag gaagattctc tgcagattac    780
              catccggatc tcttttcgaa gcttgaagca gcatttgctg gctgtaaaag cttaagaagg    840
              ctctctgggg cttgggatgc cgttccagaa tacctgccag cattttattg tgtatgcgaa    900
              ggcctcacat cactaaatct gagctatgct actgtacgag gccctgaact gattaaattc    960
                                                   1164

<removed-date>
              attagcagat gcaaaaattt gcaactctta tgggtgatgg acttgattga agaccatggt   1020
              cttgctgttg tggcatcgtc ttgtaacaaa ctgcaggagt tgcgggtttt cccttctgct   1080
              cctttcgaag cagctgagca ggtctctttg actgaaagag gtcttgttga tgtatctgcc   1140
              agttgcccaa tgctggagtc agtcctctac ttttgcagac ggatgaccaa cgaggccctt   1200
              attaccatcg cgaagaaccg gcccaacttc acttgcttcc gcctatgcat cattgagcct   1260
<removed-apn>
              cacacaccag attacattac acaccagcct cttgatgcag gttttagtgc cattgtggaa   1320
              tcatgcaagg gcctcaggcg gctttctgtt tcaggccttc tcacggacag tgtatttaaa   1380
              tccatcgggg cacatgctga ccgtcttgag atgctctcga ttgccttcgc cgggaacagt   1440
              gatttgggcc tccattacat cctatcgggc tgcaagagct tgaagaagct agagattagg   1500
              gactgcccat ttggtgacaa gcccttgctg gcaaacgctg ccaagctgga gacaatgcga   1560
              tccctttgga tgtcgacgtg ctcaatgacc ttgggcgcat gccggcagct tgcgcgcaag   1620
              atgccccgtc ttagtgtgga ggtcatgaat gatcctcgac ggggattccc cttggactct   1680
              ctaacagatg agagccctgt tgagacgttg tatgtctacc ggacaatttc aggtccaagg   1740
              tccgacacac cagcttgtgt ccagattctc                                    1770
              <210>   1005
              <211>   2413
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1005
              gcaggagaca gaggggctcc ccccccaccc ccgagcccaa acgcagctag ctccccattc     60
              cacccaagct cccgcagcca gatgctctcc cccgctcgag ccccaccgcc gccgcccgtc    120
              cccgccgccg ggtagaccgc ccgatccgac ggcgcccgcc gcacccatgg gccgcggcgg    180
              cgcgcgcgcg gcccccgccg ccgcggtgcc gccctggcac gcgctcccgg acgaggtctg    240
              ggagcacgcc ttctccttcc tccccgcgga ctcggaccgg ggcgccgccg cgtgcgcctg    300
              ccacgcctgg ctccgcttcg agcgccgctc gcgccgccgc cttgccgtcg ccaactgcta    360
              cgccgcgtcc ccgcgcgacg ccgtcgagcg cttccccgcc gtccgcgccg tcgaggtcaa    420
              gggcaagccc cacttcgccg acttcggcct cgttccgccc gcctggggcg ccgacgccgc    480
              gccctgggtc gccgccgccg ccgccggctg gccgctgctc gaggagatta gctttaagcg    540
                                                   1165

<removed-date>
              catggtcgtc accgacgact gcctcgagat gatcgcggcc tccttcagga acttccaggt    600
              gctgcgcctc gtctcctgcg agggcttcag tacagccggc ctcgctgcca ttgccgctgc    660
              ttgcagaaat ctaagagaac ttgaccttca ggagaatgag attgaggatt gctctattca    720
              ttggctcagt ctatttccag tatctttcac ttctttggta actctaaatt tttcatgcct    780
              agagggggat gtcaatatca ctgtacttga acaattagta accagatgca gcaacctcaa    840
<removed-apn>
              gactctcaag ctcaacaatg ctatacctct tgacaagctt gctaacctcc ttcgcaaggc    900
              tcctcagatt gtagaactcg gaacaggaag attctctgca gattaccatc cggatctctt    960
              ttcgaagctt gaagcagcat ttgctggctg taaaagctta agaaggctct ctggggcttg   1020
              ggatgccgtt ccagaatacc tgccagcatt ttattgtgta tgcgaaggcc tcacatcact   1080
              aaatctgagc tatgctactg tacgaggccc tgaactgatt aaattcatta gcagatgcaa   1140
              aaatttgcaa ctcttatggg tgatggactt gattgaagac catggtcttg ctgttgtggc   1200
              atcgtcttgt aacaaactgc aggagttgcg ggttttccct tctgctcctt tcgaagcagc   1260
              tgagcaggtc tctttgactg aaagaggtct tgttgatgta tctgccagtt gcccaatgct   1320
              ggagtcagtc ctctactttt gcagacggat gaccaacgag gcccttatta ccatcgcgaa   1380
              gaaccggccc aacttcactt gcttccgcct atgcatcatt gagcctcaca caccagatta   1440
              cattacacac cagcctcttg atgcaggttt tagtgccatt gtggaatcat gcaagggcct   1500
              caggcggctt tctgtttcag gccttctcac ggacagtgta tttaaatcca tcggggcaca   1560
              tgctgaccgt cttgagatgc tctcgattgc cttcgccggg aacagtgatt tgggcctcca   1620
              ttacatccta tcgggctgca agagcttgaa gaagctagag attagggact gcccatttgg   1680
              tgacaagccc ttgctggcaa acgctgccaa gctggagaca atgcgatccc tttggatgtc   1740
              gacgtgctca atgaccttgg gcgcatgccg gcagcttgcg cgcaagatgc cccgtcttag   1800
              tgtggaggtc atgaatgatc ctcgacgggg attccccttg gactctctaa cagatgagag   1860
              ccctgttgag acgttgtatg tctaccggac aatttcaggt ccaaggtccg acacaccagc   1920
              ttgtgtccag attctctaag gggcagctgt ggtctacaaa ggtactatgg aagcatccat   1980
              tttcaatcac atcatgtacc ttcaacacct tactagcata acctggatcg tctccttgaa   2040
              gtagcaaggc tggtgacctc ggtaatcctg tcataatctc tgcttagctg tacaactgtt   2100
                                                   1166

              tctgggagtt tagggtgaga gactcagggt ccctttcagg tgttaataac tgtagggagg   2160
<removed-date>
              acactcgatg agttacagga actactagat agcgtcttga ggaaacttgg gtttgttttc   2220
              ttagcgtgcc tagttctttt catgtataaa aaaatatggg atcattccaa tgctgccaca   2280
              atgtactgta ctattggaac aattgtactt ggagcctcta aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   2340
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc aagcttacgc   2400
              gtacccagct ttc                                                      2413
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1006
              <211>   1578
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1006
              atgacctact tccccgagga ggtggtagag cacatcttca gcttcttgcc atcgcacagc     60
              gaccggaaca cggtctccct tgtgtgcaag gtgtggtatg aggtcgagag gctgagccga    120
              cgagcggtgt tcgtagggaa ctgctacgct gtgcgccctg agcgtgtggt gctgcggttc    180
              cccaatataa aggccctcac ggtgaagggg aagcctcact ttgcagactt caaccttgtg    240
              ccgcctgatt ggggtggcta cgcagggcca tggattgatg cagcagcaag gagctgtgtt    300
              ggtctcgagg agttgcgcat gaagcggatg gttgtgtttg atgagaacct tgagctgcta    360
              gctcggtcat tcctgagatt caaagtcctt gtccttatca gctgcgaggg gtttagcacc    420
              gatggtctag ctgctattgc gagtcactgc aagctcctga gggagttaga tttgcaggaa    480
              aatgatgtgg aggaccgtgg gcccagatgg ctttccttcc ctgattcctg cacttcgctg    540
              gtctccttga atttcgcttg catcaaaggg gaggtgaatt ctggtgcgtt ggagagactt    600
              gttgctaggt ctccaaatct acgcagtttg aggttgaatc gttctgtttc agtagacaca    660
              ctctcaaaga tactattgcg agccccaaat ttggaagact tggggacagg cctaaacttg    720
              agttatactc ccacactgga ttattctgat ctagctaaaa tggtcagccg ctgtgtgaaa    780
              ctccagcgtc tctgggtact ggattgcatt tcagataagg gtttgcaagt ggtggcctcc    840
              agttgcaagg acctacaaga actcagggtg tttccatcag aattttatgt tcctggtgct    900
              tctgcagtga cagaggaggg acttgttgca atatcgtcag gctgcccaaa actgacctct    960
              ttgctgtatt tctgtcacca gatgaccaat gaagcgctaa ttactgtagc taataactgc   1020
                                                   1167

              ccaaatttca tcagatttag actctgtatc cttgagccaa agaagccaga tgccatgaca   1080
<removed-date>
              ggccagccgt tagatgaagg ttttggtgcg attgtccgtg aatgcaaagg gctaagacgt   1140
              ctgtcaatat caggtcttct cacagacaag gttttcatgt atattggaaa acatgcaaaa   1200
              tacctcgaaa tgctttctat agcatttgct ggagatagtg ataaggggat gatggacgtg   1260
              atgaacgggt gcaagaatct gaggaagctt gagatcagag acagtccatt tggcgatgtt   1320
              gcactcttgg gaaatgttgc caagtatgag acaatgcgat ccctttggat gtcttcatgc   1380
<removed-apn>
              aatgtcacat taaaggggtg ccaggtcctt gcatcgaaga tgccgatgct caatgtggag   1440
              atcatgaatg aactagatgg aagtagtgaa atggagaacc atggagacct ctctaaagtg   1500
              gacaagttat atgtttaccg cacaactgct ggagcgaggg atgatgcacc aaattttgtt   1560
              aagatcctac agagctag                                                 1578
              <210>   1007
              <211>   1502
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1007
              ctacccagcc cgccgcagcg gcgcgcccat cccggttccg cctcctgttc gcgcgcgccg     60
              cggcgcagcg gcagcgcgac tccgagccgg cgccggctgc cgaggagagg cggtcgctgg    120
              ccgtcagaac gggggagctg ttcctggggc tggcggcgct gctgctgcgc gggaccgggg    180
              ccgagcgtag cggtggggcc gcggtggagg aggtggaggc gagggacggg gtggtgtggg    240
              agcagcgccc ccaggacgtg gacgcggagc ggcggcgacg ggagctcact agcccaggtt    300
              tcagcttctc cgccgcgggg ctgctcttcc cctaccacct cggcgccgcg cagtgcctca    360
              tggaccgcgg atacatcacc gagacaactc cgttagctgg ctcatcagct ggtgccacaa    420
              agaagccaga tgccatgaca ggccagccgt tagatgaagg ttttggtgca attgtccgtg    480
              agtgcaaagg tctaagacgt ctgtcaatgt cgggccttct cacagacagg gttttcatgt    540
              ttatcagaat gtatgcgaaa taccttgaga tgctttctat agcttttgct ggagatggtg    600
              ataaggggat gatggatgtg atgaacggat gcaagaatct gaggaagctt gagattagag    660
              acagtccatt tggtgatttt gcactcttgg gaaatgttgc caaatatgac acaatgcgat    720
              ccctttggat gtcatcatgc aatgtcacat taaaggggtg ccaagtcctt gcatcgaaga    780
                                                   1168

              tgccgatgct caatgtggag atcatgaacg aactagatgg aagtagtgaa atggagaacc    840
<removed-date>
              atggtaacct ctctaaagtg gataagttat atgtttaccg tacaactgct ggagtgaggg    900
              atgatgcacc aaattttgtt caaatattat agagctagct gcaattacct tggtatcttc    960
              ccttcctacg agaatcggga aaagccacac tggtttgtgc ccttatcctg gagcaacatg   1020
              gccgggattc atcatcatct ctgtaccaac tgctcccctc ttccagtgtc tggtcatatg   1080
              gccacccagg ccctttatcg ccttgtgcat tctcactcga gaggaggaca gaatcagatg   1140
<removed-apn>
              actttttttt ttcttctttt cacgccatgt aatctgtagt gtacctgtct tcatttgctt   1200
              ttcactttgg cacggtggat tgtgctgtcg cggtactgtt ctagtgtttt gattcgtaaa   1260
              cctgagaact gtcgggacat tccggtgacg atgatttctt tcttgctcct gtgaatgcag   1320
              tgtgtgtgca aattttaggt ttatactaca tctctccacg taaatttgct agatgtagcc   1380
              gactacccac gtagcggttc attaatgatc ttggtttaat taatggctga gtattttttt   1440
              tctaatttat gtactttctc tatttttgtt tacatatttt attatattag gtttattctg   1500
              ag                                                                  1502
              <210>   1008
              <211>   1548
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1008
              atgggccgcg gcggcgcgcg cgcggccccc gccgccgcgg tgccgccctg gcacgcgctc     60
              ccggacgagg tctgggagca cgccttctcc ttcctccccg cggactcgga ccggggcgcc    120
              gccgcgtgcg cctgccacgc ctggctccgc ttcgagcgcc gctcgcgccg ccgccttgcc    180
              gtcgccaact gctacgccgc gtccccgcgc gacgccgtcg agcgcttccc cgccgtccgc    240
              gccgtcgagg tcaagggcaa gccccacttc gccgacttcg gcctcgttcc gcccgcctgg    300
              ggcgccgacg ccgcgccctg ggtcgccgcc gccgccgccg gctggccgct gctcgaggag    360
              attagcttta agcgcatggt cgtcaccgac gactgcctcg agatgatcgc ggcctccttc    420
              aggaacttcc aggtgctgcg cctcgtctcc tgcgagggct tcagtacagc cggcctcgct    480
              gccattgccg ctgcttgcag caacctcaag actctcaagc tcaacaatgc tatacctctt    540
              gacaagcttg ctaacctcct tcgcaaggct cctcagattg tagaactcgg aacaggaaga    600
                                                   1169

              ttctctgcag attaccatcc ggatctcttt tcgaagcttg aagcagcatt tgctggctgt    660
<removed-date>
              aaaagcttaa gaaggctctc tggggcttgg gatgccgttc cagaatacct gccagcattt    720
              tattgtgtat gcgaaggcct cacatcacta aatctgagct atgctactgt gatggacttg    780
              attgaagacc atggtcttgc tgttgtggca tcgtcttgta acaaactgca ggagttgcgg    840
              gttttccctt ctgctccttt cgaagcagct gagcaggtct ctttgactga aagaggtctt    900
              gttgatgtat ctgccagttg cccaatgctg gagtcagtcc tctacttttg cagacggatg    960
<removed-apn>
              accaacgagg cccttattac catcgcgaag aaccggccca acttcacttg cttccgccta   1020
              tgcatcattg agcctcacac accagattac attacacacc agcctcttga tgcaggtttt   1080
              agtgccattg tggaatcatg caagggcctc aggcggcttt ctgtttcagg ccttctcacg   1140
              gacagtgtat ttaaatccat cggggcacat gctgaccgtc ttgagatgct ctcgattgcc   1200
              ttcgccggga acagtgattt gggcctccat tacatcctat cgggctgcaa gagcttgaag   1260
              aagctagaga ttagggactg cccatttggt gacaagccct tgctggcaaa cgctgccaag   1320
              ctggagacaa tgcgatccct ttggatgtcg acgtgctcaa tgaccttggg cgcatgccgg   1380
              cagcttgcgc gcaagatgcc ccgtcttagt gtggaggtca tgaatgatcc tcgacgggga   1440
              ttccccttgg actctctaac agatgagagc cctgttgaga cgttgtatgt ctaccggaca   1500
              atttcaggtc caaggtccga cacaccagct tgtgtccaga ttctctaa                1548
              <210>   1009
              <211>   443
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1009
              actctgtatc cttgagccaa agaagccgga tgccatgaca ggccagccgt tagatgaagg     60
              ctttggtgca attgtccgtg actgcaaagg tctaagacga ctgtcaatgt caggccttct    120
              cacagacagg gttttcatgt atatcagaat gtatgcgaaa taccttgaga tgctttctat    180
              agcttttgct ggagatggtg ataaggggat gatggatgtg atgaacggat gcaagaatct    240
              gaggaagctt gagattagag acagtccatt tggtgatttt gcactcttgg gaaatgttgc    300
              caaatatgac acaatgcgat ccctttggat gtcatcatgc aatgtcacat taaaggggtg    360
              ccaagtcctt gcatcgaaga tgccgatgct caatgtggag atcatgaacg aactagatgg    420
                                                   1170

              aagtagtgaa atggagaacc atg                                            443
<removed-date>
              <210>   1010
              <211>   2043
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1010
              ggcccctcga gggatactct agagccggtc caggtccatt tagcgaggcg gaaagggagg     60
<removed-apn>
              ggggcgcgag cccagcggaa gccccgaccc cgaccccgac cgcgacccgg aagaggagga    120
              ggaggaggag gaggaggagg aggagagaga gagagagaga gagggagagg gagggacaga    180
              cggggcgcgg cgaggaggcc ggcgccggcg gcccgcgctc gcggcgccgg cgatggggga    240
              ggtggccgcg ctgcgccagc tcgtcggcca ggttcaggag ctctgggacc tctacggcgc    300
              caacgcccac cccctgccca ggtggtattt acttgacttt gaacatggtt caatcatgga    360
              tgattattgt ggaggaaggt ctggatacaa ctcagaatta ctgaagatca tggaagctaa    420
              ccaatctccc cctcgcaagc gaccgcggag agatcgaaac cgtgaaaagg caccctcctc    480
              aaacaagact gaagtaatgc aacaagagat ctggagagat ttccctgaag atctttttga    540
              aactgtcatt gcaaggcttc cagttgctgc aatttttcga ttccgcactg tctgccgaaa    600
              gtggtcttct cttttgggct cagacagttt ctctcatcag tactctgaag ctccacgtgg    660
              gctgccatgg ttctatacaa tcacccatga gaacgcgaac aacaatgttg caatgtatga    720
              tccttcgctg aagaaatggc accacccatc cgttcctctc actcctacaa agatagttat    780
              tccagtggca tctgtgggtg gccttgtatg tttattggat ctgagccaca agaatttcta    840
              catttgcaac cctcttatgc aatcactcaa ggagatccca ccaagatcag tccagggatg    900
              gtcaagagtc gctgtaggga tggtgttgaa tggaagaagt tctagtgatg gctacaaagt    960
              tatgtggttt ggaaatgatg ggacttttga agtctatgac tctacaaaga acatgtggtc   1020
              ttgccctgga acttttcctc caagcatcaa acttccactt gctctaaatt tcaggtcaca   1080
              gcctgtggcg gttggcagca cggtatactt catgtgtgca gagccagatg gtgttttgtc   1140
              atatgatgta agcactggga tttggaggca atttgccatc ccactgccac cgcatctgac   1200
              cgaccacaca cttgccgagt tccagggaag ggtcatgctg gtgggtctgc tgtgcaaaaa   1260
              tgcagcgacc tgtgtctgca tttgggagtt gcagaagatg actctcctct ggaaggaggc   1320
                                                   1171

              ggacagaatg ccaaatatct ggtgcttaga gttctacggt aagcacatga agatgacatg   1380
<removed-date>
              cctgggcaac agtggtttgc tcatgctctc cttgaaggcg aagcgtatga accgccttgt   1440
              tacatacaac cttctgaaaa gggagtggca aaaggttcct gattgcgtgc taccatacag   1500
              ccgcaaaaag caatggatag cgtgtggcac agcatttgat ccggtcccct gcgccttggc   1560
              ctgacatgga atttaccttc tttgcccgag taccataata ctatagtgaa ttcgtatcat   1620
              tggcctatat ttttagatct ttctaatgtt ttatgatgag ctctgcaaaa ccgcgttcac   1680
<removed-apn>
              tgtggtttgt tttctatcac gctgacgcat ttgaaccgtt tcctttgatc acctgctgct   1740
              acttgggtca ctgctacatc aattgggcaa gtcgacctga gtatgtttca ttgaagtaaa   1800
              aaacggaacg ccaggtgtct gtatttggtc ttggttttgg tatgtaccgt caacttgtaa   1860
              tctttctgaa cttgcagttt cctgtcctga accgagttta ttatacaata aagaccggga   1920
              tgttgacgtt ttgattctgg tgcatggaga ttgtgtttct tgttattacc atgaaaacac   1980
              atgtacatgt acttctgttt caggctgcct actatttatc aatttatgtg cctacttttg   2040
              atg                                                                 2043
              <210>   1011
              <211>   1278
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1011
              atgtacgaca acatgaataa atcatgcatt cagtcaagtg attctgtcaa aattattgac     60
              atgacacttt catacttctg tatgtatttt tgtccaaaac aatgcttcga atggtggtat    120
              ttacctgact tcgaacatgg ttcaatcaag gatgattatt gtgggggaag ctcaggatac    180
              aactcggaat tactgaagat catggaaact aaccaatctc ccccttgcaa gcgaccgcgg    240
              agagatcgaa accgtgaaaa ggcaccctcc tcaaacaaaa ttgaagtcat ggaacaagag    300
              atatggagag atttccctga agatcttttc gaaactgtca tagcaaggct tcctgttgct    360
              gcaatttttc gattccgcac tgtctgccga aggtggtctt cccttttggg ctcagacagt    420
              ttctctcgtc agtactctga agctccacat ggactgccat ggttctatac aatcactcat    480
              gagaattcaa acaacaatgt tgcgatgtat gatcctttgc tgaagaaatg gcaccaccaa    540
              tctgttcctc tcaatcatac gaagatagtt attccagtgg catccgtggg tggccttgta    600
                                                   1172

              tgtttattgg atctgagcca caggaatttt tacatctgca accctcttac gcaatcactg    660
<removed-date>
              aaggagatcc caccaagatc agtccatggt tggtcaagag tcgttgtagg gatggtgttg    720
              aatggaagaa gttctagtga tggctacaaa gtaatgtggt tagatattga tgggacttgc    780
              gaagtttatg actctacaaa gaacgtgtgg tcttgccctg gaacttttcc tccaagcatc    840
              aaacttccac ttgctctaaa tttgaggtca caaccagtgg cggttggcag catgatatac    900
              ttcatgtgcg cagaaccaga tggtgttttg tcatatgatg gaagggttat gctggtgggt    960
<removed-apn>
              ctgctgtgca aaaatgcagc gacctgcatc tgcatatggg agttgcagaa gatgactctc   1020
              ctctggaagg aggtggacag aatgccaaat ctctggtgct tagagttcta cggtaagcac   1080
              atgaagatga aatgcctggg caacagtggt ttgctcatgc tctccttgaa ggcgaagcat   1140
              atgaaccgcc ttgttacata caaccttttg aaaagggagt ggcagaaggt tcctgattgc   1200
              atgctaccat ggagtcgaaa aaggcaatgg ataacatgtg gcacagcatt tgatccggtc   1260
              ccctgcgcct tggtctga                                                 1278
              <210>   1012
              <211>   2773
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1012
              agaagatgga atcttctaga gaatggtgaa aaatggaatt tagaggtata taaagagaat     60
              ccctccggtt aatcattgat cacccaagcc agtggagcct tggcctcgaa cagaatagaa    120
              ccaaccaatc gcgcgggcgc acacagtcgg cttccaccaa ccacgttgcc agcaggcagc    180
              ggcagcctcc acttgctcca tgtctccatc caaccctctt ccgccgccgg gcgagacgcg    240
              cgtcggctgc tcgttgccct caccagtcac ccctcaggcc atgggcgggg gccccgctcg    300
              tcatgtggcc atgcgcgccc ttcgcgctcg cttcctctcg cggcagcggg agggaggacc    360
              agcggcagcg tcgacctggt ggtggtgcgc ttcgggttcg gcgaagggcg acatggagag    420
              cacgctcaag gggatacgcg gcagcgatgc gccgtgcgtt ctggacctgg acgacgcggc    480
              caccgtggcg ggcggcgtcg aggacaccta cggcgaggat cgcgccaccg aggagcagct    540
              cgtcacgccc tggaccgtct ccgtcgccag cggttacaat ctgcttaggg atccccgtta    600
              caacaaggga cttgcgttca cagagaggga acgtgagacg cactacctcc gtggccttct    660
                                                   1173

              gccaccagct attgtatccc aggagctcca ggaaagaaag atcatgaata atattcgaca    720
<removed-date>
              ataccagttg cctttgcagc gctacatggc actcatggat ctccaggaag ggaacgagag    780
              gcttttctac aagttgctca ttgacaacgt cgaggagtta cttccaatcg tgtacactcc    840
              aaccgttggc gaggcctgcc aaaagtatgg atccatattt agtcgccctc agggtcttta    900
              tatcagtttg aaggagaagg gaaagatcct tgaggtgttg aagaactggc cagagaggag    960
              cattcaggtt atagttgtta ctgatggtga acgtattttg gggcttggag atctcggatg   1020
<removed-apn>
              ccaggggatg gggattcctg ttggtaaact ttccctttac actgccctgg gaggagttcg   1080
              tccatctgct tgcttgccga tcacattgga tgttggtaca aataacgagg agctgcttaa   1140
              tgacgaattt tacattggct tgagacaaag aagagccact ggccaggagt acactgattt   1200
              tctgcaagaa tttatgagtg ctgtgaaaca aaactatggg gagaaagtgc ttattcagtt   1260
              tgaggatttt gccaaccata atgcttttga tcttcttgca agatatggca ccactcacct   1320
              tgtattcaat gatgatattc agggaacagc ttctgtggtt cttgctgggc ttattgcagc   1380
              acaaacatta cttggtggtt cattggcaga tcacacttac cttttccttg gtgctggaga   1440
              ggctgggaca ggtatcgctg aacttatagc tcttgagatc tcacgtcaga cgaaagctcc   1500
              tatagaggag tgccgcaaga aaatctggct tgttgattca aagggcttga ttgtcagtac   1560
              acgaaaggag tcccttcaac acttcaagaa accatgggct catgagcata aaccactcag   1620
              caacctctta gatgctgtta atgctatcaa accaacagtg ttgattggca catccgggaa   1680
              ggggcaaact ttcacaaaag acgttgttga agcaatctcc tcatttaacg agagaccaat   1740
              cattcttgcc ctatcgaacc caacatcaca atctgaatgc acagctgagc aagcttacac   1800
              atggagcaag ggacaagcag tgtttgcgac tgggagtcca tttgatcctg tggagtacaa   1860
              tggcaagata catgttcccg gacaggcaaa caatgcctat atcttcccag ggtttggcct   1920
              cggcgtggtg atgtctggag ctatccgcgt tcatgatgac atgcttctgg cagcatcgga   1980
              ggctctggcc cagcaggtca cagaagaaaa ttttgagaag gggctgattt atcctccctt   2040
              ctcaaacata aggaagatct ctgcccacat tgcagccagc gttgcagcaa aggcatatga   2100
              acttggtttg gcaagtaggc gccctcggcc aaaggacctg gtgaaatatg cagagagctg   2160
              catgtacagc cccatctacc gcaactaccg ttgaattcgg atcaactcca gttatgtgca   2220
              aatcagcagc agccttgcgt caactgcaag atttcctaag aatataactc gtttcagtct   2280
                                                   1174

<removed-date>
              ttcatactgt aataccctaa gccctctagc aatagctgtt tcacgtcctt ttctgcccct   2340
              tacatattcc gcagcgttta tctcttgcga tgtcatgtaa atcagctccg gttaggcttt   2400
              tggatgctag tcagtcatgg tgctgctgcc gtccttccgg ttccggacaa ggataaattt   2460
              ggaataaagt ttgagtcgac gattcctcct cggtactgcg tgttatgagg acagattatc   2520
              gtttgcttga gggggcagtg gtcctctttt ttgggtgcta aaatatatcc atccgagtca   2580
<removed-apn>
              gccggtccaa gcctgttccc attttcaatg taccagtcct gaagttccag ataatcaggt   2640
              ggtaagatgt tgtcggtgtt tgtttgattg aacaggctat agctgcacgc ctagactgtc   2700
              acactttcgg acgacccata ttgtactgct gccagccccg gtgaaataaa ggctggtaca   2760
              cattggttcg ggt                                                      2773
              <210>   1013
              <211>   2404
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1013
              atattcggca cgaggtaaag tcttagctaa cgccagcagc agcagcagcc ccacgtctcc     60
              gcatcgccgt taaataacat cgccatctcg cgttgctccc gcactaacca cgccatcact    120
              tctgttaact acattcgcag cggcagcggg agggaggacc agcggcagcg tcgacctggt    180
              ggtggtgcgc ttcgggttcg gcgaagggcg acatggagag cacgctcaag gggatacgcg    240
              gcagcgatgc gccgtgcgtt ctggacctgg acgacgcggc caccgtggcg ggcggcgtcg    300
              aggacaccta cggcgaggat cgcgccaccg aggagcagct cgtcacgccc tggaccgtct    360
              ccgtcgccag cggttacaat ctgcttaggg atccccgtta caacaaggga cttgcgttca    420
              cagagaggga acgtgagacg cactacctcc gtggccttct gccaccagct attgtatccc    480
              aggagctcca ggagagaaag atcatgaata atattcgaca ataccagttg cctttgcagc    540
              gctacatggc actcatggat ctccaggaag ggaacgagag gcttttctac aagttgctca    600
              ttgacaacgt cgaggagtta cttccaatcg tgtacactcc aaccgttggc gaggcctgcc    660
              aaaagtatgg atccatattt agtcgccctc agggtcttta tattagtttg aaggagaagg    720
              gaaagatcct tgaggtgttg aagaactggc cagagaggag cattcaggtt atagttgtta    780
              ctgatggtga acgtattttg gggcttggag atctcggatg ccaggggatg gggattcctg    840
                                                   1175

<removed-date>
              ttggtaaact ttccctttac actgccctgg gaggagttcg tccatctgct tgcttgccga    900
              tcacattgga tgttggtaca aataacgagg aactgcttaa tgacgaattt tacattggct    960
              tgagacaaag aagagccact ggccaggagt acactgattt tctgcaagaa tttatgagtg   1020
              ctgtgaaaca aaactatggg gagaaagtgc ttattcagtt tgaggatttt gccaaccata   1080
              atgcttttga tcttcttgca agatatggca ccactcacct cgtattcaat gatgatattc   1140
<removed-apn>
              agggaacagc ttctgtggtt cttgctgggc ttattgcagc acaaacatta cttggtggtt   1200
              cattggcaga tcacacttac cttttccttg gtgctggaga ggctgggaca ggtatcgctg   1260
              aacttatagc tcttgagatc tcacgtcaga cgaaagctcc tatagaggag tgccgcaaga   1320
              aaatctggct tgttgattca aagggcttga ttgtcagtac acgaaaggag tcccttcaac   1380
              acttcaagaa accatgggct catgagcata aaccactcag caacctctta gatgctgtta   1440
              atgctatcaa accaacagtg ttgattggca catccgggaa ggggcaaact ttcacaaaag   1500
              acgttgttga agcaatctcc tcatttaacg agagaccaat cattcttgcc ctatcgaacc   1560
              caacatcaca atctgaatgc acagctgagc aagcttacac atggagcaag ggacaagcag   1620
              tgtttgcgac tgggagtcca tttgatcctg tggagtacaa tggcaagata catgttcccg   1680
              gacaggcaaa caatgcctat atcttcccag ggtttggcct cggcgtggtg atgtctggag   1740
              ctatccgcgt tcatgatgac atgcttctgg cagcatcgga ggctctggcc cagcaggtca   1800
              cagaagaaaa ttttgagaag gggctgattt atcctccctt ctcaaacatc aggaagatct   1860
              ctgcccacat tgcagccagc gttgcagcaa aggcatatga acttggtttg gcaagtaggc   1920
              gccctcggcc aaaggacctg gtgaaatatg cagagagctg catgtacagc cccatctacc   1980
              gcaactaccg ttgaattcgg atcaactcca gttatgtgca aatcagcagc agccttgcgt   2040
              caactgcaag atttcctaag aatacaactc ggttcagtct ttcatactgt aataccctaa   2100
              gctctctagc aaaagctgtt tcacgtcctc ttctgcccct acatattccg cagtgtttat   2160
              ctcttgcgat gtcatgtaaa tcagctccgg ttaggctttt ggatgctagt cagtcatggt   2220
              gctgctgccg tccttccgga caaggataaa tttggaataa agtttgagtc gacgattcct   2280
              ccctcggtac tgcgtgttca cctggacgtt tttttgcttc acacagttgc tgttggtttc   2340
              aacaaagtgt tggttgtatg cgtgaaggta acaccaggaa agggtctttt ttttttccct   2400
                                                   1176

              gaga                                                                2404
<removed-date>
              <210>     1014
              <211>     727
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400> 1014
              gggttccccc aggacttcag gtttatggtt acagctcagg ggatgtgttc ttcaaaagag     60
<removed-apn>
              ttgtggccaa ggggggagac tattttgaag tgcgtgatgc caagcttttt tttaatggag   120
              tagttcagga tgaggatttt gtgtctggag ccccccaact acgagatgga accagtgctt   180
              gtcccggaag gttatgtttt tgtgttgggg gacaacccca acaacagctt tgtttccccc   240
              aactggggtc cccttccagt ggggaacatt gtcgggggat ttttcctccg gttttggccc   300
              ccctcgaaga tcaatgatac aatttttgag cctgatgtgt cccccccccc ggggccgtcc   360
              tttttgttgt cgctgcaggg atgctggatt tccagtgtgt gtccaatgcc cttttttttt    420
              ggggggcccc ctttgatgag ttgagccccc gttccaattt tttcagaata ttgtttcctg   480
              ggtgttcccc gtaaattttt tttccctgac tgatttgttt ttgctcccgg ttggcagatg   540
              ctttttcaaa gcccgggaaa gggcagtccc ttcctttttc caatccaaac taattaaacc   600
              ggttaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   660
              aaaaaaaaag ggcggccgct ctagagtatc cctcgagggg ccctaagctt acgcgtaccc   720
              agctttc                                                             727
              <210>     1015
              <211>     2699
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400> 1015
              caatcgcgcg ggcgcagaca gtcggcttcc accaaccacg ttgccagcag gcagcggcag     60
              cctccacttg ctccatgtct ccatccaacc ctcttccgcc gccgggcgag acgcgcgtcg   120
              gctgctcgtt gccctcacca gtcacccctc aggccatggg cgggggcccc gctcgtcatg   180
              tggccatgcg cgcccttcgc gctcgcttcc tctcgcggca gcgggaggga ggaccagcgg   240
              cagcgtcgac ctggtggtgg tgcgcttcgg gttcggcgaa gggcgacatg gagagcacgc   300
              tcaaggggat acgcggcagc gatgcgccgt gcgttctgga cctggacgac gcggccaccg   360
                                                   1177

<removed-date>
              tggcgggcgg cgtcgaggac acctacggcg aggatcgcgc caccgaggag cagctcgtca    420
              cgccctggac cgtctccgtc gccagcggtt acaatctgct tagggatccc cgttacaaca    480
              agggacttgc gttcacagag agggaacgtg agacgcacta cctccgtggc cttctgccac    540
              cagctattgt atcccaggag ctccaggaga gaaagatcat gaataatatt cgacaatacc    600
              agttgccttt gcagcgctac atggcactca tggatctcca ggaagggaac gagaggcttt    660
<removed-apn>
              tctacaagtt gctcattgac aacgtcgagg agttacttcc aatcgtgtac actccaaccg    720
              ttggcgaggc ctgccaaaaa tatggatcca tatttagtcg ccctcagggt ctttatatca    780
              gtttgaagga gaagggaaag atccttgagg tgttgaagaa ctggccagag aggagcattc    840
              aggttatagt tgttactgat ggtgaacgta ttttggggct tggagatctc ggatgccagg    900
              ggatggggat tcctgttggt aaactttccc tttacactgc cctgggagga gttcgtccat    960
              ctgcttgctt gccgatcaca ttggatgttg gtacaaataa cgaggagctg cttaatgacg   1020
              aattttacat tggcttgaga caaagaagag ccactggcca ggagtacact gattttctgc   1080
              aagaatttat gactgctgtg aaacaaaact atggggagaa agttcttatt cagtttgagg   1140
              attttgccaa ccataatgct tttgatcttc ttgcaagata tggcaccact caccttgtat   1200
              tcaatgatga tattcaggga acagcttctg tggttcttgc tgggcttatt gcagcacaaa   1260
              cattacttgg tggttcattg gcagatcaca cttacctttt ccttggtgct ggagaggctg   1320
              ggacaggtat agctgaactt atagctcttg agatctcacg tcagacgaaa gctcctatag   1380
              aggagtgccg caagaaaatc tggcttgttg attcaaaggt cacttttatg aagagggcct   1440
              cctcgctttt atttcattat atatttgtct tagaacatca gtttattcct tattgctaac   1500
              tgtagatact gatcaattaa cagggcttga ttgtcagtac acgaaaggag tcccttcaac   1560
              acttcaagaa accatgggct catgagcata aaccactcag caacctctta gatgctgtta   1620
              atgctatcaa accaacagtg ttgattggca catccgggaa ggggcaagct tacacaaaag   1680
              acgttgttga agcaatctcc tcatttaacg agagaccaat cattcttgcc ctatcgaacc   1740
              caacatcaca atctgaatgc acagctgagc aagcttacac atggagcaag gtaatggttt   1800
              caatccgcag tcacgtcaac tttttattaa ccatggttct gcaactgcac taacgatctg   1860
              aattcacagg gacaagcagt gtttgcgact gggagtccat ttgatcctgt ggagtacaat   1920
                                                   1178

              ggcaagatac atgttcccgg acaggcaaac aatgcctata tcttcccagg gtttggcctc   1980
<removed-date>
              ggcgtggtga tgtctggagc tatccgcgtt catgatgaca tgcttctggc agcatcggag   2040
              gctctggccc agcaggtcac agaagaaaat tttgagaagg ggctgattta tcctcccttc   2100
              tcaaacatca ggaagatctc tgcccacatt gcagccagcg ttgcagcaaa ggcatatgaa   2160
              cttggtttgg caagtaggcg ccctcggcca aaggacctgg tgaaatatgc agagagctgc   2220
              atgtacagcc ccatctaccg caactaccgt tgaattcgga tcaactccag ttatgtgcaa   2280
<removed-apn>
              atcagcagca gccttgcgtc aactgcaaga tttcctaaga atacaactcg gttcagtctt   2340
              tcatactgta ataccctaag ctctctagca aaagctgttt cacgtcctct tctgccccta   2400
              catattccgc agcgtttatc tcttgcgatg tcatgtaaat cagctccggt taggcttttg   2460
              gatgctagtc agtcatggtg ctgctgccgt ccttccggac aaggataaat ttggaataaa   2520
              gtttgagtcg acgattcctc cctcgttact gcgtgttcac ctggacgttt tttttgcttc   2580
              acacagttgc tgctgttttc aacaagtgct tggttgtatg cgtgaaggta acaccaggaa   2640
              aggttcttct ttttcttcca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aatttattgg gcggccgct    2699
              <210>   1016
              <211>   1299
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1016
              atgacgaacg agatggcagc aactaaggcg aggagcatca ttattgtgcg gagaaacggc     60
              ggtgagagtc ctccagacac tgcacagcgc aatggtgacg gtgtccgtga gggagcggag    120
              gaggtggcag gcctgaacgc tggccgcttc ccacgtgaag tagtactcca gctgccacca    180
              ccgcgaggcc agccggagaa cgatgacgat gacggcgaaa ccttttcccc tggtcaagat    240
              tccaggaggc ggttctttgg ggatgtgagg ctggaggcgg acaggatctt taggatcctg    300
              ctgcaggacg gcccggggtt cagcacccgc cacgcgctcg atgaaatgcg cccgaaggtg    360
              tctattgagc tggtgaggga ggtgctgttc aggattgttg tgtccgtgga cagtgtgaac    420
              cgtgagaggt acccgaagct ggcgtataag ttcttcatat gggcggggca gcaggagggg    480
              taccaacata gcacaagcat gtacaacctc gtcatgaagg ttttcgccga gtgtggggag    540
              gtgaaggcga tgtggcggct gtttgaggag atggcagcca aggggctacc tgtctcttcc    600
                                                   1179

              cggacgttcc acctcttgat atgtgcatct gtgaaggttg ggttgaggcg gagactggtg    660
<removed-date>
              gagaggttca tcaggtcaag tactttcaat taccgcccat ttagaaatgc atttaatgca    720
              atattgtaca cacttctgac catagagcag tactcactga ttgagtgggt tcacgagaaa    780
              atgatccttg aggggtactc acctgatgtc ttgacataca atgtggtgtt gcgtgcaaag    840
              tatatgcttg ggaagttgga tcaattccat caattacttg atgagatggg aaaaaatggg    900
              cttacgccgg acctccatac ttacaacctg ttgcttcatg tacttggtaa gggagacaaa    960
<removed-apn>
              cccctcgcag ctctcaattt gctgaactat atgagtgatg tcggatgtag gccaaatgtg   1020
              ctccatttca caaatttgat agatggtctt ggccgtgctg gcaaccctag aagcctgcag   1080
              gggctttgcg cagtcgggga gtttgataaa gcattcacta tgctgaagga catggattca   1140
              catggatgca caccaaactt ctctgtgtac agtagtctag taaggagact gcggaacgct   1200
              gggaaggata ctcaagctaa taatgtcatt aagtacatga cagataaggg tcattatctt   1260
              catctgctat caaggtttgg agggtttaga agatgctga                          1299
              <210>   1017
              <211>   1826
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1017
              ggggtggacg aggcgcgcca ccggccgagc cgaatcgagc tgcagaaacc accttggcat     60
              ggcgacacag gccgctttcc tcgcggggtt ctcgcagctc gccgcgcagc cgggccgtga    120
              ccgcgccgtg gcggtggcgg tggcgccggc gccgggcccg gcccgggtgg ccgttgcggc    180
              ggtgggtagc gccaagttgg gcgtgaaggc ggggacgtcc aggaccgcgg cggtggcgcg    240
              cctcggggtg cggtgccggg ccagcctgat cgagcccgac ggcgggcggc tggtggacct    300
              ggtggcgccc gaggagggcg ggcggcgcgc ggcgcttcgg cgggaggcgg cggagctgcc    360
              gcaccggctg cgcctcggcc gcgtcgacaa ggaatgggtc cacgtcctca gcgaagggtg    420
              ggcgagtccg ctgcaagggt tcatgcgcga cgatgagttc ctccaaacac ttcactttaa    480
              tgccatccgc ggccaggatg gcaggatggt caacatgtcc gtccccatcg tgctctccgt    540
              aggggacgca cagcgaaggg ccatccaggc cgacggcgcc acgcgcgtcg ccgtcgtcga    600
              cgaacgcgac cgccccatcg ccgtcctcag cgacattgag atctataagc ataataagga    660
                                                   1180

              agaaagaata gcacggacat gggggacaac tgcacctgga ttaccttatg ttgaggaggc    720
<removed-date>
              aattaccaat gctggtgact ggttgattgg tggggacttg gaggttatag aaccaatcaa    780
              gtacaatgat ggtctagatc agtatcgcct gtctccagca cagctgcgtg aagagtttgc    840
              caggcgcaat gctgatgcag tatttgcctt tcagcttcgc aatccagtac acaatgggca    900
              tgctcttctt atgaccgaca cacgcaaacg tctccttgag atgggttaca aaaaccctgt    960
              tcttctgccc catccactgg gaggattcac aaaagcagat gatgtgcctc ttagttggag   1020
<removed-apn>
              aatgaagcaa catgagaagg ttcttgagga aggtgtcctc aacccagaat caactgttgt   1080
              tgcgatcttt ccctctccaa tgcattatgc tgggccaact gaggtgcagt ggcatgctaa   1140
              ggctcgtatt aatgctggtg caaatttcta tattgttgga agggatcctg ctggtatgag   1200
              ccatcccacg gagaaaaggg acctctatga tgctgaccac gggaagaagg ttttgagcat   1260
              ggctcctggc ctcgagaggc tcaacatcct tcctttcaag gtggctgcat atgacacaaa   1320
              gcaaaagaaa atggatttct ttgatccatc aaggaaagat gatttcctct tcatctctgg   1380
              cacaaagatg cgcactcttg ccaagaaccg agagagtccc ccagatggtt ttatgtgccc   1440
              gggtggctgg aaggtactcg ttgaatacta tgacagcttg gtgccatctg agggcagcag   1500
              caagctgcgt gaaccaattg cagcctaaat ctggaaaatc cttcatataa ggaatgctac   1560
              tatatcttag caagcggttc tttgcgacat agaaccgatg ctatgtgatt gtatactggc   1620
              tgtaagactt taaaacacta ggcttgattc ggatgttaat gtgtgctttg tacccggtgt   1680
              accttctctg ctggcagtgt tgcacatgca ctggagcaca tcaaacgttt ggtgttaata   1740
              aggacaggct atgtatcctc tgccagatgt acatatatac attgtggtga tatataatta   1800
              taaagctgac ctctgccgtc cgggct                                        1826
              <210>   1018
              <211>   664
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1018
              acttcaaaac agaatcaaat atccactttc tctctctctc cctccactag agaaaagctt     60
              gaaccaaagc aaattcatat tttgattctc cttcaatggc ttccatgtcc accgccttcc    120
              ccaaaacaac tcctttcctc tctcatcctc tcaccaaatc cgattccctg atcgcaacca    180
                                                   1181

              ccgtttcatt tccctccagc gcgagatctc gcagcctccg aagagccacc ctccgcgtac   240
<removed-date>
              gatccgcgct gatcgagcca gacggcggga agctggtgga gcttgtggtc ccggagacgc   300
              gacgaaggga gaagaagcac gaggcggcgg atttgccgag agtgaaactg acggcgatcg   360
              atttgcagtg gatgcacgtg ttgagcgaag gctgggcaag tcccgcttag agggtttatg   420
              gcgggaagct gagttccttc aaactcttca tttcaattcg cttcgtctcg acgacggatc   480
              cgtcgtccaa tatgtctgta cctatcgttc tcgccatcga tgatgaacag aaagctctaa   540
<removed-apn>
              tcggagaatc taaacgtgtc gcgcttgttg attcccatgg taaacccaac ccctttctcc   600
              cgggggtttt gagaaataac acctccccaa gagagaaaaa aattttaaat tttgggccca   660
              cccc                                                                664
              <210>   1019
              <211>   1956
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1019
              ccaagccgtg aggtggacga ggcgcgccac ctgctaagcc gaatcgagca gcagtagcca    60
              ccttgccatg gcgatgcagg ctgctttcct cgcggggttc tcgcagctcg ccgcgcagcc   120
              gagccgcgac tgcgccgtgg cagtggcgcc gacgcgggtg gccgttgctg cggtgggtag   180
              cgccaaggtg ggcgcgcggg taggcttgaa ggcggggatc gccgcgcccg cgcccgcgcc   240
              cgcggcgggc cgcggggtgc ggtgccgcgc aagcctgatc gagcccgacg gcgggcagct   300
              ggtggacctg gtggcgcccg aggagggcgg gcggcgcgcg gcgcttcggc gggaggcggc   360
              ggagctgccg caccggctgc gcctcggccg cgtcggacaa ggaatgggtc cacgtcctca   420
              gcgaagggtg ggcgagtccg ctgcaagggt tcatgcgcga gcatgagttc ctccaaacac   480
              ttcattttaa tgccatccgc ggccaggatg gcaggatggt caacatgtcc gtccccatcg   540
              tgctctccgt aggggacgca cagcgaaggg ccatccaggc cgacggcgcc acgcgcgtcg   600
              cgctcgtcga cgaacgcgac cgccccatcg ccgtcctcag cgacattgag atctataagc   660
              ataataagga agaaagaata gcacggacat gggggacaac tgcacctgga ttaccttatg   720
              ttgaggaggc aattaccaat gctggtgact ggttgattgg tggggacttg gaggttatag   780
              aaccaatcaa gtacaatgat ggtctagatc agtatcgcct gtctccagca cagctgcgtg   840
                                                   1182

              aagagtttgc caggcgcaat gctgatgcag tatttgcctt tcagcttcgc aatccagtac    900
<removed-date>
              acaatgggca tgctctactt atgaccgaca cacgcaaacg cctccttgag atgggttata    960
              aaaaccctgt tcttctgctc catccactgg gaggattcac aaaagcagat gatgtgcctc   1020
              ttagttggag aatgaagcaa catgagaagg ttcttgagga aggtgtcctc aacccagaat   1080
              caactgttgt tgcgatcttc ccctctccta tgcattatgc tgggccaact gaggttcaat   1140
              ggcatgctaa ggctcgtatt aatgctggtg caaatttcta tatcgttgga agggatcctg   1200
<removed-apn>
              ctggtatgag ccaccccaca gagaaaaggg acctctatga tgctgatcac ggaaagaagg   1260
              ttttgagcat ggctcctggc cttgagaggc tcaacatcct tcctttcaag gtggctgcgt   1320
              atgacacaaa gcaaaagaaa atggatttct ttgatccatc aaggaaagat gatttcctct   1380
              tcatctctgg cacaaagatg cgcactcttg ccaagaaccg agagagtccc ccagatggtt   1440
              ttatgtgccc gggtggctgg aaggtactcg ttgaatacta tgacagcttg gtgccatctg   1500
              agggcagcag caagctgcgt gaaccaattg cagcctaaaa tctggaaaat ccttcatata   1560
              aggaatgcta ctatatctta gcaagcggtt ctttgcgaca tagaaccgat gctatatgat   1620
              tgtatactgg ctgtaagact ttaaaacact aggcttgatt cggatgttaa tgtgtgcttt   1680
              gtacccggtg taccttctct gctggcagtg ttgcacatgc actggagcac atcaaacgtt   1740
              tggtgttaat aaggacaggc tatgtatcct ctgccagatt gtacatatat acattgtggt   1800
              gatatataat tataaagctg tcctctgccg ttcgggctcg tagtgatgaa cagttttatc   1860
              actaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagggcggc cgctctagag   1920
              tatccctcga ggggcccgaa gcttacgcgt acccag                             1956
              <210>   1020
              <211>   1972
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1020
              ccgcctttca caaaaccaaa caaaacgcac ccgcaatata aagaggagac caaggcgtga     60
              agtggaggag gcagaggtgg acgaggcgcg ccaccggccg agccgaatcg agctgcagaa    120
              accaccttgg catggcgaca caggccgctt tcctcgcggg gttctcgcag ctcgccgcgc    180
              agccgggccg cgaccgcgcc gtggcggtgg cggtggcgcc ggcgccgggc ccggcccggg    240
                                                   1183

              tggccgttgc ggcggcgggt agcgccaagt tgggcgtgaa ggcggggacg tccaggaccg    300
<removed-date>
              cggcggtggc gcgcctcggg gtgcggtgcc gggccagcct gatcgagccc gacggcgggc    360
              ggctggtgga cctggtggcg cccgaggagg gcgggcggcg cgcggcgctg cggcgggagg    420
              cggcggagct gccgcaccgg ctgcgcttgg gccgcgtcga caaggaatgg gtccacgtcc    480
              tcagcgaagg gtgggcgagc ccgctgcaag ggttcatgcg cgagcatgag ttcctccaag    540
              cacttcattt caatgccatc cgcggccagg atggcaggat ggtcaacatg tccgtcccca    600
<removed-apn>
              tcgtgctctc tgtcggggac gcacagcgaa gggccatcca ggccgacggc gccacgcgcg    660
              tcgcgctcgt tgacgagcgc gaccgcccca tcgccgtcct cagcgacatt gagatctata    720
              agcataataa ggaagaaagg gtagcacgaa catgggggac aactgcacct ggattacctt    780
              atgtcgagga ggcaattacc aatgctggtg actggttggt tggtggggac ttggaggtta    840
              tagaaccaat caagtacaat gatggtctag atcagtatcg cctgtctcca gcacagctgc    900
              gtgaagagtt tgccaggcgc aatgctgatg cagtatttgc ctttcagctt cgcaatcctg    960
              tacacaatgg gcatgctctt cttatgaccg acacacgcaa acgtctcctt gagatgggtt   1020
              ataaaaaccc tgttcttctg ctccatccac tgggaggatt cacaaaagca gatgatgtgc   1080
              ctcttagttg gagaatgaag caacatgaga aggttcttga ggaaggtgtc ctcaacccag   1140
              aatcaactgt tgttgcgatc tttccctctc caatgcatta tgctgggcca actgaggtgc   1200
              agtggcatgc taaggctcgt attaatgctg gtgcaaattt ctatattgtt ggaagggatc   1260
              ctgctggtat gagccatccc acggagaaaa gggacctcta tgatgctgac cacgggaaga   1320
              aggttttgag catggctcct ggcctcgaga ggctcaacat ccttcctttc aaggtggctg   1380
              catatgacac aaagcaaaag aaaatggatt tcttcgatcc atcaaggaaa gatgatttcc   1440
              tcttcatctc tggcacaaag atgcgcactc ttgccaagaa ccgcgagagt cccccggatg   1500
              gttttatgtg cccgggtggc tggaaagtgc tcgttgaata ctatgacagc ttggtgccat   1560
              ccgagggcag cagcaagctg cgcgagccag ttgcagcctg aaatatggga agcgcttcag   1620
              ataaggaacc gtactatgtc agcacaagcg gttctttgcg acatagaacc gttgttgtat   1680
              gattgtatac tggcttgtaa gacttaaaaa cactgggctt gatttggacg ttaatgtgtg   1740
              cattgtaact ggtgtgccct atctgctgac agtgttgcac atcacatgtt tggtgttaat   1800
              aaggacagac tatgtatcat ctgccagatt gttgtacata tacattgtgg tgatataaac   1860
                                                   1184

<removed-date>
              atgaagctgt cttctgctat tttataacca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagggcgg   1920
              ccgctctaga gtatccctcg aggggcccga agcttacgcg tacccagctt tc           1972
              <210>   1021
              <211>   809
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1021
              gacgaggcgc gccaccggcc gagccgaatc gagctgcaga aaccaccttg gcatggcgac     60
              acaggccgct ttcctcgcgg ggttctcgca gctcgccgcg cagccgggcc gcgaccgcgc   120
              cgtggcggtg gcggtggcgc cggcgccggg cccggcccgg gtggccgttg cggcggtggg   180
              tagcgccaag ttgggcgtga aggcggggac gtccaggacc gcggcggtgg cgcgcctcgg   240
              ggtgcggtgc cgggccagcc tgatcgagcc cgacggcggg cggctggtgg acctggtggc    300
              gcccgaggag ggcgggcggc gcgcggcgct gcggcgggag gcggcggagc tgccgcaccg    360
              gctgcgcttg ggccgcgtcg acaaggaatg ggtccacgtc ctcagcgaag ggtgggcgag    420
              cccgctgcaa gggttcatgc gcgagcatga gttcctccaa gcacttcatt tcaatgccat    480
              ccgcggccag gatggcagga tggtcaacat gtccgtcccc atcgtgctct ccgtcgggga   540
              cgcacagcga agggccatcc aggccgacgg cgccacgcgc gtcgcgctcg ttgacgagcg   600
              cgaccgcccc atcgccgtcc tcagcgacat tgagatctat aagcataata aggaagaaag   660
              ggtagcacga acatggggga caactgcacc tggattacct tatgtcgagg aggcaattac   720
              caatgctggt gactggttgg ttggtgggga cttggaggtt atagaaccaa tcaagtacaa    780
              tgatggtcta gatcaagtat cgcctgtct                                      809
              <210>   1022
              <211>   1623
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1022
              aaagaggaca ccaaggcgtg aagtggagga ggcagaggtg gcgcgcctcg gggtgcggtg     60
              ccgggccagc ctgatcgagc ccgacggcgg gcggctggtg gacctggtgg cgcccgagga    120
              gggcgggcgg cgcgcggcgc tgcggcggga ggcggcggag ctgccgcacc ggctgcgctt   180
                                                   1185

              gggccgcgtc gacaaggaat gggtccacgt cctcagcgaa gggtgggcga gcccgctgca    240
<removed-date>
              agggttcatg cgcgagcatg agttcctgcc aagcacttca tttcaatgcc atccgcggcc    300
              aggatggcag gatggtcaac atgtccgtcc ccatcgtgct ctccgtcggg gacgcacagc    360
              gaagggccat ccaggccgac ggcgccacgc gcgtcgcgct cgttgacgag cgcgaccgcc    420
              ccatcgccgt cctcagcgac attgagatct ataagcataa taaggaagaa agggtagcaa    480
              gaacatgggg gacaactgca cctggattac cttatgtcga ggaggcaatt accaatgctg    540
<removed-apn>
              gtgactggtt ggttggtggg gacttggagg ttatagaacc aatcaagtac aacgatggtc    600
              tagatcagta tcgcctgtct ccagcacagc ctgcgtgaag agtttgccag gcggaatgct    660
              gatgcagtat ttgcctttca gcttcgcaat cctgtacaca atgggcatgc tcttcttatg    720
              accgacacac gcaaacgtct ccttgatatg ggttataaaa accctgttct tctgctccat    780
              ccactgggag gattcacaaa agcagatgat gtgcctctta gttggagaat gaagcaacat    840
              gagaaggttc ttgaggaagg cgtcctcaac ccagaatcaa ctgttgttgc gatctttccc    900
              tctccaatgc attatgctgg gccaactgag gtgcagtggc atgctaaggc tcgtattaat    960
              gctggtgcaa atttctatat tgttggaagg gatcctgctg gtatgagcca tcccacggag   1020
              aaaagggacc tctatgatgc tgaccacggg aagaaggttt tgagcatggc tcctggcctc   1080
              gagaggctca acatccttcc tttcaaggtg gctgcatatg acacaaagca aaagaaaatg   1140
              gatttcttcg atccatcaag gaaagatgat ttcctcttca tctctggcac aaagatgcgc   1200
              actcttgcca agaaccgtga gagtcccccg gatggtttta tgtgcccggg tggctggaaa   1260
              gtgctcgttg aatactatga cagcttggtg ccatccgagg gcagcagcaa gctgcgcgag   1320
              ccagttgcag cctgaaatat gggaagcgct tcagataacg aaccctacta tatcagcaca   1380
              agcggttctt tgcgacatag aaccgttgtt gtatgattgt atactggctt gtaagactta   1440
              aaatcactgg gcttgatttg gacgttaatg tgtgcattgt aactggtgtg ccctatctgc   1500
              tggcagtgtt gcacatcaca tgtttggtgt taataaggac aggctatgta tcctctgcca   1560
              gattgttgta catatacatt gtggtgatat aaacatgaag ctgtcttctg ctgttttata   1620
              aaa                                                                 1623
              <210>   1023
              <211>   1231
                                                   1186

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1023
              ttaaagccaa gggagctcca gctcccgagt ttccccaaac acttcatcca ggctccagcc     60
              atggaggcct cggcagcggt cgagtcgtcg gccgccgtgt ctgtcttcga ggtagtgtcc    120
              agcaagcagc ggcggccgcc ggacacggcg aagctggtgc tgaatagccc cagcccgccg    180
              agcctgcggg aggagctcgt cggcgtggtc ggcaaggcgt tccggccgcg cgcccacgcc    240
<removed-apn>
              ggggcggctg ctggcgccgg tggccgcccg ccgccgcgcc gcgcgtgggt cctcacggcg    300
              ctgcagtgcg tgttcccggt gctgcagtgg gggaggagct acaccctcga gtccttcagg    360
              agtgacgtca tggccggcct cactcttgcc agccttggca tccctcagca agaaataaca    420
              accaacaagc tagaatttaa ttcaacacgt cttcaggtga aaactgacaa ggagatcgcc    480
              atcgggccag tcgccgtcgt ctcgctgctg ctgtcctcga tgatccagaa ggtcgtcgac    540
              ccggccgccg acccggcgac ctacaggtcg ctcgtcttca cggtgacttt cctcgccggg    600
              gtcttccagg tctccttcgg cctcttcagg ctggggtttc tcgtggattt cctgtcgcac    660
              gctgccatcg tggggttcat gggcggggcg gccatcgtga tcgggatgca gcagctcaag    720
              gggctgcttg gcctcgccca tttcaccaac agcaccgatg ttgtttctgt cctcaaggct    780
              gtctgctctg cgctacgaca tgacccgtgg cacccgggca acttcctcat cggatgctcc    840
              ttcctcatat tcatcctcac tacacggttc atcgggagga ggtacaagaa gctgttctgg    900
              ctgtcagcga tctcgcctct gctgtcggtc atcctgtcca ccgctgcggt ctacgcgaca    960
              agggctgaca ggcacggcgt caagatcatc cagaaggtgc acgcgggcct aaacccaagc   1020
              tccgtgaagc agatacacct caacgggccg cacacaacgg agtgcgccaa gatcgccgtc   1080
              atctgcgcag tcatcgccct cacggaagct atcgccgttg gccgatcttt cgcctccgta   1140
              agagggtaca gactcgacgg caacaaggag atgctggcca tggggttctc caacgttgct   1200
              ggttctctgt cctcgtgcta tgtggcaaca g                                  1231
              <210>   1024
              <211>   1416
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1024
                                                   1187

              atgagctcgg cgagggtgag aggccccttc acgccgccgc agtggatcga gctggagcac     60
<removed-date>
              caggccctga tctacaagta cctgtccgcg aacagccccg tacctcacag cctcctcgtc    120
              cccatcagga ggagcgggag cctcgcatcg tctccctacc cgcctcccta cttcggcacg    180
              agcacattcg ggtggggctc cttccagctg ggctactccg gcaatgcgga tctggagcct    240
              gggcggtgcc gccggacgga cggcaagaag tggcggtgct ccagggacgc ggtcgccgac    300
              cagaagtact gcgagcgaca catgaaccgg ggacgccatc gttcaagaaa gcatgtggaa    360
<removed-apn>
              gaccagcctg gccatgccgc gaaagccatg tccgcggtgg ccgtggcggc tgctgctgct    420
              gctgctaccc agcatgctgc tgctctggcc ggcgccggag ctactgctgc tgctggcctc    480
              gctgtcaatc ggcaccggca gccggggaag agctatgcca cgggtgcgac tgatccatgc    540
              tctctgcaat atagcaggga actggcgaac aaactgtcga acgagagcga aaacatgcag    600
              gactctgaca atgtctcgat gctgacttcc atgaacacag gaaacactgc aggcagcgtg    660
              tttccgttct cgaaacagaa cactgctctt ttcgaagtga gcagctcaag gccagagttt    720
              ggtcttgttc catcggattc actgacgagt tcacctcata gttccttgaa gagtgtcaaa    780
              aatctgctca gctcacggag tctgagtgag caccagagct ccgcctccct gcaacacttt    840
              gtggactggc ccaggacgcc acctgcccag ggaggtcttt catggcccga ggcagaggac    900
              atgcccagag ctcagaggtc ccagctctca gtatccgctc caatggcatc ctccgagcta    960
              tcatcggcct ccacatctcc catccacgac cacgagaagc tgattctgtc acctctcaag   1020
              ctgggccgcg agtatacccc atctggcgtc gtcagcgctg cagcgaacag atacgaggtt   1080
              agccagctag aagcgacctg ggcgacgatg ttccgcgact cttcgacggg cggcccgttg   1140
              ggggaggttc tggccaagaa caacagcaac gcggaagcaa gaggttgccc gtcggcggcg   1200
              ccacctctaa ccgactacta ctgctgggat tcaggccacg gcatgcagtc gtcccccgtg   1260
              ggagttctgc agaggacgac cgccttcgga tcggtctcca gcagcacggg cagcagccct   1320
              agggtcgaga accacggcgc ctgctgcgat ggtaccagca acctgatgga tgatctcggt   1380
              tcagttgtag tgagacatcc cagcatccgc ctcttg                             1416
              <210>   1025
              <211>   1107
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1188

<removed-date>
              <400> 1025
              atggaaggag gccgagatgt gttcttaggt gcggcggcaa gggcgccgcc gccgccgccg     60
              tcttgcccgt ttcacggatc cgctaccgcc acccgctccg gtggagcgca gatgctcagc    120
              ttctcctcca atggcgtagc agggttgggt ctgtgctcag gtgccagcaa gatgcagggt    180
              gtgttgtcga gggtgaggag gcccttcact ccgacgcagt ggatggagct ggagcaccag    240
              gccctgatct acaagcactt cgctgtgaat gcccctgtgc cgtccagctt gctcctccct   300
<removed-apn>
              atcaaaagaa gcctcaatcc atggagcagc cttggctcca gctcattggg atgggcacca   360
              tttcgttccg gctctgctga tgcagaacca ggaagatgcc gccgcacaga tggcaagaag   420
              tggcggtgct ctagagatgc tgtcggggac caaaaatact gtgagcgaca cataaaacgt    480
              ggttgccacc gttcaagaaa gcatgtggaa ggccgaaagg caacaccgac cactgcagat    540
              ccaaccatgg ctgtttctgg tggttcattg ttgcacagcc atgctgttgc ttggcagcag    600
              cagggcaaaa gctcagctgc taatgtgact gatccattct cactagggtc caacaggaat    660
              ttgctggata agcagaatct aggtgaccag ttctctgtat ccacttccat ggactccttt    720
              gacttctcat catcacattc ttccccaaac caagccaaag ttgcattttc accggtggcc   780
              atgcagcacg aacatgatca gctgtatctt gtgcatggag ccggcagctc agcagaaaac   840
              gttaacaagt ctcaggatgg tcagctgcta gtctcgaggg aaacaattga cgacggacct   900
              ctgggcgagg tgttcaaggg caagagttgc cagtcagcat ccgcagacat cttaactgac    960
              cattggactt cgactcgtga cttgcgtcct ccaaccggag tcctacaaat gtctagcagc   1020
              aacacagtgc cagcagagaa tcacacgagt aacagtagct atctcatggc gaggatggcg   1080
              aattctcaga ccgtcccaac actccac                                       1107
              <210>   1026
              <211>   1440
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1026
              atgccgctgt actacgggac cccggcctct tgctcaggat tgagctcggt gagcttgagc     60
              accagcatgc agggggcaat ggccagggtg agggccccat tcacgccgtc ccagtggatc   120
              gagctggaac accaggccct gatctacaag tacctggccg cgaacagccc catacctcac   180
                                                   1189

              agcctcctca tccccatcag gaggagcctc gctgcgtctc cctacccgcc ttcatacttc    240
<removed-date>
              ggcacgagca cattggggtg gggctctttc cagctgggct actccggcaa tgcggatctg    300
              gagcctgggc ggtgccgccg gacggacggc aagaaatggc ggtgctccag ggacgcggtc    360
              gccgaccaga agtactgcga gcgacacatg aaccggggac gccatcgttc aagaaagcat    420
              gtggaaggcc agcctggcca tgccgcgaaa gccatgtccg cggtggcggc ggcggctgct    480
              gctgctaccc agcctgctgc tatggccggc gccggagctc ctgccgctgg cctcactgtc    540
<removed-apn>
              aatcagcacc agctgacggc gaagagctac gccacgggtg cgactgaccc ttgctctctg    600
              caatataaca gggaactggt gaacaaacag aatgagagcg aaaacatgca ggactccgac    660
              aacctctcga tgctgacttc catgaacaca ggaaacacag gcagcgtgtt cccattctcg    720
              aaacaaaaca ccaatccttt tgaagtgacc agctcaaggc tagagttcgg cctcgtttca    780
              tcggattcac tgatgagttc ccctcacagt tccttggaga acgtcaacct gctcggctca    840
              cagagtatga atgaacacca gaacccagcc tccctgcaac acttcgtgga ctggcccagg    900
              acgcctgccc agggaggcct ttcatggccc gaggcagaag acatgcaggc tcagaggtca    960
              cagctctcca tatctgctcc gatggcatcc tccgagctat cgtcggcctc cacatccccc   1020
              atccacgaga agctgatgct gtcgcctctg aagctgagcc gcgagtacag tccgactggt   1080
              ctcggcattg cggcgaacag agacgaggtt agccagctag aagcaacctg ggcgacgatg   1140
              ttccgtgact cttcgatggg cggtccgttg ggggaggttc tggccaagaa cggcaacgtg   1200
              gaagcgagaa attacctgtc ggcgcctctg aaccttctca ccgactactg ggattcaagc   1260
              cacgggatgg agtcctcccc tgtgggcgtt ctgcagaaga cgaccgcctt cggatcggtc   1320
              tccagcagta cagggagcag ccctagggct gagaaccacg gcgcctacga cggtttcggc   1380
              aacctgcggg atgatctcgg ctcaattgta gtgcgccatc caagcatccg ccttgtgtga   1440
              <210>   1027
              <211>   1188
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1027
              atgatgctga gcgggcacgg cggcgagagg cgcctgttca cggcgtcgca gtggcaggag     60
              ctcgagcacc aggcgctcat cttcaagtac atggcctcgg gcgcgcccgt gccgcacgac    120
                                                   1190

              ctcgtcctac cgctccgcct cgccaccggc gtcgacaccg cgccctccct cgccttcccg    180
<removed-date>
              ccgaagcctt cgccgtcgcg tacgacctgc gcgcttctct cctcccgacc cgacctcccc    240
              cgtcctcgcc tcatgtttca ctctgatcat cgacagccat cagcccatca catcatcgct    300
              gatgactttg tacgtgtgac cgtgcatgca gtggcgtact ggggctgcta cggcgcgggg    360
              gcgccgttcg gccgcaaggc ggcggaggac acggagccgg ggcggtgccg gcggacggac    420
              ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc cagggaggcc cacggcgact ccaagtactg cgagaagcac    480
<removed-apn>
              attcaccgcg ggaagagccg ttcaagaaag cctgtggaag tgacctcctc ccccgccgcc    540
              ggccccgctg cggcgtaccg accgtccgcg atctccacca tctcgccgcc ccgcgcggcc    600
              gacgcgccgc cgccgagcct cgcctacccg cagcagcatc tcctccacgg cgcctcctcc    660
              gcagcaggag cagcagcccg cgtccccgct ggcgctctcc agctccacct cgacgcgagc    720
              ctgcacgcgg cggcggcggc ggcgtcgcca tcgccgccgc cgtcctacca caggtacgcc    780
              cactacacac cgccagcgtc gtcgctcttc ccgggcggcg gctacggcta cgactacgac    840
              tacgggcagt ccaaggagct caggcgacgg cacttccacg cgctcggggc cgacctgagc    900
              ctcgacaagc cgctgcccga gcccgacacc ggctccgacg agaagcagcc cctgcggcgt    960
              ttcttcgacg agtggccgcg ggagagcggc gacatggccg cggacgacgc gacgcagctt   1020
              tccatctcca tccccgcggc ttcgccctcc gacctcgctg ctacctccgc ctccgccgcc   1080
              gccgcgcgat tccacaacgg tgaggcggcg agccaaagac tccactttca ttggttcctt   1140
              gcgtacgata ggatcgctga ttggtgctgc cgcttcatca ttgtttaa                1188
              <210>   1028
              <211>   993
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1028
              atgatgctga gcgggcacgg cggcgggagg cgcctgttca cggcgtcgca gtggcaggag     60
              ctggagcacc aggcgctcat cttcaaatac atggcctccg gcgcgcccgt gccgcacgac    120
              ctcgtcctgc cgctccgcct cgccaccggc gtcgacaccg cgccctccct cgccttcccg    180
              ccccagcctt cgccgtcgct ggcgtactgg ggctgctatg gcgcgggggc gccgttcggc    240
              cgcaaggcgg aggacccgga gcccgggcgg tgccggcgga cggacggcaa gaagtggcga    300
                                                   1191

              tgctccaggg aggcccacgg agactccaag tactgcgaga agcacatcca ccgcgggaag   360
<removed-date>
              agccgttcaa gaaagcctgt ggaagtgacc tcccccgccg cctaccgccc gtccgcgttc   420
              tccatctcgc cgcctcgcgc ggccgacgcg ccgccgccgc cgccgggcct cggccacccg   480
              cagcagcagc atctccgcca cggcgctctc tctccagcag gccgcgccca cgccgctggc   540
              gctctccagc tccacctcga ctcgagcctg cacgcggcgt cgccgccgcc gtcctaccac   600
              aggtacgccc actcccacgc tcactacacg ccgccgccgc cgccgtcgct ctacgactac   660
<removed-apn>
              gggcagtcca aggagcttcg ggaggcggcg gagctcaggc ggcggcactt ccacgcgctc   720
              ggggccgacc tgagcctcga caagccgctg gccgacgccg gggccgcgga gaagcccctg   780
              cggcgtttct tcgacgagtg gccgcgggag agaggcgaca cgaggccgtc gtgggcgggg   840
              gcggaggacg cgacgcagct ctccatctcc atccccgcgg cttcgccctc ctctgaccac   900
              gctgcctctg ccgccgcgcg atgccacaac gtctgcggtg cgagccttgt cagctctttt   960
              ccggtgaccc acgcctttga ttcctttctc tga                                993
              <210>   1029
              <211>   1535
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1029
              gaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaacagcac agcagccgcc ctgctcggcg    60
              taggagcagc ccagagcgag cgagacagag ggaaagagac acggccagcc aggtaaggca   120
              aaagagagag ggcggaagca gcggcagagc ggagagggag agagaagagc atatatgggc   180
              atggcgatgc cctttgcctc cccgtctccg gcagccgacc accgcccctc ctccctcctc   240
              cccttctgcc gcgccgcccc tctctccgcg gcgggagagg acgccgcgca gcagcacgcg   300
              atgagcggca ggtgggccgc gaggccggcg ctcttcacgg cggcgcagta cgaggagctg   360
              gagcaccagg cgctcatata caagtacctc gtcgccggcg tgcccgtccc gccggacctc   420
              ctcctccccc tgcgccgagg cttcgtcttc caccagccac ccgcccttgg gtacggcccc   480
              tacttcggca agaaggtgga cccggagccc gggcggtgcc ggcgtacgga cggcaagaag   540
              tggcggtgct ccaaggaggc cgccccggac tccaagtact gcgagcgcca catgcaccgc   600
              ggccgcaacc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa gcgcagctcg cgcccccgcc gcacgcccag   660
                                                     1192

              ccgcagcagc agcagcaggc ccccgcgccc gctgctggct tccagaacca ctcgctgtac    720
<removed-date>
              ccgtcgatcc tcaccggcaa cggcggcggc ggggtaggtg ctggtgctgg tggtggcacg    780
              ttcggcctgg ggcccacctc tcagctgcac atggacagtg ccgctgccta cgcgactgct    840
              gccggtggag ggagcaaata tctcaggtac tctgcatacg gggtgaaatc tctgtcggac    900
              gagcacagca cgctcttgtc gggcggcatg gatccgtcga tgatggacaa ctcgtggcgc    960
              ctgctgccat cccaaaccaa cacattccaa gccacaagct accctgtgtt cggcacgctg   1020
<removed-apn>
              agtgggctag acgagagcac catcgcgtcg ctgccgaaga cccagaggga gcccctctct   1080
              ttcttcggga gcgacttcgt gaccgccgcc aagcaggaga accagacgct gcgccctttc   1140
              ttcgacgagt ggcccaagtc gagggactcg tggccggagc tgggcgagga cagcagcctc   1200
              ggcttctcgg ccacccagct ctccatctcc attcccatgg cgacctccga cttctccaac   1260
              accagctcca gatcgccggg tggaataccg tcgagatgaa cgagtaccgt gcatgtggat   1320
              cccagcgtct tagggttgac gactcttcgg tgctggcctc atcgtatcat gctcctaaat   1380
              tttcgaacga tatatgcctt atgtaacgct atttctctca ttgttacaac accctttacc   1440
              cgtttggaat tgtgttgaag tggatggtct gcgttgctcg gttgttcatt tgactttttt   1500
              ttcaatttgg aagctccgtt tcttggtact cagtt                              1535
              <210>   1030
              <211>   1544
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (309)..(309)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1030
              atggcgatgc cgtatgcctc tctttccccg gcaggcgccg ccgaccaccg ctcctccaca     60
              gccacggcgt ccctcgtccc cttctgccgc tccactccgc tctccgcggg cggcgggctg    120
              ggcgaggagg acgcccaggc gagcgcgagg tggccggccg cgaggccggt ggtgccgttc    180
              acgccggcgc agtaccagga gctggagcag caggcgctca tatacaagta cctggtggcg    240
              ggcgtgcccg ttccgccgga tctcgtggtt ccaatccgcc gcggcctcga ctccctcgca    300
                                                   1193

              acccgcttnt acggccaacc cacactcggg tacggaccgt acctggggag gaaactggat    360
<removed-date>
              ccggagcccg gccggtgccg gcgaacggac ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc caaggaggcc    420
              gccccggact ccaagtactg cgagcgccac atgcaccgcg gccgcaaccg ttcaagaaag    480
              cctgtggaaa cgcagctcgc gccccagtcc caaccgcccg ccgccgcagc cgtctccgcc    540
              gctccgcccc tggcagccgc cgccgccgcc accaccaacg gcagcggctt ccagaaccac    600
              tctctctacc cggccatcgc cggcagcact ggtggtggag gaggagttgg cgggtccggc    660
<removed-apn>
              aatatctcct ccccgttctc ctcgtcgatg gggggatcgt ctcagctgca catggacagt    720
              gctgccagct actcctacgc agctcttggt ggtggaactg caaaggatct caggtacaac    780
              gcttacggaa taagatctct ggcggacgag cacaaccagc tgatcgcaga agccatcgac    840
              tcgtcgatag agagccagtg gcgcctcccc agctcgtcgt tcccgctctc gagctaccca    900
              catctcgggg cgctgggcga cctgggcggc cagaacagca cggtgagctc gctgccgaag    960
              atggagaagc agcagccgcc ctcgtccttc ctagggaacg acaccggggc cggcatggcc   1020
              atgggctccg cctccgcgaa gcaggagggc cagacgctgc ggcacttctt cgacgagtgg   1080
              cccaaggcgc gggactcctg gccgggcctc tccgacgaga ccgccagcct cgcctcgttc   1140
              cccccggcga cccagctgtc gatgtccata cccatggcgt cctccgactt ctccgtggcc   1200
              agctcccagt cgcccaacga tgactaatgg tgcgtggatc gtcgcgttct ggccctttgt   1260
              ctgtcttccc tccagtcctc cacccaccgc gcagtagtac ctgcggaaac agcccatgct   1320
              cctgtatatt tgtcggtcat tttccgtgtc agatctgtgt accaaaccaa gcggcggcgg   1380
              ccgtcgtctc tccccgcctc cgcctcgcct catgtgggtg ggtgaacatg agaccgtttt   1440
              gcttaggctc aaagctttgt gtgaccccaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagggcgg   1500
              ccgctctaga gtatccctcg aggggcccag agcttacgcg tacc                    1544
              <210>   1031
              <211>   1683
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1031
              cttcactcac tcctgtcctc tcctctcgac cagctgacct cgctgacgga gcacacagcc     60
              acgccgcagc gccgcgtggg tgtctgtcta tagccttgta ggtcgttcgc aggtaggtaa    120
                                                   1194

              ccgtaaccta gctagctcgt cgggatgatg atgatgagcg gtcgagcggc caccgcgggg    180
<removed-date>
              cggtacccgt tcacggcgtc gcagtggcag gagctggagc accaggcgct catctacaag    240
              tgcctggcgt ccggcaagcc catcccgtcc tacctcatgc caccgctccg ccgcatcctc    300
              gactccgccc tcgccacgtc gccgtcgctc gccgccttcc cgccgcaacc ctcgctgggg    360
              tgggggggct gcttcgggat gggcttcagc aggaagcccg ccgacgagga cccggagccc    420
              gggcggtgcc ggcgcacgga cggcaagaag tggcgctgct ccaaggaggc gtacccggac    480
<removed-apn>
              tccaagtact gcgagaagca catgcaccgg ggcaagaacc gttcaagaaa gcctgtggaa    540
              atgtccttgg ccacgccggc gccggcctcc tccgccacaa gcgccgccgc cgccgccacc    600
              tcctcgtccc aggcgccgtc ctaccacagc ccggcccccg ccgtgccgta ccacgcgccc    660
              tacggcgccg cgtaccatca cacgcagacg caggtgacga tgagcccctt ccacctcctc    720
              cacctcgaga ccacccaccc gcacccgccg ccgccgccgc cgccgcccta ctactacgcg    780
              gaccagaggg actacgccta cggcaaggag gtcggcgagc gcgccttctt ctccgacggc    840
              gcgggcgaga gggaccggca gcagcaggcc gcggggcagt ggcagttcaa gcagctcggg    900
              acgatggagg cgacgaagca gccgtgcacc acgccgctgc tcgtccccgc cgccgggtac    960
              ggccacggcg cggcgtcgcc gtacggcgtc ggtcaggcca aggaagacga ggaggaggag   1020
              gaaacgcggc ggcagcagca gcactgcttc gttcttggcg ccgacctgcg gctggcggag   1080
              cggccgtcgg gggcacatga cgccgccgcg cagaagccgc tccggcattt catcgacgag   1140
              tggccgcacg agaaggggag caataaggcg gggtcgtgga tgggggggct cgacggcgag   1200
              acgacgcagc tctccatgtc tatcccgatg gcggccgctg ccgacctccc cgtcacctcc   1260
              cgctaccgta cgtgatggcg gcgcgcacta tgagtgattg ccagcaagaa atgttttgtg   1320
              gttgctgcga cctcgaggtg gcgaggccac atgaaaaaaa aatactggag ctggaacacg   1380
              agtggttctt tcctgtgccg ttttgctcag ggccggtcgg cacggtttga agaagttggg   1440
              aagagaagta aaataaacct ccttgggagt gttacgtttc ctgtaattgc ttgcttcctt   1500
              tgctgtacct gtgagacgac gcttagtgct agaagtgagg gcctttcctg atctcagctc   1560
              tggtctggat ttgccttttc ccgctgtcgg attcctctgc ctgtctgtga tggtttgtct   1620
              gtgatggttt gtgctcagag cctgcagcga atactaaacc gcagtaatta atcaaaaaaa   1680
              aaa                                                                 1683
                                                   1195

<removed-date>
              <210>   1032
              <211>   1233
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1032
              atgggtgggt ctgaagccgc cacatgtcca gagaaggcgg cacactccaa agcatcaaca     60
              gtgagtccag acccccacgg gagagcgccg gacccccgga tgtacagtcc aaacccccaa    120
<removed-apn>
              ggatggtccc ggacccccga atatacagtc cggaccccca agggtaaaaa ggagcctatt    180
              tatatagttg ggtacgggac gtacttcggc aagaggctgg atccggagcc ggggccggcg    240
              cacggacgga aagaagtggc ggtgctccag cgaggccgcc ccggactcca ctgcgagcgc    300
              cacatgcacc gcggccgcaa gcgttcaaga aagcctgtgg aaacgcagcc cgcgccccag    360
              tcccaaccgc ccgccgccgg cgccgccgcc gccgccaacg gcagcagctt tcggaaccac    420
              tccctctacc cggccattgc cggtggtgga ggtggcgggg ccagcagtat ctctgctccc    480
              ccgttctcgt ccatagagag tcgtctcagc tgcacatgga cagtgctgct gccagccgca    540
              gctcttgggg gtggaggccg ccaagatggc ccgccgccat gcgcgttgct gggattccgc    600
              gcccgcctcc agcacaggtc ggatgcctcc acggacggaa tggtggccat caccggcgaa    660
              tccatggagt tgcccggacg cgcctgcgat gtggcctcgc ccagcagcgc cgttacctcg    720
              actcgccgcg ccgacggatc ctacaggcgc gctgtggcct cgcccgtcta cgtcgttgcg    780
              tcgactcgcc gcgccgatgg aagagcccag ggatccttca ggcgcgccat ggccgagtgc    840
              gggtgcgggc gcgctttggc ctcgcccggc tgcgccgtgg ccgccagttg ctgcgccggc    900
              tcctacggcc gcgatttggc cttgcccgtc tgcgccgttg cgtcgactcg ccgcgcccat    960
              ggatgcgccc aggtatcctt caggcgcgcc atggccgagt gcgggtgcgg gcccgctttg   1020
              gcctcgcccg gctgcgccgt ggccgccagt tgctgcgtcg gctcctaccg ccgcgatttg   1080
              gccttgcccg tctgcgccgt tgcgtcgact ctccgcgccc aggtatcctt caggcgcgcc   1140
              atggccgagt gcgggtgcgg gcccgctttg gcctcgcccg gctgcgccgt ggccgccagt   1200
              tgctgcgccg gcgatccctt gccggggtcg taa                                1233
              <210>   1033
              <211>   1127
                                                     1196

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1033
              tgctcctcct tcgcctccgt gctccgccgg ccgcagacac aagtttaccg agcgaccaga     60
              cggcgggagc cgtcacgcat aaatataccc accacttcac acttcctctg tcgagaacga    120
              atgctgtctc ttcttccctt ctatcgagaa gctgcccgcg cgctccctcc gtagagtcca    180
              aaccgccaca ggaagcgcaa cagcggagtc tccaaaatgg ccgccgagga caaggagacc    240
<removed-apn>
              gactcgccgc agccgccggc gaagctgccc cgtctctcct gcgccgacac gagcgccgga    300
              gtggcggcct cgtcgcctct ggttctcggg ctgggcctgg ggctcggcgg ggggcggcga   360
              gcgagacgcg gatgcgtccc cggcaacggc gacgcccaag aggccgtcag cgctgacgtt    420
              catgcagcag caggaactgg agcaccaggt gctcatctac cgctacttcg cagcgggcgc    480
              gccggtgccg gcgcaccctt gtgctcccta tctggaagag cgtcgccgcg tcctccttcg    540
              gcccgcagcg cttcccctcg ctgatgggcc tggggagcct gtgcttcgac taccgcagca    600
              gcatggagcc ggagcccggg cggtgccggc gcacggacgg caagaagtgg cggtgctccc    660
              gcgacgtggt gccgggccac aagtactgcg agcggcacgt ccaccgcggc cgcggccgtt    720
              caagaaagcc tgtggaagcc gccgccccgg cgcccagcgc ggcggccgcc accagcctcg   780
              gcaggcggcc ccgtccacca cacgggcggc gcgcccccgc cgcacgggct cggcctctcc   840
              cccaccagcg tcctcctcgc ccacagcgcc gcgcgtgcca catgagtaga gcgctgcggg    900
              ccgacatctt gggctgggcc tcggaatcac gaggagaaac ggaatccgca gggattacaa    960
              tgtcgtgtgc gtgctgtgat ttttttcact cccaaaagtc gcagcttctt aaaaaacccg   1020
              gtttgggacg tccgatggca tgtgtcgctg gcagctggtt cgctgcgttt gcttctctgt   1080
              tacgtgtgca ttgtattgtt ttgcctgcct caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa                 1127
              <210>   1034
              <211>   1749
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1034
              gggcctattt agggtgaact atagaacaag tttgtacaaa aaagcaggct ggtaccggtc     60
              cggaattccc gggctcgcgc tcttgccacc gtctactctc caacctttct gtcatatacc   120
                                                   1197

              tcggcaccag ctcgctgacg ctaccgccac ccctaccgcc aggccgcata gccgtgctcc    180
<removed-date>
              gctcaccttc tctcgcgcta cagtctcaag ggtagctagc caagctacca agctcgtcag    240
              gagcgagaga aagaggccgc cggcggtgcg cggggatgat gatgatgagc agcggccggg    300
              cgggcggcgg ggccaccgcg gggcggtacc cgttcacggc gtcgcagtgg caggagctgg    360
              agcaccaggc gctcatctac aagtgcctgg cgtccggcaa gcccatccct tcctacctca    420
              tgccgccgct ccgccgcatc ctcgactccg ccctcgccac gtcgccgtcc ctcgcctacc    480
<removed-apn>
              cgccgcaacc ctcactgggc tggggctgct tcgggatggg cttcacccgg aaggccgacg    540
              aggacccgga gcccgggcgg tgccggcgca cggacggcaa gaagtggcgc tgctccaagg    600
              aggcgtaccc ggactccaag tactgcgaga agcacatgca ccggggcaag aaccgttcaa    660
              gaaagcctgt ggaaatgtcc ttggccacgc cggccccggc gccggccccc gccgccgcca    720
              caaccgccac cgccacctca tccccggcgc cgtcctacca ccgcccggcc cacgacgcca    780
              cgccgtctcc gtaccacgcg ctgtatggag gcggcggcgg cggcggcggt agcccttact    840
              cggcgtcggc acgcccagga gcaaccggag gcggcggcgc gtaccaccac gcgcagcatg    900
              tgagcccctt ccacctccac ctcgagacca cccacccgca cccgccgccg ccctacaact    960
              actccgccga ccagagggac tacgcgtacg ggcacgcggc cgccaaggag gtcggcgagc   1020
              acgccttctt ctcggacggc gcgggcgagc gggtcgaccg ccaggccgcg gcggggcagt   1080
              ggcagttcag gcagctcggg gtggagacga agccgggccc cacgccgctg ttccccgtcg   1140
              ccgggtacgg gcacggcgcg gcgtcgccgt acggcgtgga gatgggcaag tacgacgacg   1200
              agcaggagga gaggcgccgc cagcactgct tcgttcttgg agccggcctg cggctggagc   1260
              ggccgtcgtc gggccatggc catggccatg accatgacga cgccgccgcc gcgcagaagc   1320
              cgctccggcc cttcttcgac gagtggccgc accagaaggg ggacaaggcc ggttcgtgga   1380
              tggggctcga cggcgagacg cagctctcca tttccatccc catggccgct accgacctcc   1440
              ccgtcacctc ccgcttccgt aacgacgagt gatgccacat caaacctggc gctggaaact   1500
              cggaacgcat ggtgctgatg ctgaccatga gatgtaccgt ttcgctcaag gccggccgtc   1560
              atcaccacgg ccacatcaaa ccggtttgaa gaacttggga aggccgaatg aaacctccag   1620
              aagaatgatc tgtcctcttt tttctgcatt tctttttctc ttagtattac gcagtattgc   1680
              ttcgcgtgta atatgttttc ctgtaatatc aagtgagggc gtttctgaaa aacaaaaaaa   1740
                                                   1198

<removed-date>
              aaaaaaaaa                                                           1749
              <210>   1035
              <211>   801
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1035
              actcttgcct ctatcccagc gtgttcattc caacacaaga acaacacaca cgacgcgcac     60
<removed-apn>
              tcgcaccagc cagccacgga ggaagaaagg cgcactccag agatgaccga gcgaaggcag   120
              gaacactcgc cgccgtccaa gctcccccgc ctctccggcc ccgacgccga cgacaacgac   180
              ggcgcaggga cggtgaccat ggcggcgccg tcgccgctgg ttcttgggct gggtctcggc   240
              gtaggcggca gcagcagtga cagtggacgt ggcgacgcgg aggcatctgc ggcgacgcgg   300
              ccatcggcgc tgacgttcat gcagcggcag gagctggagc accagtggcg ggactgggga   360
              gcatgtgcta cgaccacagg agcagcatgg agccggagcc ggaccggtgc cggcgcacgg    420
              acggcaaaaa gtggcggtgc tcgcgcggcg tgatgccggg gcacaagtac tgcgagcgcc    480
              acgtccaccg cggccgcggc cgtgcaagaa agcctgtgga agccgcgccg gccacatcag   540
              ccatcccgat ccgcgcaatg cacgccgccg acgcgcaggg cgccacaagc gcgcacgcgg   600
              cgccaccgca gcgcctcggc ttctcctccc ccgccggcgt ctacctggcc cacggcaccg   660
              cccgtggcac ctgacctgat gacggcattt tcttcagtta gctacagatg ttttgcttcc   720
              ttgtttgtgc taatctgtag cggggaaatc tccgaggatt atgctgtact ggtgctggta   780
              attttatttt cgccttgact g                                             801
              <210>   1036
              <211>   1429
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1036
              gcccccgtcc gtccgtccgt ccctcacctc ggcccgcctc cctcatcagg tagccgtagc     60
              gagcagtata gcacgcacag ccgccgccct gccctgccct gctcggcgta ggcacaggca   120
              cagcccagag cgagcgagac agagggaaag agacagagcc agccaggtaa aaggcaaaag   180
              cacagcacat taaaagagag gccggaagca gcggcagagc ggagagagag agagagaact   240
                                                   1199

              agaagcatat atggcgatgc cctttgcctc cctgtctccg gcagccgacc accgcccctc    300
<removed-date>
              ctccctcctc ccctactgcc gcgccgcccc tctctccgcg gtgggagagg acgccgccgc    360
              gcaggcgcag cagcagcagc agcagcacgc tatgagcggc aggtgggcag cgaggccgcc    420
              ggcgctcttc accgcggcgc agtacgagga gctggagcac caggcgctca tatacaagta    480
              cctcgtcgcc ggcgtgcccg tcccgccgga cctcctcctc cccctacgcc gaggcttcgt    540
              ctaccaccaa cccgcccttg ggtacgggcc ctacttcggc aagaaggtgg acccggagcc    600
<removed-apn>
              cgggcggtgc cggcgtacgg acggcaagaa gtggcggtgc tccaaggagg ccgccccgga    660
              ctccaagtac tgcgagcgcc acatgcaccg cggccgcaac cgttcaagaa agcctgtgga    720
              agcgcagctc gtgcccccgc cgcacgccca gcagcagcag cagcagcagg cccccgcgcc    780
              caccgctggc ttccagagcc accccatgta cccatccatc ctcgccggca acggcggcgg    840
              cggcggcggg gtaggtggtg gtgctggtgg cggtggcacg ttcggcctgg ggcccacctc    900
              tcagctgcac atggacagtg ccgctgctta cgcgactgct gctggtggag ggagcaaaga    960
              tctcaggtac tctgcctacg gggtgaagtc tctgtcggac gagcacagcc agctcttgtc   1020
              cggcggcggc ggcatggacg cgtcaatgga caactcgtgg cgcctgttgc cgtcccaaac   1080
              cgccgccacg ttccaggcca caagctaccc tctgttcggc gcgctgagcg gtctggacga   1140
              gagcaccatc gcctcgctgc ccaagacgca gagggagccc ctctccttct tcgggagcga   1200
              cttcgtgacc ccgaagcagg agaaccagac gctgcgcccc ttcttcgacg agtggcccaa   1260
              gtcgagggac tcgtggccgg agctgaacga ggacaacagc ctcggctcct cggccaccca   1320
              gctctccatc tccatcccca tggcgccctc cgacttcaac accagctcca gatcgccgaa   1380
              tggaataccg tcaaggtttg agcctttcgt tctgcgaacc ttcttctaa               1429
              <210>   1037
              <211>   2239
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1037
              atgaccatgg catcccctcc tctgcaaaag cccgtgcctt tggtgtcttg tcacgggcaa     60
              aagtggcgca tgttcattat tatcccccct gcctttttgc tttcgcaagc cctgaggcca    120
              ttggtcacgg gtactgttcc ccctactgtt cttgcttccc gtgtcctgac catttcagta    180
                                                   1200

              ttcgttcttg ttactgatgg tgttcttgtg atgaagggtt gggtctgtgc tcaggtgcca    240
<removed-date>
              gcaagatgca gggtgtgttg tcgagggtga ggaggccctt cactccgacg cagtggatgg    300
              agctggagca ccaggccctg atctacaagc acttcgctgt gaatgcccct gtgccgtcca    360
              gcttgctcct ccctatcaaa agaagcctca atccatggag cagccttggc tccagctcat    420
              tgggatgggc accatttcgt tccggctctg ctgatgcaga accaggaaga tgccgccgca    480
              cagatggcaa gaagtggcgg tgctctagag atgctgtcgg ggaccaaaaa tactgtgagc    540
<removed-apn>
              gacacataaa acgtggttgc caccgttcaa gaaagcatgt ggaaggccga aaggcaacac    600
              cgaccactgc agatccaacc atggctgttt ctggtggttc attgttgcac agccatgctg    660
              ttgcttggca gcagcagggc aaaagctcag ctgctaatgt gactgatcca ttctcactag    720
              ggtccaacag gtgaagtcac ctgatcgtct gatcctgcat tgttatactc atttctgcca    780
              cttaagtttg tgaattttta ttttctcaac atttttttct cgaacacgca ggagaactgt    840
              gcatcatata ttaaaagaag taaaaaagtc taaagaagac caaaatctgc cataagaggc    900
              agaaagagat aggaagtggg aggggcacca gcacactata ttttctcaac ataaatgaca    960
              atctatggtt gatacatgtg ccagtctagc agtcagggtt caggacgtac caaaacattg   1020
              aaaatgttat atcctttaga cattgaaatt ttgtccatag ccattcatag ttgaaaattt   1080
              tgttcttgat ttctttcaac tggtcagtga tttcttcatg taacctgtca ttgatgcatt   1140
              ccatcttttg ccccgtgccc attcctatat ataagatttt attattatgt ttgtttgttc   1200
              aaacaattat ggtaagcatg tgcaaagaaa ggcagtagga agcactataa ataactgaaa   1260
              tgatatggta cttatgtcag tacaaacttt agagataggt gaattctgtt catgatgacc   1320
              ctttcaaatt ttgacgactt actatagtca gcagtgaaag aaaaacagga cagtgtttcc   1380
              ttttccttcc atgaacttga aatgttgact ctggtttgca ggaatttgct ggataagcag   1440
              aatctaggtg accagttctc tgtatccact tccatggact cctttgactt ctcatcatca   1500
              cattcttccc caaaccaagc caaagttgca ttttcaccgg tggccatgca gcacgaacat   1560
              gatcagctgt atcttgtgca tggagccggc agctcagcag aaaacgttaa caagtctcag   1620
              gatggtcagc tgctagtctc gagggaaaca attgacgacg gacctctggg cgaggtgttc   1680
              aagggcaaga gttgccagtc agcatccgca gacatcttaa ctgaccattg gacttcgact   1740
              cgtgacttgc gtcctccaac cggagtccta caaatgtcta gcagcaacac agtgccagca   1800
                                                   1201

<removed-date>
              gagaatcaca cgagtaacag tagctatctc atggcgagga tggcgaattc tcagaccgtc   1860
              ccaacactcc actgagtgtt catcaggctg gtctttgttg ggaccacaaa ataactgaag   1920
              ccatgttgat gtcctgagtt tgctgatact aggttttcag tcgagtcttg taactcctgt   1980
              tttagagctg ttatatgttc acgtcatgtc gcctttcatt ttcggttcat tcagatgggt   2040
              gttctaataa tttctttcct tcttacctgt gaaggatttg agttccaatc tgagacgtgg   2100
<removed-apn>
              gtttgttcta acttggaggt atttatgaat attaggcact tctgattcca aaaaaaaaaa   2160
              aaaaaaaagg gcggccgctc tagagtatcc ctcgaggggc ccaagcttac gcgtacccag   2220
              ctttctgtac aaagtggtc                                                2239
              <210>   1038
              <211>   1854
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1038
              attaattaat ggccgccacc aagaaccctc caacccccac ctgaccttct cttcctccct     60
              cccccgaccg cctgtctgtc ctccgcgcat ccgttctcta tcgaaaggga ggaggaggag    120
              cgcgcgggag tgggctgggg gcccaccgat gctgagctcg gcgtcctcgg ccggggcggc    180
              catggggatg ggcggcgggt accaacacca gccgctgcca ctgccgcagc gcggggcggc    240
              ggccgcggtc ttcaccgccg cgcagtgggc ggagctggag cagcaggcgc tcatctacaa    300
              gtacctcatg gccggcgtcc ccgtcccgcc cgatctcctc cgccccgccc cccacgccgc    360
              cgccttctcc ttcgccagcc ccgccgcgtc gcccttctac catcaccacc accaccaccc    420
              gtccctgagt tactacgcct actacgggaa gaagctggac ccggagccgt ggcggtgccg    480
              ccgcaccgac ggcaagaagt ggcggtgctc caaggaggcg caccccgact ccaagtactg    540
              cgagcgccac atgcaccgtg gccgcaaccg ttcaagaaag cctgtggaat ccaagaccgc    600
              ctcctcgccg ccccagctgt ccaccgtcgt caccaccacc accacccggg aggccgccgc    660
              cgcgacgccc cttgagtccc tcgcgggggc ggggggtaag gctcacggcc tgtccctcgg    720
              cggcggggct ggctcgtcgc acctcagcgt cgacgcttcg aacgctcact ttcgctatgg    780
              cagcaagtac cctcttggag ctaaatccga tgctggcgag ctgagcttct tctcaggagc    840
              accagggaac tccaggggct tcaccattga ttctccagca gataactctt ggcactccct    900
                                                   1202

<removed-date>
              gccatccaac gtgcccccgt ttacactgtc caagggcaga gactctggcc tcctgcccgg    960
              tgcctactcc tactcccaca ttgaaccacc gcaggtgctc ggccaggtca ccatcgcctc   1020
              gctgtcacag gaccaggagc gccaccagtc gtcgttcagc agcggcgggg ccggcgctgg   1080
              tggattgctg gggagcgtga agcaggagaa ccagccgctg aggcccttct tcgacgagtg   1140
              gcctgggacg cgggactcgt ggtcggagat ggacgacgcg aggtccagta ggacctcctt   1200
<removed-apn>
              ctcgacgacc cagctctcca tctccattcc gatgcccaga tgtgattgag aacgaagctc   1260
              gtgcgcggcc agtaggtggc gttgtcgcat gacgcgcacc cagcatcgcg ctcgctgcta   1320
              gcgagccacc gtcacccggt gattgatgcc ctcatcctag ctatttgttt cgctgaatcg   1380
              cattaagaac agaactctat gtaagagcag gatccttcct catgtatcaa tgggggcaat   1440
              gaactccatt ctgtttctat ggttgtagta ccgaccatgc tttgtatttg ttgtacccag   1500
              accgagaatg aaaaccgccc agtcgtcagg cgttatcgtc taaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaag   1560
              tgtattgtgt gctttccagg ctgtgtaaga tctgatggcg aatctgttac tgcagtgtag   1620
              gtgtgtagca tctgtggtat ggtacctttt gttgtgctac tgctactgga tctggattga   1680
              tgcaaaatct ggtgctgccg taggcccctc ttccttttca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaata   1740
              catctttttt ttatgatagg aaaagaaatg agaagaacag aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1800
              aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc gaagcttacg cgta         1854
              <210>   1039
              <211>   1753
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1039
              gaaaaaaaac catgtgcgtt tgtttatatt tcgggacggg agtagtcccg cgaggaaaaa     60
              tccacggatg tgacaaacga tcaaaatgac agagcccgca gaggaatcag agaaaggaat    120
              caaaggcgtg ggtcaccgga aaaaaacttt tttttttttt tttttatttt tttttttttt    180
              tttttttttt ttttgacaaa agcgacaaag cttgcatcac agactggaac tggaagaaat    240
              gaaaatgtca cacaaaaaaa taaacaacat ttggtacgag taacgtactg ctacaaaaga    300
              acaaaagacc aaatcataga gtccctagta ctgcttgact cggttcagac ttttttgagc    360
              ctcagcccct gagccgtccc gcgcaaagca gcgcagaccg cagaggcaga agcagggttt    420
                                                   1203

<removed-date>
              gccgctacga gatgcatcca cgtcactggc ttactgctcg ctgttgcagg cttgcattgc    480
              agccaggaaa tgcagcggtc aatccacgct gttgcagggc tgcagctagg agatggaccg    540
              atcactcccc gttgtggaat cgcgcggcgg cggcggaggc ggaggtagca gcgaggtcgg    600
              agggcgaagc cgcggggatg gagatggaaa gctgcgtcgc gtcgtccgcc gccatgtcgc    660
              cgctctcccg cggccactcg tcgaagaaac gccgcagggg ctgcttctcg tcggagccgg    720
<removed-apn>
              tgtcgggctc gggcagcggc ttgtcgaggc tcaggtcggc cccgagcgcg tggaagtgcc    780
              gtcgcctgag ctccttggac tgcccgtagt cgtagtcgta gccgtagccg ccgcccggga    840
              agagcgacga cgctggcggt gtgtagtggg cgtacctgtg gtaggacggc ggcggcgatg    900
              gcgacgccgc cgccgcgtgc aggctcgcgt cgaggtggag ctggagagcg ccagcgggga    960
              cgcgggctgc tgctcctgct gcggaggagg cgccgtggag gagatgctgc tgcgggtagg   1020
              cgaggctcgg cggcggcgcg tcggccgcgc ggggcggcga gatggtggag atcgcggacg   1080
              gtcggtacgc cgcagcgggg ccggcggcgg gggaggaggt cacttccaca ggctttcttg   1140
              aacggctctt cccgcggtga atgtgcttct cgcagtactt ggagtcgccg tgggcctccc   1200
              tggagcaccg ccacttcttg ccgtccgtcc gccggcaccg ccccggctcc gtgtcctccg   1260
              ccgccttgcg gccgaacggc gcccccgcgc cgtagcagcc ccagtacgcc agcgacggcg   1320
              aaggctgcgg cgggaaggcg agggagggcg cggtgtcgac gccggtggcg aggcggagcg   1380
              gtaggacgag gtcgtgcggc acgggcgcgc ccgaggccat gtacttgaag atgagcgcct   1440
              ggtgctcgag ctcctgccac tgcgacgccg tgaacaggcg cctcccgccg ccgtgcccgc   1500
              tcagcatcat ctcctcgagc ccgcgttgct tggccgcact cgctcaacaa tgcacgctcc   1560
              cgcagcgccg acgacgtacg aggcagaggg cggcggcgcc gagacctcgc ttccagttac   1620
              aagggaaatg agagatggga ctgaaatgga ggggtctccg atactagtag ttctacaggt   1680
              ttgtgccggt gtcaggactc gggaacggga agacgtggag catcagctcg atacggcatg   1740
              tacgaaagtt tca                                                      1753
              <210>   1040
              <211>   751
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1204

              <400> 1040
<removed-date>
              gagcctaagc aaaacggtct catgttcacc cacccacatg aggcgaggcg gaggcgggga    60
              gagacgacgg ccgccgccgc ttggtttggt acacagatct gacacggaaa atgaccgaca   120
              aatatacagg agcatgggct gtttccgcag ctactactgc gcggtgggtg gaggactgga   180
              gggaagacag acaaagggcc agaacgcgac gatccacgca ccattagtca tcgttgggcg   240
              actgggagct ggccacggag aagtcggagg acgccatggg tatggacatc gacagctggg   300
<removed-apn>
              tcgccggggg gaacgaggcg aggctggcgg tctcgtcgga gaggcccggc caggagtccc   360
              gcgccttggg ccactcgtcg aagaagtgcc gcagcgtctg gccctcctgc ttcgcggagg   420
              cggagcccat ggccatgccg gccccggtgt cgttccctag gaaggacgag ggcggctgct   480
              gagacgatcc ccccatcgac gaggagaacg gggaggagat attgccggac ccgccaactc   540
              ctcctccacc accagtgctg ccggcgatgg ccgggtagag agagtggttc tggaagccgc   600
              tgccgttggt ggtggcggcg gcggcggctg ccaggggcgg agcggcggag acggctgcgg   660
              cggcgggcgg ttgggactgg ggcgcgagct gcgtttcccc aggctttctt gaacggttgc   720
              ggccgcggtg catgtggcgc tcgcaatact t                                  751
              <210>   1041
              <211>   1042
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1041
              ggtacgcgta agctctgggc ccctcgaggg atactctaga gcggccgcaa ccgttcaaga    60
              aagcctgtgg aagcgcagct cgtgcccccg ccgcacgccc agcagcagca gcagcagcag   120
              gcccccgcgc ccaccgctgg cttccagagc caccccatgt acccatccat cctcgccggc   180
              aacggcggcg gcggcggcgg ggtaggtggt ggtgctggtg gcggtggcac gttcggcctg   240
              ggccacctct cagctgcaca tggacagtgc cgctgcttac gcgactgctg ctggtggagg   300
              gagcaaaata cctaggtact ctgcctacgg ggtgaagtct ctgtcggacg agcacagcca   360
              gctcttgccc ggcggcggcg gcggcatgga cgcgtcaatg gacaactcgt ggcgcctgtt   420
              gccgtcccaa accgccgcca cgttccaggc cacaagctac cctctgttcg gcgcgctgag   480
              cggtctggac gagagcacca tcgcctcgct gcccaagacg cagagggagc ccctctcctt   540
              cttcgggagc gacttcgtga ccccgaagca ggagaaccag acgctgcgcc ccttcttcga   600
                                                   1205

<removed-date>
              cgagtggccc aagtcgaggg actcgtggcc cgagctgaac gaggacaaca gcctcggctc    660
              ctcgggccac ccagctctcc atctccatcc ccatggcgcc ctccgacttc aacaccagct    720
              ccagatcgcc gaatggaata ccgtcaagat gaacctgagt aaaccatgcg gaccccaacg    780
              tctcagagct gacgactctt tgctgctggc ctggcctcat cgtaccttga ggcgtcaagg    840
              aatacttcat taccactagt atcatgctcc tggattttcg aacaatatat atatgcttat    900
<removed-apn>
              gtaccgctat ttctctcatc ttttacactt ctttacccgt ttggaattgt atgttctgcg    960
              tggcacggtt gtttatttga ccttttttgg atttgattga aagctccgtt tcttgcttaa   1020
              aaaaagaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aa                                            1042
              <210>   1042
              <211>   399
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (214)..(215)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (385)..(385)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1042
              cactggggtt cactcctctt gcgtgtgtgt ggtttccttg cagttgggta cgggccctac     60
              ttcggcaaga aggtggaccc ggagcccggg cggttgccgg cgtacggacg gcaagaagtg    120
              gcggtgctcc aaggaggccg ccccggactc caagtactgc gagcgccaca tgcaccgcgg    180
              ccgcaaccgt tcaagaaagc ctgtggaagc gcanncggcg cccccgccgc acgcccagcc    240
              gcagcagcag cagcaggccc ccgcgcccgc tgctggcttc cagaaccact cgctgtaccc    300
              gtcgatcctc accggcaacg cggcggcggg gtaggtgctg gtgctggtgg tggcacgttc    360
              ggcctggggc cacctctcag ctgcncatgg acagtgccg                           399
              <210>   1043
              <211>   785
              <212>   DNA
                                                   1206

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 1043
              cggcggcggc gacgccgcgt gcaggctcga gtcgaggtgg agctggagag cgccagcggc    60
              gtgggcgcgg cctgctggag agagagcgcc gtggcggaga tgctgctgct gcgggtggcc   120
              gaggcccggc ggcggcggcg gcgcgtcggc cgcgcgaggc ggcgagatgg agaacgcgga   180
              cgggcggtag gcggcggggg aggtcacttc cacaggcttt cttgaacggc tcttcccgcg   240
<removed-apn>
              gtggatgtgc ttctcgcagt acttggagtc tccgtgggcc tccctggagc atcgccactt   300
              cttgccgtcc gtccgccggc accgcccggg ctccgggtcc tccgccttgc ggccgaacgg   360
              cgcccccgcg ccatagcagc cccagtacgc cactgcgcgc gcggggcacg tacagactcg   420
              tcagcgacga cgactatcta tcgacgatga gtgtaaaaca cgagcgcggg aactcgatga   480
              gggagggggg aggagagaag cgcgcggggg cgtacgcgac ggcgaaggct ggggcgggaa   540
              ggcgagggag ggcgcggtgt cgacgccggt ggcgaggcgg agcggcagga cgaggtcgtg   600
              cggcacgggc gcgccggagg ccatgtattt gaagatgagc gcctggtgct ccagctcctg   660
              ccactgcgac gccgtgaaca ggcgcctccc gccgccgtgc ccgctcagca tcatctcctc   720
              ctcgagcccg ctttgctcaa caacgaagaa ggatgagaga cagaggacga cggctccgag   780
              agctc                                                               785
              <210>   1044
              <211>   1035
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1044
              tgaactatag aacaagttta gtacaaaaaa gcaggctggt accggtccgg aattcccggg    60
              atggtttttg tgtctttttt tgcttgcctt ttatcctgcc ctaggatcgt gtttaggaaa   120
              cgcttgcatc tcggcggtca tctctatgaa gcagtacaca tgtttttggc tgcgccttgt   180
              tggcttccac cgttttgctg ctcatctctc ctaactatgc ctgcctgttt gctccccgca   240
              ggattgagct cggtgagctt gagcaccagc atgcaggggg caatggccag ggtgagggcc   300
              ccattcacgc cgtcccagtg gatcgagctc gaacaccagg ccctgatcta caagtacctg   360
              gccgcgaaca gccccatacc tcacagcctc ctcatcccca tcaggaggag cctcgcagcg   420
              tctccctacc cgccttcata cttcggcacg agcacattgg ggtggggctc tttccagctg   480
                                                   1207

<removed-date>
              ggctactccg gcaatgcgga tctggagcct gggcggtgcc gccggacgga cggcaagaaa    540
              tggcggtgct ccagggacgc ggtcgccgac cagaagtact gcgagcgaca catgaaccgg    600
              ggacgccatc gttcaagaaa gcatgtggaa ggccagcctg gccatgccgc gaaagccatg   660
              tccgcggtgg cggcggcggc tgctgctgct gcccagcctg ctgctctggc cggcgccgga   720
              gctcctgctg ctggcctcac tgtcaatcag caccagctgc cggcgaagag ctacgccacg   780
<removed-apn>
              ggtgcgactg acccttgctc tctgcaatat aacagggaac tggtgaacaa acagaatgag   840
              agcgaaaaca tgcaggactc cgacaacctc tcgatgctga cttccatgaa cacaggaaaa   900
              cacagcagcg tgttcccatt ctcgaaacaa aacaccaatc cttttgaagt gaccagctca    960
              aggctagagt tcggcctcgt ttcatcggat tcactgatga gttcccctca cagttccttg   1020
              gagaacgtca acctg                                                    1035
              <210>   1045
              <211>   1467
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1045
              atggcgcagt cgaccgttgg cagcctgaga gccgttggcg caccggacat gtccggtgca     60
              caccggacag tccggtgcct tcttctagcc gttggctcgg ccaccgcccc gtgcgcactg   120
              gcgcaggccc agcgccagcg gcagccggca ggtgccagcc agcctgcttg cctgcctgcc   180
              tgcgcagctg ctcccgctgg cggtgctgct gtccgctgct gctgctgccg gccgctgcag   240
              ctgtgcaagc gcacgcagat tctgcagcgc gcactctgct ctgcgcctgc cctgaacact    300
              gaccgaagtg acccatcctc tgcgccgact gcaccccaca ccaccccccc acctcagctc    360
              accttgcgct gcccctgtgc ctgctgcatg cctgacaccg gcgccatatg catgatagcg    420
              gatgatgata ctagcacgtc ttcccgttcc cgagctgcct ctgacaccag cacaaacctg   480
              gagactacta ctagtattgg agtcccctcc atttccacct cccttgccac tgaagcgaga   540
              gctctcggag ccgtcgtcct ctgtctctca tccttcttcg ttgttgagca aagcgggctc   600
              gaggaggaga tgatgctgag cgggcacggc ggcgggaggc gcctgttcac ggcgtcgcag   660
              tggcaggagc tggagcacca ggcgctcatc ttcaaataca tggcctccgg cgcgcccgtg   720
              ccgcacgacc tcgtcctgcc gctccgcctc gccaccggcg tcgacaccgc gccctccctc    780
                                                   1208

<removed-date>
              gccttcccgc cccagccttc gccgtcgcgg gaggcccacg gagactccaa gtactgcgag    840
              aagcacatcc accgcgggaa gagccgttca agaaagcctg tggaagtgac ctcccccgcc    900
              gcctaccgcc cgtccgcgtt ctccatctcg ccgcctcgcg cggccgacgc gccgccgccg    960
              ccgccgggcc tcggccaccc gcagcagcag catctccgcc acggcgctct ctctccagca   1020
              ggccgcgccc acgccgctgg cgctctccag ctccacctcg actcgagcct gcacgcggcg   1080
<removed-apn>
              tcgccgccgc cgtcctacca caggtacgcc cactcccacg ctcactacac gccgccgccg   1140
              ccgccgtcgc tctacgacta cgggcagtcc aaggagcttc gggaggcggc ggagctcagg   1200
              cggcggcact tccacgcgct cggggccgac ctgagcctcg acaagccgct ggccgacgcc   1260
              ggggccgcgg agaagcccct gcggcgtttc ttcgacgagt ggccgcggga gagaggcgac   1320
              acgaggccgt cgtgggcggg ggcggaggac gcgacgcagc tctccatctc catccccgcg   1380
              gcttcgccct cctctgacca cgctgcctct gccgccgcgc gatgccacaa cggttgctcc   1440
              tattggctgc tgcaactgca acgctag                                       1467
              <210>   1046
              <211>   2300
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1046
              aaagcaggct tcgaccctag aaaaaatcgc taccactgca cccctcaaac ccagtgaccc     60
              aacccactac acatcggagt ctcgcgcgcg ggctcaagca cttgttctta gctgcttagc    120
              tgctttcttc gttgtaggaa ctgcaacaat ggctaccccc taccgtcttc cttgctgctg    180
              ctatgccctc gtcactgtgc tcgtgctctt cttctccgtc gacgctacgg agggcgccat    240
              cagggagtac cagttcgatg tgcaaatgac caatgtgacg cggctgtgca gcagcaagag    300
              catcgtgacg gtgaacggcc agttcccggg gccgacggtg ttcgcgaggg agggcgactt    360
              cgtcgtcatc cgcgtcgtca accacgtccc ctacaacatg agcatccact ggcacggcat    420
              ccggcagctg cggagcgggt gggcggacgg gccggcgtac atcacgcagt gcccgatcca    480
              gagcggccag agctacgtgt acaagttcac catcacgggg cagcgcggca cgctgtggtg    540
              gcacgcgcac atctcctggc tgcgcgccac cgtctacggg cccatcgtca tcctgcccaa    600
              gcccggcgtc ccttacccgt tcccggcgcc ctacgacgaa gtccccgtct tgttcgggga    660
                                                   1209

<removed-date>
              gtggtggacg gccgacacgg aggcggtgat cagccaggcg ctccagaccg gcggaggccc    720
              caacgtctcc gacgccttca ccatcaacgg gctgcctggg ccgctctaca actgctctgc    780
              aaaagacacg ttcaagctga aagtgaagcc cgggaagacg tacatgctcc gcatcatcaa    840
              cgctgcgctc aatgacgagc tcttcttctc catcgccggc cacccgctca ccgtcgttga    900
              cgtcgacgcg gtctacatca agcccatcac cgtggagacc atcattatca cccctgggca    960
<removed-apn>
              gaccaccaac gtgctcctca ccaccaagcc gtcctaccct ggcgccacct actacatgct   1020
              ggctgcgccc tactccaccg ccaggccggg caccttcgac aacaccaccg tcgccggcat   1080
              cctcgagtac gaggacccca cgtcgtcccc tcccccgcac gcggccttcg acaagaacct   1140
              cccggcgctg aagccgaccc tgccgcagat caacgacacg agcttcgtcg ccaactacac   1200
              ggccaggctc cgcagcctgg ccaccgcgga gtacccggcc gacgtgccgc gggaggtgca   1260
              caggcggttc ttcttcacgg tcgggctggg cacccacccg tgcgccgtga acgggacgtg   1320
              ccagggcccc accaacagca gccggttcgc ggcgtccgtg aacaacgtct ccttcgtgct   1380
              ccccaccacg gcgctgctgc agtcgcactt cgccggcaag tccagggggg tgtactcgtc   1440
              caacttcccg gccgcgccgc tggtcccgtt caactacacg gggacgccgc ccaacaacac   1500
              caacgtgtcc aacggcacca agctggtggt gctgccgtac ggcaccagcg tggagctggt   1560
              gatgcagggc accagcatcc tcggcgccga gagccacccg ctgcacctcc acggcttcaa   1620
              cttcttcgtc gtcggccaag ggttcggcaa cttcgacccc gccaaggacc cggccaagta   1680
              caacctcgtc gaccccgtcg agcgtaacac cgtcggcgtg ccggcggccg ggtgggtggc   1740
              catccggttc cgcgcagaca atccaggggt gtggttcatg cattgccact tggaagttca   1800
              cgtcagctgg ggcctgaaaa tggcatggct ggtgctggac ggagaacgcc ccaacgagaa   1860
              gctactgcct ccgccatcgg atctgcccac atgttagacg acacgaggaa ttgctggcct   1920
              agtcgtcgcc atcaacggcc gtgattgatc ggcccggacc atcttggaac agggattgcg   1980
              tgctctctaa tttgcacagg atatcttacc gtcttttgct tgtgctgggg ttggtgttat   2040
              gcttccattt agtggtgtgc tttttccggc ttgagtcgtc gtctggttag ctgtgtgaga   2100
              gacacgggca ggaaggtccg ctgatgctac tagacagacg ccattttttt tttttattac   2160
              ttatgagtta ctaccatctt ttgtactgcc tcggtcctaa aataattgac attcttgttt   2220
                                                   1210

              ttaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa cggacgctcg gggcggccgc tctagagtat ccctcgaggg   2280
<removed-date>
              gccccaagct tacgcgtacc                                               2300
              <210>   1047
              <211>   1362
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1047
<removed-apn>
              ccacgcgtcc gcccggtgat tcttacagct gcgagacgac ggcgaagcga atcgagaagt     60
              tcgaggtgcg tcatgactcc acctacatgc tgcggattat caacgctgcg ctcaacacgg    120
              cgttcttcct caaggtggca gggcacacgt tcaccgtcgt ggcggcggac gccagctaca    180
              ccacgcagta cgagacggac gtgatcgtca tcgcgccggg acagaccgtc gacgcgctca    240
              tggtggccaa cgcgtcccct ggccctggcc gctactacat ggcgatctcc tcgtaccaga    300
              gcgcggcccc cctgcgccca gggagctaca acgctaacat caccacggcc gtcgtggagt    360
              acgtcggagc ggcggcgtcg gccggccagc aggcgccgac gccggcgctg cccgagatgc    420
              cggaggtgaa cgacacggcc acggccaacc ggttctacac cggcatgacg gcgctcgtcc    480
              gcccaggcag gcggaccgtg ccgctcgccg tcgacacccg catgttcgtc acgatcgggc    540
              tgggcttcgt ctcctgcgac caggaccagg ctccgtgccc ggtcgtcgcg agcatgaaca    600
              accagtcttt caagctccca gacgcagaca ccatgtcgat gctggacgcg cggtaccggg    660
              acacgccgga cggcgtgtac acgagggact tccccgacca gccgcccgtg gcgttcgact    720
              acacgaacca gacggagcgg ctgctgctgg gcggcgtcgc cgcggcgctg ctgttcccgg    780
              gaccgcagtc cacgaaggtg aggacgctgg cgtacaacgc gacggtggag gtggtgctgc    840
              agaacacggc gctggtgggg cgcgagagcc acccgatgca cctgcacggg ttcaatttct    900
              tcgtcgtcgc gcaggggttc ggcaactacg acacggccgc gaagcagcac ttcaacctcg    960
              tcaacccgca ggagcggaac accatcgcgg tgccgaccgg cgggtgggcc gtgatccgct   1020
              tcgtagcgga taacccagga atgtggttca tgcactgcca catcgacgct cacctttcca   1080
              tcggcctggc gatggtgttc gaggtggagg acgggccgaa cacaacgctg ccggcgccac   1140
              cgccggacct cccgcgatgc tgatgagcct gtcccggtgt ggcgcgcggt gcacgtacgt   1200
              gtgccgttta tgtttcagcc acggaaccaa ctgcatatta tcacgatttg agtttgcgat   1260
                                                   1211

              tgttcgagtg atgaaagtgt aaactacagc cagtacgatg ttcttttgca gcaccgtttt   1320
<removed-date>
              gttttctatt aattgaatgt gaaaaaaata aaaaagaaaa tg                      1362
              <210>   1048
              <211>   1314
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1048
<removed-apn>
              atgccgcgct cttggatgat cctactgcta gttttgtgtt ccgctgcagt cctcgctcaa     60
              gctgctactg tggagcatac cttcaatgtg gcgacgatat cctggccgcg catctgccag    120
              ccggggaatg taagcatcac ggcggtggac ggagtacccg gtcccgtgat cgaagccaac    180
              gaaggcgaca cggtgctggt ccacgtcatc aaccactctc cgctcaacgt tacagtccac    240
              tggcacggcg tcttccagct gggcacgccg tgggcggacg gcccgtcgat ggtgacgcag    300
              tgccccatct gcccgggcca ccgctacacg tacaggttcc gcatcacggg gcaggagggc    360
              acgctgtggt ggcacgcgca cagctccctc ttgcgcgcca cggtgtacgg cgccctcatc    420
              atccgcccga gcagcgggag cgcctacccc ttcccggcgc cggacgagga aaagaccgtc    480
              cttctcggcg agtggtggaa cgccgagacc gtccctctca ccaacccagt cgccgacgcg    540
              tacacaatca acggaaggcc cggtgattct tacagctgcg agacgacggc gaagcgaatc    600
              gagaagttcg aggtgcgtca tgactccacc tacatgctgc ggattatcaa cgctgcgctc    660
              aacacggcgt tcttcctcaa ggtggcaggg cacacgttca ccgtcgtggc ggcggacgcc    720
              agctacacca cgcagtacga gacggacgtg atcgtcatcg cgccgggaca gaccgtcgac    780
              gcgctcatga gcgcggcccc cctgcgccca gggagctaca acgctaacat caccacgtcc    840
              gtcgtggagt acgtcggagc ggcggcgtcg ggcggccagc aggcgccggc gctgcccgag    900
              atgccggagg tgaacgacac ggccacggcc aaccggttct acaccggcat gacggcgctc    960
              gtccgcccag gcaggcggac cgtgccgctc gccgtcgaca cccgcatgtt cgtcacgatc   1020
              gggctgggct tcgtctcctg cgaccaggac caggctccgt gcccggtcgt cgcgagcatg   1080
              aacaaccagt ctttcaagct cccagacgca gacaccatgt cgatgctgga cgcgcggtac   1140
              cgggacacgc cggacggcgt gtacacgagg gacttccccg accagccgcc cgtggcgttc   1200
              gactacacga accagacgga gcggctgctg ctgggcggcg tcgccgcggc gctgctgttc   1260
                                                   1212

              ccgggaccgc agtccacgaa ggtgaggacg ctggcgtaca acgcgacggt ggag         1314
<removed-date>
              <210>   1049
              <211>   2215
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1049
              agaacaagtt tgtaggaaaa agcgggctgg gccgggtccg ctaccactgc acccctcaaa     60
<removed-apn>
              ccagtgatcc acccacacat cggagtctcg cgcgcgggct caagtacttg ttcttagctt    120
              agctgctttc ttcgttgtag gaactgcaac aataatggct accccctacc gtcttccttg    180
              gcgctgctat gccctcgtca ctgcgctcgt gctcttcttc tccgtcgacg ctacggaggg    240
              cgccatcagg gagtaccagt tcgatgtgca aatgacgaat gtgacgcggc tgtgcagcag    300
              caagagcatc gtgacggtga acggtcagtt cccggggccg acggtgttcg cgagggaggg    360
              cgacttcatc gtcatccgcg tcgtcaacca cgtcccctac aacatgagca tccactggca    420
              cggcatccgg cagctgcgga gcgggtgggc ggacgggccg gcgtacatca cgcagtgccc    480
              gatccagagc ggccagagct acgtgtacaa gttcaccatc acggggcagc gcggcacgct    540
              gtggtggcac gcgcacatct cctggctgcg cgccaccgtc tacgggccca tcgtcatcct    600
              gcccaagccc cggcgtccct tacccgttcc cggcgcccta cgacgaagtc cccgtcttgt    660
              tcggggagtg gtggacggcc gacacggagg cggtgatcag ccaggcgctc cagaccggcg    720
              gaggccccaa cgtctccgac gccttcacca tcaacgggct gcctgggccg ctctacaact    780
              gctctgcaaa agacacgttc aagctgaaag tgaagcccgg gaagacgtac atgctccgca    840
              tcatcaacgc tgcgctcaac gacgagctct tcttctccat cgccggccac cagctcaccg    900
              tcgttgacgt cgacgcggtc tacatcaagc ccatcaccgt ggagaccatc attatcaccc    960
              ctgggcagac caccaacgtg ctcctcacca ccaagccgtc ctaccctggc gccacctact   1020
              acatgctggc cgcgccctac tccaccgcca ggccgggcac cttcgacaac accaccgtcg   1080
              ccggcatcct cgagtacgag gaccccacgt cgtcccctcc cccgcacgcg gccttcgaca   1140
              agaacctccc ggcgctgaag ccgaccctgc cgcagatcaa cgacacgagc ttcgtcgcca   1200
              actacacggc caggctccgc agcctggcca ccgcggagta cccggccgac gtgccgcggg   1260
              aggtgcacag gcggttcttc ttcacggtcg ggctgggcac ccacccgtgc gccgtgaacg   1320
                                                   1213

              ggacgtgcca gggccccacc aacagcagcc ggttcgcggc gtccgtgaac aacgtctcct   1380
<removed-date>
              tcgtgctccc caccacggcg ctgctgcagt cgcacttcgc cggcaagtcc aggggggtgt   1440
              actcgtccaa cttcccggcc gcgccgctgg tcccgttcaa ctacacgggg acgccgccca   1500
              acaacaccaa cgtgtccaac ggcaccaagc tggtggtgct gccgtacggc accagcgtgg   1560
              agctggtgat gcagggcacc agcatcctcg gcgccgagag ccacccgctg cacctccacg   1620
              gcttcaactt cttcgtcgtc ggccaagggt tcggcaactt cgaccccgcc aaggacccgg   1680
<removed-apn>
              ccaagtacaa cctcgtcgac cccgtcgagc gtaacaccgt cggcgtgccg gcggccgggt   1740
              gggtggccat ccggttccgc gcagacaatc caggggtgtg gttcatgcat tgccacttgg   1800
              aagttcacgt cagctggggc ctgaaaatgg catggctggt gctggacgga gaacgcccca   1860
              acgagaagct gctgcctccg ccatcggatc tgcccacatg ttagacgaca cgaggaattg   1920
              ctggcctagt cgtcgccatc aacggccgtg attgatcggc ccggaccatc ttggaacagg   1980
              gattgcgtgc tctctaattt gcacaggata tcttaccgtc ttttgcttgt gctggggttg   2040
              gtgttatgct tccatttagt ggtgtgcttt ttccggcttg agtcgtcgtc tggttagctg   2100
              tgtgagagac acgggcagga aggtccgctg atgctactag acagacgcca tttatttttt   2160
              attgattact tatgagttac taccatcttt tgtactgcct cggtcctaaa ataat        2215
              <210>   1050
              <211>   2056
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1050
              aatggctggc atcgggcatc tccactccca ctccaccggc cccacctccg cgaggggcga     60
              cccgagaaca ccaccacgcc cgccatgtgg cgccgcctcc aaaccctagc cccctcgctc    120
              cgccgcgccg ccgcatcgtc gtccccggcc tccgcccgcg ccgtgccctt gtccacggtg    180
              ccggtggccg cgttccggcg cacttcgacc ctcctctcct ctcccggcga caagccggcg    240
              cccagcaagg tcgaggatgt catgccgatc gccacggggc tggagcgcga ggagctcgag    300
              gcggagctcc aggggaagaa gcggtttgac atggatcctg ccgtcagccc cttcggtact    360
              aagattccgt tttcttcgtc gtatttgtat ttgctgcttc attgaatgtg catgctgctt    420
              ggttcccaat aaaaactgaa gcagtgcgtt tgtttattct ctctgcatgg ctgcatgctc    480
                                                   1214

              ctctcccaaa cgttcacctt ggcacaagag acgatgcata ccggatagaa ataactcatt    540
<removed-date>
              ccttggtcac tgtgctcgac tactataaga tggagatttt agaaaggagg gagtatgtct    600
              atattcaatg gataatgaat ttagacacat atccattacc tagaacatcc taatcgaaaa    660
              tgtagtatct gttcctactg cttgatttat tgacaggaac tcttttgtgt atgttacgtg    720
              gaaacttgaa agttttactg ttgtatgacc catttatcaa ttgttgtgtg cagattaaac    780
              ttgtgctaag cacaagtaat gacacaatat ttcactccag tatggacatg gctttaagta    840
<removed-apn>
              aaaaagaccc accagataca tctcttgtta ctgatattaa tatcgtaaac tacaaagtat    900
              ttgatatgtg catgcttaag ctgcattacc tgaagcttgt ttcaaataca ccagcagtca    960
              gccagccgta catgaaattc gtagggtatg tttataactg ccttgtcact tgggagcatt   1020
              gcgttaaata tcagtgtttg atgtatctgg tgcttctatt cttcaaccgt aggcatgccc   1080
              tcacatccat gctgagtact gacattgcct gtatttggtc tagatatgtg ttgaagttct   1140
              tgaccactca cttcccttct gttttttttc tttccagact tcctatgctg caagatctca   1200
              attgttctgg acaatataaa gtactacctt aagaaaacaa gtataatacc aaaaaaacac   1260
              taaacaacag gggcacactt ttcacttgtt tgtggttatg ctattcctaa attttctaat   1320
              tttcaatcaa ttgatgcacc cagcttctat gcataccctg tgctgactac tgacattgtg   1380
              tgcgctttta gtgaagagat gtaggatttc ttgatcactc tctccccttg gttttgcata   1440
              ccactctttg tgctgcaaga ttgtccattt gttaattttg aatgtattgt ctgcacgagg   1500
              aatcagccgt gattgaatcc tactataaca agagaatagt tggctgccct ggtgccgaag   1560
              gaggtacatc aaggctaaca atatatgtca gtacctagtg ttgagtatgt aactcaccat   1620
              aactgtgctt atttttccat cgtgcttatt gcagaggatg aacacgatgt cgtctggttt   1680
              tggttggaaa aggataaacc gcatgagtgc ctagtctgct cacgctcaag gtcattggtg   1740
              atgggggtga tccagatggc cacgatgacg aggatgatca tcactgaggc cttgtgtcga   1800
              taatgataat aagaactttg tgaaacatgg ttttgtccta tctttgcagc atcagactgc   1860
              cctatagagt attgtaattg ataagtgttt gaccatgaac caggtcgggt ggtgttttac   1920
              acctacgaat tttgttcaga tcttttcgac catacggttg cttctgtttg gaatatagat   1980
              tttttttttc tggagtgcaa catcaaataa aggatgagtg catcggtttc actctaacaa   2040
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaatc                                                   2056
                                                   1215

<removed-date>
              <210>   1051
              <211>   1165
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1051
              gtgacactat agaacaagtt tgtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaattcccgg     60
              gatatcgggc atctccactc ccactccacc ggccccacct ccgcgagggg cgacccgaga    120
<removed-apn>
              acaccaccac gcccgccatg tggcgccgcc tccaaaccct agccccctcg ctccgccgcg    180
              ccgccgcatc gtcgtccccg gcctccgccc gcgccgtgcc cttgtccacg gtgccggtgg    240
              ccgcgttccg gcgcacttcg accctcctct cctctcccgg cgacaagccg gcgcccagca    300
              aggtcgagga tgtcatgccg atcgccacgg ggctggagcg cgaggagctc gaggcggagc    360
              tccaggggaa gaagcggttt gacatggatc ctgccgtcgg ccccttcggt actaagatta    420
              aacttgtgct aagcacaagt aatgacacaa tatttcactc cagtatggac atggctttaa    480
              gtaaaaaaga cccaccagat acatctcttg ttactgatat taatatcgta aactacaaag    540
              tatttgagat gtgcatgctt aagctgcatt acctgaagct tgtttcaaat acaccagcag    600
              tcagccagcc gtacatgaaa ttcgtaggcc gtgattgaat cctactataa caagagaata    660
              gttggctgcc ctggtgccga aggagaggat gaacacgatg tcgtctggtt ttggttggaa    720
              aaggataaac cgcatgagtg cctagtctgc tcacggtact ttgtgctcaa ggtcattggt    780
              gatgggggtg atccagatgg ccacgatgac gaggatgatc atcactgagg ccttgtgtcg   840
              ataatgataa taagaacttt gtgaaacatg gttttgtcct atctttgcag catcagactg    900
              ccctatagag tattgtaatt gataagtgtt tgaccatgaa ccaggtcggg gggtgttttt    960
              acacctacga attttgttca gatcttttcg accatacggt tgcctctgtt tggaatatag   1020
              attttttttt tctggagtgc aacatcaaat aaaggaggag ggcatcggtt tcaaaaaaaa   1080
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaagg gcggccgctc tagagtatcc ctcgaggggc   1140
              ccaagcttac gcgtacccag ctttc                                         1165
              <210>   1052
              <211>   1674
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1216

<removed-date>
              <400> 1052
              atgggctgcg tcttcggccg ggcggctgcg tcgtcctctg cagcgccgaa gaagaagtgg     60
              ggcaagggga ggtcgtcccc gcagcccgaa gcggggtcgc cctccgcagt cgccgccacc    120
              gacggggacg ggaggccgcg gcggcggctc gggggccgca gggcgtcggg acccaggcag    180
              ggttgcgtcc ccgcggctgc cgcggcggag cagctcgccg ccggttggcc accgtggctc    240
              gttgcagtcg ctggggaggc cctccgcggc tgggcgccgc gccgcgccga cacgttcgag    300
<removed-apn>
              aagcttaata agataggatc gggcacgtac agcaacgtgt accgggcgag ggacaccgtc    360
              tctggccgga tcgtcgctct taaaaaggtc cgcttcgata acctcgagcc agaaagcgtc    420
              aagtttatgg cccgggaaat actgatccta aggagactcg accaccccaa catcatcaaa    480
              ttagagggct tggtcacctc caggatgtca tgcagccttt accttgtctt cgagtacatg    540
              gagcatgatc ttgctggtct tgcggcaagt tgtgatgtca agttcacgtt gcctcagata    600
              aaatgttaca tacagcagct gttgtcaggg cttgagcatt gtcatgacaa taatgtattg    660
              caccgggata tcaaggggtc aaacttgttg ttggataata atgggattct taagattgcg    720
              gattttgggc tggcaacatt ctttgatcca cgacataaac gaccaatgac gagccgagtg    780
              gtcacgctat ggtaccgtcc accagaattg ttacttggtg ccactgagta tagtgtaggt    840
              gttgatttgt ggagtgctgg atgcattctt gcagagctcc tgtatggaaa gcccataatg    900
              cctgggcgca ctgaggtgga acagttgcac aagattttca agctatgtgg ttccccttct    960
              gaggagtact ggaagaagtc taaattgcca cacgcaacaa tattcaaacc tcaacaaccc   1020
              tataaacgtt gcatcaggga gacatttaaa gattttccta catcggctct gccattggtt   1080
              gaaactctgc ttgcaattga tccagctgag cgacaaactg cctcagctgc attacacagt   1140
              gatttttttt caaccgagcc ttatgcttgt aacccttcaa gtctgccaac atatccacca   1200
              agcaaggaga tggatgccaa gttaagagac gaggaggcta gaagactacg agcggctgca   1260
              aaggccaagg gagaacagaa aaggactcga ccacgtgatc gatctcggag ggctggacca   1320
              gcaccagaag ctaatgcaga gattcaagca aacttagacc agaggcgacg aatgataact   1380
              catgcaaatg caaagagtaa aagtgagaag tttcctcctc cgcatcagga tggaggtacg   1440
              ggtaatccgc ttggatccta tcatcatatg gagcctatgt tcgagcacca ggatgcttcc   1500
              ttcagtacag tagtccccat agagaagggg acctcacaaa catggtccgg gccgttgttt   1560
                                                   1217

<removed-date>
              gatccagcag ctctcgggca gtcgaggcgg aagaagcaaa ctaccctaga tgctaaggct   1620
              gctgcttact caaagcagct ccaaaaggaa aagggaggga tacgagcccg ataa         1674
              <210>   1053
              <211>   1920
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1053
              atggacgagc ccccgtgccc gcccccgcgg cccgcgctca actccgccgc cgcgacgtca     60
              tggccggagc tgctcgcgcc gttcgacctc tcccgcctcc gcgccacgct gtcctcgcac    120
              ccgctcaccc cgcgccgcct ggcccgcctc ctcgcgctcc cgctcgcgcc ggccacctcc    180
              ctgctcctcc tcgactggta cgcgtcgtcc cacccggcgc tctcgctctc gtccctcccg    240
              ctccgcccca tcctcgcggc agccgacccc gaccgcgcgc tcgcgctcct cgactccctg    300
              ccggcctccc gcctgccccc gctccgcgag tccctcctgc tcccgctgct ccgctccctg    360
              ccacccggcc gcgcgctcca cctgctcgac cagatgcccc gccgcttcgc cgtctccccc    420
              tccttccgct cctacaacgt cgtcctctcc acgctcgcca gggccgactg ccacgccgac    480
              gccctgctcc tgtaccgccg gatgctcagg gaccgcgtgc cgccccacca ccttcacctt    540
              cgggcggggt cgccgaggcc cgcgatgctc ctcgacgaga tgttactcat ggggtgtgcg    600
              gcggacgtga acaccttcaa cgacctggtg ctcgggctgt gcgggctcgg gcgcgtgcga    660
              gaggcagcca ggctggtgga caggatgatg acgcagggat gcatgccaag tgtggtgaca    720
              tatgggttcc tcctgcaagg gctgtgccga acaaggcagg cggacgaggc gtgcgccatg    780
              ctcgggaggt tgccggaggt gaacgtggtg atgcttaaca cggtgatccg tggatgtctg    840
              acggagggga agctggccag ggcaacagag ttgtatgaga tgatgggttc aaaaggatgc    900
              ccgcctgatg tgcacacata cagtattttg atgcatggcc tttgcaagct tgggagattt    960
              ggttcagcag tgcggatgct tgatgagatg gaggagaagg gttgtgcacc aaatatcgtg   1020
              acctactcta ccttgctgca ttcattttgc aggaatggca tgtgggatga cgcaagagca   1080
              atgctggatc agatgttagc caagggcttt agtatgaact cccaaggata caatggtatc   1140
              atatatgcct tatgcaagga tggcaagctt gatcaagcga caaggcttgt ccaagagatg   1200
              aagagtcagg ggtgcaagcc tgatatttgc acgtacaata caatgattta tcatctgtgc   1260
                                                   1218

<removed-date>
              aacaatgacc tgatggagga ggcagaacat attttcagaa acttaattga agagggtgtt   1320
              gttgccaatg gaataactta taatactctc attcatgcac ttctgcgcaa cggaaggtgg   1380
              caggagggcc taaggcttgc aagtgaaatg ctacttcatg gttgccagct agatgttatt   1440
              agctacaatg gcctgattaa agccctctgc aaagagggga atgttgatcg gagtatggcg   1500
              ttgcttgagg aaatggtgac aaagggaatt aagccaaata atttctcgta taacatgctg   1560
<removed-apn>
              atcaatgaac tctgcaaggc gggaaaggta cgtgatgcac tggagctctc aaaggagatg   1620
              ctgaatcaag gactgacacc tgacattgtg acttacaata cactcataaa tgggttatgc   1680
              aaagtgggat ggacacatgc tgctttaaat cttttagaga agctacccaa cgaaaatgtg   1740
              catcctgaca ttgtgacata caacattctc attagttggc actgcaaagt cagattgctt   1800
              gatgatgccg ctatgcttct agacaaagca ataagtggag gaatagttcc taatgagcga   1860
              acgtggggaa tgatggtgca aaattttgtc agacagacag tcaatctcga gggttactaa   1920
              <210>   1054
              <211>   333
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1054
              atggcgttgc ttgaggaaat ggtgacaaag ggaattaagc caaataattt ctcgtataac     60
              atgctgatca atgaactctg caaggcggga aatgtatgtg atgcactaga gctctcaaag    120
              gagatgctga atcaaggact gacacctgac attgtgactt acaatacact cataaatggg    180
              ttatgcaaag tgggatggac acatgctgct ttaaatcttc tagagaagct acccaacgaa    240
              aatgtgcatc ctgacattgt gacatacaac attctcatta gttggcactg caaagtcaga    300
              ttgcttgatg atgcctcgca cccaccgccg taa                                 333
              <210>   1055
              <211>   599
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1055
              ttgggtacct cgaggccggc cgggaaaaca ttctccttct tgaactcaag gagatggctc     60
              tcgggaagag gcagtgcagt ggttctacta ctttgcttct tgctgcttca ctctcagatg    120
                                                     1219

              gctcgtgctg ccacctacac agttggagat tctgggggtt ggacctttaa cactgttgcc   180
<removed-date>
              tggcccaaag gaaagctctt tcgggctggt gacacacttg ctttcaatta tagccctggg   240
              actcacaatg tggtggccgt gaacaaggct ggatatgata gctgcaagac tccaagagga   300
              gccaaagtgt ataagtcagg gacggatcag atcagacttg ccaagggaca gaactacttc   360
              atctgcaatt atgttggtca ctgcgagtct gggatgaaaa ttgccatcaa cgctgcctga   420
              gtttaataat atggttaact tcccatacat attgtattgt aatgcaaatt gcacccttta   480
<removed-apn>
              gtgggaagtt agctccttta aataatgtta agaaaaaaag tagctatgtg tgctcttcta   540
              taaatgtcac ttatctataa agaataaatg ccgacaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagcggcc    599
              <210>   1056
              <211>   1053
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1056
              ataaaggggc attggcttgg gatcacctct gcatctcgcc tgggatctgc tagcttgatc    60
              tctcctagtc ctagcccatt cgcttctcct gttcgtcgct cttaatttgc ttgctcgatc   120
              cctggcagtg gcagctgctg caatggcttc cggtggcgcg tcgtcactgg ccttggcttg   180
              gcgcgctgct cctcgtgagc tgcgcctcgg cggcggtggc gaccaagtac accgtcgggg   240
              acgcgtccgg ctggacgacc accggcgact acgccacctg ggccagcggc aagaagttca   300
              aagtcggcga cagtctcgag ttcaaatacg ccggcggggc gcacacggtg gacgaggtga   360
              gcgcggcgga ctacgccgcc tgctcctcca gcaacgcgct cagcaccgac agcgccggcg   420
              ccacgaccgt gaccctcaag acggccggca agcactactt catctgcggc gtggcgggcc   480
              attgcagcag cggcatgaag ctcgtggtgg acgtggccaa ggcggtgacc gccccggcgc   540
              cggccccagc cgcggccccg gccccggccg cggacacagc cccagatgcc cccgacacca   600
              cgccgtcgac cccgacgtcc ccctcgagct ccggcggccg cacgcccaag agcccagaca   660
              cgacggtcct gtcgccgccg gacaagaagt ccacctcctc cggcgccacc gggctcagcg   720
              ccgcggcgtg ggccggcttg ggcctggccg ggctcgtggc cgtgcacctc ggcgcgttct   780
              aggccagccc gctggcctgg ccagggagga gacagtgccg tgtgttgttg ttaggctgca   840
              cgtcatggat tggattggtg tattggttga gggacttgac tgcttaccag agagagatct   900
                                                   1220

              ctttttggtt cagggaactt attgacgatg ctttggctgt gctgtagaca tgtagttgga    960
<removed-date>
              taccttggat gttatgctat cagttttgct gttgctaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa   1020
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaagaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aat                                1053
              <210>   1057
              <211>   1148
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1057
              gtaggatcga gggagaggga gagcggccaa gcgtggacca acgactcctc ttctccgatc     60
              ctcccgcagc tgcaggccgt agctagctct ataaaaagct aagggagcct gcctgccatc    120
              gtcgtgcatc gtcatccacc acgatcgata aagctaatta agctgctact gctacgctag    180
              cctcgatcga tcaagcaagc agctcacaga cccaccggcc cacccaccca cccacatggc    240
              ggcgtcccgt tccgctctga tcacgctgct cgtccttgtg agctccgtcg cggcggcctc    300
              ggcgaccacg ttcaccgtcg gcgacagtag cggctggagt cgtagcgtca actacgacaa    360
              ctgggccagt ggcaagacct tcacggatgg agatcagcta gtgttcaact tcgccaccgg    420
              gaaccacgac gtggtggagg tggacaagag cggatacgac ggctgctcca ccaccaacgc    480
              cgccaacaca atccaaaacg gcccggccac cgtcaacctc acctccggca cccactacta    540
              catctgcggc ttcaccggcc actgcagcgc cgggatgaag ctcgctgtca ccgtcggctc    600
              cggctccggc tccgggtccc ccacccccgg cggcggctcg cccagcacac ccacaccaac    660
              caccccgagc gcccccaccc ccgacactcc ggccagcgcg tccgtgcgcc tcacggccgg    720
              cccagcgctc gccgtggccg ccaccgtgct cgtcgccctc ttctgatctg atctgatctg    780
              atactgcatg catgcaccgt gccaggacca ggatagaggc agtgcaggat catagtattc    840
              ttgtgtacgt acgtacatac tttgttgttg agctagcgtt ttcattctga cgacggcgga    900
              ttattgtact ctcgtacgtt tttatttcca catgtactac tgtctatcat tcatgcttcc    960
              aattcttcat tgttaatttg ttgcctgtgg tgtgtatcat catatattca tacgcaaagt   1020
              acttaccaag catatggtgc taattggtcc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaact   1080
              taaaaaatta aaaattaaaa caaaatttat tttaaaaaat aaaatagaaa taaaaaaaaa   1140
              atgggggg                                                            1148
                                                     1221

<removed-date>
              <210>   1058
              <211>   912
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1058
              cctcgaggcg gacgcgtggg cgggtgtgca tagcagcaaa tagtggttgg cctgttggta    60
              ctctatatcg tcccttccag tgtacccgtc ctccagccca ttatacatca tacttgctcc   120
<removed-apn>
              agataagacc aagagcgtca tggccaacgc cttgcctctc atcgtcgcgc tggtcgccgc   180
              cgccgggtgc gcggcgctgg cttcggccac gtcgtacacc gtcggcgact cgcagggctg   240
              gacgacaacc ggcgtcgact acagcagctg ggccagccgc aacactttcg tcgtcggaga   300
              cacactagtg ttcaactacg tgagcaaggc gcacacggtg acggaggtga gcaaggccgg   360
              ctacgacgcc tgctccggcg ccaacgcgct cagcgacgac gacaccggct ccaccaccat   420
              cacgctccag accccgggca cgcactactt catctgcaac gtccccggcc actgcgccag   480
              cggcatgaag ctagcggtcg ccgtctccgc ctcgccctcg ggcacggccc cttccaccgg   540
              agccctgcag gttccggcga tggcatccgt cgtcgccgcg gccgcgggcg ctgccatcaa   600
              gctcgcgctc ttctgacgga gcacggccgg gtcgtctcag gggagagaca gtgcatgcag   660
              actacgttct tggcggttca tagttttccg ctggcgattg ttcgccgcgc agttcatgta   720
              tgtagtgtat gcatgtgtgt atgctactct gcggtggcga gtgctttttc tgatgcctct   780
              gtcgttgtgt gttcatcacc gtcgtgtgcg attgttcttt gggttgtctt tgcctcaata   840
              aaactgcttc attctccagt attctataaa aaaaaactat gtactctgta caacatagaa   900
              cagagtacaa aa                                                       912
              <210>   1059
              <211>   1032
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1059
              aatcttacct gggatctgct agcttgatct ctcctagtcc tagcccattc gcttctcctg    60
              ttcgtcgctc ttaatttgct tgctcgatcc ctggcagtgg cagctgctgc aatggcttcc   120
              ggtggcgcgt cgtcactggc cttggccttg gccgcgctgc tcctcgtgag ctgcgcctcg   180
              gcggcggtgg cgaccaagta caccgtcggg gacgcgtccg gctggacgac caccggcgac   240
                                                   1222

<removed-date>
              tacgccacct gggccagcgg caagaagttc aaagtcggcg acagtctcga gttcaaatac    300
              gccggcgggg cgcacacggt ggacgaggtg agcgcggcgg actacgccgc ctgctcctcc    360
              agcaacgcgc tcagcaccga cagcgccggc gccacgaccg tgacccagcc gcggccccgg    420
              ccccggccgc ggacaccgcc ccagacgccc ccgacaccac gccgtcgacc ccgacgtccc    480
              cctcgagctc cggcggccgc acgcccaaga gcccagacac gacggtcctc tcgccgccgg    540
<removed-apn>
              acaagaagtc cacctcctct ggcgccaccg ggctcagcgc cgcagtgtgg gccggcttgg    600
              gccttgccgg gctcgtggcc gtgcacctcg gcgcgttcta ggccagcccg ctggcctggc    660
              cagggaggag acagtgccgt gtgttgttgt taggctgcac gtcatgaatt ggattggtgt    720
              attggttgag ggacttgact gcttaccaga gagagatctc tttttggttc agggaactta    780
              ttgacgatgc tttggctgtg ctgtagacat gtagttggat accttggatg ttatgctatc    840
              agttttgctg ttgttaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagaaaaaa    900
              aaaaaaaaaa cgcttgtagg tacgggccac ctcggggggg gggcccggca cccgattccc    960
              cctaatgtgg agtcaaatac ccgggccaag gggcccgtcg ttttacaaca ttgtggacgg   1020
              ggaaaccccg gg                                                       1032
              <210>   1060
              <211>   1716
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1060
              atggcgtcgt cgtcctcgtc ccggctgctg ctcctcctcc tcccgtgcct cgcgctcacg     60
              ctgctcggcg cggcagacgc cgaagtgcac caccacgagt tcgttatcca agagacgccg    120
              gtgaagaggc tgtgcaagac gcacaacatc atcacggtga acgggcagta cccggggccg    180
              acgctggagg tcagggaggg tgacacgctc gtcatcaacg tcgtcaaccg ggcgcagtac    240
              aacgccacca tccactggca cggcatccgg cagataagga ctgggtgggc ggacgggccg    300
              gagttcgtga cgcagtgccc catcaggccc ggcggcagct acaagtaccg gttcaccatc    360
              caggggcagg agggcacgct gtggtggcac gcgcacagct cctggctcag ggccaccgtc    420
              tacggcgcgc tcatcatccg ccccagggag aacaagacct acccattcgc caagccctcg    480
              cgagaagtcc ccgtcatcct cggtgagtgg tgggatgcga acccgatcga cgtcatccgg    540
                                                   1223

<removed-date>
              gaggcgcaga ggaccggcgg cggtcccaac gtctccgacg cgttcaccat caacggccag    600
              cccggcgacc tgtacaaatg ctccaacaaa gagactacgg ccatcccggt ggaggccggc    660
              gagacggcgc tgctgcggtt catcaacgcc gcgctcaacc acgagctgtt cgtcaccatc    720
              gcgcagcaca agatgacggt cgtcgccacc gacgcgtcct acaccaagcc cttcaccacc    780
              tcggtgctca tgctcgcgcc gggccagacc accgacgtcc tcgtcaccat ggaccagccg    840
<removed-apn>
              cccacccgct actacgtcgc cgcgcgcgcc tacgtctccg gccagaacgt ggccttcgac    900
              aacaccacca ccacggccgt cctcgagtac gactgcggct gcgcctccga cttcggcccc    960
              aagatacagc cggcgttccc ggcggcgcta ccggccttca acgacacgtc cgccgccacc   1020
              gccttcgccg ccgggatcag gagccccgac cgggtcaagg tccacgagaa cgtcgacgag   1080
              tacctcttct tcaccgtcgg cctcggcctc ttcaactgca agccgggcca gctctgcgcc   1140
              gggcccaaca acaacacccg cttcgcggcc agcatgaaca acgtctcctt cgtcttcccg   1200
              cagaccgact ccctcctcca cgcgcactac tacaagatcc ccggcgtctt caccaccgac   1260
              ttcccggcat acccgccggt gcagttcgac tacacggggc agaacgtcag ccaggccctg   1320
              tggcagccgg tccccgccac caagctgtac ccgctcaggt tcggctccgt ggtgcagctc   1380
              gtcctgcagg acaccagcat cgtcacgccc gagaaccacc ccatccacat ccacggctac   1440
              gatttcttca tcctcgccga gggcttcggc aacttcgacc ccaagaagga cgtcgagaag   1500
              ttcaactacg tcgacccgcc ccagaggaac accgtggcgg tgcctgtcaa cggttgggcg   1560
              gtcatccagt tcgtcgccga caacccaggt gtgtggctca tgcattgcca tctggacgtg   1620
              cacatcacct ggggcctggc aatggctttc ctagtggagg acggctatgg cgaactgcag   1680
              tcgctggagc cgcccccagt tgatcttccc atgtgc                             1716
              <210>   1061
              <211>   1950
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1061
              atgacatcgc cgtcctcgtc gtcgtcctgg ctgctgctgc tcctctcgtg cctcgcgctt     60
              gccctgctcg cggcggacgc cgaagtgcac caccatgagt tcgttgtcca agagacgcca    120
              gtgaagaggc tgtgcaagac gcacaacgtc atcacggtga acgggcagta cccggggccg    180
                                                   1224

<removed-date>
              acgctggagg tcagagaggg cgacacgctg gtgatcaacg tcgtcaaccg ggcgcagtac    240
              aacgtcacca tccactggca cggcatccgg cagatgagga ccgggtgggc ggacgggccg    300
              gagttcgtga cgcagtgccc catcaggccc ggcggcagct acaagtaccg gttcaccatc    360
              gaggggcagg agggcacgct gtggtggcac gcgcacagct cctggctcag ggcaaccgtc    420
              tacggcgcgc tcatcatccg ccccagggag aacaagacct accccttcgc caagccctcg    480
<removed-apn>
              cgcgaagtcc ccgtcatcct tggggagtgg tgggacgcga acccgatcga cgtcatccgg    540
              gaggcgcaga ggacgggcgg cgcccccaac gtctccgacg cgttcaccat caacggccag    600
              cccggcgacc tgtacaaatg ctcccagaaa gagactacgg ccatcccggt gaagcccggc    660
              gagacggcgc ttctgcggtt catcaacgcc gcgctcaacc acgagctgtt cgtcaccatc    720
              gcgcagcaca ggatgacggt ggtcgccacc gacgcgtcct acaccaagcc cttcaccacc    780
              tcggtgctca tggtcgcgcc gggacagacc accgacgtcc tcgtcaccat ggaccaggcg    840
              cccgcccggt actacgtcgc cgcgcgcgcc tacgtctccg ggcagaacgt ggcgttcgac    900
              aacaccacca ccacggcggt cctcgagtac gactgcggct gcgcctccga cttcggcccc    960
              aagatccagc cggcgttccc gtccctcccg gccttcaacg acaccgccgc cgccgccgcc   1020
              ttcgccgcgg ggatcaagag ccccggcagg gtcagggtcc acgagagcgt cgacgagcac   1080
              ctcttcttca ccgtcggcct cgccctgttc aactgcgagc cgggccagct ctgcgccggg   1140
              cccaacaaca gcacccgctt cacggccagc atgaacaacg tctccttcgt cttcccgcgg   1200
              accgactccc tcctccacgc gcactacttc aagacccccg gcgtcttcac caccgacttc   1260
              ccggcgcacc cgccggtgca gttcgactac acggcgcaga acgtcagcca ggccctgtgg   1320
              cagccggtcc ccgcgaccaa gctgtacccg ctcaggttcg gctccgtggt gcagctcgtc   1380
              ctgcaggaca ccagcatcgt cacgcccgag aaccacccca tccacatcca tggctacgat   1440
              ttcttcatcc tcgctgaggg ctttggcaac ttcgaccccg agaaggacgt cgacaagttc   1500
              aactacgtcg acccgccgca gcggaacacc gtggcggtgc ccgtcaacgg gtgggcggtc   1560
              atccagttcg tcgccgacaa cccaggtgtg tggctcatgc actgccatct ggacgtgcac   1620
              atcacctggg gcctggcaat ggctttccta gtggaggacg ggtatggaga gctgcagtcc   1680
              ctggagccgc ccccagttga tcttcccatg tgctaatgct gagcagaagc aactgtgttg   1740
                                                   1225

              aggaatcgaa agcatgttca cgcttccagc ttgttttgaa gttttcccct gtaaatctat   1800
<removed-date>
              gtaattttca atgacattca gcatattatt agagaataaa ttatttcttt ttgtgtatga   1860
              tcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta tccctcgagg   1920
              ggccccgagc ttacgcgtac ccgagctttc                                    1950
              <210>   1062
              <211>   2021
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1062
              atcgcaaact cggaaacctt gagaggaaag ccaccagcag caagcgaaga ccaccagcag     60
              cagcgcagcg gcgacgtgtt tcgctctcgc catggcgtcg tcgtcctcgt cccggctgct    120
              gctcctcctc ctcccgtgcc tcgcgctcac gctgctcggc gcggcagacg ccgaagtgca    180
              ccaccacgag ttcgttatcc aagagacgcc ggtgaagagg ctgtgcaaga cgcacaacat    240
              catcacggtg aacgggcagt acccggggcc gacgctggag gtcagggagg gtgacacgct    300
              cgtcatcaac gtcgtcaacc gggcgcagta caacgccacc atccactggc acggcatccg    360
              gcagataagg actgggtggg cggacgggcc ggagttcgtg acgcagtgcc ccatcaggcc    420
              cggcggcagc tacaagtacc ggttcaccat ccaggggcag gagggcacgc tgtggtggca    480
              cgcgcacagc tcctggctca gggccaccgt ctacggcgcg ctcatcatcc gccccaggga    540
              gaacaagacc tacccattcg ccaagccctc gcgagaagtc cccgtcatcc tcggtgagtg    600
              gtgggatgcg aacccgatcg acgtcatccg ggaggcgcag aggaccggcg gcggtcccaa    660
              cgtctccgac gcgttcacca tcaacggcca gcccggcgac ctgtacaaat gctccaacaa    720
              agagactacg gccatcccgg tggaggccgg cgagacggcg ctgctgcggt tcatcaacgc    780
              cgcgctcaac cacgagctgt tcgtcaccat cgcgcagcac aagatgacgg tcgtcgccac    840
              cgacgcgtcc tacaccaagc ccttcaccac ctcggtgctc atgctcgcgc cgggccagac    900
              caccgacgtc ctcgtcacca tggaccagcc gcccacccgc tactacgtcg ccgcgcgcgc    960
              ctacgtctcc ggccagaacg tggccttcga caacaccacc accacggccg tcctcgagta   1020
              cgactgcggc tgcgcctccg acttcggccc caagatacag ccggcgttcc cggcggcgct   1080
              accggccttc aacgacacgt ccgccgccac cgccttcgcc gccgggatca ggagccccga   1140
                                                   1226

              ccgggtcaag gtccacgaga acgtcgacga gtacctcttc ttcaccgtcg gcctcggcct   1200
<removed-date>
              cttcaactgc aagccgggcc agctctgcgc cgggcccaac aacaacaccc gcttcgcggc   1260
              cagcatgaac aacgtctcct tcgtcttccc gcagaccgac tccctcctcc acgcgcacta   1320
              ctacaagatc cccggcgtct tcaccaccga cttcccggca tacccgccgg tgcagttcga   1380
              ctacacgggg cagaacgtca gccaggccct gtggcagccg gtccccgcca ccaagctgta   1440
              cccgctcagg ttcggctccg tggtgcagct cgtcctgcag gacaccagca tcgtcacgcc   1500
<removed-apn>
              cgagaaccac cccatccaca tccacggcta cgatttcttc atcctcgccg agggcttcgg   1560
              caacttcgac cccaagaagg acgtcgagaa gttcaactac gtcgacccgc cccagaggaa   1620
              caccgtggcg gtgcctgtca acggttgggc ggtcatccag ttcgtcgccg acaacccagg   1680
              tgtgtggctc atgcattgcc atctggacgt gcacatcacc tggggcctgg caatggcttt   1740
              cctagtggag gacggctatg gcgaactgca gtcgctggag ccgcccccag ttgatcttcc   1800
              catgtgctag tggaggacgg atatttgtgt tgaggaagaa agcctgttca cgttgtatgt   1860
              taattgttac tcttttttgg tggagggggg cgtgttcgtg atcttaaatt cttaggggac   1920
              ttgattttcc agcttgattt gaagtttctt ctgtaaatct atgtaatttt caattaatga   1980
              cattcagcat attatttgag aataaattat ttctttgtac g                       2021
              <210>   1063
              <211>   2095
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1063
              atggcgtcgt cgtcctcgtc ccggctgctg ctcctcctcc tcccgtgcct cgcgctcacg     60
              ctgctcggcg cggcagacgc cgaagtgcac caccacgagt tcgttatcca agagacgccg    120
              gtgaagaggc tgtgcaagac gcacaacatc atcacggtga acgggcagta cccggggccg    180
              acgctggagg tcagggaggg tgacacgctc gtcatcaacg tcgtcaaccg ggcgcagtac    240
              aacgccacca tccactggca cggcatccgc cagataagga ctgggtgggc ggacgggccg    300
              gagttcgtga cgcagtgccc catcaggccc ggcggcagct acaagtaccg gttcaccatc    360
              caggggcagg agggcacgct gtggtggcac gcgcacagct cctggctcag ggccaccgtc    420
              tacggcgcgc tcatcatccg ccccagggag aacaagacct acccattcgc caagccctcg    480
                                                   1227

              cgagaagtcc ccgtcatcct cggtctgcac cctgctcatc ctggcccgtt aatttgttgt    540
<removed-date>
              ttcattcacg tctctaataa tctaacggac ggtgatcgat gggcaggtga gtggtgggat    600
              gcgaacccga tcgacgtcat ccgggaggcg cagaggaccg gcggcggtcc caacgtctcc    660
              gacgcgttca ccatcaacgg ccagcccggc gacctgtaca aatgctccaa caaagagact    720
              acggccatcc cggtgaaggc cggcgagacg gcgctgctgc ggttcatcaa cgccgcgctc    780
              aaccacgagc tgttcgtcac catcgcgcag cacaagatga cggtcgtcgc caccgacgcg    840
<removed-apn>
              tcctacacca agcccttcac cacctcggtg ctcatgctcg cgccgggcca gaccaccgac    900
              gtcctcgtca ccatggacca gccgcccacc cgctactacg tcgccgcgcg cgcctacgtc    960
              tccggccaga acgtggcctt cgacaacacc accaccacgg ccgtcctcga gtacgactgc   1020
              ggctgcgcct ccgacttcgg ccccaagata cagccggcgt tcccggcggc gctaccggcc   1080
              ttcaacgaca cgtccgccgc caccgccttc gccgccggga tcaggagccc cgaccgggtc   1140
              aaggtccacg agaacgtcga cgagtacctc ttcttcaccg tcggcctcgg cctcttcaac   1200
              tgcaagccgg gccagctctg cgccgggccc aacaacaaca cccgcttcgc ggccagcatg   1260
              aacaacgtct ccttcgtctt cccgcagacc gactccctcc tccacgcgca ctactacaag   1320
              atccccggcg tcttcaccac cgacttcccg gcatacccgc ccgtgcagtt cgactacacg   1380
              gggcagaacg tcagccaggc cctgtggcag ccggtccccg ccaccaagct gtacccgctc   1440
              aggttcggct ccgtggtgca gctcgtcctg caggacacca gcatcgtcac gcccgagaac   1500
              caccccatcc acatccacgg ctacgatttc ttcatcctcg ccgagggctt cggcaacttc   1560
              gaccccaaga aggacgtcga gaagttcaac tacgtcgacc cgccccagag gaacaccgtg   1620
              gcggtgcctg tcaacggttg ggcggtcatc cagttcgtcg ccgacaaccc tggtgtgtgg   1680
              ctcatgcatt gccatctgga cgtgcacatc acctggggcc tggcaatggc tttcctagtg   1740
              gaggacggct atggcgaact gcagtcgctg gagccgcccc cagttgatct tcccatgtgc   1800
              tagtggagga cggatatttg tgttgaggaa gaaagcctgg tcacgttgta tgttaattgt   1860
              tactcttttt tggtggaggg gggcgtgttc gtgatcttaa attcttaggg gacttaattt   1920
              tccagcttgt tggtttgaag tttcttctgt aaatctatgt aattttcaat gacattcagc   1980
              atattatttg agaataaatt atttctttgt aacaaacaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaagg   2040
              gcggccgctc tagagtatcc ctcgaggggc ccaagcttac gcgtacccag ctttc        2095
                                                   1228

<removed-date>
              <210>   1064
              <211>   1142
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1064
              ctatagaaca agtttgtaca aaaaagcagg ctggtaccgg tccggaattc ccgggatcga     60
              tggtcgaatt cgaaggttcg aaacctagct agtcgaccga acaaacaccc acaggccgta    120
<removed-apn>
              gcggggacgc catggagcga gagcctgcgc gctccctgga acgcgctata tatgccgtgc    180
              gtgctcggtg gcgaagaagc ctctcatcgc caactcggag accttgagag gaaagccacc    240
              gcgcgctagg gcctagggca gggcacgagc aaaggccctc ccgcgggttc cattggagcg    300
              cgagcgaacg gcgccgacgc ggcaacacac attcgcttta tttgccatga catcgccgtc    360
              ctcgtcgtcg tcctggctgc tgctgctcct ctcgtgcctc gcgcttgccc tgctcgcggc    420
              ggacgccgaa gtgcaccacc atgagttcgt tgtccaagag acgccagtga agaggctgtg    480
              caagacgcac aacgtcatca cggtgaacgg gcagtacccg gggccgacgc tggaggtcag    540
              ggagggcgac acgctggtga tcaacgtcgt caaccgggcg cagtacaacg tcaccatcca    600
              ctggcacggc atccggcaga tgaggaccgg gtgggcggac gggccggagt tcgtgacgca    660
              gtgccccatc aggcccggcg gcagctacaa gtaccggttc accatcgagg ggcaggaggg    720
              cacgctgtgg tggcacgcgc acagctcctg gctcagggca accgtctacg gcgcgctcat   780
              catccgcccc agggagaaca agacctaccc cttcgccaag ccctcgcgcg aagtccccgt   840
              catccttggg gagtggtggg acgcgaaccc gatcgacgtc atccgggagg cgcagaggac    900
              gggcggcgcc cccaacgtct ccgacgcgtt caccatcaac ggccagcccg gcgacctgta    960
              caaatgctcc cagaaagaga ctacggccat cccggtgaag cccggcgaga cggcgcttct   1020
              gcggttcatc aacgccgcgc tcaaccacga gctgttcgtc accatcgcgc agcacaggat   1080
              gacggtgggt cgccaccgac gcgtcctaca caagcccttc acacctcggt gctcatgctc   1140
              gc                                                                  1142
              <210>   1065
              <211>   924
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1229

<removed-date>
              <400> 1065
              gtgacactat agaacaagtt tgtacaaaaa agcaggctgg taccggtccg gaattcccgg    60
              gatcttgaga ggaaagccac cagcagcaag cgaagaccac cagcagcagc gcagcggcga   120
              cgtgtttcgc tctcgccatg gcgtcgtcgt cctcgtcccg gctgctgctc ctcctcctcc   180
              cgtgcctcgc gctcacgctg ctcggcgcgg cagacgccga agtgcaccac cacgagttcg   240
              ttatccaaga gacgccggtg aagaggctgt gcaagacgca caacatcatc acggtgaacg   300
<removed-apn>
              ggcagtaccc ggggccgacg ctggaggtca gggagggtga cacgctcgtc atcaacgtcg   360
              tcaaccgggc gcagtacaac gccaccatcc actggtacgt acgtcgttga agctcgtttt   420
              tctcaaccgt gagtgacatg acatgacatg acatcgatcg tctggtctgt ctatactctc   480
              tcccgttcat ggccggctgt ctcgatcaat gcgcgctgca tgcatggcgt gtgcaggcac   540
              ggcatccgcc agataaggac tgggtgggcg gacgggccgg agttcgtgac gcagtgcccc   600
              atcaggcccg gcggcagcta caagtaccgg ttcaccatcc aggggcagga gggcacgctg   660
              tggtggcacg cgcacagctc ctggctcagg gccaccgtct acggcgcgct catcatccgc   720
              cccagggaga acaagaccta cccattcgcc aagccctcgc gagaagtccc cgtcatcctc   780
              ggtgagtggt gggatgcgaa cccgatcgac gtcatccggg aggcgcagag gaccggcggc   840
              ggtcccaacg tctccgacgc gttcaccatc aacggccagc ccggcgacct gtacaaatgc   900
              tccaacaaga gactacggcc atcc                                          924
              <210>   1066
              <211>   1142
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1066
              tattttaggt gacactatag aacaagtttg tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccgga    60
              attcccaaac tcggaaacct tgagaggaaa gccaccagca gcaagcgaag accaccagca   120
              gcagcgcagc ggcgacgtgt ttcgctctcg ccatggcgtc gtcgtcctcg tcccggctgc   180
              tgctcctcct cctcccgtgc ctcgcgctca cgctgctcgg cgcggcagac gccgaagtgc   240
              accaccacga gttcgttatc caagagacgc cggtgaagag gctgtgcaag acgcacaaca   300
              tcatcacggt gaacgggcag tacccggggc cgacgctgga ggtcagggag ggtgacacgc   360
                                                   1230

              tcgtcatcaa cgtcgtcaac cgggcgcagt acaacgccac catccactgg cacggcatcc    420
<removed-date>
              gccagataag gactgggtgg gcggacgggc cggagttcgt gacgcagtgc cccatcaggc    480
              ccggcggcag ctacaagtac cggttcacca tccaggggca ggagggcacg ctgtggtggc    540
              acgcgcacag ctcctggctc agggccaccg tctacggcgc gctcatcatc cgccccaggg    600
              agaacaagac ctacccattc gccaagccct cgcgagaagt ccccgtcatc ctcggtgagt    660
              ggtgggatgc gaacccgatc gacgtcatcc gggaggcgca gaggaccggc ggcggtccca    720
<removed-apn>
              acgtctccga cgcgttcacc atcaacggcc agcccggcga cctgtacaaa tgctccaaca   780
              aagagactac ggccatcccg gtgaaggccg gcgagacggc gctgctgcgg ttcatcaacg    840
              ccgcgctcaa ccacgagctg ttcgtcacca tcgcgcagca caagatgacg gtcgtcgcca    900
              ccgacgcgtc ctacaccaag cccttcacca cctcggtgct catggtcgcg ccgggccaga    960
              ccaccgacgt cctcgtcacc atggaccagg cgcccgcccg gtactacgtc gccgcgcgcg   1020
              cctacgtctc cgggcagaac gtggcgttcg acaacaccac caccacggcg gtcgtcgagt   1080
              acgactgcgg ctgcgcctcc gacttcggcc ccaagataca gccggcgttc cccgcggcgc   1140
              tc                                                                  1142
              <210>   1067
              <211>   381
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1067
              atggctgagg gaagaggcag tgcaagggcc atcggcgcca tggcgttcgc cgttgcctgc     60
              tgctactgct gcgtcgccat cgccgacgca gccaccacct actacgtcgg ggacagcaac    120
              ggctggtcct tcagcagccc cagctggccc aacggcaagc acttccgcgc cggagacact    180
              ctcgtgttca ggtacatccc ctggatccac aacgtggtgg ccgtggacga ggacgggtac    240
              aacggctgca cgacgccgcc ggggtcgcgg acctacacgt ccggcgccga cagcgtgacg    300
              ctcgccaggg gggacaactt cttcatctgc acccggttcg gccactgcaa cctcggcatg    360
              aagctcgtcg tctatgccgc g                                              381
              <210>   1068
              <211>   1046
              <212>   DNA
                                                   1231

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 1068
              acctttgttg tggcagtgtg ctgagttcaa gttgcactgg aacatctctg gtttctacta     60
              ctgcaaagtt gaatggagtc ggtgactccc gattaactcc acttggtcct tcagtctcat    120
              agatcttttt atgtaactca tcattttctt ggcgaatcag gttgatctta ttgtacaagt    180
              ctgtattttc ttggtgaaat aaacttgcct ttcgattcaa atcgtgaatc tcatctatca    240
<removed-apn>
              agagatggtc cttctttgcg cggacaccac gcaggcttgt ttccaattga ttctccaggg   300
              actgcagttc tttgacattc agcccagaaa gatcatctcc cgtcaactgc cgataatttt   360
              cttgcaagtt gtgcagttgt tgtctcaagc ttgctgcctc cctttgccaa aacttaagct   420
              ccgagttggg atttgcgacg acttgctgaa gtactgcgat cgcgttaacg ctttatcacg    480
              ataccttcta ccacatatca ctaacaacat caacactcat cactctcgac gacatccact    540
              cgatcactac tctcacacga ccgattaact cctcatccac gcggccgcct gcaggagcca    600
              gcaagtcgtc gcaaatccca actcggagct taagttttgg caaagggagg cagcaagctt    660
              gagacaacaa ctgcacaact tgcaagaaaa ttatcggcag ttgacgggag atgatctttc   720
              tgggctgaat gtcaaagaac tgcagtccct ggagaatcaa ttggaaacaa gcctgcgtgg   780
              tgtccgcgca aagaaggacc atctcttgat agatgagatt cacgatttga atcgaaaggc   840
              aagtttattt caccaagaaa atacagactt gtacaataag atcaacctga ttcgccaaga    900
              aaatgatgag ttacataaaa agatctatga gactgaagga ccaagtggag ttaatcggga    960
              gtcaccgact ccattcaact ttgcagtagt agaaaccaga gatgttccag tgcaacttga   1020
              actcagcaca ctgccacaac aaatag                                        1046
              <210>   1069
              <211>   723
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1069
              atggggaggg gaaagatcgt gatccgcagg atcgataact ccacgagccg gcaggtgacc     60
              ttctccaagc gccggaacgg gatcttcaag aaggccaagg agctcgccat cctctgcgat   120
              gcggaggtcg gcctcgtcat cttctccagc accggccgcc tctacgagta ctctagcacc   180
              agcatgaaat cagttataga tcggtacggc aaggccaagg aagagcagca agtcgtcgca    240
                                                   1232

<removed-date>
              aatcccaact cggagcttaa gttttggcaa agggaggcag caagcttgag acaacaactg   300
              cacaacttgc aagaaaatta tcggcagttg acgggagatg atctttctgg gctgaatgtc   360
              aaagaactgc agtccctgga gaatcaattg gaaacaagcc tgcgtggtgt ccgcgcaaag   420
              aaggaccatc tcttgataga tgagattcac gatttgaatc gaaaggcaag tttatttcac   480
              caagaaaata cagacttgta caataagatc aacctgattc gccaagaaaa tgatgagtta   540
<removed-apn>
              cataaaaaga tctatgagac tgaaggacca agtggagtta atcgggagtc accgactcca   600
              ttcaactttg cagtagtaga aaccagagat gttccagtgc aacttgaact cagcacactg   660
              ccacaacaaa ataacattga gccatctact gctcctaagc taggattgca attaattcca   720
              tga                                                                 723
              <210>   1070
              <211>   1940
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (248)..(248)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1070
              aatccttact atattaggca taaaattagg tgtagtttat ttatttactg gtactacttc    60
              tttagtcata attaggtgta ctagcagcta cgccctgacg gagacaagca cacacaatag   120
              aaaagagcgc cctcgtgctc agagtgctcg cctttagttt cgtggctact atatactagt   180
              tgcgacgatt tttattttct ttctcttctg ggctatcatt agcacggcca tttaggggta   240
              atgagcancg gccaataaac tagtcccccc ccccccccgc cctgagatgc atggggtagc   300
              caatcgggtg tcgccgtgcg cgcgcgcgcg cgtctggcct cctccttccc tttccttgct   360
              aaataaagca agtagcagat aggggaaagt ctgctcgcaa gttgcatccg ccctgcgcca   420
              agaaaagcca tcgttcttcc cacaaacgca cacatagaag catcattccc ctctcggcta   480
              gcttcctcct ctctccctcc tcttcgtctt cctctttcct tctcccttgg gaaacctgct   540
              gcctttgagc tttcttcttc gagtgctccc accagatctc ctcctcctta ccttctttgg   600
              cacgttcggc ggcgcgcgcg gagatagata gatcccgcca tcgtcgtcgc cgtccttgct   660
                                                   1233

<removed-date>
              tccgatcgga gggccacaac cacaacctct cgctccttag cgtgcgcgcg cgagccaggg    720
              tcaagaagag agctagctat aggccggaga tcgatgggga ggggaaagat cgtgatccgc    780
              aggatcgata actccacgag ccggcaggtg accttctcca agcgccggaa cgggatcttc    840
              aagaaggcca aggagctcgc catcctctgc gatgcggagg tcggcctcgt catcttctcc    900
              agcaccggcc gcctctacga gtactctagc accagcatga aatcagttat agatcggtac    960
<removed-apn>
              ggcaaggcca aggaagagca gcaagtcgtc gcaaatccca actcggagct taagttttgg   1020
              caaagggagg cagcaagctt gagacaacaa ctgcacaact tgcaagaaaa ttatcggcag   1080
              ttgacgggag atgatctttc tgggctgaat gtcaaagaac tgcagtccct ggagaatcaa   1140
              ttggaaacaa gcctgcgtgg tgtccgcgca aagaaggacc atctcttgat agatgagatt   1200
              cacgatttga atcgaaaggc aagtttattt caccaagaaa atacagactt gtacaataag   1260
              atcaacctga ttcgccaaga aaatgatgag ttacataaaa agatctatga gactgaagga   1320
              ccaagtggag ttaatcggga gtcaccgact ccattcaact ttgcagtagt agaaaccaga   1380
              gatgttccag tgcaacttga actcagcaca ctgccacaac aaaataacat tgagccatct   1440
              actgctccta agctaggatt gcaattaatt ccatgaagaa gagtaaaact gccgtcttat   1500
              gatgctgaag gaaactattt attgtgaaga gatgatactc agagaaagac atatttgtgg   1560
              cagggagatt tgagatatga acttataaat gtaatgcaaa taattttcag actggaatgg   1620
              ggtcgtggaa ttcagaggat gattgctttc tagttgcatt tgatgtttga tgagactttt   1680
              ctcatgtgaa acgtttatta aaacttcaaa atggtgcaga tgttgctact acacttgtta   1740
              ggcttgtata aatatttgac cttgtgtact agcattacga aaacagaaaa gaagacagac   1800
              agccgtgata ggggacaatg atgcgatcta ggagtacaaa cagagtctag tttccactca   1860
              gttgagtttt atattgctct caagcgttat caagggttta gtaggataca gatataatta   1920
              agatacagtg gttaaatcgc                                               1940
              <210>   1071
              <211>   2420
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1071
              gaattcccgg gtcgacccac gcgtccgccc acgcgtccgg tcgtcctctt ctctcgcctc     60
                                                   1234

<removed-date>
              caataattcg taaccattct ccttccaggc cgggctcctg ctggccggag ttcccatctc    120
              cctctttcct tctcggttac tatccgtgag tgtgcctgcc cccgtgtgtg cgcgtgcaag    180
              atcgaccggg cgcagcttca cgatggggcg cggcaagata gtgatccgcc ggatcgacaa    240
              ctccacgagc cggcaggtga cgttctccaa gcggcggaac gggatcttca agaaggcaag    300
              ggagctcgcc atactctgcg acgcagaggt cgggttggtc atcttctcca gcaccggtcg    360
<removed-apn>
              tctctatgaa tacgccagca caagcataaa gtcagtgatt gatcgatatg gtcgagcaaa    420
              ggaggaggag catgtagcag accccaacac agagcttaag ttctggcaaa gggaggcagc    480
              aagcttgaga caacaactgc acaacttgca agaaaatcat cggtacgtca acaaaaccct    540
              gcaagtttta cagatgcatc attcagaaaa ttgccaaatg taaggaagat caataaaaga    600
              attgtcagca tgagcacaaa tacaaaacgt ctgagtacag aaacacaagg gattttttaa    660
              acaagaaaat ccattctgct ttttaaagaa acatatataa agtggtttaa aacaacaaca    720
              aatctgcgct gctggatcaa ccttaaggag taaggaccac gaggtaacta gaacacctcc    780
              aacatcgaac ttgtgcagtg tatgaattag tatagcaata tgtgagaata attttagcat    840
              acaaaatgca taacaacaga acctagttta gggacgtggt aatgatgcca taggataata    900
              catggtttat gcagacatca gttttcacaa gcaagagaaa tgtaaaagga tgcaaaggct    960
              tgtgaacttc atgtgccaaa ccatttatca atagaaaact gtacatttag ttatcttatg   1020
              cattattatt aacgtccaaa gaagcagata cacaacatta ttgtaatttt gtatgattaa   1080
              cccaaagcag cagatacaca ccatcatatt taaatgtatt tatttttttg cctactagtt   1140
              tttgagcgct ctgatttgta atcactctat tccaagtaac agtactaaag gcatctgcag   1200
              tgtaggaaat gaaggtgtca taagacctta aagccgataa ggtcagaaag cggtatttaa   1260
              cccaaaaaac ttagaaccag accattagct taatacctgg cctcagcaaa ttaaaaaaaa   1320
              cacaagcgaa ggcaagaaac tcctctccca caggtgtgtg gcagacaatg gcaactgtgg   1380
              cctcccacag gaggacgcag ctgcctcacg ctgcagggag tggaaagggc ctctagggcc   1440
              tcctgcagct agcggcgagg acctcgcatg gaggaaggag gaggcgctgt gagcaggaca   1500
              cttggcgacg gggaagacaa agcagcagag aggaagaggc ctcattgagc tcactttacg   1560
              gccattggga gtgccaggtg ccctaacgca tacatagcca gaagccgaat ccttaaaaag   1620
                                                   1235

              gaacacgata tgatcaagca acaagaccct tttacattaa aatacagtca aactcgaatt   1680
<removed-date>
              gtaaaaacta agtgagattg tttgactggc tgtaggcagt tgatgggaca aaatctttct   1740
              ggactaggtg tcaagggact tcaaaatcta gaaaatcagc tagagatgag catttgttgc   1800
              atccggacaa aaaaggacca actcttggtt gacgaaattc acgaactgaa tcgaaaggga   1860
              agtctcatcc aacaagacaa catgggatta cacagaaagg tcaacctaat tcgtcaagaa   1920
              aatgccgaat tatataagaa gctctatgag aaagaagcag aaggtgaagt caaccgagat   1980
<removed-apn>
              tcaacaactc cgtacaactt tgtagttgca gagggtgcca acgttcctat ccatcttgag   2040
              cttaatattc cactgcaaga aaatggtgtt gagcaacctg tggctcctaa attagggttg   2100
              caattaaatc aatgaagaca tgcaggacat tgcctttgtt ctcattgtcc ttgaagtctg   2160
              caactcaaag cagcctaaaa tgataggttg taacaggcct aaaaacattg caagacaaat   2220
              aaagtatgca tgccagagac agtggcaatg gtagtgcaaa tctatctcaa ataacttgtg   2280
              ttatattgaa taatccagca aatggtttgt tttttacacg ttatgcaagt ttgtttgacc   2340
              aaaatggtat gtaacatgta caaatttcca agtgaactta ttgaaaaaat tctataaaaa   2400
              aaaaaaaaaa gggcggccgc                                               2420
              <210>   1072
              <211>   950
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1072
              ccaagttata gatcttctcg cgccgccgct cgcagccgct cgccgcccgg aacatctccc     60
              ccgcgcctct ccctgctcct ggatttcacc gatctggcat gttttactgt cccgtcatag    120
              gggggcagcg ggagccgccc ctttcctgcc tccacagctc atgccatgca tggcagatcc    180
              attccctcaa atcgggattg ccgcatacat gccgttgctt ccccgttagc ttctcccttg    240
              ttacaccccc tcgcttcgtt ctgcgtattt tcggggtttg acaccgcttg tctatcccct    300
              tccgtccgct tttacgtggg cgagctcaaa ctccgcgccg gcgtctcagt tgctgcaagt    360
              ggcggcagca agctagaggc agcaactgca taccttgcaa gaaaaaatcg gttttgttga    420
              cgtaccgatg attttcttgc aagttgtgca gttgttgtct caagcttgct gcctcccttt    480
              gccagaacta ttgaatgtga aagcacagat ttagctaaag gctataataa tcttcaaagg    540
                                                   1236

              ttcaatataa attcttggac tatagactga agtatggctg ctgatcttcc aagatctctc   600
<removed-date>
              cagttcagag gatgggatta tgggagctta gaccagagct gtctaagcaa ttccagagta   660
              cagaagggta tactctgatc ctagaaaaga tggcatattc tatcggacca gagtcaccag   720
              accttggatg aaagggcttc agtttaagtc ctacaagaga tgaacgatgg caaccaccaa   780
              aagtccaact acgtagaacg atggcaacca ccaaaaattg cccattgttc atccgacggg   840
              caatttgccg tttcttctca tggtgagaca tgggatgctg caacatgacc cgaaaactgg   900
<removed-apn>
              atttcaattc aagtgaacag tttctccatt tgtacggtat tccattgcaa              950
              <210>   1073
              <211>   729
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1073
              gcaccaggca aagcgaggca gaaagcttga ggcagcaact gcataactta aaagagcacc    60
              atcggcagtt gttgggtcag cagctttctg gcctgaacgt gggagatttg cagaatttag   120
              agaataagct ggagacgagc ctaagaaata ttcgtctgaa aaaggaccaa cttatttttt   180
              atcagattca agaattaaac aggaagggaa gcctcatgca ccaggaaagc atggaactat   240
              acaacaaagt taaccttctt catcaacata acactgaatt acggagaaag gtgtatggac   300
              aaggagtaaa taatgagcaa acaagtacta ctgttagaca cagtactcgg aatacagaga   360
              atcttccgat caatcttgag ctaagtgtgc aaagggacaa atcagaaaca ccaagtgtag   420
              ggtgagattt ttgtccaaac ttcaggataa ctcagagtca gtaaaccaga tgatttaata   480
              aagaacactg aaagtgccat aagactttaa atacagtgag gataactaaa ccgagtgata   540
              agaaatggat atcgttggtt gaattgcaag acctaacagc taaactttaa gctgctagat   600
              gcgattgttt atgtattaag aagaatgttg attttaattt tgcttttcat ataagcttgc   660
              catgtatgct attgtaaatt gtactctgaa ttataagtcc tcttggtttt ctaggtaaaa   720
              aaaaaaaaa                                                           729
              <210>   1074
              <211>   405
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1237

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (213)..(213)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (277)..(277)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1074
              atgctctggc aaagcgaggc agaaagcttg aggcagcaac tgcataactt agaagagcac    60
              catcggcagt tgttgggtca gcagctttct ggcctgaacg tgggagattt gcagaattta   120
              gagaataagc tggagacgag cctaagaaat attcgtctga aaaagattca agaattaaac   180
              aggaagggaa gcctcatgca ccaggaaagc atngaactat acaacaaagt taaccttctt   240
              catcaacata acactgaatt acggagaaag gtgtatngac aaggagtaaa taatgagcaa   300
              acaagtacta ctgttagaca cagtactcgg aatacagaga atcttccgat caatcctgag   360
              ctaagtgtgc aaagggacaa atcagaaaca ccaagtgtag ggtga                   405
              <210>   1075
              <211>   513
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1075
              atgccactga acctctcccc accaagccaa tccctgaaca tcggtggaag atgggagaaa    60
              aagaaaagaa aacacacgcc actgctttgg caaagggagg caggaagctt gaggcagcaa   120
              ctgcataact tgcaagagca ccatcggaag ttgttgggtc agcagctctc tggcctggac   180
              gtgagagatt tgcagaattt agagaatcag ctggagacaa gcctaagaaa tattcgtcta   240
              aagatggacc aacttatttt ttatcagatt caagaattaa acaggaaggg atacctcatg   300
              caccaggaaa acatagaact acacaacaaa gtcaaccttc ttcatcaaga gaacattaaa   360
              ttacgtagaa aggcgtatgg acaaggagta aatgagcatc caacaagtac tacagttaga   420
              cacagtattc tgaatacaga gaatgaagat gttcggatca atcttgagct gagtgtgcaa   480
              ggggacaaat cagaaacacc aagtataggg tga                                513
              <210>   1076
                                                     1238

              <211>   2510
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1076
              atggcagagg gtgttgttgg catccttatt ctgaagcttg gttcagcctt gtttttagag     60
              gcttgcaggc ttggcacaaa acagctctac catgaagctt cagcccttgg caggctcttt    120
              ggtgagatcc gtgatatcaa ggaggaattg gagagcatgc aatcttttct acaaggagct    180
<removed-apn>
              gagagattca aagatactga caacaacact gccaacttta tcaagaagat tcgtggcctt    240
              gctttcgaca ttgaagatgt tatcgatgag tttatctaca agatggagga caagcatggc    300
              agttttgcta caaagatgaa tcgtcggatt aatcgtattt ggacatggcg acgtctcacg    360
              tccaaattgc aaaagatcaa actgaaacta gagaatgttg ataagagaaa tgttcgatat    420
              gacatgagag gaattgctag agaagatgga agcagtgatg ctcatcatag atctaccgac    480
              cagatttctt acttccccaa agaggaaaat cttgtgggca ttgatgaaaa caaggagtta    540
              ttgatgaatt ggctaagggg tgatctacat cagcaaagtg taattacaac agtatggggg    600
              atggggggag ttggcaagac cactttggtt gcacatgttt acaacactgt gaaggtagac    660
              tttgacagtg ctgcatggat aactgtttca aaagcttacc aagtggagga cttgctgaag    720
              cagatcatca ggggatttca gaaaagtgat ttgaaggatg acgtctgggg tgttgacatc    780
              tggttcaaga taagagatgc ttttcctacc aatagcacta gcagaagccc aacctactct    840
              gattgggaaa gctttttcaa ggaactagag ttgcagatga caaataatgt gattcttaat    900
              gttaatgttc ttctaaaggg tgcccagatt gtggagctgc cagatgaggt tttcaacttg    960
              tttaatctac ggtttctcag ccttcgaaat actgaggtta cgaatatccc cagcacagtt   1020
              ggaagattac aaaaacttga agtcttggat gtttataatg ctaaactgtt ggctttgcca   1080
              gagagtgttt cgaagcttag aaaattgaga tatctacatg tagctactgt tccaaagata   1140
              aatactaaag gggttgtgac ctggattgga atccaggtgc ctaaaagcat caaatacctg   1200
              acaggcttgc aaaccttgag gcttgttgag gcgagctcag agactttatt tcaccttggt   1260
              gctttgacac agttgagaac ttttgccatc acaaatgtgc agagggatca gtgtgccgat   1320
              ttgtgcactg ttataatgag catgaagcat cttgttagct tagcaattat ggctataagt   1380
              gaggaggaaa tacttcaact tgaagaactt tgtttacccc caactctttc aaagcttgaa   1440
                                                   1239

              ttaggagggc agctggacaa gaaagcaatg ccccagattg tatcatcctt ttcagatctt   1500
<removed-date>
              ggtaacctca ccttattggc cttggcattc tccaaacttg atgaggactc attttcatgc   1560
              ctcttgacgt tgcatggtct acgtgggctt tgggttgata aggcttatga agggaagagg   1620
              cttcacttta atgctatgtc ttttccaaat cttcgacagc ttgcaatatc agatgcaccg   1680
              cagctcaaca gcgttgtaat cgaacgaagc gcactgcaaa gccttgttca gctgacactt   1740
              gtagattgtc cagaactgaa ggccctgcct gatggcattg agcatcttag aacacttgag   1800
<removed-apn>
              aaattatatc tgcgaggagc atccaaagag ctcacaaagc tatttcagtg caatgaagaa   1860
              acacatgagt ccaatgggaa tcttgagaag atcggtcata tccgaagggt tactgtttat   1920
              ccataagggt ttgattggaa gtaagggtaa tggggaggat tgaaggggct agaatctctc   1980
              actattctat tttaaatagt gaggaattct agccccctcg atctccttcg ttccatttac   2040
              tcccaaacta gccctaaaaa ggatgcgaag acttggtgtc ataaacccat acacttgcgt   2100
              acaagtgttg gccttgttac cgattgcata ctactggcca actggtgtaa tagctcagga   2160
              cagtcaagag taaaataaag ttggtgaaaa tatagttggg tctgaaccgc tgaagtgagt   2220
              ggagactaat aatttgtttt tgtttccggt acttgatttt actgttttga ccttattttt   2280
              gtgtcactaa tactcatcat gtatttgtag tcatacaggt atagattaaa cgaaactctt   2340
              catcacacgc gaactgagca aaagttgagc ggtagataaa ttgtatattt ttaaggctag   2400
              ttgggaactc tatttttcca atggatttgt attatatttc tgtatttgat ctataaatat   2460
              ttcatgatat tattttttaa tacgtaatgc agaaaagtat taatcttttt              2510
              <210>   1077
              <211>   1746
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1556)..(1556)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1077
              atggaggcga cggcgctgag cttgggcaag gctgtgctgg gcggagcgct cagctatgcc     60
              aagtccaagg ccgcagagga ggtcgcactg cagctcggcg tcgaggacga cgtgaccttc    120
                                                   1240

              atcacggacg agctgcagat gatgcagtcc ttcctgatga cagccgatga ggagcgaagc    180
<removed-date>
              cagaccaagg tggtcacgac ctgggtgacg caggtccgcg acctggccta caacgtggag    240
              gacagtctca tggatttcgg catcgacgtt gggaagaagc cgatttgggg gtgcatcccc    300
              cgtagctcgt gcgatcgacg tcgcatagcc aaggaggtga agaagctaag gtccaaggtc    360
              gaggatgtga gcaacaggaa cctgcgctac cgcctcatca aggatggctc aagatccaag    420
              cctgccggtg cggcggagca aactactgcc tctgatggtg tagagcgtca aaaaccaaag    480
<removed-apn>
              gcagacctgc tgcagctggt cactagcaag gaggtcgacc tgagggtcgt ggctgtgtgt    540
              ggaacaaccg gtgatcgtgg gaagacggcc gccatccatg aggtctatga tcacccaagt    600
              gtggcatcaa agtatggact cagggcatgg gttaggctga tccacccttt caatccagaa    660
              gagtttcttc gtagcatggt acggcaattc ttggagaatt tccatgataa gcctcaaggt    720
              ggagaagaag caacaaatgt tggggctact gtccttctga agatggacaa gatgaaccaa    780
              agtgatttag tgcacacgtt tactacacag ttgagtagca atagctatct aattgtaata    840
              gatgacctat gcacagtaga agagtggcaa cgcatcagaa ggttcttccc tgacaacaag    900
              aaagagagca gaatcatagt gtccactcag caagttgagg ttgcaggctt atgtacagag    960
              caaccatacc aaatgtccga gtttaagcag ctcccgtatg accaaacact ttatctgttc   1020
              cataggaagg ttattagtga gatacaggaa gaatatcaac caccaaagag tacaggaaat   1080
              agtttctcta cctcaactac tggcaaaaag tttgatcgca tgaggacaat gacactgaat   1140
              gatgatgtac ttgttgggag aaagactgag aaatctgaag ttattgattt gattggtcaa   1200
              ccttcggaca agctctgtaa ggtgatctct gtgtggggaa tgggaggact tgggaaaact   1260
              actcttgtcc gaagcatcta cagaagccaa cagcttgatg actggaactg gaagcgcgct   1320
              tgggtcactg ctacgcgtcc tttcgacaat gaagtgctca tcagaaccct agcttcgcaa   1380
              ctactccacg attctaatac agcaaatatg aagttggatg tcttaagaaa aaagatagac   1440
              cagcttctac tgaacgagaa ctatctcatt gttcttgatg acctatcatc tattgaagaa   1500
              tggaacttgg ttcgagacca atgggcaaag gctaaacgca tcatagtcac cacaanagaa   1560
              tatagtgttg ccaaatattg ttcgggagga gacatgaaca cgcacaaact tcaagtccta   1620
              caagaagagg atgcacttgc cctcttccta aagaaggcac taaggctgcc cgcagtggag   1680
              gactgggtgc tggactctat cccatatagc gtaaagaaac acctgcagcg ggtgactggg   1740
                                                   1241

<removed-date>
              tgctag                                                              1746
              <210>    1078
              <211>    1259
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Zea mays
              <400> 1078
              tcgacgaaat gcgacgccga gatcactggg ctacgagtac ggctgcgcgc cggcacagcc     60
<removed-apn>
              aagcgcggca gcggcgcttg cgtcgaaggg aaatggttcg ccggattcat cgccccattc    120
              cgctctgggc taaggttcca ccagcacaac cctatggcag aagcagtgct ccttgctgtc    180
              actaagattg gttccgttct tggagatgaa cctgccaaga ccattataaa caagctgtct    240
              gaaaaaattc aagctctgag ggaactccca cggaaagtgg atcacataag gatgaaacta    300
              ataataatga gcaaagttat acagcagatt ggcacagtct accttacaga tgaacttgtg    360
              aagagttgga ttggggaggt ccggaaggtg gcttaccgtg ttgaggatgt agtagacaaa    420
              tactcatacc atcttcttca actggaggaa gaagggtttc tgaagaaatt tttcgtcaag    480
              ggtacccatt atgccattgt tttcagtgaa attgctgatg aggtagctga gatagaagag    540
              gagattcagc aagttattca gatgaaggat cagtggttgc agccatccca gcttgtccct    600
              caccctgagc aactcgctga aatcgaaaga cagcgttccc aagacagttt cccagaattt    660
              gtcaaagatg aagatctagt aggaattgaa gaaaatagaa aattgctgac tggatggatt    720
              tactcagaag agcaggctag catggtgata acagtttctg gtatgggtgg actgggaaaa    780
              tctacactgg ttacaaacat ttatgaacgt gaaaaggtca acttcccggt acatgcttgg    840
              attgttgtgt cacaggtcta cacagtcgag tctttgttga gaaagctact atggaagatt    900
              gggcatatgc aaccaccagt gccaagagag attgacaaaa tggatgtaca tgacttgaag    960
              gaggaaataa agagaaagct ccagaataga aaatgcttga ttgtgttgga tgatgtttgg   1020
              gagcaagaag tatacttcaa aatacatgat gctttccaga cactccatgg aagccgcatc   1080
              atcattacaa cacgaaagga ccatgttggt gctattgctt cctttgacca ccatcttgag   1140
              ctccaaccgt tgtgtgggcc tgatgcattt gaacttttct gtagaagggc ttttcacaac   1200
              aagaaggacc acaaatgccc cgaggagctt aaggaaattg ctggtgaaat agtgaaaag    1259
                                                   1242

              <210>   1079
<removed-date>
              <211>   1547
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1079
              ctcatgttcg ccccctcctc tgcgccgtcg ccgccgtctc cttccccatc tccgcctccg     60
              tctccatccc catcccgcct cgtgccgcag cttctggtcg ccctcctcca gcgccgccgc    120
              ttcgacgtca cgctccgggt ctccccgacc ttccccggct tctccccgca ctcaatcgcc    180
<removed-apn>
              gccgcgctcg ccgccatccc gcgcttcctt ctcccgggct ccccgcgccg cctctgcccg    240
              caacggccgt tcccctccgc ctcgcaccct tccaaccgtc gcctcgccgc tgctctcact    300
              ctcgccttcc tctcctggtc gcacgcccac gcccaccccc accccgtccc gctctccgaa    360
              gccccgctcc gcgccgcggc gctcgcgctg acccgcgccc acgcgctctc gccgctcttc    420
              cgcctcctcc gtgcgcacgc ttcggtcgtc tccactgctg cgctcaccga cgtaatccgc    480
              gtgctcggtg aggaagggct cccgcgccac gcgctcgccg cgttccaccg catgcgccag    540
              ctccactgcg cccctgacgc gcagtgctac aacactttga tcgctgcgct gtgccggaac    600
              gggcggttta gtgatgcccg gttcctgctc gaccagatgg agcgacccgg tgcgcgctgc    660
              aagccggaca cctacacgta cacggtgctc atttcctggt actgccgcat cggggtgggc    720
              acgggatgcc ggaaggcggc acggcggagg atctacgagg cggggaggct gttcaggagg    780
              atgggagaaa aggggctcga gccggatgtc gtgacttaca actgcttgat caatggcctg    840
              tgtaaaacgt accgcgtgga gcgcgcccac gagatgttcg atgaaatgct gaggaagggg    900
              tgcacgccca accgggtgac ttactattcg ttcatcagat actacagtgt ggtgaaccag    960
              gtggacaagg ctgttgaatg gatgagggaa atggttgcga ggggccatgg gatggccttg   1020
              tcgagcacat acacgcctgt catccattct ttgtgtgaga gccggcgtgt taccgaggcg   1080
              aggcaattct tgattgatat ggctgaaagt ggacatgtgc ctagggaaca tacatacaag   1140
              ctggtgaagg ctgcaatcga cgatgctggt gaggatgcct tgccagcagg gctatgtcaa   1200
              tcaattgagg atggcattac agcaaggttt cgacaggtga tgcaaattaa acccataatg   1260
              cgaccagtca caagatgatc tgaaacaaac gagcttatgg ataaccataa tctgtttgca   1320
              tgagagatgc tggtcttgca agagaagtgt tcttggttga gatacctagg atggtagtgg   1380
              tgcatggcta caagctaata tatgtgtaaa ctagtgccaa ctgagtgctc ttgtaagaaa   1440
                                                   1243

<removed-date>
              ggagcaggca atgagagcag ggagaagttt tggcatatgc cattattccc aagataattt   1500
              gaggctataa taaagtttgt ttgcacataa ggtaaaatat ttttaag                 1547
              <210>   1080
              <211>   1806
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1080
              ctcttcgccg cgaatgccga gacggcggaa accgaccgcg cttccgtccg ccaccgccga     60
              ttgacaatga agctcccggc cgcactcccc tggatctccc cgctgcagta ccgaagaccc    120
              ggccgcggcg cgtcgccctc cccaccgcct ccaccccctc ccacccggcg gccgcggtac    180
              ctccaccacc cggaactcgc gcgcctcatc gagtcctccc cctccgcgca gcgcgcgctc    240
              gacctcttca acgcggcctc ctcccagcac gccttctccc acacgccggc cactttctcg    300
              gcgctcctcg tccgcctcgc gcgcgcgcgg ctcccgcgcg ccgccgccgc cgtgctccgc    360
              cgcaccgcct ccgagccctg ccggttccag gagccgcagt tcctgcccct cgtccgcctc    420
              ctgccgcccg accacgcgct cgtgctcctc cgcttcctgc ccgcgctgct ccgcacgagc    480
              cgcgtctcac acaaggcgct ggccgtctgc ctcgaccgcc ttgtctcctc ccgcggctgc    540
              cacggcgtcc tcaacgagct cctagccgat ctgcgcgacc ctcggaacaa gtaccttcca    600
              aggcctaaca catgcgtcta caacattctt gtcaagcact acgtcaaaaa cggcgaattg    660
              gagaccgcct tcaaagtgct cgacgaaatg cgcgagtaca cctgcgcgga cgtgaagccg    720
              aacctggtca cctattcaac attgatcggt ggactctgcc gtgggggtaa gatgaaggaa    780
              gcgtttgagc tattcgagga gatgatcgag aaggaccgca ttgtcccaga tcagctgctg    840
              tacaatgtga tcatcgatgg gttctgtaga caggggcagg tggataaggc tcgtgcaatc    900
              tttggattta tgaggaagaa cgagtgtgag cccaacacct tcaattatgc cacgctgatt    960
              aatgggcact gtaagaaagc ggacattgag gcagcgagat cggtgttcga ggagatgagg   1020
              aattctggtg tggagccaga tgctgtgagc tacactgcac tgatcggctg cctttgcaga   1080
              catggaagtg tggatgaggg catcggtctt gttttggaga tgaaggagaa ggggtgtagg   1140
              gccgatgtcg tcacatacaa tctggtgatt gaggggttgt gcaaagatgg ccggactgtg   1200
              gaagcaatgg gcctgctgga gagcgtgccg ctggaaggag taaagttgaa cgtcgcgagc   1260
                                                   1244

<removed-date>
              taccggatct tgatgaactg cttgtgctcc cgtggggaga tggacagggc agttggcttg   1320
              ctgggattga tgcttggacg agggtttcta cctcactatg cggcgtcaaa caacctgttg   1380
              atcggtctat gcgatgctgg gcgcatagca gatgctacga tggcattgta tgggttagct   1440
              gatgcaggct ttatgccaga gcctagatgc tgggagaggc ttgtggagag tgttgaggtc   1500
              ttgaggaaag gaactggaga tcgcggcagt gtatctttct gcccccattt gcactacagg   1560
<removed-apn>
              gctgaattga tgtttagcaa caacgaagag aaggctgctg ggccctactg gtactggaga   1620
              cagcaaccaa caggtcctga cacaaacttt tcttccagaa caagctgcta tatccagaag   1680
              gtatcaaacc atgaaggcac aatggccgca ttattcacca ttctcgtcat tggagacgta   1740
              gtccaggatg aggtgccgca gttggctctg gcaaacagac ttccgctggg gcctgtgtca   1800
              gcttag                                                              1806
              <210>    1081
              <211>    438
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Zea mays
              <400> 1081
              atgcgccagc tccactgcgc ccctgacgcg cagtgctaca acactttgat cgctgcgctg     60
              tgccggaacg ggcggtttag tgatgcccgg ttcctgctcg accagatgga gcgacccggt    120
              gcgcgctgca agccggacac ctacacgtac acggtgctca tttcctggta ctgccgcatc    180
              ggggtgggca cgggatgccg gaaggcggca cggcggagga tctacgaggc ggggaggctg    240
              ttcaggagga tgggagaaaa ggggctcgag ccggatgtcg tgacttacaa ctgcttgatc    300
              aatggcctgt gtaaaacgta ccgcgtggag cgcgcccacg agatgttcga tgaaatgctg    360
              aggaaggggt gcacgcccaa ccggcagggc tatgtcaatc aattgaggat ggcattacag    420
              caaggtttcg acaggtga                                                  438
              <210>    1082
              <211>    2530
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Zea mays
              <400> 1082
              gaagtgaaga agtgtgccct ttggctatct gaggtggctt tcctggggca cgtgattcct     60
                                                   1245

              ccccagggta ttgcggttga ccccaagaat gttgcggctg tagtggagtg gaagagacct    120
<removed-date>
              tctagtgtct ctgaaatccc aagtttcttg gggcttgctg gggattatcg gcgtttcgta    180
              ccaaattttt ccagcattgc taagcctttg actaagctct tggggaaggg tgttcccttc    240
              gtctggtccg gcgattgtga gatcagttat cagtcattga agagcaagtt ggtggacgcc    300
              cctatcctag ctttgcctga gagcggtaag cgtttcacag tttatacgga tgcttcgcgt    360
              attggtcttg gctgtgtgct gatgcaggaa ggcagggtga ttgcttatgg ctcaaggcag    420
<removed-apn>
              ttgaggaagc atgaggggaa ttatccaact catgatctgg aattggctgc ggtggttttt    480
              gctctaaagt cgtggaggca ttacctttat ggcgaggctt gtgacatttt cactgatcac    540
              aaaagcctca agtatatttt tactcagaag gagctgaatt tgaggcagcg tcggtggcta    600
              gaattgatta aagattatga ggtgtccatt cattatcacc cggggaaggc taatgtggtg    660
              gcggatgccc ttagcaggtc cggggttcca aaggtggccg tgccgttgat tgctgatctg    720
              gaccgtttgg ggatcgcttt gtgttatgtc ggcaccgcta gcgtggagac tcagatgctt    780
              attcaatccc ctcttatgga gagagtgcgt gcggctcagc agcaggatcg tcttttgcag    840
              gaagcccgaa ggagggttgg tgatggtaaa ccgcgagagt tcaccattga tgagaatgat    900
              ttggttcgtt tcaggggccg tctttgtgtg cctcagaaat cagaggtgaa gctggatatc    960
              ctgcgagaag ctcataaaac gccttacacc gtccatcctg gcgaaaccaa aatgtaccga   1020
              gatttgaagc aaaacttctg gtggaagcgg atgaaggttg acatttctaa gtatgtggcc   1080
              gcctgtgaag tatgtcagcg cgtgaaggcc gaacataagc ggcctgcagg tttgctgaag   1140
              ccattggaaa ttccagagtg gaaatgggag catatcacca tggattttgt ggtgggtcta   1200
              cctcgttccc ctcgtggcag ggatgctatt tgggtggtag tggatcgctt gactaagtct   1260
              gtgcatttta ttcccatgaa gaccacgaat tcagcttcag atttggttcc cttgtatatg   1320
              aaggaagtag tcaggcttca cggggtacct aagtctattg tttctgatcg agactccaaa   1380
              tttgtatcca aattctggga gagtctccac agtgcattgg gcaccaagct ttcgcttagt   1440
              gtcgcttttc accctcagac ggatggtcag tcagagcgaa caatccaaac cttggaggat   1500
              atgttgcgtg cttgtgttct gtcatggaag ggtagctggg aggatcatct tgctctagca   1560
              gagtttgcgt ataacaacag ctaccaagct agcatcaaga tggcaccatt tgaggctttg   1620
              tatggcaggc ggtgtatctc tcctctgtgc tgggagactt tgggagagag atccctggtt   1680
                                                   1246

<removed-date>
              ggtcctgatt gggttcagca aacttctgaa aaggttcggg aaattcgtca gaatattttg   1740
              gtagctcaga gtcgtcagaa gagttatgct gatgtgagga ggcgggatct ggaatttgct   1800
              gtgggtgacc aagtccttct cagggtatca cccactaagg gagttgttcg gttcggtgtc   1860
              tctgggaagc tcagcccaag atacattgga ccgttcacta tcttggcccg agtgggcagc   1920
              ctggcttatc gcttgctgct gccggattct atggcagggg tacacccggt ttttcatgtc   1980
<removed-apn>
              tctatgttga ggaagttctt gcgggatccg gaccatcaga ttgagatgga accaattgcg   2040
              gtgcagcagg atctgactct agagtgccgt ccggtgcgta tattggaatt ctcggagcgt   2100
              gtgttgagga agagatcaat taagtatgtc aaggtcttat ggtctaatca gtcagagcgc   2160
              gaggctacgt gggaacttga ggagttgatg cggcagaagt acccggaact tttcgttgtg   2220
              ggtggtggac ttccggatcg ttcttaggga ttttgcccga acttcggtaa aggcacctga   2280
              tctttgcttt gggaaggaag ggatgtagca gcacggccac cacactttta aataaaggaa   2340
              ttactgatta ataatgatgt taaacaggaa gagtcaagtc tagggaatta ttacattcta   2400
              atctttcatg gtagttgaac tgtttagttt ggtgggcggt gatgtctatc ttttgtctgg   2460
              tcatgaatgt tctttcctac cgttgtattt tgattatact atgtcaatta tctttctttt   2520
              atattcaaaa                                                          2530
              <210>   1083
              <211>   4238
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1083
              atggcagggc tgaggtgcct cttcccatca gtggtctttc actgatgtag tggatgggca     60
              tgaagttgga cacttttgat ggcagtggta ctccggtcga ggcaacgaat tggctaactt    120
              acgtggagga taatatgaat gtctttgaga ttgtgtatgg tgattgtgtt cgctttggca    180
              cacagctgct gaagggagag gctcaaaatt ggtggagagg cgtgcaggca gctcactctt    240
              cttcaccaag agtcctgtcc tgggatgttt tcatcaagca atttgagagg aggttctacc    300
              cggtcacctt cctggagaaa atgaagattt atttgcaatc ctacaagcaa gagaagaagt    360
              ctgtcacaga gtatgaagtg ggcttcaaca agatggtccg ctttgttcct catgtggctt    420
              acaatgagat ggagaaggtg agccagttct gttagggcct gaaaccttct atcaggcatg    480
                                                   1247

<removed-date>
              ccttgggagc ctttccgttg gtggattttc atactacagt ggagcaggca ttgggtgtgg    540
              agatgcaaca ccagtacacc atggagtcac agaagtcttc gggtgttgat cagcctcgtg    600
              gccaggacgc gaagaggggc aacacatgag gtctagccca caacaggggc aagtctcagc    660
              accagcgcca ccacccctac cgtggcaaat cctttgaatc gggtacttcg ggaggaagta    720
              ctcagaggta tcgggctgtt cctaagccca ggctagggct agtgtgtttc cgttgtggtg    780
<removed-apn>
              atgcgcatca ccgtgcagag cctcacccga cggctcagtg gggttcttct gttaacttca    840
              ctctaggagc ttcctcttct gcgggtattt ctggagctta tgtgctaccc gctgcggatg    900
              gcagagagta aggagacgtg gtgacaggta cgatctcagt tgtgtcgttt gtggcccatg    960
              ctctttttga ctctggtgct agctattcgt ttgtttcgga gaattttgtc tcgcgagctg   1020
              gtctttcggt gcaaaggttg ggtcacccaa ttttggttag ttctgctaat ggctccatta   1080
              gtagctgttc agtttgttag gggtgctccg tcattcttgc tgatgaggtc ttttcggcca   1140
              atcttattgt gatttccttg agggcattcg atgttatctt gggtatagat tggttatctc   1200
              agtatcgcgc aattatatcc tgtttttgga agacattgtt attacaggcg ccgtcgggta   1260
              gggaggtggt attcttagga agttccccaa agttcatgtt atccttgttg gcgcaattgc   1320
              ttttgcggga catccgagtg gtgtgtgact ttgccgacgt gtttccagca gagcttccag   1380
              gcattcctcc ggagcgcgat gcagcttttg aaatcaagct gattctgggt acgcagccta   1440
              ttcataaggc cccatatcgg atggctccaa aggagcaggt tgaattgaag cggcaattgg   1500
              atgatctgct ggctaagggt ttcattaggc ctagcaggtc gccatgggct tccccagtat   1560
              tgtttgttga gaagaaagat aaaagcaaga ggctatgtgt ggattatcgt gctttgaatc   1620
              aagtgacaat caagaataaa tatctgctac cccgtattga ggttctcttt gaatagttga   1680
              ggggtgccca ggtgttctct aaaattgatt tgaactctag ttatcatcaa ttgaggattc   1740
              gtgaggagga taattagaag acagtctttt gcaccaggta tgggcattac gagttcgtag   1800
              tcatgtcttt tggcttaact aatgcccctg ttgcttttat ggaagcaatg aataggatgt   1860
              tacatgagtt cttggatgac tttgtggttg tgttcctgga tgataccctg atctattcaa   1920
              agaccaagga agagcatgag cggcatctct gtctcgttct gagtgctctt aggaagaatc   1980
              aattttatgg caaattgaag aagtacgcct tttggctgtc cgaagtggct ttcctagggc   2040
                                                   1248

              atgtgattag tcagcagggc attgcggttg atcccaagaa tgtcgcggct atggtggagt   2100
<removed-date>
              ggaagagacc ctctagtgtc tctgaaatcc gaagtttctt agggctcgct ggatattatc   2160
              gacgcttcgt accaaatttt tccagcattg ctaagccttt gactagactt ttggagaagg   2220
              gtgttctgtt cgtctggtcc agcgattgcg aggtcattta tcagacattg aagaacaagt   2280
              tggtgagcgc ccctatccta gctttgcctg agagtggtaa gcgtttcaca gtttatacag   2340
              atgtttctcg aattggcctt ggatgtgtgt tgatgcagga aggcagagtg atctcttatg   2400
<removed-apn>
              gctcaaggca gttgaggaag catgaggaat tatccaactc atgatcttga attggccgcg   2460
              atggtctttg ctctaaaatc atggaggcat tatctttatg gcgagtcttg tgacatttat   2520
              accgatcata aaagtctcaa atatattttc actcaaaagg agctgaattt gaggcagcga   2580
              cggtggctcg aattgattaa ggattatgat ttgtccattc attatcaccc agggaaggca   2640
              aatgtggtgg ctgatgccct tagcaggtcc ggggttccaa aagtggcctt gcctttgatc   2700
              actgatctgg accgtttggg gatcgctttg tgctatgtcg gcaccgctag tgaggagact   2760
              cggatgttta ttcaatcctc cctcatggag agagtgcgtg tgactcagca gcaggatcga   2820
              ttattgcagg aagctcgaaa gagggttggc gatggtaaac cccgtgagtt caccattgat   2880
              gagaatgatt tggttcattt caggggccgt ctttgtgtgc ctcagaaatc agaggtgaag   2940
              atggatatct tgagagaagt tcataaaacg ccttacaccg ttcaccctgg cgaaaccaaa   3000
              atgtaccgag atttgaagca aaacttctgg tgcaagcgga tgaaagttga cgtttctaag   3060
              tatgtggccg cctgtgaagt atgttagcgc gtgaaggtcg agcataagcg gccggcaagt   3120
              ttactgaagc cattggaaat tccggagtgg aaatgggagc ataccaccat ggattttgtg   3180
              gtgggcttac ctcgttctcc tcggggcagg gatgctatat gggtggtagt ggatcgcttg   3240
              actaagtctg cgcattttat tcccatgaag accaccaatt cagcttcaga attggttccc   3300
              ttgtatatga aggaagtagt caggcttcac ggggtaccta agtccattgt ttctgatcga   3360
              gactccaaat ttgtatccaa attctgggag agtcttcaca gtgcattggg taccaagctt   3420
              tcgctcagtg tcacttttca ccctcagact gatggtcagt cggagcgaat gatccaaacc   3480
              ttggaagata tgttacgtgt ttgtgttcta tcatggaagg gagctaggag gatcatcttg   3540
              cattggtaga attttcttac aacaacatct accaggctag catcaagatg gcaccatttg   3600
              aggctttata tggcaggcgg tgtatctccc ctctgtgctg ggagactttg ggagagagat   3660
                                                   1249

<removed-date>
              ccctggttgg tcctgattgg gttcagcaga cttctaagaa ggttcgggaa attcgtcaga   3720
              atattttggc cgctcagagc cgtcagaaga gttatgctga tgtgaggaga cgggatttgg   3780
              aatttgcagt gggtgaccaa gtccttctca gggtattacc tactaaagga gttgttcagt   3840
              tcggtgtctc cagaaagctt agcccgagat acattggact gttcactatc ttggcccggg   3900
              tgggcaactt ggcttatcgc ttgcaattgc cggattccat ggcaggggtg cacccggtat   3960
<removed-apn>
              tccatgtctc tatgttgagg aagtttttgt gggatccgga ccatcaggtc gagatgaaac   4020
              caattgcggt gcagcaggat ctgactctgg agtgtcgtct ggtgcatatc ttggagtcct   4080
              cgaagcgtgt gttgagaagg agatcaatta agtatgttaa ggtcttatgg actaatcagt   4140
              ctgagcgcga ggctacttgg gaacttgagg agctgatgcg gtagaaatat ctcgaacttt   4200
              tctcgagatc gaattctttt taaggagggt agagtgtg                           4238
              <210>   1084
              <211>   837
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1084
              atggattttg tggtgggtct acttcgttcc cctcggggca gggatgctat atgggtggta     60
              gtggatcgct tgactaagtc tgtacatttt attcccatga agaccacaaa ttcagcttca    120
              gatttggttc ccttgtatat gaaggaagta gtcaggcttc acggggtacc taagtccatt    180
              gtttctgatc gagactccaa atttgtatcc aaattctggg agagtcttca cagtgcattg    240
              ggcaccaagc tttcacttag tgtcgctttt caccctcaga ctgatgatat gttgcgtgct    300
              tgtgttctgt catggaaggg tagctgggag gatcatcttg cattggcaga gtttgcttat    360
              aacaacagct accaggctag tatcaagatg gcaccatttg aggctttgta tggcaggcgg    420
              tgtatctccc ctctgtgctg ggagactttg ggagagagat ccctggttgg tcctgattgg    480
              gttcagcaga cttctgaaaa ggttcggaaa attcgtcaaa atattttggc agctcagagc    540
              cgtcagaaga gttatgctga tgtgaggagg caggatttgg aatttgcagt gggtgaccaa    600
              gtccttctca gggtatcacc tactaaagga gttgttcggt tcggtgtctc tgtaaagctc    660
              agcccgagat acattggacc gttcactatc ttggcccgag tgggcagcct ggcttatcgc    720
              ttgctattgc cggattccat ggcaggggta cacacggttt ttcatgtctc tatgttgagg    780
                                                   1250

<removed-date>
              aagttcttgc gggatccgaa ccatcagatt gagatggaac caattgctgt gcagtag       837
              <210>   1085
              <211>   1140
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1085
              atgggcacat ctgagcaacc atgcacgagc acgcccaact cgttcaccac cacctcctcc     60
<removed-apn>
              tcctatgtca cctcccagca gattcatcat ctgccacagc acgactccgt ggtctgcacc    120
              gaaccggggc tgggcttccc ctactactat gtcactgacc gtcagcagga cgcagcgttc    180
              gacggcgacg aggtagagct cggcttccag gcttccaagg ccaccagggt cgactactac    240
              agctcgcctt accagctgtc atggccgctg gctcgcgccg cggccgccga gtcgtcgcgc    300
              gtcaggaaga agaggttctg ggacgttctc gagagctgca agcagaaggt cgaggccatg    360
              gaggccatgg agtcgccgct ggtggcgttc caggaagccg aggacggggg cgccgtagta    420
              ggggatggcg gcggcggcgg cggcggccga gggagcgggg gcggcgcgga cgggatgcgg    480
              ctcgtgcagc tgctggtcgc gtgcgccgag gccgtggcgt gccgcgaccg cgcgcaggcc    540
              gcggcgctgc tgcgggagct ccaggccggc gcgcccgtgc acggcacggc gttccagcgc    600
              gtcgcgtcct gcttcgtgca gggcctggcg gaccgcctgg cgctggctca cccgccggcg    660
              ctgggcccgg ccagcatggc gttctgcatc ccgccgtcgt gcgcgggccg cgacggcggc    720
              gcgcgcgccg aggcgctcgc gctggcctac gacctgtgcc cgtacctgcg cttcgcgcac   780
              ttcgtggcca acgcctccat cctggaggcc ttcgaggggg agaccaacgt ccacgtgctg    840
              gacctgggca tgacgctggg cctggaccgc gcccaccagt ggcgcgccct cctcgacggc    900
              ctcgccgccc gcgcgggcgc cgccgccagg ccggcgcgcg tgcgcgtcac cgccgtcggc    960
              gcccctgcgg acgccatgag agccgtcggc cgggagctcc tggcgtacgc ggaggggctc   1020
              gggatgtgcc tcgagttcag ggcggtcgac cgcagcctcg agagcctgca catcgacgac   1080
              ctcgggatcg ccgctgacga ggccgtggcc atcaacagcg tcctggagct gcactgcgtg   1140
              <210>   1086
              <211>   2050
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1251

<removed-date>
              <400> 1086
              atgcaggaag gcagggtgat tgcttatggc tcaaggcagt tgaggaagca tgaggggaat     60
              tatccaactc atgatctgga attggctgcg gtggtttttg ctctaaagtc gtggaggcat    120
              tacctttatg gcgaggcttg tgacattttc actgatcaca aaagtctcaa gtatattttt    180
              actcagaagg agctgaattt gaggcagcgt cggtggctag aattgattaa agattatgat    240
              ttgtccattc attatcaccc ggggaaggct aatgtggtgg cggatgccct tagcaggtcc    300
<removed-apn>
              ggggttccaa aggtggcctt gccgttgatc gctgatctgg accgtttggg gatcgctttg    360
              tgttatgtcg gcaccgctag cgaggagact cagatgctta ttcaatcctc tcttatggag    420
              agagtgcgtg cggctcagca gcaggatcgt cttttgcagg aagctcgaaa gagggttggt    480
              gatggtaaac cgcgggagtt caccattgat gagaatgatt tggttcgttt caggggccgt    540
              ctttgtgtgc ctcagaaatc agaggtgaag ctggatatcc tgcgagaagc tcataaaacg    600
              ccttacaccg tccatcctgg cgaaaccaaa atgtaccgag atttgaagca aaacttctgg    660
              tggaagcgga tgaaggttga catttctaag tatgtggccg cctgtgaagt atgtcagcgc    720
              gtgaaggccg agcataagcg gcctgcaggt ttgctgaagc cattggaaat tccagagtgg    780
              aaatgggagc atatcaccat ggattttgtg gtgggtctac ctcgttcccc tcgtggcagg    840
              gatgctattt gggtggtagt ggatcgcttg actaagtctg cgcattttat tcccatgaag    900
              accacaaatt cagcttcaga tttggttccc ttgtatatga aggaagtagt caggcttcac    960
              ggggtaccta agtctattgt ttctgatcga gactccaaat ttgtatccaa attctgggag   1020
              agtctccata gtgcattggg caccaagctt tcgcttagtg tcgcttttca ccctcagacg   1080
              gatggtcagt cagagcgaac aatccaaacc ttggaagata tgttgcgtgc ttgtgttctg   1140
              tcatggaagg gtagctggga ggatcatctt gcactggcag agtttgcgta taacaacagc   1200
              taccaggcta gcatcaagat ggcaccattt gaggctttgt atggcaggcg gtgtatctct   1260
              cctctgtgct gggagacttt gggagagaga tccctggttg gtcctgattg ggttcagcaa   1320
              acttctgaaa aggttcggga aattcgtcag aatattttgg cagctcagag tcgtcagaag   1380
              agttatgctg atgtgaggag gcgggatctg gaatttgctg tgggtgacca agtccttctc   1440
              agggtatcac ccactaaggg agttgttcgg ttcggtgtct ctgggaagct cagcccaaga   1500
              tacattggac cgttcactat cttggcccga gtgggcagcc tggcttatcg cttgctgctg   1560
                                                   1252

<removed-date>
              ccggattcca tggcaggggt acacccggtt tttcatgtct ctatgttgag gaagttcttg   1620
              cgggatccgg accatcagat tgagatggaa ccaattgcgg tgcagcagga tctgactctg   1680
              gagtgtcgtc cggtgcgtat attggaattc tcggagcgtg tgttgaggaa gagatcaatt   1740
              aagtatgtca aggtcttatg gactaatcag tctgagcgcg aggctacgtg ggaacttgag   1800
              gagttgatgc ggcagaagta cccggaactt ttcgttgtgg gtggtggact tccggatcgt   1860
<removed-apn>
              tcttagggat tttgcccaaa cttccggtga aggcacctaa tttctgcttg gggaatagag   1920
              ggatgtagca gcacggtcac ttcaccttta attaaaggaa cccccactta ataatgttgt   1980
              taatcagagt tggtcaagtc cagtgaatta ctttgttctt ggttgagcgt ttgttttggg   2040
              tgggctgagt                                                          2050
              <210>   1087
              <211>   3084
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1087
              atggctgaag ccatcagcgc gaccagctcg tgcctggaac ccctgtgcgg ttgtctggaa     60
              agcacaggcg tgttcgaggc agtgggccgg gaggtggccg cgttccttcg catcaagtcg    120
              aattgtggcg acctcgagaa ggcccgggac agcctgcgcg ccgtcgagac gacagtcagg    180
              gcgcgggtca cggcggagga ggacaagctg aacgtctgtg atcctcaggt gcaggcgtgg    240
              ctcaagcgcg tcgacgagct tcgcctggac accatcgacg aggattacag cagtctgtcg    300
              gggttctctt gcctctgcca gtgcaccgtg cacgctcgtc gccgcgcctc gatcggcaag    360
              cgtgttgtgg acgcgctgga ggaggtgaac aaactgaccg aggaaggaag gcggttcagg    420
              acatttgggt tcaagccacc gccgagggcc gtcagtcagt taccccaaac tgagaccgtt    480
              gggttggagc ccatgttggc tcgggtccat gatttgcttg agaagggcga gtcgagcata    540
              attggtgtgt ggggtcaagg aggcatcggc aagacgactc tcctgcacgc cttcaacaat    600
              gatctcgaaa tgaaagacca ccactaccag gttgttattt ttattgaagt atccaattca    660
              gagacactga acacagtgga gatgcagcag actatctccg ataggcttaa tttgccatgg    720
              aatgaatcag agacagttga gaaacgggcc agattcctat tgaaggcact ggccaggaaa    780
              agatttctat tgctacttga tgacgtaagg aagagattcc gactggagga tgtcggtatc    840
                                                   1253

<removed-date>
              ccaactccgg acacgaagag ccaaagcaag ctgatcctga catcacgttt ccaagaagta    900
              tgcttccaga tgggtgcaca gaggagccgc attgaaatga aggttttgga tgataatgct    960
              gcctggaacc tgttcttgag caagctgagc aacgaggctt ttgcagcagt tgagtcaccg   1020
              aatttcaaca aggttgttcg ggaccaggcc aggaaaatat tctccagttg tggaggtcta   1080
              ccacttgcac tcaatgtcat tgggactgct gtggcagggt tggaaggacc aagagaatgg   1140
<removed-apn>
              atttcagctg ctaatgacat caatatgttc agcaatgaag atgtggatga aatgttttat   1200
              cggctgaaat acagctatga caggctgaaa cccactcaac aacagtgctt tttgtactgc   1260
              actcttttcc cagaatatgg atctattagt aaggaaccat tagttgatta ttggctggct   1320
              gaaggtttgc ttctcaatga tcgtcaaaag ggtgatcaga taattcagag ccttatttca   1380
              gcatgcttgt tgcagaccgg tagctcattg tcatcaaaag taaaaatgca ccatgtaatc   1440
              aggcatatgg ggatttggtt ggttaacaag acagatcaaa agtttctcgt tcaagcaggg   1500
              atggctttgg atagtgctcc accagcagaa gagtggaagg aatcgacaag gatctccatc   1560
              atgtctaatg atatcaaaga gcttcctttc tcaccggaat gtgaaaacct cactacgttg   1620
              ttgatccaaa ataacccaaa tttgaacaag ctgagttcag ggtttttcaa gtttatgccc   1680
              tccttgaaag tgctggatct ttctcacact gcaataacaa cactcccaga atgtgagaca   1740
              ttggttgcat tacagcatct caatttgtca cacacacgta ttaggttatt acctgagcgg   1800
              ctgtggttat tgaaagagtt gaggcatctg gatctcagcg tgactgctga actcgaagat   1860
              accttgaaca actgctcaag gttactcaat ttaagagttc ttaatctctt tcgcagtcac   1920
              tatggtatta gtgacgtcaa cgacctgaat ctggattccc tgaaggcact gatgttcctt   1980
              ggaatcacta tttatacaga gaaggtgtta aagaaactga acaagactag tcctttggca   2040
              aagtcaacat atcgtctgca tcttaagtac tgtagagaaa tgcagtcgat caaaatctcc   2100
              gatctcgacc acttggtgca actcgaggag ctgtatgtcg aatcatgcta taatctaaac   2160
              actcttgttg ctgataccga gctgactgca tcagattcag gcctgcagct cctcaacctc   2220
              tcagttcttc ctgtgctgga gaacgtcatt gttgcaccaa cgccccacca ttttcagcac   2280
              atccgcaaat tgaccatttc gagttgcccc aagttgaaga acatcacatg ggtcctaaaa   2340
              cttgaaatgc tcgagaggct cgtcataacc cattgtgatg ggttgctgaa gattgttgaa   2400
                                                   1254

              gaagacagcg gtgatgaggc agaaacaaca atgctgggtc agggtcatcc ttctgaagaa   2460
<removed-date>
              caggaagata aacggattga tggtggtcaa agtgtgtgca agagcgatga caatgcgcat   2520
              gctgagctcc tgaacctgag atcaatcgtg ctgactgatg tcaagagcct gagaagtatc   2580
              tgcaagccaa gaaattttac cagcctcgag accatccggg tggaggattg cccgaatctg   2640
              agaagcatcc cactgagcag cacgtacaac tgtgggaaac tgaagcaggt gtgcggttca   2700
              gttgaatggt gggagaaact ggagtgggag gacaaggagg gcaaggagag caagttcttc   2760
<removed-apn>
              attccaatct gacaggcccc tccgttcagc tgttctcggc ggttgctgtg tcagttggca   2820
              ggaagcttcg ttcaatgctg ccacgaataa gcggttcgga atctgtatat gcgacgagtt   2880
              gtttctttta caggtagtct gtgtatattg cttgtgttca caaacctgta catgatctga   2940
              ttcattcatg tattgctgta aatgcgatca ataaaattcc atttgtctac ttggataaaa   3000
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta gagtatccct cgaggggccc   3060
              aagcttacgc gtacccgagc tttc                                          3084
              <210>   1088
              <211>   3855
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1088
              atggccgact tggcgctcgc cggcttaagg tgggcagcat cgccgattgt caacgagctt     60
              cttactaaag cttcagctta cctcagtgtg gacatggtgc gtgagatcca acgactagaa    120
              gccactgtcc tgccacagtt cgagctggtg attcaagcgg cccagaagag cccccacagg    180
              ggcatactgg aggcatggct ccggcgtctc aaagaagcct actatgatgc cgaggacttg    240
              ttggacgagc atgagtacaa tgtccttgag ggcaaggcca agagcggaaa aagtctcctg    300
              ctgggagagc atggaagctc ctccactgca actactgtca tgaagccttt tcatgctgct    360
              atgagcaggg cacggaactt gctccctcaa aacagaaggc taattagcaa gatgaacgag    420
              ctcaaagcaa tcctgacaga agcccaacaa cttcgagatc ttcttggttt gccacatggc    480
              aataccgtcg agtggccagc tgcagcacct accagtgttc ccacaaccac atcacttccc    540
              acttccaagg tttttggtcg cgacagggat cgtgatcgta tagtagattt tcttctcggc    600
              aagacaacaa ctgctgaggc aagctcagct aagtactcgg gtttggccat tgttggattg    660
                                                   1255

              ggaggaatgg ggaagtccac cttagcacag tatgtctata atgacaaaag gatagaagaa    720
<removed-date>
              tgctttgata tcaggatgtg ggtgtgcatc tcacgcaaac ttgatgtgca tcgtcacaca    780
              agggagatta tagagtctgc aaaaaaggga gagtgcccac gtgttgataa tctcgatact    840
              ctccagtgca aattacgtga tatactacaa gagtcacaga aattcctgct tgtcttggat    900
              gatgtttggt ttgaaaaatc tcataatgag acagagtggg agttattcct tgctccatta    960
              gtctctaaac agtcagggag caaagttttg gtgacttctc gaagtaaaac acttcctgcc   1020
<removed-apn>
              gctatttgtt gtgaacaaga acatgtcatt catttggaaa acatggatga tactgagttt   1080
              ttggctcttt ttaaacacca tgctttctct ggagcagaaa tcaaagacca actgttacgc   1140
              acgaagctgg aagacactgc agaggagatt gctaaaaggc ttgggcaatg tcctttggca   1200
              gcaaaagttc tgggttcccg attgtgcagg aaaaaggata ttgctgaatg gaaagctgct   1260
              ctaaagcttg gagatttaag tgatcccttc acatctctgt tgtggagtta cgagaagtta   1320
              gaaccacgtc tgcagaggtg cttcttgtat tgcagcttgt ttccaaaagg tcatagatat   1380
              gatcctaatc agttggttca cctctgggtg gcagaaggat ttgttggttc atgcaatttg   1440
              agtaggagaa cattggaaga ggctgggatg gattacttca atgatatggt ctctggatca   1500
              ttcttccaat ggtacggtcg gtactatgtc atgcatgata tccttcatga ttttgcagag   1560
              tcactctcta gggaagactg ctttagatta aaagatgata atgtgacaga aataccatgc   1620
              actgttcggc atctatctgt tcatgttcaa agtatgcaaa agcataagca aattatctgc   1680
              aagctatatc atttacgcac tattatctgc atcgatccgc taatggatgg cccaagtgat   1740
              atttttgatg gcatgctacg gaaccaaaga aaactgcgtg tattgtctct gtcattttac   1800
              aacagcaaaa atttgccaga atctattggt gagctgaagc acctccggta tttgaacctc   1860
              atcaggacgt tagtttctga attgcctaca tcattatgta ctctctacca cttacaatta   1920
              ctttggttaa accacatggt ggagaatttg cctgacaaac tatgcaattt aagaaagcta   1980
              cgacatctag gagcgtactc atgttacgct tatgatttcg ttgatgaaaa gcctatttgc   2040
              caaattctga atataggtaa gttaacgtcg ctacaacaca tttatgtctt ttctgtacag   2100
              aagaagcaag gttatgagct gcgacagttg aaggacttga atgagcttgg tggcagttta   2160
              aaagtgaaaa atcttgagaa tgtcattgga aaggatgaag ccgtagagtc gaagctatat   2220
              ctgaaaagtc gccttaaaga gttggcattt gagtggagtt ccgagaatgg catggatgca   2280
                                                   1256

<removed-date>
              atggatattc tagaaggtct gagaccgcca ccccaactga gtaagctcac aatcaaaggt   2340
              tacagatctg atacatatcc tgggtggtta ctagagcgat cctattttga gaatttggaa   2400
              agttttgagc ttagtaattg cagtttgcta gaaggcctac caccagatac agagctcctt   2460
              cggaattgct ctaggttgcg tataaacttt gttccaaatt tgaaggaact atctaatctt   2520
              ccagcaggcc ttacagattt atcaattgat tggtgcccac tgcttatgtt tatcaccaac   2580
<removed-apn>
              aatgagctag gacagcatga cttgagggaa aatataataa cgaaggcaga cgacctggca   2640
              tctaaacttg cattgatgtg ggaggtggat tcaggaaaag aagttaggag tgtgctgtcg   2700
              aaagactatt catctcttaa gcagttgatg acattgatga tagatgatga tatgtcaaag   2760
              catcttcaaa ttattgaaac tggtctagag gaaggagata aagtatggat gaaagaaaac   2820
              atcatcaagg catggctctt ttgccatgag cagaggataa gattcactta tggaagggcc   2880
              atggagctgc aagtggttct accattagga ctttgtaaac tttccctttc gtcatgcaat   2940
              attatagatg aagctttagc tatttgcctt gaaggcctca cttcactggc aactttagaa   3000
              ttggaatatg atatggcact aattacactt ccatcagaag aggtgtttca acatttgaca   3060
              aagcttgaca tgttggttgt aagtggttgt ttgtgtctca aatcactggg gggcttacgt   3120
              gctgctccat ccctttcctc tttttactgt tgggagtgtc cttctttaga gctagcacgt   3180
              ggagcagaac taatgccgtt gaaccttgct agagaactca acatccttgg ctgcattctt   3240
              gcagctgatt cgttcattaa tggcttgcca catctgaaac atctttccat tgatgtctgc   3300
              agaagctccc catccttatc gattggccac ctgacctccc ttgaatcatt acgtctaaat   3360
              ggcctccctg atctttactt tgttgaaggc ttgtcttccc tgcaccttaa gcacctacgt   3420
              ttagtagatg ttgcaaacct cactgccaag tgcatctcac agtttcgtgt ccaggaatcg   3480
              ctcacggtta gtagctctgt attgctcaac cacatgctaa tggctgaagg gtttacagcc   3540
              ccaccaaatc ttactcttcc agcttgcaag gagccgtcag tttcatttga agagcctgca   3600
              aatctctcat ctgtcaagtg cctgaatttt tcgttttgcg aaatggagtc cctgccaaga   3660
              aatcttaaat ctctctcaag tctagagagt ctttctatag ggtattgccg caacatagca   3720
              tctttaccag atctgccgtc ctccctccag cgcataagta tatcaggttg ccccgtcttg   3780
              aagaagaact gccaagaacc tgatggggaa agctggccaa agatttcgca ccttcgctgg   3840
                                                   1257

              aagcgcatcg actaa                                                    3855
<removed-date>
              <210>   1089
              <211>   1922
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
<removed-apn>
              <222>   (224)..(224)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (227)..(229)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1089
              acaggattgc ttgttaatct ggcgcgcctc acatgtgttc gccggcttgc tcatatgatc     60
              ggcctctctc tcttttgcag gtgttcatca cttgagctca tatcatcgtc agaggcaggc    120
              agcagtaagc agattccgct gttgctgagc attgtcgtcg tgggcgtggc aggccagttc    180
              gcgtggagac ggggagggaa catctggtgt gcgtttgcta accnggnnng ctgctccgga    240
              aatgttcggt cgcggcagtt cctgcgagct gtggccctcc gcctcccgct gcgtcgttga    300
              agcttctgct ggattctggg ggcggccggc gggtggaggc gaccaggcga ggactgctct    360
              gcggcggcaa agggtttcaa aatgctggcg tgcatcgcct gctcggccaa ggacgggggg    420
              gatcaggacg gctcccgcgc cgccacgccc cacggaaggg acgccggcaa gtccctcacc    480
              tcccagctca aggacatggt gctcaagttc tccggctccg gcaggcagta caaggccgcg    540
              gcggcgagcc cgtcgttccg gggcaaccgc ttccaccgca acagccgcct ggccgcgtac    600
              acgggcgtca ttgacgactc gggcttcacg tcggacgggg ccaccgaggg ctacggctac    660
              atgaggacga cgacgcacgc gaccggcgcc accgcgggaa ccaaggtcgg ccgtggcttc    720
              ccgcagcacg tcaggagccc gagcgcgagc tggataccga gcatcgggga ggaggacgat    780
              gaggaggatg aagaggttgt cgtcgttgaa gaggaccgcg tgccgcggga gtggacggcc    840
              caggtggagc ccggcgtcca gatcaccttc gtctccaccg ccggcggcgc tggcaacgac    900
              ataaagcgaa tccgcttcag ccgcgacatg ttcaacaagt gggaggcgca gcggtggtgg    960
              ggagagaact acgaccgcgt ggtggagctc tacaacgtgc agacgttcag ccggcagcag   1020
                                                   1258

<removed-date>
              ggcgtctcga cgccgacgtc ctccatcgac gatgccacgc agagagactc gtcgttctac   1080
              tcccgcgccg gctcgacgag ggacagcccg gtgatcctgc cgccgacagc cgtgggcagg   1140
              gagcagccga tcgcccgcgc cacctcgtgc agggccacgg ccgcggcggc ttccacggcc   1200
              cgagccgcgt gcaacccatc gtccagtgcg gtgccggacc cgtcggacca cgtgtgggcg   1260
              caccacttca acctgctcaa ctccgcgccg gcgccggcac cggccgctcc gcacctcgac   1320
<removed-apn>
              ccgtcgcgcg ctaccacgtc gtccctggac gaggcgtccg tgtccgtgag caacgcgagc   1380
              gacctggagg ccacggagtg ggtggagcag gacgagcccg gcgtgtccat caccatccgc   1440
              gagttcggcg atggcacccg cgagctccgc cgcgtccgct tcagccggga gaggttcggc   1500
              gaggagaggg ccaaggtgtg gtgggaccag aacaggaacc gaatacacgc gcagtacctg   1560
              tgacgtcgga ctcggagcta gctgttgggt gtgcagtaca cgcgttggat ggaagccaag   1620
              ccaccaatcc atggacaata gtagcgtagg gctgagtcag tgatactatt gcgactactg   1680
              tctactagtg ctagttttta cagggtgaac agaggtgaaa gaggtccacg gaatggagcc   1740
              tgtgtaaaac atgtttgcta ctactactga tctgggtttg tgtgttgatg accaatgtat   1800
              tttttttctt gatgaactaa tactgttttg tgttgatcgc ctcaaaaaaa cagtgctcac   1860
              atttgcgcgg ccgctctaga gtatccctcg aggggcccaa gcttacgcgt accccagctt   1920
              tc                                                                  1922
              <210>   1090
              <211>   1319
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1090
              atggtgctca agttctccgg ctccggcagg cagtacaagg ccgcggcggc gagcccgtcg     60
              ttccggggca accgcttcca ccgcaacagc cgcctggccg cgtacacggg cgtcattgac    120
              gactcgggct tcacgtcgga cggggccacc gagggctacg gctacatgag gacgacgacg    180
              cacgcgaccg gcgccaccgc gggaaccaag gtcggccgtg gcttcccgca gcacgtcagg    240
              agcccgagcg cgagctggat accgagcatc ggggaggagg acgatgagga ggatgaagag    300
              gttgtcgtcg ttgaagagga ccgcgtgccg cgggagtgga cggcccaggt ggagcccggc    360
              gtccagatca ccttcgtctc caccgccggc ggcgctggca acgacataaa gcgaatccgc    420
                                                   1259

<removed-date>
              ttcagccgcg acatgttcaa caagtgggag gcgcagcggt ggtggggaga gaactacgac    480
              cgcgtggtgg agctctacaa cgtgcagacg ttcagccggc agcagggcgt ctcgacgccg    540
              acgtcctcca tcgacgatgc cacgcagaga gactcgtcgt tctactcccg cgccggctcg    600
              acgagggaca gcccggtgat cctgccgccg acagccgtgg gcagggagca gccgatcgcc    660
              cgcgccacct cgtgcagggc cacggccgcg gcggcttcca cggcccgagc cgcgtgcaac    720
<removed-apn>
              ccatcgtcca gtgcggtgcc ggacccgtcg gaccacgtgt gggcgcacca cttcaacctg    780
              ctcaactccg cgccggcgcc ggcaccggcc gctccgcacc tcgacccgtc gcgcgctacc    840
              acgtcgtccc tggacgaggc gtccgtgtcc gtgagcaacg cgagcgacct ggaggccacg    900
              gagtgggtgg agcaggacga gcccggcgtg tccatcacca tccgcgagtt cggcgatggc    960
              acccgcgagc tccgccgcgt ccgcttcagc cgggagaggt tcggcgagga gagggccaag   1020
              gtgtggtggg accagaacag gaaccgaata cacgcgcagt acctgtgacg tcggactcgg   1080
              agctagctgt tgggtgtgca gtacacgcgt tggatggaag ccaagccacc aatccatgga   1140
              caatagtagc gtagggctga gtcagtgata ctattgcgac tactgtctac tagtgctagt   1200
              ttttacaggg tgaacagagg tgaaagaggt ccacggaatg gagcctgtgt aaaacatgtt   1260
              tgctactact actgatctgg gtttgtgtgt tgatgaccaa tgtatttttt ttcttgatg    1319
              <210>   1091
              <211>   779
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1091
              ccgccccacc tcgtgcaggg ccacgcccgc ggcggcttcc acggcccgag ccgcgtgcaa     60
              cccatcgtcc agtgcggtgc cggacccgtc ggaccacgtg tgggcgcacc acttcaacct    120
              gctcaactcc gcgccggcgc cggcaccggc cgctccgcac ctcgacccgt cgcgcgttac    180
              cacgtcgtcc ctggacgagg cgtccgtgtc cgtgagcaac gcgagcgacc tggaggccac    240
              ggagtgggtg gagcaggacg accccggcgt gtccttcccc atccgcgagt tcggcgatgg    300
              cccccgcgag ctccgccgcg tccgcttcac ccgggagagg ttcggcgagg agagggccaa    360
              ggtgtggtgg gcccagacca ggaaccgaat ccacgcccag tccctgtgac gtcggactcg    420
              gagctagctg ttgggtgtgc agtccccgcg tgggatggaa gccaaccccc caacccatgg    480
                                                   1260

<removed-date>
              ccaatagtag cgtagggctg agtcagtgat actattgcga ctcctgtcta ctagtgctag    540
              tttttccagg gtgaacagag gtgaaagagg tccccggaat ggagcctgtg taaaacatgt    600
              ttgctactac tactgatcgg ggtttgggtg tggatgacca atgtattttt tttcttgatg    660
              aactaatact gttttgtgtt gatcgcctca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa    720
              aaaaaaaaag ggcggccgct ctagagtatc cctcgagggg cccggagctt acgcgtacc     779
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1092
              <211>   1691
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1092
              gctggttcct ttttatcgac acaggattgc ttgttaatct ggcgcgcctc acatgtgtgc     60
              ggcggcttgc tcatatgatc ggcctctctc tcttttgcag gtgttcatca cttgagctca    120
              tatcatcgtc agaggcaggc agcagtaagc agattccgct gttgctgagc attgtcgtcg    180
              tgggcgtggc aggccagttc gcgtggagac ggggagggaa catctggtgt gcgtttgcta    240
              accggggggc ggccggcggg tggaggcgac caggcgagga ctgctctgcg gcggcaaagg    300
              gtttcaaaat gctggcgtgc atcgccatgc aaaaatacca tgtgccatga tcataaattt    360
              ctgcaccttc gaccatctga cacaaggaag catttccgca aatgtgcttt ctagctcaag    420
              gacatggtgc tcaagttctc cggctccggc aggcagtaca aggccgcggc ggcgagcccg    480
              tcgttccggg gcaaccgctt ccaccgcaac agccgcctgg ccgcgtacac gggcgtcatt    540
              gacgactcgg gcttcacgtc ggacggggcc accgagggct acggctacat gaggacgacg    600
              acgcacgcga ccggcgccac cgcgggaacc aaggtcggcc gtggcttccc gcagcacgtc    660
              aggagcccga gcgcgagctg gataccgagc atcggggagg aggacgatga ggaggatgaa    720
              gaggttgtcg tcgttgaaga ggaccgcgtg ccgcgggagt ggacggccca ggtggagccc    780
              ggcgtccaga tcaccttcgt ctccaccgcc ggcggcgctg gcaacgacat aaagcgaatc    840
              cgcttcaggt gcttattatc tatcgccaac agctagcttt gcgcgcgact gctgcatcaa    900
              gtgcgcgcgt gctcagctaa cgtaacggag catcaaacgt gtctggcgtg cagccgcgac    960
              atgttcaaca agggggaggc gcagcggtgg tggggagaga actacgaccg cgtgggggag   1020
              ctctacaacg tgcagacgtt cagccggcag cagggcgtct cgacgccgac gtcctccatc   1080
                                                   1261

<removed-date>
              gacgatgcca cgcaggtgcg tagccgtctc gaccaccggc gccggtgcag cgtatgccgc   1140
              acgcacgtac gtttctgtgc tgtcgtcgtg gatcaggcca cccaactgaa acggttgttg   1200
              gcatgcagag agactcgtcg ttctactccc gcgccggctc gacgagggac agcccggtga   1260
              tcctgccgcc gacagccgtg ggcagggagc agccgatcgc ccgcgccacc tcgtgcaggg   1320
              ccacggccgc ggcggcttcc acggcccgag ccgcgtgcaa cccatcgtcc agtgcggtgc   1380
<removed-apn>
              cggacccgtc ggaccacgtg tgggcgcacc acttcaacct gctcaactcc gcgccggcgc   1440
              cggcaccggc cgctccgcac ctcgacccgt cgcgcgctac cacgtcgtcc ctggacgagg   1500
              cgtccgtgtc cgtgagcaac gcgagcgacc tggaggccac ggagtgggtg gagcaggacg   1560
              agcccggcgt gtccatcacc atccgcgagt tcggcgatgg cacccgcgag ctccgccgcg   1620
              tccgcttcag gcaagtcaat gtccactaag ctactcaaat ctacctgtgc aagatcgagc   1680
              agataatcat g                                                        1691
              <210>   1093
              <211>   913
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1093
              atggctaggc agaaatataa tgaaactatt tctgaataca ttagaaggtt tagagaaaca     60
              agaaacaaat gttatagctt aactttaggg gaaaaggatc tggccgattt agctttcgca    120
              gggttatcat cctatccgat ggagaaacta gaggagcaag attttactga cataaaccaa    180
              gtcatgcagc gtgctatcac ccatgaaagt cgtgctaggg acaataaaca gcatagccga    240
              tttagagata cgaatggcag ggagaaagag aaacaggggg ttaacatgtt agagcccaat    300
              aatggcagcg atgaagagca cagatgtatg tgtggctgaa tggatagatg cgccaaaggg    360
              taggcctatg acgtgtgctt ttttaaagcc aagtccaggg aaaagggaag agatgaaata    420
              tacatttgat gtgtccaagt gtgataaatt gtttgacatc ttattgcaga ataacatcat    480
              tagattaagg gaggggcatg ttattccacc ccctgagcaa ttggctaaga aagattattg    540
              taaatggcat aattcatttt ttcattctac caacgagtgt aattattttc accgtcagat    600
              acaatcggcc ctgactgatg gacgattgac atttggagaa gctaacaaaa tgaagcttga    660
              taaagatcca ttccctatca atgtaattga tttcgagagc aaaagagtgc tagttcggac    720
                                                   1262

<removed-date>
              agatcaggcc gaaactacta aaggcaagaa tgtggttatc tctgatgatc tcaaactaaa    780
              gatgataata ccaaagagtc cgaaagttgg tgtgtggaaa ttgagagcac ctagagccga    840
              ttgcgtgaaa gcgaagtcta ggagtcttaa gatgtttctt gtaagcttgg tgttctcctc    900
              catgcgccta ggg                                                       913
              <210>   1094
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1104
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1094
              gccaaggtgt taccattaca atgttatgac atgatattag gtgaagattg gcttgaggaa     60
              ttgcttctga taaatcagga caatgatttg cctacagaag gtcctgcctc tcgagtatgt    120
              gagattcaga atattgagca acatccaata cctctcagaa ttcagcagct cattgattct    180
              tttgctcacc tcttcagttc acccacagga cttccaccac atcgcttagc tgatcatcga    240
              attcctctaa tgcctggtgc tcaaccggtg aaagtgagat cttaccgata ctctcctgct    300
              caaaaatctg aaatcgagaa gcaattgaag gaaatgttga ctcaagggat aattcgtccg    360
              agcactagcc cctttgcttc tccggtaatt ttggtcaaaa agaaagatgg gagttggcga    420
              ttttgtgttg attatcgaca cttaaatgcg atcacaatca agaataaaca tcccatgcca    480
              atagtggatg agctgctaga tgagttggtc ggagcttgtt ggtttactaa attggatttt    540
              agcgctggat accatcaggt ctgcatggct attggagagg agtacaagat agcattcaga    600
              actcataatg gcatgtatga attcatggtt atgccttttg gctttacaaa tgctcccgca    660
              acatttcaag gacttatgga tcacattttt gctgatttat tgaggcatgg agtgatggta    720
              ttcatggatg acattttgat ttacagccac acattacatg agcatgagtt gttgttgcaa    780
              caggtgtttc agactctgaa tcaacacaag ttcttgatta aaagaactaa atgcactttt    840
              gctcaaccat ccatagaata cttaggccat gtgatttcag cccaaggagt atctattgaa    900
              ccctccaaag tggctgcagt caagaactgg cctattccca agaatgtgaa gcaactccga    960
              ggttttttag gtctcacagg atattatagg aagttcatca aagactatgg aattgttagt   1020
              cgaccactaa ccttattgct taagaagggt tcaatgttcc ggtggtctga gcaacagcaa   1080
              gtggattttc acatgcttaa atag                                          1104
                                                   1263

<removed-date>
              <210>   1095
              <211>   1872
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1095
              atggaggact tcacgaagaa gttggaggga ttggaaacta tgttgcagaa gaccttcgat     60
              gctgtgagcg gcttggagtc gtggcgaact agtgcaaacc agtcgctcgg cacattgctt    120
<removed-apn>
              cagagaacgg atgaggcggg aacgcgtctg cagcaattgg aatctccacc gatgcgacct    180
              ctcccgccgc caccacctcc gccgccccgc caaccagctt catcgaagta ttgcgatccg    240
              ttcaacatgc atcaatttcg accacaagca ggcggatcga gcacgctgga cctaggtctg    300
              gctccgtcag gattgttgcg cccccctgtg ataggcatgg agaacgctca cgggcaccat    360
              ctgcagcaaa ctccccgaga tgttggtggt gggattttag gatcccatcc accacccccg    420
              gtcacgggta tgaatttgtc ccatgatctc ctagattttg atgcatctat gggttctcga    480
              gatcattcga ctttaattct gaaaatggag tttcctaaat tttatggaaa taatccgcga    540
              ctatggcgtg atcagtgtga aatgtttttc gaggtttatt cgatggcgga gaacctgaag    600
              acccggttcg cggcgctcaa ctttattggt cctgcagcga cttggcgcca gacgttggag    660
              cgtcgtgggc gtatcctgaa ttgggaagtg ttgtgcaggg aagtgtttca acgttttgac    720
              aaggatcaat attcagtgca cttaagacag ttggactctc ttcggcaaca gggttcggtg    780
              tcggattatg tgcacacatt tgagcagttg gcacatggga ttttgtttta caatagcaac    840
              tacgatgata catattttgt cacacggttc ttgggagtgc tcaaagagga aattcgtgcg    900
              ctgattgcgt tgcatcgtcc gagagatgta gcaacaacaa gtgtgttagc actgctacaa    960
              gaagaggaac ttaatctggt gaagactcga gcaatgacta aggagtacaa tagaggccat   1020
              tatcgcacag gcaaggagaa tgacaaacca aaggatggca gtatggaggt gaacaaaatt   1080
              aaagttgacc gaacagagag aagtgacaag ttagaagcat tgcgaaatta tagaaggaaa   1140
              aatggattgt gtttcaagtg tggcgaaaaa tggggtcaac agcataagtg ccctacccag   1200
              atcttgttac atgccaaggt gttaccatta caatgttatg acatgatatt aggtgaagat   1260
              tggcttgagg aattgcttct gataaatcac gacaatgatt tgcctacaga aggtcatgcc   1320
              tctcgagtct gcatggctat tggagaggag tacaagatag cattcagaac tcataatggc   1380
                                                   1264

<removed-date>
              atgtatgaat tcatggttat gccttttggc tttacaaatg ctcccgcaac atttcaagga   1440
              cttatggatc acatttttgc tgatttattg aggcatggag tgatggtatt catggatgac   1500
              attttgattt acagccacac attacatgag catgagttgt tgttgcaaca ggtgtttcag   1560
              actctgaatc aacacaagtt cttgattaaa agaactaaat gcacttttgc tcaaccatcc   1620
              atagaatact taggccatgt gatttcagcc caaggagtat ctattgaacc ctccaaagtg   1680
<removed-apn>
              gctgcagtca agaactggcc tattcccaag aatgtgaagc aactccgagg ttttttaggt   1740
              ctcacaggat attataggaa gttcatcaaa gactatggaa ttgttagtcg accactaacc   1800
              ttattgctta agaagggttc aatgttccgg tggtctgagc aacagcaagt ggattttcac   1860
              atgcttaaat ag                                                       1872
              <210>   1096
              <211>   2836
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1096
              ctcctcccct ccgtcctctc tctctctctc tctctctctc tctctccctg ccgcgtagcc     60
              caagttttgt acaaaaaagc aggctggttc cggtccggaa ttcccggaca ctcacacaca    120
              cacacacaca caagcccatt gcattcgcca aacattcgcc cacgcgccat tgtagcgcac    180
              gagctcccga agccctcatc gccgtgccgt tcgtctcgcc ggatcgatcg ctccgcccct    240
              gctcctggct ttggtgccgt atgcccgtcc gtctccatag ggcttgcatt ctctctgctt    300
              tgatttgacg gtacccagct gaagcacaca aattgcctcc gtttgccggt cctgtgcgtg    360
              cgcgatcgag ttttgttgat ggtcatctag caggatcgca ggagttgacg agccgcacgc    420
              cctagctcgt acgtgaaaaa aacgtggcca cgtttcaggt gctgaaacca agatggttaa    480
              tttcggtaag aaattgatgg cagaccagtt ggaggagtgg cgagagtact atattaatta    540
              taagatgatg aagaaaaagg taaaacagta tgtacagcag acccaaactg gtggaaaaaa    600
              tcgtgaccag gttcttaagg agttctcaag gatgcttgat gatcagattg aaaagattgt    660
              gctatttctt ctgccacaac aaggtcatct tgctaggagg atcgagaatt taggagaaca    720
              gcgtgtcgtg cttatggaac ggtctgatgt atcccaaatt tgtcaaatac gccaggctta    780
              cagggaagtt ggatatgatc ttgtgaagct acttaggttt cttgattcga acgctactgg    840
                                                   1265

<removed-date>
              tatccggaag atacttaaga agttcgataa gcgctttggc tataagttta cagattatta    900
              cgtctctact cgagcaaacc atccttattc tcagctccag cagatcttca agcaagtggg    960
              agtcgtggct gttgttggtg ctttgtctcg ggggcgtgct tatctacaag atcatcaagg   1020
              aagcctagca aatatctatg attacccatc actcatcttg aaggatcccg tcatagaaca   1080
              aataaatcac tcagtacaga aactcacaca ctccacaagc tttctgcaat ttctagggca   1140
<removed-apn>
              gcatgcactt atcgttccgg gggatatgca gagcggctca gatctcggtg atgacaagga   1200
              ttaccatttc ctgtcactgc tgctgaacct agtaaacacg tttctgtaca tggttaacac   1260
              atacatcatc gttccaactg ccgatgacta ttcagtaagc ctcggagctg cagcgactgt   1320
              ttgcggtgtg attatcggat caatggcagt tgcacaaatc ttctcctcgg tatatttcag   1380
              tgcctggtcg aacagatcgt acttcagacc cctcgtattt agctgcatca tgttgtttct   1440
              ggggaaccta ttgtatgctt tggcatacga tctgaattcc ctaactgttc ttattgctgg   1500
              ccggctactg tgcggtttgg gttcggccag agccgtgaac cgccgctaca tcagcgactg   1560
              tgtacccctg aaaaccaggc tgcaggcgtc ggctgggttt gtcagcgcta gcgctcttgg   1620
              aatggcatgt ggtcccgctc ttgccggtct gctgcagaca aagtttaaga tttatgggct   1680
              tacattcaat cagaacacct tgcctgggtg ggtcatgtgc cttgcttgga ttgcatattt   1740
              gttctggctg tggatttcat tcaaagagcc gggccacatt gccacagaga attcagtcag   1800
              cacgcaatca tctgattctg gccgtcgagt aagcggtaac ttggagggtg gcctcggaga   1860
              gcctttgctc atagacgcaa aggcagggca ggatgaggac gacgaggaca atgacgaccc   1920
              cgaagaatct catacacctg ccacatcgct tgctgcagca tacagattgc tgacaccatc   1980
              tgtgaaggtt cagctactga tctacttcat gctcaagttc gccatggaaa tcctactctc   2040
              ggagtcgagt gttgtgacca cgttctattt caagtggaca actagtaccg tggcaatctt   2100
              tctggcagtt cttggcctga cggttctccc agttaatgtc atcgttggga gctacgtcac   2160
              caacctgttc caggacaggc aaatcctggt ggcctccgag atcatggtgt tgatcggcat   2220
              cgtcatgagc ttctgcttca cccctcacta ctccgtcccc cagtatgtca cgtcagctct   2280
              catcacgttc gtgttcgccg aggtgctcga aggggtgaac ttgtccctcc tctcccgcgt   2340
              gatgtcgtcg aggctctccc gcgggaccta caacggcggg ctgctctcga cggaggccgg   2400
                                                   1266

              cacgctggcc cgcgttgccg ctgacatgac catcacggcc gctggctatc tggggcaggg   2460
<removed-date>
              ccgcctcctg aacgccaccc tcctgccgtc cttggtgatc tgtctagcat ctatcgtcgc   2520
              gacgttctgc acttacaact cactctactg attaccggtc gatgaactcc tctccctctt   2580
              atacaagttg ccgaattgcg tcttgcagtg acgctgaaaa ttttcgggct gctgctgcta   2640
              atgtaaactg ctgcggcctg cgggtggacg agcggtccat gtgtatcgac gcctgtagtg   2700
              ttgcgaactt gctacggctg taacatgaca cgtgcgcgtt aaataaaatg ccctactgaa   2760
<removed-apn>
              gtaccctgtc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg cggccgctct agagtatccc tcgaggggcc   2820
              caagcttacg cgtacc                                                   2836
              <210>   1097
              <211>   2132
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (47)..(47)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2009)..(2009)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1097
              acctctgccc ctcccgccat ctccctctct ccccaccacc cccccanatc cccaccccca     60
              ccacccccct aggccacccc cccgcgcccc acccccccca agctgcccgc cccccccttc    120
              cgcgacttat acgcccccac ccggccccgc attgcctcct cgagcagatt acgggcccga    180
              gccatcgtca tcgagacatc gaccgactcc gactccgact ccatccacgg tctccttccg    240
              agatccctct tctcctcccg cccccgcctg accgcctccc tcctcactcc ggccccttcc    300
              gcatgtcaat ccatgggctg atactcgaag tcagagtcac cgggtgccgg aagctgcggg    360
              acacggagtt cttcacccgc caggacccct acgtcgtcgt cgagtacgcc accaccaagc    420
              tccgcactcg cacctgcacc gatggaggaa gaaacccaac tttcgatgag aagttccata    480
              tacccctcat tgaagggctc cgcgagttga atgttattgt gtggaatagt aatacgttaa    540
              ctcatgatga cttcattgga agcggaagag tatatctgca caaggtgctg acaaatggct    600
                                                   1267

<removed-date>
              atgatgactc ctcatggccg cttcaaacac gccacatgag atctgctggg gaagtgaagc    660
              tcattatgca tgttgatgtc tcagcaatga agaacaagat gggtagaagt gtcgccgcat    720
              caagtgcaca tcctgttcct gcactttcaa tgccagcccc atctccaacc ccagccccag    780
              ccccatctcc agcttcggcc gcaacccctg ctccagcacc agcactagca tcagcgattc    840
              catacacggg agtctcacct tcatatccac cggtttcagc atatcctggt gcaaccgcat    900
<removed-apn>
              accctgctta cccaacttct agccatgcac catataccac tgctgaatat ccaccacctc    960
              cgcagcaacc ataccaaccc ccacctgctg gataccctcc atcctatcca ccacaaccat   1020
              atgagcaatc ttacccaccg caaccatatg agggatctta cccaccacaa ccatatgagc   1080
              gatcttaccc accgcaacca tatgggcaac aaccataccc acccccgcca gcagcagagt   1140
              cgccgtaccc accagcgcct taccctggta cttatccacc aagaccctat tgatatagca   1200
              gcgtcagtaa tgatctcagg tagaggcatc aaaagcaaca aacaacagcc ttgatgctat   1260
              gtgatacgcg cctcagcgtg gattctttat ttctaattat ttggttatgt tcctaacaaa   1320
              aaatagtacc aaccgtcact gagttgttgc acatctatca caaatcagtt taaggtcaga   1380
              ttccaatcga ttggtgacaa attggagctg atggggtttc gttaagtgca acggatggaa   1440
              atgtattcct tgatcagatc gtgtcaacag ctcagtgacc agtcatatgt acaataggta   1500
              gcttgcagat tgtgtcagtg aaatccatcc tatattgctt tgcagtgggt ggtttagaga   1560
              ccagaactag cttccttctt ctcctatctt ggaatcacat ctggactgat ctgtgaccac   1620
              acaattgtac atgtagtagg gtaacctgtg aagtctgctg cttttccaaa acaacaataa   1680
              atctgaatgt atttgtaaca gtcaataaat ttgctttctt ggtgacaaaa aaatccaaca   1740
              atcatcagcc ctattacata aattaccttt ggggcatata tggagacaaa acatatgggc   1800
              acacaaccta caacaacttg tgctataaaa ccttgttgtc tactctcaga aacagaagtt   1860
              tttttcattt aaccaactat ctgcattgaa ctctgttttt tatttgcaac aacaccacct   1920
              accatttagc cagatacctg ttgtctaccc ccagaaattt ttttcattta accaactgtc   1980
              acaattgaac tctcttgttt atttacagna gcaccaccta ttataattta gccacatatc   2040
              tgtggtgagc cctgttacct ttttgataca ctcacagatg tggcggtttt ataagaacgc   2100
              tgtgcctata gctgtgaccc tcttacacct gt                                 2132
                                                    1268

<removed-date>
              <210>   1098
              <211>   2652
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1098
              atgcctccat ggggcgacca agcagctgct cctaggggta gcacaacaag gggatcagcc     60
              caacagccca atgcccccat gcatggtgga accctagagc ttcacccctt tttagcacca    120
<removed-apn>
              gcattccgcc gcacgacctc actcaccaca ggtcgcattg tagctgctgc tgttttccca    180
              gtaatttcag ctctaattcc aggtgtcaac attcaaggta tcaaggaacg caaacctcca    240
              gattttgtta cctcaaggag aagatacatg aatagaagca tttgccacca cctccttgcc    300
              cactgcaaaa agctaagaga gctccagaga atccacgctc tggctgttac ccatggtctc    360
              caccccaacc atcagtctgt ttcctgcaaa atcttccgct gctacgctga ttttggccat    420
              gtagctgatg ctcgcaagct gttcgatgag atcccacacc ctgaccttat cttctttact    480
              agcctcatgt ccctccatct caagttagat caccaacgcg aagctatatc cttgtttgct    540
              cgtgttgttg ccgctggcca ccaccttgat ggctttgcgg ttgttggtgc cctgtctgcc    600
              tctagtggtg ctggtgatct agtggttggt agggcagtcc atggccttat ttttcggctt    660
              ggattggatc acgaggtcgt cgttggcaat gcattaatag atatgtatag ccagtgtggg    720
              gagtttgagt ctgcggtaaa ggtgtttgat aggatgtttc tgaaagatga ggtcacatgg    780
              ggtagcatgc tgcatggtca tatcaaatgt gctggtctgg attctgcact gtcgttcttt    840
              gatctggttc ctgtgaggag tgcagttgct tggacaacac tgataactgg tcatgtgcaa    900
              ggcaggcagc ctgtacgggc tctagagctt tttggtagga tggtactgga gggccatcgc    960
              cctacccatg ttacaatcgt aggtgtactc tcagcttgtg ctgacattgg tgctctggat   1020
              ctagggagtg tcattcatgg gtatggaagc aaatgcaatg ccagctcgaa tataattgtt   1080
              agcaatgctc tgatggatat gtatgcaaag agtgggcgca ttgagatgtc attttctgtg   1140
              ttccaagaaa tccagtcaaa ggattttttt acatggacga ctatgatctc atgctgtaca   1200
              gtccagggag atgggaggaa agctcttgag ctctttcagg acatgcttag agctggaata   1260
              gttccaaaca gtgtaacctt tgtttctgtt ttgtcagcat gcagccatgc tggcttgata   1320
              gaagaaggta gagaattgtt caacagaatg cgtcaagtat acaaaattga tccccgactt   1380
                                                   1269

              gagcactatg gttgcatgat tgatctgtta ggacggggag gattactaga ggaagcagaa   1440
<removed-date>
              gatctaatag ctgatatgaa tctggtgcct gatattgtta tatggaggtc acttcttagt   1500
              gcatgtctgg ttcatggcaa taataggctg gctgagattg ctggaaagga aattataaag   1560
              atagagcctg gagatgatgg agtttatgtg ctactttgga acatgtatgc atcatcaaat   1620
              aaatggagag aagctcaaga gttgaggcag caaatgttga ctcttgaaat cttcaaaaaa   1680
              ccagggtgta gttggataga acttgatggt gttgtccatg aattcttggt agaggacaag   1740
<removed-apn>
              acacatgatg atcgaaggga aatttatgaa accttggaat acatgacaag gcagctcaag   1800
              acacatatca gattatcctc atgggagcaa catgttgtca ggtcaaagaa atgcctaatt   1860
              caagctcaca tggttgcaca tcataaggat gaacttgata aatcagaaat atacaactca   1920
              gatggggaaa agattgttca tgagcaggaa cataggtgcc aagagtgtgg ccgttgtttc   1980
              cagaaaccag ctcatctgaa gcagcacatg caaagtcact cacatgagga ggacggctgt   2040
              aacaaggttt tcaggtattc atcaaagctg aagaaacatg aggaatctca tgttaaattg   2100
              gactatgtgg aggtagtgtg ctgtgagcca ggttgcatga agatgttcag aaatgttgaa   2160
              tatctgaggg ctcataacca atcttgccat cagtatgttc agtgtgagat atgtggagaa   2220
              aagcacctga agaagaacat caagcggcat ctgcaatcac atgacaaggt gccctctgat   2280
              ggaaggatga aatgcacttt tgatggttgt gaacacttct tttccaacaa atcaaatctg   2340
              accaagcatg tcaaggcatg ccatgaccag ctgaaacctt tcaagtgcgg aatcgttggg   2400
              tgtggcaagg cgttcaccta caagcatgtc agggataacc atgagacatc tggtgctcat   2460
              ggagactttg aagagttgga tgagcagttg cgtgcccggc caagaggtgg tcggaagagg   2520
              aaagcattga cggtggaaac actgacacgc aagagggtga ccatctccgg cgaggcttca   2580
              tccttggatg atggagtgga gtatcttcgc tggttgctat ctggtgggga tgattcaatt   2640
              gattgtcagt ag                                                       2652
              <210>   1099
              <211>   1046
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
                                                   1270

              <222>   (732)..(732)
<removed-date>
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (799)..(800)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1099
              gacagagaac atgtcttatt ctattctatt cttacatggt atccactcaa gttcacaact     60
<removed-apn>
              acgacaaatg gagccaactc ttcaccattg ttcttggtcg ctttgatctt ctccaccata    120
              tcactacctt ttatgctttc ccggataatc tatgcttttc accagttgac acaaactcta    180
              agtcctcttc ttctgctgta tctctccttt cacaacccac tgtttacaga agcttagtcg    240
              gtgctttaca atatctcact tcaactcgac cagatatttc ctatgatgtt caacaagtct    300
              gcctttttat gcatgctcct cgtgacactc acatggcttt gctgaagcgg atcttacgct    360
              atgtgcgcgt cacactggac tacggtcttc attcccaatc ttgatgctga catgggctgg    420
              atgtccagat cctcgacgtt ccacatccgg ttattgtgta tttctgggtg acaatcttat    480
              tgcttggtcc tccaagcggc aacatacagt ttctagatcc aatgcaggcg tggcaaatgc    540
              tgtggcggaa atgtgccggt tgcgtcagtt gatgactgag ctttctcatc ccccctgtcg    600
              tgcatctgtg gtattctgtg aaaatgtcag tgtgatgtat ctagccccca accctgtgca    660
              acatcaacat acgaagcatg tggaaattga cttccctttt gtgcgtgaga aagttagggg   720
              aggtgccggt gncccatttt ccctcctccc ttccgttggc gggttttttt tcccaagggc    780
              tgccttcctc tttgttccnn ggttttcggt gccccctccc ggtcccgccc tttttgggtt    840
              ccgtcggttg agggggggtg tttgcctttg tctcgctttt ttttctgttg gctggctctt    900
              tttcttcctt gtgtgccggg tcctccggct ctttaaaaaa aaaagcgtgt gtgctccgag    960
              tcttctagct ctatctgagt cttctggctc tatctcatgt aatcaggttt atatatattt   1020
              tgtataccga atgccaatcc cccgat                                        1046
              <210>   1100
              <211>   1412
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1100
              aaagcaccgc acatacctcc tgcacccccg acatccatcg atcgatcgat cgagctgtag     60
                                                   1271

<removed-date>
              caacaaggag gagatgggga ggtccccgtg ctgctgccac gacgccggcg tcaagaaagg    120
              cccgtggacg gaggaggagg accgcgccct ggtggaccac atccagaggc acggcggcca    180
              cgtcagcagc tggcgcaacc tgcccaaggc cgccgggctc aaccgctgcg gcaagagctg    240
              ccgcctccgc tggaccaact acctccgccc cgacatcaag cgcggcaact tcaccgacga    300
              cgaggagcgc ctcatcatcg gcctccatgc ccagctcggt aacaggtggt cgacgatcgc    360
<removed-apn>
              gacgcacctg gacgggcgga cggacaacga gatcaagaac tactggaaca cgcacatccg    420
              caagaagctg ctgcgcatgg gcgtcgaccc cgtcacgcac cagcgcctgc cccccgacga    480
              cctgctgctc gccgtctccg cctcccccac gacgacgatc ctctcggcgg cggcgagcca    540
              gctgcggggc ctgaacaccg ctctcatgca ggtgcaagcg ctgcagtttc tgctgcaggc    600
              cgtcagtgga gttggaaacg acgttaacgc cgccgccgct gctgctaatg gtggtggtgg    660
              tctcgtccct agcctcagcg cagccgcaga taataacgcc gttctgaacg cgagccgtag    720
              cgtcgttcca ggcttccagg acctgcagct gacgacgatg accaggcctc ttctcgtgtc    780
              tcacgcgaat cacgggtcag ctgatcatca tcccagctac atcgcaactg atgatgtggt    840
              gcagcgacga ctgaacgctt cggctcctcc ggtggtcggc ggcggcgcct gtgcagagcc    900
              gctggctgtt gcattggcgt ccacggctta tcgacaccaa gtggcagctg ccgctgacga    960
              gccggtgaat ggttttgccg agctaatact gtcggagccc atcgagatgc cgagcatgtg   1020
              ctctctggag gacgaagatc atttctggaa ggacatgctc gtagagagca gcagcttcag   1080
              cctgccacta tgaaatttcc aagcgtggga acgggaggac gactggcggt gaatgcatgt   1140
              gttgtacaaa atcgtgtgat tatctcaatg tttctttaac tagcttcgca ttgtcacttg   1200
              gtatatctat ctgtgatctg tgtgcagtgt gtatttcacc cacctcatat accagtgaca   1260
              tttccaagcg tgcagtgtgt attttaccta tacccatacg aatatagtta atagaatact   1320
              aacaatgtgt atcttgtttt tttgaaaaaa aaaaagggcg gccgctctag agtatccctc   1380
              gaggggccca agcttacgcg tacccagctt tc                                 1412
              <210>   1101
              <211>   1610
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                    1272

              <400> 1101
<removed-date>
              cagagccccg agcaatccct tctcgccctt ttcacttttc agatccagcc agccagccag     60
              ccatcccact ccgcaccgca ttcctcgcag tggcagagct tgcagcggtg gtctcttccc    120
              cttcctcctg tctcctcctc gctcgatctc ctctcccaag cagcgagaag cggatgggga    180
              gggcgccgtg ctgcgagaag gtggggctga agaaggggag gtggaccaag gaggaggacg    240
              aggtcctggc gaggtacatc aaggagcacg gggaaggatc gtggaggtca ctgcccaaga    300
<removed-apn>
              atgccggggg gctgaggctg gttttgctgg cagggctgct gcggtgcggg aagagctgca    360
              ggctgcggtg gatcaactac ctgcgggcgg gtctcaagag ggggaacatc tcggaggagg    420
              aggaggacat gatcatcaag ctccacgcca cgcttggcaa caggtggtcc ctgatcgccg    480
              gtcacttgcc cggtcgaaca gacaacgaga tcaaaaacta ctggaactcg cacctgagca    540
              ggcgggcggc cgacttccgc gacggcgtcg tcgtcgacat cgacctcagc aagctgcccg    600
              gcggcgggaa acggcgcggc ggccgggcca gccggggcgc cgtcgtggcc gcggccaagg    660
              agaagaaggc caaggagaag gacgacaggg gcaatagcaa ggtcgcagaa gcggagcagc    720
              agctcaggga cacggaggac gacgacggcg gcagcgtctc cacgccgagg cctcagtctg    780
              atgactgcgg caccgcccag agcgaagagg agcaagcgca ggccagcgcc agcggcctga    840
              catccgatgg gcatgggccc gaggaggagg aggaggagga cccgctggct ctgagcgagg    900
              agatggtgag tgcgcttctg gccccggaaa gcccaaagct ggaggtgggc cccgatggct    960
              cgtgcatgga cagctacagt ggccctccgt caggggaaag cggctgtggg tccagtgggc   1020
              cttctggcga cgtggcccag gacctggacc tagacgacga caaggccatc atggactggg   1080
              acttgatggg gctggacatc tcgaccgccg gtgacatgtg ggaccagctg gtgtgggact   1140
              acgacgaaac gttggtcacg gaaccggaag gaggggagga agggcaccag cagcaggacg   1200
              atgtcatgtc agacctcttc ttcctggaca atctctagga ggtgcgagga tagcatgggc   1260
              atggctgccg tgatgcttta tgctttttaa tttgatccgg tacttgtagg tttttgggtg   1320
              tgttcagttc agagatgagt ggcggtgtca gagacgagat aaggggagtg ctccagtgac   1380
              atctttgttt gctggccgga tctcacgaac ccgtagaatg gcaagaatgt agaaaaataa   1440
              gcacgcaata tcacttggaa acctttcatc agtagagcct gtctaacatc tacagacgga   1500
              gaaatgcaaa aaaaaaaaaa ggttgctggg attgccatag tctgctaatc cttaggtctt   1560
                                                   1273

              ttcttttgac aaacacgatt gctttattaa ttgattcaag tcatgattac              1610
<removed-date>
              <210>   1102
              <211>   1773
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1102
              acaagtttgt acaaaaaagc aggctggtac cggtccggaa ttcccgggat gcggcctcgc     60
<removed-apn>
              gccacggcgc ccactttgcc gggcgcgccc acgtgcccgc gccagcagcc acacgtacgg    120
              ccgcgcgccg ccgtggccgt ggccgtgccg gcccgctagc tactcgctct cgctccgctc    180
              cccccactta ccgtccgccc aggtaacgga gcatccggtc ggttacgtgt acgcgctagc    240
              gtactctact ccgtgtaccc gcgagcccgg ccgctgctac tatattatgg ccggccgtgt    300
              cctaatcgaa aaattagcca gcgagctgag gcctgaggag cgagcacagc cgagtcaccc    360
              ggccggccgc ccgcacgcac ggacaccaac aactcccttg gacgcacccg atcgaccctg    420
              ctgcctgcta gccgtgcgca gtagtgggag cgagcacgag tgagagtggg cagcgagaac    480
              atacgccgcc cccggccggt gtgactggtg gtggcgtcgc gcgcgcgatg gggagggcgc    540
              cgtgctgcga gaaggtgggg ctcaagcgcg ggaggtggac gaaggaggag gaccagatac    600
              tcgccaacta catcgcagag cacggcgagg gatcctggag gtcgctgccc aagaatgcag    660
              ggctgctccg ctgcggcaag agctgccgcc tgcggtggat caactacctt cgggccgacg    720
              tcaagagggg gaacatctcc aaggaggaag aggacgtcat catcaagctc cacgccaccc    780
              ttggaaacag gtggtccctg atcgccagcc acctccccgg ccgaacagac aacgagatca    840
              agaactactg gaactcgcac ctcagccgcc agatccacac gtaccgccgg aaatacaccg    900
              ccggcccgga cacggcgccc atcgccatcg ccatcgccat cgacatgagc aagctgcaca    960
              gcgccgagag gcggcgcggt ggcaggaccc cgggccggtc gccgaagagc gccaccagca   1020
              gcagcagcat gaccaagagc aagcagccgg acgaccctga gccagaaccg gaggccggcg   1080
              gcgcgtccag cccgcggcac agcgacgggg cgcgaagcgc cgtggtggac ccggacccgg   1140
              acccgaacca gcccaacagc agcagcggca gcggcagcac gggcgagggg gaggacgcga   1200
              cggggccgtg ggtgctggat ccgatcgagc tcggggacct ctgggaggcc gagagcgaga   1260
              tggacgccct catgtctatc gggggggctg cccacgactc ggccaccgcg gaaggattcg   1320
                                                   1274

              acgcggccca ggcccaggtg gacgacctgt tcgacgacat ggactgggat aacttcgcgg   1380
<removed-date>
              cccatctgtg gggggagccg gagcagcaga acgaccacag cgcgcagccg cagccccagc   1440
              aggccgccga gccgcaggct gctgctgctg ctgatgtggc ggcggcgggg gcggaggcct   1500
              gcgacccgga cgaacacgaa ctggaggcgt tggaaacttg gctcctgtcc gactcgttct   1560
              gacagttccc gtcatcagat accgatcagg tcgacgcagc tagctagggc ctaggtgttg   1620
              ctccgtgcgt gcagtttcgt gtaaatttcg tttctagttc gtaaataggt gctggttcgt   1680
<removed-apn>
              gcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagggc ggccgctcta   1740
              gagtatccct cgaggggccc aagcttacgc gta                                1773
              <210>   1103
              <211>   471
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1103
              acagtctcct cggtaacaag tggtctttga tagctggaag attgccgggg agaacagaca     60
              atgaaataaa gaactattgg aacacgcaca taagaaggaa gcttttgaac agaggaatcg    120
              accctgcaac tcataggcca ctcaacgaag ctgcaactgc tgcaactgtt acaactaata    180
              tatcttttgg caaacaacaa caacaagaga caagttcgag taacggaagc gttgttaaag    240
              gttccatctt ggaacgctgc cctgacttga accttgagtt aaccattagt cctcctcgcc    300
              aacaacaaca gactcagaag aatctttgtt tcgtttgcag tttgggtttg cacaacagca    360
              aggattgcag ctgcaacgtt tccaacgctg tcactgtcaa caacaccact ccttcttctg    420
              ctgctgctgc tgctgcttat gatttcttgg gcatgaaaac cagcggtgtt t             471
              <210>   1104
              <211>   1815
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1104
              agccagcaca gcacacacac tggaaagtgc aagctgtagt gagacctgcg cgactgccag     60
              cgtgtatccg cgcggcaagg agcgtagcgc gcggtcgtcg gcccgcacgg ccaccaactc    120
              ccttggacgc acgcgcgcgc gcgaccagct gctaaccgtg cgcaagtagt agtgcgactt    180
              cgccgccggc cgggatcgct agctcgatcg atcggcggga ccacatacga ctccggtgtg    240
                                                     1275

<removed-date>
              gccagcggcg gccgggccgg ggaacgcacg tgctgcgagc gagcgagggc agacgctagc    300
              tgttgccggg agctagccgg cgcgcgatgg ggaggacgcc gtgctgcgag aaggtggggc    360
              tcaagcgagg gaggtggacg gcggaagagg accagttact tgccaactac attgcggagc    420
              acggcgaggg gtcctggagg tcgctgccca agaatgcagg cctgctccgg tgcggcaaga    480
              gctgccggct ccggtggatc aactaccttc gggcggacgt caagaggggg aacatctcca    540
<removed-apn>
              aggaggaaga agacatcatc atcaagctcc acgccaccct cggcaacagg tggtccctga    600
              tcgccagcca cctccccggc cgaacagaca acgagatcaa gaactactgg aactcgcacc    660
              tcagccggca gatccacacg taccgccgga aatacaccgc cgggcctgac gacaccgcca    720
              tcgccatcga catgagcaag ctgcagagcg ccgacaggcg gcgcggcggc aggaccccgg    780
              gccggccgcc gaaggctagc gccagcagga ccaagcaggc ggacgccgat cagcccggcg    840
              gcgaggcgaa aggcccggcc gcggcggcgt cgagcccgcg gcacagcgac gtggtgaacc    900
              cgggcccgaa ccagcccaac agcagcagcg gcagcacggg cacggccgag gaggaggggc    960
              ccagcagcga ggacgcgagc gggccgtggg tgctggagcc gatagagctc ggggacctag   1020
              tctgggggga ggccgacagc gagatggacg ccctgatgcc tatcgggccc ggcggccacg   1080
              actcggctgc cctcgaaggg cttggcgcgg tcggctgcga ggcccaggtg gacgacctgt   1140
              tcgacatgga ctgggatggc ttcgcggccc atctgtgggg cgggccggag caggacgagc   1200
              acagcgcgca gctgcggcag gccgccgagc cgctggaagt tgctgctgct gctgctgctg   1260
              cgacggcggc ccgcaccccg gacgatcgcg agctggaggc gttcgagact tggctcctgt   1320
              ccgactcgtt ctgacggctc cggtcaccgg accgatcaga cagaccaaat aattgggtca   1380
              cgtgtgctcg ctcgctcgct cgctgccgtc gcgtgggtct tggttcagat ggccaaataa   1440
              ttgggaaaaa aattctacgc ggcagggccg taaagccacc accgtgcgct cctgatgtcg   1500
              atgcctgccg cgtggagctc ttgcgtatct aacgctccca cgacaatcac ccttccagac   1560
              ggctcgaatt acatacgaca ggatcggctc cgctctactc cgttctgttc gcttctgctt   1620
              taggtgcgtg cctagcagat ggtgaggcgg cgtcgcgcgg ccctcccgac ggctcgccgg   1680
              ccgcgctacg gggcctgctg cagcagcccc tcctccacgc ctgtaaaaga gctttgtatt   1740
              tacctgtttg tttgtgcttt tgtgcaatgg aataaacaat gatattatac tgaataaaca   1800
                                                   1276

              tgaatgttct gagac                                                    1815
<removed-date>
              <210>   1105
              <211>   1567
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1105
              aaacaaaacc ctcctcgtca tccgcggccg cttttcccct gacccctgtc tcgaccaatc     60
<removed-apn>
              ctccctccca cacacatcac acccacaaga caaaaaaaaa aagcgccttt gagcgccgcg    120
              cgatctctgg tgcttggtgt cgtcgcgaca ccagcgttag tttctgtttc agcgcgcacg    180
              cgcgtttgtg ctgtgggggt tgggaagagc cgaagagcga ggcggcagcg cgatcgagcg    240
              gttcggcggg cggcggccga tccgatggga agggcaccct gctgcgacaa gaacaagggc    300
              ctcaagaaag ggccctggac gccggaggag gacaagctcc tcgtcgacta catccagacc    360
              aacggccatg gcagctggcg cctgctcccc aagctcgcag ggctgaaccg gtgcggcgac    420
              gagctgccga ctgcggtgga ccaactacct ccggccggac atcaagcgcg ggcccttcac    480
              agccgaggag gagaagtcca tcgtccagct ccacgccatc gtcggcaaca agtggtccat    540
              gatcgcggca cagctcccag gccggacgga caacgagatc aagaactact ggaacacgca    600
              cctcaagaag cagctgcgtc ggatgggcct cgacgagccc ccgcccggcc cggccgccgg    660
              ctgccccgcc gcgcgccaca tggcgcagtg ggagacggcc aggctcgagg ccgaggcgcg    720
              cctctccctc ctcgccgcca ccgccgcctc ctccggtacc actgcgacca ccacagccac    780
              caccaccacg tctgcagcct cctcgtcctc caccaccgtc gctggcgcgg ccgacaacaa    840
              ggcctccaac cccgcggaca tcttcctgcg cctgtggagc tcggacatcg gggactcctt    900
              ccgccgcaag acggacacga cgccagcggt gcccgcgctt cccggcgccc gtcgtcaaga    960
              ggaaggacac ggcgatcaag caggagccgc gggcgctgct gctcggcctc ggggacgact   1020
              cctcggcggc gtccaacgac aacgagacgg aggtggcgga ggcgctggag gcgaagtacc   1080
              agatgttcct cgacttcgcg ggcgaagagc tgggattgtt ccatggccgg cacggcggct   1140
              tctcgctgtt cccgccgctc gacgtgctcg ctgaggcgtc cctggactcg gctttcaagt   1200
              gaagacgtag ccagcaccac gtacgtacac ggtactcata cgtacggcaa gcggcagtgg   1260
              ccaactggcc atgcctctac ggcttagcta tacgcctcga aatgcgcgca tggatgtata   1320
                                                   1277

              tagatatgcg tgtgactgca ctggcatatc ggcaattttt tgggttaggc cagcaagtgc   1380
<removed-date>
              gtggtttagc ttgttattat gcagggttgg ttttggtagg acatcatggt gtatggggga   1440
              ttctctgttc attggagatg ctctaataca tcacgagatg ttcttcaatc ttcggcaaaa   1500
              aaaaaaaaaa aatagattct gggactgctt tttcgcactg gaaacatatt tgacctggtt   1560
              tttagag                                                             1567
<removed-apn>
              <210>     1106
              <211>     894
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Zea mays
              <400> 1106
              atggggaggt ccccgtgctg ctgccacgac gccggcgtga agaagggccc atggacggag     60
              gaggaggacc gcaccctggt ggagcacatc aaaaggcacg gcgggcacgt cagcagctgg   120
              cgcgacctgc ccaaggccgc cgggctgaac cgctgcggga agagctgccg cctccggtgg    180
              tcgacgatcg cgacgcacct ggacgggcgg acggacaacg agatcaagaa ctactggaat    240
              acacacatca gaaagaagct ggtgcgcatg ggcatcgacc ccgtcacgca ccaacgtctg    300
              cccccggaag acattatcgc ctcccctatg gcgatcctct cggcggcggc gagcctggga    360
              ggcctccaca gcgctctgat gcaggtgcag gcgctgcagc ttctgctgca ggccgtcaat    420
              aacgacggag gaagaagcgc tgctgccggt ggtctcatca tgcctgacat cctcaacgcg   480
              gccgcagata acgccatcct tattaataac gcgagtcgta gtagcgtcgt cccgagctta   540
              caggaccaga cgaacctccc cgccgcgtct cacgcgaact actacggttc acctgatcac   600
              catctcagca gcaacatcgc gagctttgca gatcagcagc acgacgacgc ttcggctccg    660
              gtggtcggct gcgcgtacgc ggagccgctg gctgctgcat tggtgtctgc cgcttatccg    720
              caggaagtgg cagccgcagc tgaggggtgg ccggtgcagg gtttcgccga gcttctgtcg    780
              gggcccatcg agatgcaggt gcagacgaag gcgaggacgt gctccctcga ggaggacgac    840
              caagatgatt tctggaagga catgctgcta gagagcagca ggttgccgct atga          894
              <210>     1107
              <211>     1526
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Zea mays
                                                   1278

              <400> 1107
<removed-date>
              atgctacgcc aagcscgcaa ttaaccctca ctaaagggaa caaaagctgg agctccaccg     60
              cggtggcggc cgctctagaa ctagtggatc ccccgggctg caggaattcg cacgagacca    120
              ttacctagaa catcctaatc gaaaagcacc tcgagcaccc cccggcccgt cgtctacagt    180
              ctacagcaca catcgcagca gctcgcgacc atcgtccatc cgctcaattg tgatcgatcg    240
              agctgcgagc ccatcgcctc tagctaagct accatgggtc ggcagccgtg ctgcgacaag    300
<removed-apn>
              gtggggctga agaaggggcc gtggacagcg gaggaggacc agaagctcgt cagcttcatc    360
              ctcggcaaca ggcagtgctg ctggcgcgcc gtgcccaagc ttgccgggct gctgcggtgc    420
              gggaagagct gccggctgcg ctggaccaac tacctgcggc cggacctcaa gaggggcctg    480
              ctctccgacg ccgaggagaa gctcgtcatc gacctgcatg ctcagctcgg caacaggtgg    540
              tcaaagattg cgtcgcacat gccaggacga acggacaacg agattaagaa ccactggaac    600
              acccacatca agaagaagct caggaagatg gggatcgacc ccctcaccca caagcccctc    660
              ccgccgcctg atccgcatcc gccgaaggac caccagagcc caccgcacac cgccacaggt    720
              ggctcgccgg aagcgccgcc atctccgtcg ccgaagcctc cacaggagaa gacggcagta    780
              ccggtgatga cgccagctag ccagcaagaa gcaggtgacg atgacgtgcc gctcctcagc    840
              aactactacc caggcttctg caccgacgag gtacccatga tggacccgga cgagatcatg    900
              gtgcctctgg acgacgggcg gacggcgccg ccgacgtcga cgattttctc gaccacgacc    960
              acgacgtcct actctgcagc ctccgactcc gtgtcgtcgt ccttgagccg cgacgaggac   1020
              ccgctgttcc cgctcatgga cttggagttc cccgacatcg cgttccagat ggggctacta   1080
              gacgacatgg tcgcgtcgtg ggacgactcc ttggcgcagc agccgctgtc gccatcccct   1140
              gtctacgacg acgactatgc aaaccagctg cagatcagga gcggcgttgc gtttgaccag   1200
              gagccaggga acaagattgt gctcttctct agctattagg cagttaaccc ctttaataaa   1260
              tgagatatgc acctccttac accttactgg tcactgcact aaactagcaa attactccga   1320
              cacgacggtt gttcattctg ttaactgcaa ctgctttcta gttatataat caagatttgt   1380
              taaaccaaaa aaaaaaaggt gataatcaca taatacgcca aatagcgcta gctgtttttt   1440
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaagg gcggccgctc tagagtatcc   1500
              ctcgaggggc ccgaagctta cgcgta                                        1526
                                                   1279

<removed-date>
              <210>   1108
              <211>   489
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (483)..(483)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1108
              atcaacagtt ttaaaaaaag acataactca accaatctca ctttgaaaaa gacatgaaca    60
              aaacccgcct tcgtgctctc tccccacctt ccggtatgca acaccgtaag agatgtcgat   120
              tgagaggtcg aaactacgta aggccagaag ttaaacaacg caacttctca aaagatgaag   180
              acgatctcat cctcaagctt catgcacttc ttggcaatag atggtcattg atagcgggaa   240
              gattgccagg acgaaccgac aacgaagtta ggatccattg ggaaacttac ctaaaaagga   300
              agctcgtaaa aatgggaatc gacccaacca atcatcgtct ccaccatcac accaactaca   360
              tttctagacg tcacctccat tcttcacata aggaacatga aaccaagatt attagtgatc   420
              aatcttcttc ggtatccgaa tcatgtggtg taacaatttc gttggtctgg tattggagaa   480
              ttncgaact                                                           489
              <210>   1109
              <211>   1398
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1109
              aattgcttcg aacccacttg atcgctgcgt cgtctcccgg gccggccctc agcgagctct    60
              cccgtacgtg cgcagttctc ggcacgctac cccttatata ccccccggcc gctctcgctc   120
              tagatgcaca ggcagtgaca cgcgcgcata ccgacggact aggtagctgc tcatcagcta   180
              tccagatcgt tgctcctccc ttccctcgcc atcggccgcg cccgtgtcgg gcggcgggcg   240
              ggaatgggac gccacgcggc ctccggcggc ggcgtgcagc agaagctgcg caagggcctc   300
              tggtcgcccg aggaagacga gaagctctac aaccacatca tccactacgg cgtcgggtgc   360
              tggagctccg tgcccaagct ctcagggctg cagaggtgcg gcaagagctg ccgccttcgg   420
              tggatcaact acctgcgccc cgacctgaag cggggcagct tctcgcagca ggaggaggac   480
                                                   1280

<removed-date>
              gccatcgtcg gcctccatga gatcctgggc aacagatggt cgcagatcgc gtcgcacttg    540
              ccgggccgaa cggacaacga gatcaagaac ttctggaaca gctgcctcaa gaagaagctg    600
              cgccagcgcg gcatcgaccc cagcacccac aagcccatct ccgccgacgc ggcggcattg    660
              gagcagccgg cgtcgcgaga ccgcaagccg tcgttggcca cagccgccgc tggtggcggc    720
              ctcgacgtga agcagcatca gcagcagcag caggtgttcg acccgttccc gctgaccgac    780
<removed-apn>
              agcttcggcg gcggcttcga cgacgcggcc ggcgccgcat tgtacggcca catgggcggc    840
              ggcggcaagc agcaggacgc ggccgcgttc gtggactaca gcagcgtgct ggacgtgtcg    900
              gagaacctgg gctacggcga gagctccagc aacagcagca acaactggaa ctgcgcgccg    960
              gaggtgaaca acaacaacaa tgcgctggac ggcggcgacg cgccgctgca ctgggcctcc   1020
              gagagcaagg ccgcgccctt cgccggctac ggcgccgagg agcagtcgct gctggagcac   1080
              aagctccttc cgcatttcga cttcgacatc ggccgggccg ccgtggtcgg cgacttcagc   1140
              ctcgacttct tctgaagggt tcttcagccc tgcgggtata atcatcgatc gccgtgcccg   1200
              tgtatgtact gtatcaaagc caattcatac ggaacagtcg ggagcttaga gaccgcgctt   1260
              tgttaattct cctctagtcg tccttactca gcagctctcc tcctttaaca atgttttggg   1320
              cttcttcgtt tcaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaat gtctaaaata aaggcatata catataaaaa   1380
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaactcg                                                 1398
              <210>   1110
              <211>   780
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1110
              atggggaggt ccccgtgctg ctgccacgac gccggcgtga agaagggccc atggacggag     60
              gaggaggacc gcaccctggt ggagcacatc aaaaggcacg gcgggcacgt cagcagctgg    120
              cgcaacctgc ccaaggccgc cgggctcaac cgctgcggca agagctgccg cctccgctgg    180
              accaactacc tccgccccga catcaagcgc ggcaacttca ccgacgacga ggagcgcctc    240
              atcatcggcc tccatgccca gctcggtaac aggtggtcga cgatcgcgac gcacctggac    300
              gggcggacgg acaacgagat caagaactac tggaacacgc acatcaagcg caagctcctc    360
              gcccgcggca tcgacccgaa gacgcaccgc ccgctcggcg ccggcgccga cgccgccgcg    420
                                                   1281

<removed-date>
              ccacccggcg tggtcgcgca ccgggcgctg ctgcaccgcg cagccctcgt cgagctcgcc   480
              gtgaagccgg cgccggcgga gtcatccgac gacggcggcc ggagcagcgg caccagcagc   540
              ggcggcggcg gcggcgccag cgtggaggag ccgcggtgcc ccgacctcaa cctcgacctg   600
              tccgtgggcc cgccagcggc cgccgacacg cccacctcga cctcgcagtc gcagctggcg   660
              gtgtgcctgt gctaccgcct gggcctccgc gccggggacg cgtgcggatg ccaggctcag   720
<removed-apn>
              gctgacaacg cggggttcag attttcagag ctcagaaccg agaggagagt cgttaagtag   780
              <210>   1111
              <211>   883
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1111
              gaagaggcag accgcagatg gggaggtccc cgtgctgctg ccacgacgcc ggcgtgaaga    60
              agggcccatg gacggaggag gaggaccgca ccctggtgga gcacatcaag aggcacggcg   120
              ggcacgtcag cagctggcgc gacctgccca aggccgccgg gctgaaccgg tgcgggaaga   180
              gctgccgcct ccggtacggt ggaccaacta cctccgcccc gacatcaagc gcggcaactt   240
              taccgccgac gaggagagcc tcatcatcca cctccacgct cagctcggca acaggtggtc   300
              gacgatcgcg acgcacctgg acgggcggac ggacaacgag atcaagaact actggaatac   360
              acacatcaga aagaagctgg cgctgcagtt tctgttgcag gccgtcaata acgacggagg   420
              aagaagcgct gctgccggtg gtctcatcat gcctgacatc ctcaacgcgg ccgcagataa   480
              cgccatcctt attaataacg cgagtcgtag tagcgtcgtc ccgagcttac aggaccagac   540
              gaacctcccc gccgcgtctc acgcgaacta ctacggttca cctgatcacc atctcagcag   600
              caacatcgcg agctttgcag atcagcagca cgacgacgct tcggctccgg tggtcggctg   660
              cgcgtacgcg gagccgctgg ctgctgcatt ggtgtctgcc gcttatccgc aggaagtggc   720
              agccgcagct gaggggtggc cggtgcaggg tttcgccgag cttctgtcgg ggcccatcga   780
              gatgcaggtg cagacgaagg cgaggacgtg ctccctcgag gaggacgacc aagatgattt   840
              ctggaaggac atgctgctag agagcagcag gttgccgcta tga                     883
              <210>   1112
              <211>   1485
                                                   1282

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1112
              tacaaaaaag caggctggta ccggtccggg attgccggga tcgagcaccc cccggcccgt     60
              cgtctacagt ctacagcaca catcgcagca gctcgcgacc atcgtccatc cgctcaattg    120
              tgatcgatcg agctgcgagc ccatcgcctc tagctaagct accatgggtc ggcagccgtg    180
              ctgcgacaag gtggggctga agaaggggcc gtggacagcg gaggaggacc agaagctcgt    240
<removed-apn>
              cagcttcatc ctcggcaaca ggcagtgctg ctggcgcgcc gtgcccaagc ttgccggtgc    300
              gtatctatct atctatgtac gtgcatgctc gatcgatcgt cgcagctttt gtcatgacga    360
              gagaagcttg tcgcgcgttg ccatgccatg cagggctgct gcggtgcggg aagagctgcc    420
              ggctgcgctg gaccaactac ctgcggccgg acctcaagag gggcctgctc tccgacgccg    480
              aggagaagct cgtcatcgac ctgcatgctc agctcggcaa caggtggtca aagattgcgt    540
              cgcacatgcc aggacgaacg gacaacgaga ttaagaacca ctggaacacc cacatcaaga    600
              agaagctcag gaagatgggg atcgaccccc tcacccacaa gcccctcccg ccgcctgatc    660
              cgcatccgcc gaaggaccac cagagcccac cgcacaccgc cacaggtggc tcgccggaag    720
              cgccgccatc tccgtcgccg aagcctccac aggagaagac ggcagtaccg gtgatgacgc    780
              cagctagcca gcaagaagca ggtgacgatg acgtgccgct cctcagcaac tactacccag    840
              gcttctgcac cgacgaggta cccatgatgg acccggacga gatcatggtg cctctggacg    900
              acgggcggac ggcgccgccg acgtcgacga tttttttgac cacgaccacg acgtcctact    960
              ttgcagcctc cgactccgtg tcgtcgtcct tgagccgcga cgaggacccg ctgttcccgc   1020
              tcatggactt ggagttcccc gacatcgcgt tccagatggg gctactagac gacatggtcg   1080
              cgtcgtggga cgactccttg gcgcagcagc cgctgtcgcc atcccctgtt tacgacgacg   1140
              actatgcaaa ccagctgcag atcaggagcg gcgttgcgtt tgaccaggag ccagggaaca   1200
              agattgtgct cttctctagc tattaggcag ttaacccctt taataaatga gatatgcacc   1260
              tccttacccc ttactggtca ctgcactaaa ctagcaaatt actccgacac gacggttgtt   1320
              cattttgtta actgcaactg ctttctagtt atataatcaa gatttgttaa accattaaaa   1380
              aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agggcggccg ctctagagta   1440
              tccctcgagg ggcccaagct tacgcgtacc caagctttct ttaca                   1485
                                                   1283

<removed-date>
              <210>   1113
              <211>   873
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1113
              atgggacgcc acgcgggctc cggcggcggc gtgcagcaga agctgcgcaa gggcctctgg    60
              tcgcccgagg aagacgagaa gctctacaac cacatcatcc actacggcgt cgggtgcggc   120
<removed-apn>
              aagagctgcc gccttcggtg gatcaactac ctgcgccccg acctgaagcg gggcagcttc   180
              tcgcagcagg aggaggacgc catcgtcggc ctccatgaga tcctgggcaa cagatggtcg   240
              cagatcgcgt cgcacttgcc gggccgaacg gacaacgaga tcaagaactt ctggaacagc   300
              tgcctcaaga agaagctgcg ccagcgcggc atcgacccca gcacccacaa gcccatctcc   360
              gccgacgcgg cggcattgga gcagccggcg tcgcgagacc gcaagccgtc gttggccaca   420
              gccgccgctg gtggcggcct cgatgtgaag cagcatcagc agcagcagca ggtgttcgac   480
              ccgttcccgc tgaccgacag cttcggcggc ggcttcgacg acgcggccgg cgccgcattg   540
              tacggccaca tgggcggcgg cggcaagcag caggacgcgg ccgcgttcgt ggactacagc   600
              agcgtgctgg acgtgtcgga gaacctgggc tacggcgaga gctccagcaa cagcagcaac   660
              aactggaact gcgcgccgga ggtgaacaac aacaacaatg cgctggacgg cggcgacgcg   720
              ccgctgcact gggcctccga gagcaaggcc gcgcccttcg ccggctacgg cgccgaggag   780
              cagtcgctgc tggagcacaa gctccttccg catttcgact tcgacatcgg ccgggccgcc   840
              gtggtcggcg acttcagcct cgacttcttc tga                                873
              <210>   1114
              <211>   1346
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1114
              ccgcaattcc ggttgccttc tactcacctc ctcgtgctcg aggtcgatcc cgagggagcc    60
              cgactcccct aaacccattg tgtgcccgcc gtcgacgcag cctccgtcct cccccgcatc   120
              cgaatcacgc acgccacgtc ccacccctgt catggccacc tccagcgacg gcggcggcga   180
              ccagcggcgc ctcctctcca tccccaagga aggcgagcgc atcatcgcgc ccacgcgccg   240
                                                     1284

              ccccgacggc acgctccgca aggccatccg catccgcgcc ggttacgtgc cccaggagga    300
<removed-date>
              ggtcgccatc taccagtcca agggcgccct aatgaggaag tcagggcccg acgtgccgcc    360
              ggggtacgac ccggcgctag tggccgacgc caaacccaag acgaaggcgg ccaaacggaa    420
              cgagcgacgg aaggagaaac ggcagcagca ggccagtttg gcaaatgata aaggaaagag    480
              tatgaacata gagggaactg atgctggaga aaccgacaag gtcctttctt ccaaaacgga    540
              taagcagaag gattccgtgg aaagtgtaac aaagcagatg agtggcattg ctatttctga    600
<removed-apn>
              gtcacatgca atgccgtcca caaatactat aaacaattcg caaccagaat catctgctcc    660
              agacatagac aagaagattc gagcactgaa aaagaagata cgcttagctg aagcacaagt    720
              acaaggcgac cctgaaaaat tgaaatctga aacgctggaa aagattaaaa agattgatgg    780
              atggtgtatg gaactgaagc ttttggagga cagcagagct cctgcggcct agacaaaatc    840
              gacttcggct ctgatgtagt agaatagaca gtagagccat cgcgaccaca ccagggtgct    900
              gagctaaatt ccaaggtgca ctgaatcacc ctaggctttt ccattacctg tgttggttac    960
              tggaaaacca gtccggtaga tgcgggtttg cgcagaacga tggagtgttt ttccctgcac   1020
              atttgatgtc tcatgttcgc caccaagttt caaggtttgt accacaagat ccatttatca   1080
              gaaagaccac acagtgagat aattcaaacg attattgtga cagtgtggtt aaactttagt   1140
              atactatgct aattctggga atctcttaag actgaatcag aatttacttt tgctctcacg   1200
              gcccgaattc atctccggct ttaccaccat tgttcaatta gctgttatat cacggttgaa   1260
              actgactgga agtgccggaa ttcttatgtc cctggctccc tgactctctt cgttatatgt   1320
              actacctccg ttcttgaata ttttta                                        1346
              <210>   1115
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1115
              tgacagaaga gagtgagcac                                                 20
              <210>   1116
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1285

              <400> 1116
<removed-date>
              tgacagaaga gagcgagcac                                                20
              <210>   1117
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1117
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
<removed-apn>
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1118
              <211>   485
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1118
              catcaggtag gcgcggcgcg gaccgcaaca cgccagcttt cttgctcttg tctctaagca    60
              gcagcagctt cctgtctctc cagccaccat tccattctcg ctccttggta atgaggctgg   120
              ctagccagct aatgcagctc cgaacctgtt ttgttggtgg tcatttaacc atgcatgctt   180
              cgatcgatgg attggtgcat gcatggatta ttgcatagtg tgatgcatgt ggcgcatcag   240
              tgcatggtta gatgaccatc agcaaacatg ttcttgaggc atgcaagttc tctagctaca   300
              catatcagag atcgatcacc actgcggcgc catggctact taattgaaat ggaggtttgc   360
              atttctccga acccggatgt cgtgattctg cttccgttct tgatccagga tcttccggtc   420
                                                   1286

              ttgttcccac cattactttc cttaggaaac tggaatggtt tcaaccttaa tttgtttgtg    480
<removed-date>
              tgtgt                                                                485
              <210>   1119
              <211>   1182
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1119
<removed-apn>
              atggactgca acatggtatc ttcgtcccag tgggattggg agcatttgat catgtccaat     60
              ccgtcaagga ctgaagatga cagcaaacag ctacctactg agtgggaaat tgaaaaaggt    120
              gaaggaattg aatctatagt tccacatttc tcaggccttg agagagtcag tagtggctct    180
              gccaccagct tctggcacac tgctgtatcg aaaagctcac agtcgacctc tatcaactca    240
              tcatctcccg aagccaaacg atgcaagctt gcatcagaaa gttcccctgg agattcttgc    300
              agcaacatag actttgtcca ggtgaaggct cccacagctc tcgaggtatc cgttgcctca    360
              gctgaatcag atctttgttt aaaactagga aagcggacat actctgaaga atactggggt    420
              agaaacaata atgaaatttc agcggtttct atgaagttgt taactccatc tgttgtcgct    480
              gggaaatcca aattgtgtgg tcagagcatg ccagtcccgc gttgccaaat tgatggctgt    540
              gaactggatc tctcatctgc taagggttat catcgtaagc acaaagtctg cgaaaagcat    600
              tcaaagtgcc caaaagttag cgtgagtggc ctggaacgtc ggttctgcca acagtgtagc    660
              aggttccatg ctgtctctga atttgatgag aagaaacgaa gctgccgaaa acgtctttct    720
              catcataatg cgaggcgtcg taagccacaa ggagtatttt caatgaatcc cgagagggtg    780
              tatgatcgaa gacagcatac aaatatgttg tggaatgggg tgtcccttaa cgcgagatct    840
              gaagaaatgt atgaatgggg taataacact tatgatacaa agcctagaca aacggaaaaa    900
              agctttactc tgagcttcca gagaggtaat ggctctgagg accagctggt tgctagtagc    960
              agccgtatgt tctctacatc tcaaacctca ggtgggttcc cagcaggaaa gtccaagttt   1020
              caacttcatg gcgaagatgt gggagaatac tcaggagtcc tccatgaatc tcaagatatc   1080
              caccgtgctc tctctcttct gtcaacctct tcggatcccc tggcccaacc acatgtgcag   1140
              ccattttctc tactctgttc atatgatgtt gtaccaaaat ag                      1182
              <210>   1120
                                                   1287

              <211>   640
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1120
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
<removed-apn>
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggttgctctc tatccacttc   480
              tgtcaaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1121
              <211>   220
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1121
              aggctggcta gccagctaat gcagctccga accgatgctt ctctgacttc tgtcaccatg    60
              catgcttcga tcgatggatt ggtgcatgca tggattattg catagtgtga tgcatgtggc   120
              gcatcagtgc atggtgacag aagtcagaga gcatctgttc ttgaggcatg caagttctct   180
              agctacacat atcagagatc gatcaccact gcggcgccat                         220
              <210>   1122
              <211>   1182
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
                                                   1288

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1122
              atggactgca acatggtatc ttcgtcccag tgggattggg agcatttgat catgtccaat     60
              ccgtcaagga ctgaagatga cagcaaacag ctacctactg agtgggaaat tgaaaaaggt    120
              gaaggaattg aatctatagt tccacatttc tcaggccttg agagagtcag tagtggctct    180
<removed-apn>
              gccaccagct tctggcacac tgctgtatcg aaaagctcac agtcgacctc tatcaactca    240
              tcatctcccg aagccaaacg atgcaagctt gcatcagaaa gttcccctgg agattcttgc    300
              agcaacatag actttgtcca ggtgaaggct cccacagctc tcgaggtatc cgttgcctca    360
              gctgaatcag atctttgttt aaaactagga aagcggacat actctgaaga atactggggt   420
              agaaacaata atgaaatttc agcggtttct atgaagttgt taactccatc tgttgtcgct    480
              gggaaatcca aattgtgtgg tcagagcatg ccagtcccgc gttgccaaat tgatggctgt    540
              gaactggatc tctcatctgc taagggttat catcgtaagc acaaagtctg cgaaaagcat    600
              tcaaagtgcc caaaagttag cgtgagtggc ctggaacgtc ggttctgcca acagtgtagc    660
              aggttccatg ctgtctctga atttgatgag aagaaacgaa gctgccgaaa acgtctttct    720
              catcataatg cgaggcgtcg taagccacaa ggagtatttt caatgaatcc cgagagggtg    780
              tatgatcgaa gacagcatac aaatatgttg tggaatgggg tgtcccttaa cgcgagatct   840
              gaagaaatgt atgaatgggg taataacact tatgatacaa agcctagaca aacggaaaaa    900
              agctttactc tgagcttcca gagaggtaat ggctctgagg accagctggt tgctagtagc    960
              agccgtatgt tctctacatc tcaaacctca ggtgggttcc cagcaggaaa gtccaagttt   1020
              caacttcatg gcgaagatgt gggagaatac tcaggagtcc tccatgaatc tcaagatatc   1080
              caccgagcat tgagcttgtt aagtacctct tcggatcccc tggcccaacc acatgtgcag   1140
              ccattttctc tactctgttc atatgatgtt gtaccaaaat ag                      1182
              <210>   1123
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1123
              ggccccccgc a                                                          11
                                                   1289

<removed-date>
              <210>   1124
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1124
              ggccccccgc a              11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1125
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1125
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1126
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1126
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1127
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1127
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1128
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1128
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1129
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1129
                                 1290

              ggccccccgc a              11
<removed-date>
              <210>   1130
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1130
              ggccccccgc a              11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1131
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1131
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1132
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1132
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1133
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1133
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1134
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1134
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1135
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                 1291

              <400> 1135
<removed-date>
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1136
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1136
              ggccccccgc a              11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1137
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1137
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1138
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1138
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1139
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1139
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1140
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1140
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1141
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                 1292

<removed-date>
              <400> 1141
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1142
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1142
<removed-apn>
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1143
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1143
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1144
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1144
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1145
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1145
              ggccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1146
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1146
              agccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1147
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
                                 1293

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 1147
              agccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1148
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1148
              agccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1149
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1149
              agccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1150
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1150
              agccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1151
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1151
              ccgccccccg ca             12
              <210>   1152
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1152
              gcccccccgc a              11
              <210>   1153
              <211>   11
                                 1294

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1153
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1154
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1154
              ggccccccac a                        11
              <210>   1155
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1155
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1156
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1156
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1157
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1157
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1158
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1158
              acgccccccc gca                      13
              <210>   1159
                                           1295

              <211>   11
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1159
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1160
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1160
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1161
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1161
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1162
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1162
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1163
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1163
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1164
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1164
              ggccccccgc a                        11
                                           1296

              <210>   1165
<removed-date>
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1165
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1166
              <211>   11
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1166
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1167
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1167
              acgccccccc gca                        13
              <210>   1168
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1168
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1169
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1169
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1170
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1170
              ggccccccgc a                          11
                                             1297

<removed-date>
              <210>   1171
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1171
              ccgccccccg ca                         12
              <210>   1172
<removed-apn>
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1172
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1173
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1173
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1174
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1174
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1175
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1175
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1176
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1176
              ggccccccgc a                          11
                                             1298

<removed-date>
              <210>   1177
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1177
              ggccccccgc a                          11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1178
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1178
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1179
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1179
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1180
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1180
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1181
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1181
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1182
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   1182
                                             1299

              ggccccccgc a                          11
<removed-date>
              <210>   1183
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1183
              ggccccccgc a                          11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1184
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1184
              cgccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1185
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1185
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1186
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1186
              ggcaccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1187
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1187
              ggccccccgc a                          11
              <210>   1188
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
                                             1300

              <400> 1188
<removed-date>
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1189
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1189
              ggccccccgc a                        11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1190
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (2)..(2)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1190
              gngcccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1191
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1191
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1192
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1192
              ggccccccgc a                        11
              <210>   1193
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1193
              ggccccccgc a                        11
                                           1301

<removed-date>
              <210>   1194
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1194
              ggacaccccg cca               13
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1195
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1195
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1196
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1196
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1197
              <211>   10
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1197
              gccccccgca                   10
              <210>   1198
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1198
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1199
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400>   1199
                                    1302

              ggccccccgc a                 11
<removed-date>
              <210>   1200
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1200
              ggccccccgc a                 11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1201
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1201
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1202
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1202
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1203
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1203
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1204
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1204
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1205
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                    1303

              <400> 1205
<removed-date>
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1206
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1206
              ggccccccgc a                 11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1207
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1207
              gcgccccccg ca                12
              <210>   1208
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1208
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1209
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1209
              ggccccccgc a                 11
              <210>   1210
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1210
              ggcccaccgc a                 11
              <210>   1211
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                    1304

<removed-date>
              <400> 1211
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1212
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1212
<removed-apn>
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1213
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1213
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1214
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1214
              aagccccccg ca                        12
              <210>   1215
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1215
              ggcccaccgc a                         11
              <210>   1216
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1216
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1217
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
                                            1305

              <213>   Medicago truncatula
<removed-date>
              <400> 1217
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1218
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1218
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1219
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1219
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1220
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1220
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1221
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1221
              agccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1222
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1222
              ggccccccgc a                         11
              <210>   1223
              <211>   11
                                            1306

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1223
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1224
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1224
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1225
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1225
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1226
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1226
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1227
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1227
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1228
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1228
              agccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1229
                                     1307

              <211>   13
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1229
              gagccacccc gca                13
              <210>   1230
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1230
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1231
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1231
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1232
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1232
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1233
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1233
              ggccccccgc a                  11
              <210>   1234
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1234
              ggccccccgc a                  11
                                     1308

              <210>   1235
<removed-date>
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1235
              agccccccgc a                     11
              <210>   1236
              <211>   11
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1236
              ggccccccgc a                     11
              <210>   1237
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1237
              ggccccccgc a                     11
              <210>   1238
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1238
              ggccccccgc a                     11
              <210>   1239
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1239
              ggccccccgc a                     11
              <210>   1240
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1240
              ggccccccgc a                     11
                                        1309

<removed-date>
              <210>   1241
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1241
              agccccccgc a                       11
              <210>   1242
<removed-apn>
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1242
              ggccccccgc a                       11
              <210>   1243
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1243
              ggccccccgc a                       11
              <210>   1244
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1244
              ggccccccgc a                       11
              <210>   1245
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1245
              agccccccgc a                       11
              <210>   1246
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1246
              ggccccccgc a                       11
                                          1310

<removed-date>
              <210>   1247
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1247
              ggccccccgc a                        11
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1248
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1248
              tggcatacag gctagagcca ggca          24
              <210>   1249
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1249
              aggcaacagg gagccaggca               20
              <210>   1250
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1250
              aggcaacagg gagccaggca               20
              <210>   1251
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1251
              aggcaacagg gagccaggca               20
              <210>   1252
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1252
                                           1311

              aggcaacagg gagccaggca                                                20
<removed-date>
              <210>   1253
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1253
              agccaacagg gagccaggca                                                20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1254
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1254
              aggcaacagg gagcccaggc a                                              21
              <210>   1255
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1255
              tggagaagca gggcacgtgc a                                              21
              <210>   1256
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1256
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
                                                   1312

<removed-date>
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1257
              <211>   639
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1257
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggagcacggc ccgtatgctt   480
              ctccaattgt tctcatctat ctgggtctgt ctgttggctg cccggtgacg gtatacggtg   540
              atgttctaat agtactcaat tggtcttgga tcggagttca tgctacggct cctctgttat   600
              atattacacg gctgacggct cctccttatt aatgtgtac                          639
              <210>   1258
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1258
              gaacggcccg cccca                                                     15
              <210>   1259
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   1259
                                                   1313

              agcacggccg ccca                       14
<removed-date>
              <210>   1260
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1260
              acggcccgcc cca                        13
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1261
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1261
              agcacggccg ccca                       14
              <210>   1262
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1262
              agcacgaccc gcccca                     16
              <210>   1263
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1263
              agcacgaccc gcccca                     16
              <210>   1264
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1264
              acggcccgcc cca                        13
              <210>   1265
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
                                             1314

              <400> 1265
<removed-date>
              ccacggaccg ccccg                      15
              <210>   1266
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1266
              agcacggccg ccca                       14
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1267
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1267
              cacggcccgc ccca                       14
              <210>   1268
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1268
              agcacggccg ccca                       14
              <210>   1269
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1269
              acggcccgcc cca                        13
              <210>   1270
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica oleracea
              <400> 1270
              acggcccgcc cca                        13
              <210>   1271
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                             1315

<removed-date>
              <400> 1271
              agcacggccg ccca              14
              <210>   1272
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1272
<removed-apn>
              cacggcccgc ccca              14
              <210>   1273
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1273
              cacggcccgc ccca              14
              <210>   1274
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1274
              agcaaggccc gcccca            16
              <210>   1275
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1275
              agcaaggccc gcccca            16
              <210>   1276
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1276
              cacggcccgc ccca              14
              <210>   1277
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
                                    1316

              <213>   Glycine max
<removed-date>
              <400> 1277
              cacggcccgc ccca                      14
              <210>   1278
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1278
              agcaaggccc gcccca                    16
              <210>   1279
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1279
              agcacggccg ccca                      14
              <210>   1280
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1280
              cacggccgcc cca                       13
              <210>   1281
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1281
              cgcacggacc gcccca                    16
              <210>   1282
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1282
              cgcacggacc gcccca                    16
              <210>   1283
              <211>   16
                                            1317

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1283
              agcaaggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1284
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1284
              agcaaggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1285
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1285
              cgcacggacc gcccca                16
              <210>   1286
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1286
              agcaaggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1287
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1287
              cgcacggacc gcccca                16
              <210>   1288
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1288
              agcaaggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1289
                                        1318

              <211>   15
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1289
              agcaaggccg ccccg                 15
              <210>   1290
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1290
              agcaaggccg cccg                  14
              <210>   1291
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1291
              cgcacggacc gcccca                16
              <210>   1292
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1292
              cacacggacc gccccg                16
              <210>   1293
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1293
              agcagggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1294
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1294
              cacacggacc gcccca                16
                                        1319

              <210>   1295
<removed-date>
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1295
              cacacggacc gcccca                  16
              <210>   1296
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1296
              agcaaggccc gcccca                  16
              <210>   1297
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1297
              agcagggccg ccccg                   15
              <210>   1298
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1298
              cgcacggacc gccccc                  16
              <210>   1299
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1299
              agcaaggccc gcccca                  16
              <210>   1300
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1300
              cgcacgcgcc cgccgca                 17
                                          1320

<removed-date>
              <210>   1301
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1301
              agcaaggccg ccccg                   15
              <210>   1302
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1302
              agcaaggccg ccccg                   15
              <210>   1303
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1303
              agcaaggccc gcccca                  16
              <210>   1304
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1304
              agcaaggccg ccccg                   15
              <210>   1305
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1305
              cacacggacc gccccg                  16
              <210>   1306
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1306
              agggggccgc ccca                    14
                                          1321

<removed-date>
              <210>   1307
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1307
              agccggcccg cccca                 15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1308
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1308
              agccggcccg cccca                 15
              <210>   1309
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1309
              agcaaggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1310
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1310
              agcagggccc gcccca                16
              <210>   1311
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1311
              tcggaccagg cttcattccc c          21
              <210>   1312
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1312
                                        1322

              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
<removed-date>
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
<removed-apn>
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1313
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1313
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcgggaatg aagctacctg   480
              gtccgaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
                                                   1323

<removed-date>
              <210>   1314
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1314
<removed-apn>
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcgggaatg aagctacctg   480
              gtccgaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1315
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1315
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                                                   17
              <210>   1316
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1316
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                                                   17
              <210>   1317
                                                   1324

              <211>   17
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1317
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                    17
              <210>   1318
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1318
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                     16
              <210>   1319
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1319
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                    17
              <210>   1320
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1320
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                     16
              <210>   1321
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1321
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                    17
              <210>   1322
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1322
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                    17
                                             1325

              <210>   1323
<removed-date>
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1323
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                 17
              <210>   1324
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1324
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                  16
              <210>   1325
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica oleracea
              <400> 1325
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                  16
              <210>   1326
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1326
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                 17
              <210>   1327
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1327
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                 17
              <210>   1328
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1328
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                 17
                                          1326

<removed-date>
              <210>   1329
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1329
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                   17
              <210>   1330
<removed-apn>
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1330
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                   17
              <210>   1331
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1331
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                    16
              <210>   1332
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1332
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                    16
              <210>   1333
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1333
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                   17
              <210>   1334
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1334
              ccgggagaag ccggccgg                  18
                                            1327

<removed-date>
              <210>   1335
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1335
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                   17
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1336
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1336
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                   17
              <210>   1337
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1337
              cggaagaagc cggccgg                   17
              <210>   1338
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1338
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                   17
              <210>   1339
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1339
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                    16
              <210>   1340
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400>   1340
                                            1328

              cgggagaagc cggccgg                 17
<removed-date>
              <210>   1341
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1341
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                 17
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1342
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1342
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                  16
              <210>   1343
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1343
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                  16
              <210>   1344
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1344
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                  16
              <210>   1345
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1345
              gggaagaagc cggccgg                 17
              <210>   1346
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
                                          1329

              <400> 1346
<removed-date>
              cgggagagcc ggccga            16
              <210>   1347
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1347
              ccgggagaag ccggccgg          18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1348
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1348
              gggagaagcc ggccgg            16
              <210>   1349
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1349
              cgggagaagc cggccgg           17
              <210>   1350
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1350
              cgggagaagc cggccgg           17
              <210>   1351
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1351
              gggagaagcc ggccgg            16
              <210>   1352
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                    1330

<removed-date>
              <400> 1352
              cgggagaagc cggccgg          17
              <210>   1353
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1353
<removed-apn>
              cgggagaagc cggccgg          17
              <210>   1354
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1354
              cgggagaagc cggccgg          17
              <210>   1355
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1355
              gggagaagcc ggccgg           16
              <210>   1356
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1356
              cgggagaagc cggccgg          17
              <210>   1357
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1357
              gggagaagcc ggccgg           16
              <210>   1358
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
                                   1331

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 1358
              cgggagaagc cggccgg                                                   17
              <210>   1359
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1359
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                                                    16
              <210>   1360
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1360
              gggagaagcc ggccgg                                                    16
              <210>   1361
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1361
              tgaagctgcc agcatgatct a                                              21
              <210>   1362
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1362
              tgaagctgcc agcatgatct g                                              21
              <210>   1363
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1363
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
                                                   1332

<removed-date>
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
<removed-apn>
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1364
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1364
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa gggagatcat gctctaggca   480
              gcttcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1365
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
                                                   1333

              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
<removed-date>
              <400> 1365
              agacaggcgg cagcg                      15
              <210>   1366
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1366
              agacaggcgg cagcg                      15
              <210>   1367
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1367
              agacaggcgg cagcg                      15
              <210>   1368
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1368
              agacaggcgg cagcg                      15
              <210>   1369
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1369
              agacaggcgg cagcg                      15
              <210>   1370
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1370
              agacaggcgg cagcg                      15
              <210>   1371
              <211>   15
                                             1334

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1371
              agacaggcgg cagcg                     15
              <210>   1372
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1372
              agacaggcgg cagcg                     15
              <210>   1373
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1373
              agacaggcgg cagcg                     15
              <210>   1374
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1374
              agacaggcgg cagcg                     15
              <210>   1375
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1375
              agacaggcgg cagcg                     15
              <210>   1376
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1376
              agacaggcgg cagcg                     15
              <210>   1377
                                            1335

              <211>   15
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1377
              agacaggcgg cagcg          15
              <210>   1378
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1378
              agacaggcgg cagcg          15
              <210>   1379
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1379
              agacaggcgg cagcg          15
              <210>   1380
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1380
              agacaggcgg cagcg          15
              <210>   1381
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1381
              agacaggcgg cagcg          15
              <210>   1382
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1382
              agacaggcgg cagcg          15
                                 1336

              <210>   1383
<removed-date>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1383
              agacaggcgg cagcg                                                     15
              <210>   1384
              <211>   21
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1384
              tagccaagga tgacttgcct g                                              21
              <210>   1385
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1385
              cagccaagga tgacttgccg a                                              21
              <210>   1386
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1386
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
                                                   1337

              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
<removed-date>
              <210>   1387
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1387
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggaggcaagt catgtacctt   480
              ggctcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1388
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1388
              caggcaacac ggc                                                       13
              <210>   1389
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1389
              cggcaaccac cggc                                                      14
                                                   1338

              <210>   1390
<removed-date>
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1390
              aggcaaacac ggcc                       14
              <210>   1391
              <211>   15
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1391
              ggggaagcac cggcc                      15
              <210>   1392
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1392
              caggcaacac ggc                        13
              <210>   1393
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1393
              caggcaaaca cggc                       14
              <210>   1394
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1394
              ccggcaacca ccggc                      15
              <210>   1395
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1395
              caggcaaaca cggcc                      15
                                             1339

<removed-date>
              <210>   1396
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1396
              ccggcaaaca cggc                       14
              <210>   1397
<removed-apn>
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1397
              ccggcaaaca cggc                       14
              <210>   1398
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1398
              aagggaagca ccggcg                     16
              <210>   1399
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1399
              aggggaagca ccggca                     16
              <210>   1400
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1400
              aggggaagca ccggca                     16
              <210>   1401
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1401
              ccggcaaaca cggc                       14
                                             1340

<removed-date>
              <210>   1402
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1402
              aagggaagca ccggcg                     16
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1403
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1403
              caggcaaaca cggcc                      15
              <210>   1404
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1404
              ccggcaaaca cggc                       14
              <210>   1405
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1405
              acgggaagca ccggca                     16
              <210>   1406
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1406
              aggggaagca ccggca                     16
              <210>   1407
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400>   1407
                                             1341

              aggggaagca acggca                  16
<removed-date>
              <210>   1408
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1408
              cggcaaccac ggc                     13
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1409
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1409
              cggcaaacac ggcc                    14
              <210>   1410
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1410
              gaggcaacca cggc                    14
              <210>   1411
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1411
              aggggaagca ccggca                  16
              <210>   1412
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica oleracea
              <400> 1412
              aggggaagca ccggca                  16
              <210>   1413
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                          1342

              <400> 1413
<removed-date>
              cggcaaccac ggcc              14
              <210>   1414
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1414
              aggcaaccac cggcc             15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1415
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1415
              aggcaaccac cggcc             15
              <210>   1416
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1416
              cggcaaacac cggc              14
              <210>   1417
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1417
              aaggcaacca ccggc             15
              <210>   1418
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1418
              gcggcaaaca cggcg             15
              <210>   1419
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                    1343

<removed-date>
              <400> 1419
              gcggcaaaca cggcg                     15
              <210>   1420
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1420
<removed-apn>
              cggcaaacac cggc                      14
              <210>   1421
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1421
              cggcaaacac cggc                      14
              <210>   1422
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1422
              aaggcaacca ccggc                     15
              <210>   1423
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1423
              caggcaacca cggc                      14
              <210>   1424
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1424
              aggcaaccac cggcc                     15
              <210>   1425
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
                                            1344

              <213>   Medicago truncatula
<removed-date>
              <400> 1425
              aaggcaaaca ccggc                     15
              <210>   1426
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1426
              ccggcaggca ccggca                    16
              <210>   1427
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1427
              ccggcaggca ccggca                    16
              <210>   1428
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1428
              ccggcaaaca cggc                      14
              <210>   1429
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1429
              ccggcaagca ccggcc                    16
              <210>   1430
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1430
              gggcaacacg gcc                       13
              <210>   1431
              <211>   14
                                            1345

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1431
              cggcaaacac cggc                  14
              <210>   1432
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1432
              caggcaacac ggc                   13
              <210>   1433
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1433
              aggcaaacac ggcc                  14
              <210>   1434
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1434
              gggcaacacc ggcg                  14
              <210>   1435
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1435
              caggcaacag gc                    12
              <210>   1436
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1436
              ccggcaagca ccggcg                16
              <210>   1437
                                        1346

              <211>   14
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1437
              aggcaaacac cggc               14
              <210>   1438
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1438
              ccggcaagca ccggcg             16
              <210>   1439
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1439
              aggcaacacc ggc                13
              <210>   1440
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1440
              caggcaacac ggc                13
              <210>   1441
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1441
              gggcaacacc ggc                13
              <210>   1442
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1442
              caggcaacac ggc                13
                                     1347

              <210>   1443
<removed-date>
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1443
              gggcaacacc ggc                     13
              <210>   1444
              <211>   13
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1444
              caggcaacac ggc                     13
              <210>   1445
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1445
              aggcaaacac ggcg                    14
              <210>   1446
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1446
              cggcaaccac cggc                    14
              <210>   1447
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1447
              aggcaaacac ggcg                    14
              <210>   1448
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1448
              cggcaaccac cggc                    14
                                          1348

<removed-date>
              <210>   1449
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1449
              caggcaacac ggc                     13
              <210>   1450
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1450
              caggcaacca ccggc                   15
              <210>   1451
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1451
              caggcaaaca cggcc                   15
              <210>   1452
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1452
              ccggcaaaca ccggc                   15
              <210>   1453
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1453
              caggcaaaca cggcc                   15
              <210>   1454
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1454
              cggcaaacac cggc                    14
                                          1349

<removed-date>
              <210>   1455
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1455
              cggcaaacac cggc                    14
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1456
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1456
              gggcaacacc ggc                     13
              <210>   1457
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1457
              gggcaacacc ggc                     13
              <210>   1458
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1458
              ccggcaagca ccggcg                  16
              <210>   1459
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1459
              gggcaaccac cggc                    14
              <210>   1460
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1460
                                          1350

              cggcaaccac cggc           14
<removed-date>
              <210>   1461
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1461
              caggcaacac cggc           14
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1462
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1462
              gggcaacacc ggc            13
              <210>   1463
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1463
              caggcaacac ggc            13
              <210>   1464
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1464
              gggcaaccac cggcc          15
              <210>   1465
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1465
              aggcaaacac ggcg           14
              <210>   1466
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                 1351

              <400> 1466
<removed-date>
              caggcaacac ggc            13
              <210>   1467
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1467
              cggcaaccac cggc           14
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1468
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1468
              cggcaaccac cggc           14
              <210>   1469
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1469
              cggcaaccac cggc           14
              <210>   1470
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1470
              aggcaaacag gcg            13
              <210>   1471
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1471
              aggcaaacac ggcg           14
              <210>   1472
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                 1352

<removed-date>
              <400> 1472
              aggcaaacac ggcg                  14
              <210>   1473
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1473
<removed-apn>
              caggcaacag gc                    12
              <210>   1474
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1474
              caggcaacac ggc                   13
              <210>   1475
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1475
              cggcaaccac cggc                  14
              <210>   1476
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1476
              cggcaaccac cggc                  14
              <210>   1477
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1477
              tgattgagcc gtgccaatat c          21
              <210>   1478
              <211>   403
              <212>   DNA
                                        1353

              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 1478
              ctagatcttc atgatatata gctcttttgt ttgttcttgg tgtccatgtt cgagggaggg    60
              tgccagtcgt tgcaacattg cagttatgta ttttgtgttt ttttttaatt ttattttggt   120
              gatattaagg ttggtccatt agacggcctt gcgacgacgg gatattgggg cggttcaatc   180
              agaaagcttg tgctccagaa gcgaggagct ctactctttt gattgagccg tgccaatatc   240
<removed-apn>
              acgtcgcatc catcactttg gatgtttctt tcatgcaggt ggtcttgatt cccttgtttt   300
              tcgccagcat tgtaggttta tttgttactt tatttctgtg tttagctacg attagtgata   360
              atctggattt gtatatatat atatatatat atatatatac agt                     403
              <210>   1479
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1479
              gaaggcgcgg ccaaca                                                    16
              <210>   1480
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1480
              gaaggcgcgg ccaaca                                                    16
              <210>   1481
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1481
              gaaggcgcgg ccaaca                                                    16
              <210>   1482
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1482
              gaaggcgcgg ccaaca                                                    16
                                                   1354

<removed-date>
              <210>   1483
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1483
              gaaggcgcgg ccaaca                                                   16
              <210>   1484
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1484
              gaagggcggc caaca                                                    15
              <210>   1485
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1485
              gaaggcgcgg ccaaa                                                    15
              <210>   1486
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1486
              agaatcttga tgatgctgca t                                             21
              <210>   1487
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1487
              ggaatcttga tgatgctgca t                                             21
              <210>   1488
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1488
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc   60
                                                   1355

<removed-date>
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
<removed-apn>
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1489
              <211>   639
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1489
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggggcagcat cactatcaag   480
              attctattgt tctcatctat ctgggtctgt ctgttggctg cccggtgacg gtatacggtg   540
              atgttctaat agtactcaat tggtcttgga tcggagttca tgctacggct cctctgttat   600
              atattacacg gctgacggct cctccttatt aatgtgtac                          639
                                                   1356

<removed-date>
              <210>   1490
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1490
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
<removed-apn>
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggttgcagca tcactatcaa   480
              gattccattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1491
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1491
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
                                                   1357

<removed-date>
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggctgcagca tcactatcaa   480
              gattctattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1492
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1492
              agagaccaca gcaaaca                                                   17
              <210>   1493
              <211>   337
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1493
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tccatgatgc tggtgagtgg   120
              tgccccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat ggcaccactc acaagaatca tggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtatat                            337
              <210>   1494
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1494
              cgcagcacac aggacc                                                    16
              <210>   1495
                                                   1358

              <211>   16
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1495
              cgcagcacac aggacc                     16
              <210>   1496
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1496
              cgcagcacac aggacc                     16
              <210>   1497
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1497
              cgcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1498
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1498
              agcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1499
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1499
              cgcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1500
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1500
              gagcacacag gacc                       14
                                             1359

              <210>   1501
<removed-date>
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1501
              cagcagcaca caggac                     16
              <210>   1502
              <211>   15
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1502
              gcagcacaca ggacc                      15
              <210>   1503
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1503
              agcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1504
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1504
              gagcacacag gacc                       14
              <210>   1505
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1505
              cgcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1506
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1506
              cagcagcaca caggac                     16
                                             1360

<removed-date>
              <210>   1507
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1507
              ggcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1508
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1508
              cgcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1509
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1509
              gagcacacag gacc                       14
              <210>   1510
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1510
              agcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1511
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1511
              cgcagcacac aggac                      15
              <210>   1512
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1512
              cgcagcacac aggac                      15
                                             1361

<removed-date>
              <210>   1513
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1513
              cgcagcacac aggac               15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1514
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1514
              cgcagcacac aggacc              16
              <210>   1515
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1515
              cgcagcacac aggac               15
              <210>   1516
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1516
              cgcagcacac aggac               15
              <210>   1517
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1517
              cgcagcacac aagcc               15
              <210>   1518
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400>   1518
                                      1362

              cgcagcacac aggac             15
<removed-date>
              <210>   1519
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1519
              cgcagcacac aggac             15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1520
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1520
              agcagcacac aggacg            16
              <210>   1521
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1521
              cgcagcacac agga              14
              <210>   1522
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1522
              cgcagcacac aggac             15
              <210>   1523
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1523
              cgcagcacac aggac             15
              <210>   1524
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                    1363

              <400> 1524
<removed-date>
              cgcagcacac aggac                     15
              <210>   1525
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1525
              cgcagcacac aggacc                    16
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1526
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1526
              cgcagcacac aagcc                     15
              <210>   1527
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1527
              cgcagcacac aggacc                    16
              <210>   1528
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1528
              cgcagcacac aggac                     15
              <210>   1529
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1529
              cgcagcacac aggacc                    16
              <210>   1530
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
                                            1364

<removed-date>
              <400> 1530
              cgcagcacac aggacc                    16
              <210>   1531
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1531
<removed-apn>
              cgcagcacac aggacc                    16
              <210>   1532
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1532
              cagcagcaca caggac                    16
              <210>   1533
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1533
              cgcagcacac aggac                     15
              <210>   1534
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1534
              cgcagcacac aggac                     15
              <210>   1535
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1535
              cgcagcacac acgacc                    16
              <210>   1536
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
                                            1365

              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 1536
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1537
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1537
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1538
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1538
              cgcagcacac acgacc             16
              <210>   1539
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1539
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1540
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1540
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1541
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1541
              cgcagcacac aggacc             16
              <210>   1542
              <211>   15
                                     1366

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1542
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1543
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1543
              cgcagcacac acgacc             16
              <210>   1544
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1544
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1545
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1545
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1546
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1546
              cgcagcacac aggac              15
              <210>   1547
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1547
              cgcagcacac aggacc             16
              <210>   1548
                                     1367

              <211>   15
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1548
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1549
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1549
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1550
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1550
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1551
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1551
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1552
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1552
              cgcagcacac agga                    14
              <210>   1553
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1553
              cgcagcacac agga                    14
                                          1368

              <210>   1554
<removed-date>
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1554
              cgcagcacac agga                    14
              <210>   1555
              <211>   14
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1555
              gcagcacaca ggac                    14
              <210>   1556
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1556
              cagcagcaca caggacc                 17
              <210>   1557
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1557
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1558
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1558
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1559
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1559
              cgcagcacac acgacc                  16
                                          1369

<removed-date>
              <210>   1560
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1560
              cgcagcacac acgacc                  16
              <210>   1561
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1561
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1562
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1562
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1563
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1563
              cgcagcacac aggac                   15
              <210>   1564
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1564
              cgcagcacac acgacc                  16
              <210>   1565
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1565
              cgcagcacac acgacc                  16
                                          1370

<removed-date>
              <210>   1566
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1566
              cgcagcacac aggac           15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1567
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1567
              cgcagcacac acgacc          16
              <210>   1568
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1568
              cgcagcacac acgacc          16
              <210>   1569
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1569
              cgcagcacac acgacc          16
              <210>   1570
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1570
              cgcagcacac aggac           15
              <210>   1571
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   1571
                                  1371

              cgcagcacac aggac           15
<removed-date>
              <210>   1572
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1572
              cgcagcacac aggacc          16
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1573
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1573
              cgcagcacac aggac           15
              <210>   1574
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1574
              cgcagcacac acgacc          16
              <210>   1575
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1575
              cgcagcacac aggac           15
              <210>   1576
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1576
              cgcagcacac agga            14
              <210>   1577
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                  1372

              <400> 1577
<removed-date>
              cgcagcacac aggac          15
              <210>   1578
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1578
              cgcagcacac aggac          15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1579
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1579
              cgcagcacac aggac          15
              <210>   1580
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1580
              cgcagcacac aggac          15
              <210>   1581
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1581
              ggcagcacac aggac          15
              <210>   1582
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1582
              cgcagcacac aggac          15
              <210>   1583
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                 1373

<removed-date>
              <400> 1583
              cgcagcacac aggac                                                     15
              <210>   1584
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1584
<removed-apn>
              ttggactgaa gggtgctccc                                                20
              <210>   1585
              <211>   490
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1585
              tgctttgccc ccctcattcc atttatgttt tattcctgtc atcttcgtga cctagttagt    60
              ttccttttct ttgccgcgtt gtttaagatt tccattgtat ttcttgtttt gcaattcatt   120
              tggtgctcca agattgtggc tttgactaca tgtgtaagaa gagagctctc ttcagtccac   180
              tctcagatgg ctgtagggtt ttattagctg ccgaatcatc cattcaccta ccaggaaagt   240
              tgcaggagtg tatctcttgg tagcggactg gatgacgcgg gagctaaaat ttagctctgc   300
              gccgtttgtg gttggactga agggtgctcc cttgctcaag cactcgtgca taaaatcatg   360
              ccctaatgtt aataataatc ttcagatttc tatatgagtt ttatgtccag tgtgttcagt   420
              ttcaagattt ggactttttt tttatatcag tggtcaatga cctgggaaat ctacagacag   480
              aaatctactg                                                          490
              <210>   1586
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1586
              agggggaccc cagccaa                                                   17
              <210>   1587
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1374

              <400> 1587
<removed-date>
              agggggaccc cagccaa          17
              <210>   1588
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1588
              agggggaccc cagccaa          17
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1589
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1589
              gggaaccccc agccag           16
              <210>   1590
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1590
              gggaaccccc agccag           16
              <210>   1591
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1591
              gggaaccccc agccag           16
              <210>   1592
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1592
              gggggacccc cagccag          17
              <210>   1593
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                   1375

<removed-date>
              <400> 1593
              aggggacccc cagccag                                                   17
              <210>   1594
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1594
<removed-apn>
              aggggacccc cagccag                                                   17
              <210>   1595
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1595
              ttggcattct gtccacctcc                                                20
              <210>   1596
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1596
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1597
                                                   1376

              <211>   640
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1597
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
<removed-apn>
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa gggagttcaa gaagtcagcc   480
              tgtggaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1598
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1598
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
                                                   1377

<removed-date>
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcagttcaa gaactcagct   480
              gtggaaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1599
<removed-apn>
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1599
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcagttcaa gaactcagct   480
              gtggaaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1600
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1600
              ggggggggac agaacgccga                                                20
              <210>   1601
              <211>   16
                                                   1378

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1601
              ggaggagaag aagcag                     16
              <210>   1602
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1602
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa                   18
              <210>   1603
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1603
              ggagggacag aagccaa                    17
              <210>   1604
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1604
              gaggcggaca gaagcgg                    17
              <210>   1605
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1605
              gcaggggaca aaagcaa                    17
              <210>   1606
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1606
              cgaggggaca gcagcag                    17
              <210>   1607
                                             1379

              <211>   17
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1607
              ggagggacag aagccaa                    17
              <210>   1608
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1608
              agagaagaca gaagcaa                    17
              <210>   1609
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1609
              ggagggacag aagccaa                    17
              <210>   1610
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1610
              ggaggggacg gagccgg                    17
              <210>   1611
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1611
              ggagggacag aagccaa                    17
              <210>   1612
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1612
              ggagggacag aagccaa                    17
                                             1380

              <210>   1613
<removed-date>
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1613
              cgaggggacg gaagcaa               17
              <210>   1614
              <211>   17
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1614
              gagcggacag gagccac               17
              <210>   1615
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1615
              gaggggcaga agcag                 15
              <210>   1616
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1616
              gaagggacag aagccac               17
              <210>   1617
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1617
              ggagcggcag gagccaa               17
              <210>   1618
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1618
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa              18
                                        1381

<removed-date>
              <210>   1619
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1619
              agagcggcca gaagccag              18
              <210>   1620
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1620
              ggaggggaca ggcgccag              18
              <210>   1621
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1621
              gaggggaaga aaccag                16
              <210>   1622
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1622
              ggggcggaca gaagcaac              18
              <210>   1623
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1623
              ggggcggaca gaagcaac              18
              <210>   1624
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1624
              gaagggacag aagccag               17
                                        1382

<removed-date>
              <210>   1625
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1625
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa           18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1626
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1626
              gaagggaaga agcag              15
              <210>   1627
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1627
              ggaggggagg aagccgg            17
              <210>   1628
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1628
              ggagggacag aagcaaa            17
              <210>   1629
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1629
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa           18
              <210>   1630
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400>   1630
                                     1383

              ggaggggaca gaaggcgg                18
<removed-date>
              <210>   1631
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1631
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa                18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1632
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1632
              cgaggggaca ggagcga                 17
              <210>   1633
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1633
              ggaggaggac gggagcca                18
              <210>   1634
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1634
              gggagaggac agaagcca                18
              <210>   1635
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1635
              cgggggacag gggccaa                 17
              <210>   1636
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
                                          1384

              <400> 1636
<removed-date>
              ggagggacag aagcca                  16
              <210>   1637
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1637
              ggggggggca aaagcaa                 17
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1638
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1638
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa                18
              <210>   1639
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1639
              ggggggggac agaagcag                18
              <210>   1640
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1640
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa                18
              <210>   1641
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1641
              acagggacag aagccac                 17
              <210>   1642
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
                                          1385

<removed-date>
              <400> 1642
              ggaggggaca ggcgccag                18
              <210>   1643
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1643
<removed-apn>
              ggagcggaca ggcgccag                18
              <210>   1644
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1644
              acagggacag aagccac                 17
              <210>   1645
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1645
              ggagggagga agccgg                  16
              <210>   1646
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1646
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa                18
              <210>   1647
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1647
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa                18
              <210>   1648
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
                                          1386

              <213>   Triticum aestivum
<removed-date>
              <400> 1648
              ggaggaggac aggggcag                18
              <210>   1649
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1649
              aaaggggacg gaagccgg                18
              <210>   1650
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1650
              ggggccggac aggagccaa               19
              <210>   1651
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1651
              gggggggggc ggaagccag               19
              <210>   1652
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1652
              gcggaggaca ggagccaa                18
              <210>   1653
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1653
              gcggaggaca ggagccaa                18
              <210>   1654
              <211>   17
                                          1387

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1654
              cgaggggaag aagccaa            17
              <210>   1655
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1655
              ggacgaggac aggggccag          19
              <210>   1656
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1656
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa           18
              <210>   1657
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1657
              gcggaggaca ggagccaa           18
              <210>   1658
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1658
              gcggaggaca ggagccaa           18
              <210>   1659
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1659
              gcggaggaca ggagccaa           18
              <210>   1660
                                     1388

              <211>   15
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1660
              gagggaagaa gccac              15
              <210>   1661
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1661
              ggagcgacag aggccac            17
              <210>   1662
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1662
              ggaggcgacg gagccag            17
              <210>   1663
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1663
              agaggggacg ggagccgg           18
              <210>   1664
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1664
              gaggggggca aaagccaa           18
              <210>   1665
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1665
              ggaggcggac agaagccaa          19
                                     1389

              <210>   1666
<removed-date>
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1666
              ggagggacag gaggcag            17
              <210>   1667
              <211>   18
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1667
              ggaggggaca gaagccaa           18
              <210>   1668
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1668
              gcggaggaca ggagccaa           18
              <210>   1669
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1669
              ggaagggaag aagcca             16
              <210>   1670
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1670
              ggggggggcc agaagccaa          19
              <210>   1671
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1671
              ggggggggac agaaccca           18
                                     1390

<removed-date>
              <210>   1672
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1672
              tccaaaggga tcgcattgat c             21
              <210>   1673
<removed-apn>
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1673
              agacaagcga cccgga                   16
              <210>   1674
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1674
              aaacaagcga cccgga                   16
              <210>   1675
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1675
              aaacaagcga cccgga                   16
              <210>   1676
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1676
              agacaagcga cccgga                   16
              <210>   1677
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1677
              aaacaagcga cccgga                   16
                                           1391

<removed-date>
              <210>   1678
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1678
              aaacaagcga cccgga                     16
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1679
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1679
              aaacaagcga cccgga                     16
              <210>   1680
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1680
              agacaagcga cccgga                     16
              <210>   1681
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1681
              agaccagcga cccgga                     16
              <210>   1682
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1682
              aaacaagcga cccgga                     16
              <210>   1683
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400>   1683
                                             1392

              gaacaagcga cccgga               16
<removed-date>
              <210>   1684
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1684
              agacaagcga ccgga                15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1685
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1685
              agacaagcga ccgga                15
              <210>   1686
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1686
              aaacaagcga cccgga               16
              <210>   1687
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1687
              aaacgagcga cccgga               16
              <210>   1688
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1688
              aaacaagcga cccgga               16
              <210>   1689
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                       1393

              <400> 1689
<removed-date>
              aaacaagcga cccgga                    16
              <210>   1690
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1690
              agacaagcga cccgga                    16
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1691
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1691
              agacaagcga cccgga                    16
              <210>   1692
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1692
              aaacgagcga cccgga                    16
              <210>   1693
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1693
              aaacaagcga cccgga                    16
              <210>   1694
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1694
              aaacaagcga cccgga                    16
              <210>   1695
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
                                            1394

<removed-date>
              <400> 1695
              agacaagcga cccgga                16
              <210>   1696
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1696
<removed-apn>
              agacaagcga cccgga                16
              <210>   1697
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1697
              agacaagcga cccgga                16
              <210>   1698
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1698
              agacaagcga cccgga                16
              <210>   1699
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1699
              agacaagcga cccgga                16
              <210>   1700
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1700
              agacaagcga cccgga                16
              <210>   1701
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
                                        1395

              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
<removed-date>
              <400> 1701
              agacaagcga cccgga                  16
              <210>   1702
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1702
              agacaagcga cccgga                  16
              <210>   1703
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1703
              agacaagcga cccgga                  16
              <210>   1704
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1704
              agacaaccga cccgga                  16
              <210>   1705
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1705
              agacaagcga cccgga                  16
              <210>   1706
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1706
              agacaagcga cccgga                  16
              <210>   1707
              <211>   16
                                          1396

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1707
              agacaagcga cccgga                                                    16
              <210>   1708
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1708
              agacaagcga cccgga                                                    16
              <210>   1709
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1709
              agacaagcga cccgga                                                    16
              <210>   1710
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1710
              agacaagcga cccgga                                                    16
              <210>   1711
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1711
              tgaagtgttt gggggaactc                                                20
              <210>   1712
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1712
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
                                                   1397

              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
<removed-date>
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
<removed-apn>
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1713
              <211>   639
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1713
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcagttccc ccactaaaca   480
              cttcaattgt tctcatctat ctgggtctgt ctgttggctg cccggtgacg gtatacggtg   540
              atgttctaat agtactcaat tggtcttgga tcggagttca tgctacggct cctctgttat   600
              atattacacg gctgacggct cctccttatt aatgtgtac                          639
              <210>   1714
              <211>   14
                                                   1398

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1714
              gagccccaaa ccca                       14
              <210>   1715
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1715
              gagccccaaa ccca                       14
              <210>   1716
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1716
              gagccccaaa cacca                      15
              <210>   1717
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1717
              aaggccccaa acacca                     16
              <210>   1718
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1718
              gagccccaaa ccca                       14
              <210>   1719
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1719
              gagccccaaa cacca                      15
              <210>   1720
                                             1399

              <211>   15
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1720
              aagccccaaa cacca                      15
              <210>   1721
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1721
              gagccccaaa cacca                      15
              <210>   1722
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1722
              aagccaaaca ca                         12
              <210>   1723
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1723
              gagccccaaa cacca                      15
              <210>   1724
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1724
              gagccccaaa ccca                       14
              <210>   1725
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1725
              gagccccaaa ccca                       14
                                             1400

              <210>   1726
<removed-date>
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1726
              gagccccaaa ccca                    14
              <210>   1727
              <211>   15
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1727
              gagccccaaa cacca                   15
              <210>   1728
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1728
              gagccccaaa ccca                    14
              <210>   1729
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica oleracea
              <400> 1729
              aagccccaaa cacca                   15
              <210>   1730
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1730
              gagccccaaa cacca                   15
              <210>   1731
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1731
              aagcacccaa acacca                  16
                                          1401

<removed-date>
              <210>   1732
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1732
              gagccccaaa cgcca                 15
              <210>   1733
<removed-apn>
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1733
              aagccccaaa cacca                 15
              <210>   1734
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1734
              gagccccaaa cgcca                 15
              <210>   1735
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1735
              gagccccaag cacca                 15
              <210>   1736
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1736
              gagcacccaa acacca                16
              <210>   1737
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1737
              gagccccaag cacca                 15
                                        1402

<removed-date>
              <210>   1738
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1738
              gagccccaaa cacca                   15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1739
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1739
              gagcccccaa acacca                  16
              <210>   1740
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1740
              gagccccaag cacca                   15
              <210>   1741
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1741
              gagccccaag cacca                   15
              <210>   1742
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1742
              gagccccaag cacca                   15
              <210>   1743
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400>   1743
                                          1403

              gaggcccaag cacca                   15
<removed-date>
              <210>   1744
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1744
              cagcccccaa acacc                   15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1745
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1745
              gagccccaaa cacca                   15
              <210>   1746
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1746
              gagccccaaa cacca                   15
              <210>   1747
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1747
              gagccccaag cacca                   15
              <210>   1748
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1748
              gagccccaaa cacca                   15
              <210>   1749
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                          1404

              <400> 1749
<removed-date>
              gagccccaag cacca                                                     15
              <210>   1750
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1750
              tgtgttctca ggtcgccccc g                                              21
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1751
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1751
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1752
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1752
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
                                                   1405

              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
<removed-date>
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
<removed-apn>
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa gggaggggcg accgtatgag   480
              aacacaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1753
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1753
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcaggggtg accgtatgag   480
              aacacaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
                                                   1406

              <210>   1754
<removed-date>
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1754
              cagggggacc gagaacaca                  19
              <210>   1755
              <211>   18
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1755
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                   18
              <210>   1756
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1756
              caggggaccg aaaacaca                   18
              <210>   1757
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1757
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                   18
              <210>   1758
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1758
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca                   18
              <210>   1759
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1759
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca                   18
                                             1407

<removed-date>
              <210>   1760
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1760
              caggggcgcc gagaacaca               19
              <210>   1761
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1761
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1762
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1762
              cgggggccgc cgagacaca               19
              <210>   1763
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1763
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
              <210>   1764
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1764
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1765
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1765
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca                18
                                          1408

<removed-date>
              <210>   1766
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1766
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1767
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1767
              ccggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1768
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1768
              ccggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1769
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1769
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
              <210>   1770
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1770
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
              <210>   1771
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400>   1771
                                          1409

              cgggggcacc gagacaca                18
<removed-date>
              <210>   1772
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1772
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1773
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1773
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
              <210>   1774
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1774
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
              <210>   1775
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1775
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
              <210>   1776
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1776
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1777
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
                                          1410

              <400> 1777
<removed-date>
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1778
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1778
              ccgccggacc gagagcaca               19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1779
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1779
              cgggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1780
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1780
              ccggggcacc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1781
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1781
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1782
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1782
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca                18
              <210>   1783
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                          1411

<removed-date>
              <400> 1783
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca            18
              <210>   1784
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1784
<removed-apn>
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca            18
              <210>   1785
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1785
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca            18
              <210>   1786
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1786
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca            18
              <210>   1787
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1787
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca            18
              <210>   1788
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1788
              cggggagagc cgagaacaca          20
              <210>   1789
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
                                      1412

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 1789
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca          18
              <210>   1790
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1790
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca          18
              <210>   1791
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1791
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca          18
              <210>   1792
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1792
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca          18
              <210>   1793
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1793
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca          18
              <210>   1794
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1794
              cgggggcgcc gagacaca          18
              <210>   1795
              <211>   19
                                    1413

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1795
              cgggggccgc cgagacaca                                                 19
              <210>   1796
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1796
              tgccaaagga gaattgccct g                                              21
              <210>   1797
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1797
              tgccaaagga gagctgtcct g                                              21
              <210>   1798
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1798
              tgccaaagga gagctgccct g                                              21
              <210>   1799
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1799
              tgccaaagga gagttgccct g                                              21
              <210>   1800
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1800
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
                                                   1414

              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
<removed-date>
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
<removed-apn>
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1801
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1801
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1802
              <211>   336
                                                   1415

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1802
              aattcattac attgataaaa cacaattcaa aagatcaatg ttccacttca tgcaaagaca    60
              tttccaaaat atgtgtaggt agaggggttt tacaggatcg tccacggttt ccagtaaacg   120
<removed-apn>
              ggacccacat gatgcagcta tgtttgctat gtcccgttta ctcgataccg tggtcgccct   180
              tgttggactg tccaactcct actgattgcg gatgcacttg ccacaaatga aaatcaaagc   240
              gaggggaaaa gaatgtagag tgtgactacg attgcatgca tgtgatttag gtaattaagt   300
              tacatgattg tctaattgtg tttatggaat tgtata                             336
              <210>   1803
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1803
              agggcaaacc ggca                                                      14
              <210>   1804
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1804
              cgggcaaacc cggca                                                     15
              <210>   1805
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1805
              cagggcaacc cggc                                                      14
              <210>   1806
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400>   1806
                                                   1416

              cgggcaaacc cggca                     15
<removed-date>
              <210>   1807
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1807
              ggggcaaacc cggca                     15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1808
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1808
              cagggcaaac ccggca                    16
              <210>   1809
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1809
              cagggcaaac cggca                     15
              <210>   1810
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1810
              cagggcaacc cggc                      14
              <210>   1811
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1811
              cagggcaacc ccggca                    16
              <210>   1812
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
                                            1417

              <400> 1812
<removed-date>
              cagggcaacc cggc                    14
              <210>   1813
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1813
              agggcaaacc cggca                   15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1814
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1814
              agggcaaacc cggca                   15
              <210>   1815
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1815
              agggcaaacc cggca                   15
              <210>   1816
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1816
              cgggcaaacc cggca                   15
              <210>   1817
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1817
              agggcaaacc cggcg                   15
              <210>   1818
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                          1418

<removed-date>
              <400> 1818
              tgcactgcct cttccctggc                                                20
              <210>   1819
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1819
<removed-apn>
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1820
              <211>   641
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1820
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
                                                   1419

              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
<removed-date>
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtccaggga agactaggca   480
              gtgcatgatt gttctcatct atctgggtct gtctgttggc tgcccggtga cggtatacgg   540
              tgatgttcta atagtactca attggtcttg gatcggagtt catgctacgg ctcctctgtt   600
              atatattaca cggctgacgg ctcctcctta ttaatgtgta c                       641
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1821
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1821
              cgcagggaag gggcaggca                                                 19
              <210>   1822
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 1822
              cgcagggaag gggcaggca                                                 19
              <210>   1823
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (19)..(19)
              <223>   n is a, c, g, or t
              <400> 1823
              ccaagggaag aggcaggcn                                                 19
              <210>   1824
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1824
              gccgggaaga ggcggca                                                   17
                                                   1420

<removed-date>
              <210>   1825
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1825
              gccgggaaga ggcggca                    17
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1826
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1826
              ccaagggaag aggcaggca                  19
              <210>   1827
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1827
              ccaagggaag aggcaggca                  19
              <210>   1828
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 1828
              ccaagggaag aggcaggca                  19
              <210>   1829
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1829
              cgggaagagg caggca                     16
              <210>   1830
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400>   1830
                                             1421

              ccgggaagag gcaggca           17
<removed-date>
              <210>   1831
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1831
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg          18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1832
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1832
              gcagggaaga ggcaggc           17
              <210>   1833
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1833
              ccagggaaga ggcaggca          18
              <210>   1834
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1834
              gccaggaaga ggcggca           17
              <210>   1835
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1835
              gccaggagga ggcggca           17
              <210>   1836
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                    1422

              <400> 1836
<removed-date>
              ccagggaaga ggcaggca          18
              <210>   1837
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1837
              ccagggaaga ggcaggca          18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1838
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1838
              ccgggaagag gcaggca           17
              <210>   1839
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1839
              ccagggaaga ggcaggca          18
              <210>   1840
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1840
              ccgggaagag gcaggca           17
              <210>   1841
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1841
              ccgggaagag gcaggca           17
              <210>   1842
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                    1423

<removed-date>
              <400> 1842
              ccgggaagag gcaggca                   17
              <210>   1843
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1843
<removed-apn>
              caagggaaga ggcaggca                  18
              <210>   1844
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1844
              cgagggaaga ggcaggc                   17
              <210>   1845
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1845
              gcagggaaga gacaggc                   17
              <210>   1846
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1846
              ccgggaagag gcaggca                   17
              <210>   1847
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1847
              gcagggaaga gacaggc                   17
              <210>   1848
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
                                            1424

              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-date>
              <400> 1848
              cgcagggaag aggcaggca             19
              <210>   1849
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1849
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg              18
              <210>   1850
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1850
              cgcagggaag aggcaggcc             19
              <210>   1851
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1851
              gcaggcaaga ggcaggc               17
              <210>   1852
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1852
              cgggggaaga ggcaggc               17
              <210>   1853
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1853
              gccaggagga ggcaggca              18
              <210>   1854
              <211>   18
                                        1425

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1854
              gccaggaaga ggcaggca           18
              <210>   1855
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1855
              gccgggaaga ggcggca            17
              <210>   1856
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1856
              gcaggaagag gcggca             16
              <210>   1857
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1857
              gccaggaaga ggcaggca           18
              <210>   1858
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1858
              gccaggaaga ggcaggca           18
              <210>   1859
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1859
              gcaggcaaga ggcaggc            17
              <210>   1860
                                     1426

              <211>   17
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1860
              ccagggaagg ggcaggc               17
              <210>   1861
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1861
              gccgggaaga ggcggca               17
              <210>   1862
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1862
              ccggggaaga ggcaggca              18
              <210>   1863
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1863
              cccagggaag aggcaggca             19
              <210>   1864
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1864
              ccagggaagg ggcaggc               17
              <210>   1865
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1865
              gcaggcaaga ggcaggc               17
                                        1427

              <210>   1866
<removed-date>
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1866
              ccagggaagg ggcaggc               17
              <210>   1867
              <211>   18
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1867
              ccggggaaga ggcaggcc              18
              <210>   1868
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1868
              ccagggaagg ggcaggcg              18
              <210>   1869
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1869
              gccgggaaga ggcggca               17
              <210>   1870
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1870
              ccggggaaga ggcaggcc              18
              <210>   1871
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1871
              agcagggaag aggcaggga             19
                                        1428

<removed-date>
              <210>   1872
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1872
              cggggaagag gcaagca                 17
              <210>   1873
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1873
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg                18
              <210>   1874
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1874
              gccgggaaga ggagcca                 17
              <210>   1875
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1875
              gcaggcaaga ggcaggc                 17
              <210>   1876
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1876
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg                18
              <210>   1877
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1877
              gcaggaagag gccggca                 17
                                          1429

<removed-date>
              <210>   1878
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1878
              cccagggaag aggcgggcg               19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1879
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1879
              cgcagggaag aggcaggcc               19
              <210>   1880
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1880
              gccagggcag aggcaggca               19
              <210>   1881
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1881
              cgcagggaag aggcaggcc               19
              <210>   1882
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1882
              ccgggaagag gcaggcg                 17
              <210>   1883
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400>   1883
                                          1430

              cccagggaag aggcaggca               19
<removed-date>
              <210>   1884
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1884
              cccagggaag aggcaggca               19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1885
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1885
              gacaggggga ggcaggca                18
              <210>   1886
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1886
              ccagggaaga ggaaggcg                18
              <210>   1887
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1887
              ccagggaaga ggcgggcg                18
              <210>   1888
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1888
              ccgggaagag gcaggca                 17
              <210>   1889
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
                                          1431

              <400> 1889
<removed-date>
              ccgggggaag aggcgggca               19
              <210>   1890
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1890
              gccgggaaga ggcggcg                 17
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1891
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1891
              gcagggaagg gcaggc                  16
              <210>   1892
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1892
              gcaggcaaga ggcaggc                 17
              <210>   1893
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1893
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg                18
              <210>   1894
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1894
              gccaggaaga ggcggca                 17
              <210>   1895
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                          1432

<removed-date>
              <400> 1895
              ccggggaaga ggcaggca          18
              <210>   1896
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1896
<removed-apn>
              cgagggaaga ggcaggca          18
              <210>   1897
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1897
              gcaggcaaga ggcaggc           17
              <210>   1898
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1898
              ccgggaagag gcaggca           17
              <210>   1899
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1899
              ggcagggaag aggcaggg          18
              <210>   1900
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1900
              ggcagggaag aggcaggg          18
              <210>   1901
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
                                    1433

              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-date>
              <400> 1901
              gccagggagg agacaggcc          19
              <210>   1902
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1902
              gccgggaaga ggcggca            17
              <210>   1903
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1903
              ggcagggaag aggcaggg           18
              <210>   1904
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1904
              gccgggaaga ggcggca            17
              <210>   1905
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1905
              gcagggaaaa ggcaggcg           18
              <210>   1906
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1906
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg           18
              <210>   1907
              <211>   18
                                     1434

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1907
              ccagggaaga ggcaggcg          18
              <210>   1908
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1908
              gccaggaaga ggcggca           17
              <210>   1909
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1909
              gccaggaaga ggcggca           17
              <210>   1910
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1910
              gcagggaaaa ggcaggcg          18
              <210>   1911
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1911
              ccaggggaga gacaggca          18
              <210>   1912
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1912
              ccagggaagg gcaggc            16
              <210>   1913
                                    1435

              <211>   19
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1913
              gccagggagg agacaggcc          19
              <210>   1914
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1914
              ccagggaagg gcaggc             16
              <210>   1915
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1915
              cgagggaaga ggcaggca           18
              <210>   1916
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1916
              gcagggaaga gacgggc            17
              <210>   1917
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1917
              gccaggaaga ggcggca            17
              <210>   1918
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1918
              ggcagggaag aggcaggg           18
                                     1436

              <210>   1919
<removed-date>
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1919
              gccagggagg agacaggcc          19
              <210>   1920
              <211>   17
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1920
              gccgggaaga ggcggca            17
              <210>   1921
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1921
              gccgggaaga ggcggca            17
              <210>   1922
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1922
              ccaggggaga gacaggca           18
              <210>   1923
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1923
              cgagggaaga ggcaggca           18
              <210>   1924
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1924
              ggcagggaag aggcaggg           18
                                     1437

<removed-date>
              <210>   1925
              <211>   17
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1925
              ccagggaagg ggcaggc                                                   17
              <210>   1926
<removed-apn>
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1926
              tgttgtctca agcttgctgc c                                              21
              <210>   1927
              <211>   710
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1927
              ccgttgcttc cccgttagct tctcccttgt cacaccccct cgcttcgttc tgcgtagttt    60
              cggggtttga caccgcttgt ctatcccgtt cctatagctt ttagggtttc gagctcaaac   120
              tccgcgccgg catctcagtt gctgcaagtg gcggcggcaa gctagaggca gcaactgcat   180
              accttgcaag aaaaaatcgg ttttgttgac gtaccgatga ttttcttgca agttgtgcag   240
              ttgttgtctc aagcttgctg cctccctttg ccagaactat tgaatgtgaa agcacagtta   300
              agtaatgcca cgcccagaga atccaaaagg ttgctgatat aaaaagttgc taataagtgg   360
              tggaactttt agcggagtaa aattgtatgc ctttatgaaa taactgaagt agatatgttg   420
              gcatgctatt gtttgaatca agaaatgata ttatatactc cctccgtccc aaaatattag   480
              tcgttttagc cattgaattt atgtctatat ttaaatgaat gacaatgaat ctatatataa   540
              tataaaacac atacattaag tattgtatga atctagtaaa atgctaaaac gactaatatt   600
              ttgggacgga gggagtacaa aataacaaga cgagaaatga ctgtatgaaa tcaattaagg   660
              caaatacaaa acctcttcat cttgtgttga tattttattt cagacacata              710
              <210>   1928
              <211>   684
              <212>   DNA
                                                   1438

              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 1928
              atggggagag ggaagattgc catcaagagg atcgacaaca cgatgaaccg gcaggtgacc    60
              ttctcgaagc ggcgcggcgg gctgatgaag aaggcccggg agctggccat cctctgcgac   120
              gccgacgtcg gcctcattgt cttctcctgc accggccgcc tctacgactt ctccagctca   180
              agcatgaaat caataataga gcggtaccag gaggcaggag aggagcattg tcggttgctg   240
<removed-apn>
              aacccaatgt cagaggctaa gttttggcag cgggaggtta caactttgag gcagcaagtg   300
              caaaacttac accacaacaa caggcaactt ttgggagagg aaatctccaa cttcacagtt   360
              agagatctgc agcttctcca gaaccaagtt gagatgagcc tacattccat aagaaataaa   420
              aaggatcaac ttttggcaga ggagattcta aaactcaatg aaaaggggtc tcttgttcaa   480
              aaggagaaca gtgaacttcg caagaagttc aacattgctc atcaacgcaa catagaatta   540
              cacaagaagc ttaactctgg agaaagcacg tcaagtgagc aagttaccag aagctcaaag   600
              gatcccggag aatcgagtac accccgtgat tcacgtgtgt gtattgacct tgaattgagt   660
              caaaaagaag ttgaagatga atag                                          684
              <210>   1929
              <211>   684
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1929
              atggggagag ggaagattgc catcaagagg atcgacaaca cgatgaaccg gcaggtgacc    60
              ttctcgaagc ggcgcggcgg gctgatgaag aaggcccggg agctggccat cctctgcgac   120
              gccgacgtcg gcctcattgt cttctcctgc accggccgcc tctacgactt ctccagctca   180
              agcatgaaat caataataga gcggtaccag gaggcaggag aggagcattg tcggttgctg   240
              aacccaatgt cagaggctaa gttttggcag cgggaggtta caactctccg acagcaggta   300
              caaaacttac accacaacaa caggcaactt ttgggagagg aaatctccaa cttcacagtt   360
              agagatctgc agcttctcca gaaccaagtt gagatgagcc tacattccat aagaaataaa   420
              aaggatcaac ttttggcaga ggagattcta aaactcaatg aaaaggggtc tcttgttcaa   480
                                                   1439

              aaggagaaca gtgaacttcg caagaagttc aacattgctc atcaacgcaa catagaatta   540
<removed-date>
              cacaagaagc ttaactctgg agaaagcacg tcaagtgagc aagttaccag aagctcaaag   600
              gatcccggag aatcgagtac accccgtgat tcacgtgtgt gtattgacct tgaattgagt   660
              caaaaagaag ttgaagatga atag                                          684
              <210>   1930
              <211>   640
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1930
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1931
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1931
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
                                                   1440

              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
<removed-date>
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggccagcaag cttctagagg   480
              cagcaaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
<removed-apn>
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1932
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1932
              agagcaagcg cggcaaca                                                  18
              <210>   1933
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 1933
              agcagcaagc gaggcaaca                                                 19
              <210>   1934
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400> 1934
              agcagcaagc gaggcaaca                                                 19
              <210>   1935
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1935
              ggcaccaagc agaggcaaca                                                20
                                                   1441

              <210>   1936
<removed-date>
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1936
              ggcaccaagc agaggcaaca            20
              <210>   1937
              <211>   19
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1937
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca             19
              <210>   1938
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1938
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca             19
              <210>   1939
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1939
              ggcagcaagc gaggcagca             19
              <210>   1940
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1940
              ggcagcaagc gaggcagca             19
              <210>   1941
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1941
              ggcaccaagc agaggcaaca            20
                                        1442

<removed-date>
              <210>   1942
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1942
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca             19
              <210>   1943
<removed-apn>
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1943
              ggcagcaagc gaggcagca             19
              <210>   1944
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1944
              ggcggcaagc agagacagca            20
              <210>   1945
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1945
              ggcaccaagc agaggcaaca            20
              <210>   1946
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1946
              ggcagcaagc gaggcagca             19
              <210>   1947
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1947
              ggcaacaagc gagacaaca             19
                                        1443

<removed-date>
              <210>   1948
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1948
              ggcagcaagc gaggcaaca               19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1949
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1949
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca               19
              <210>   1950
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1950
              ggcagcaagc gaggcaaca               19
              <210>   1951
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1951
              ggcagcaagc gaggcagca               19
              <210>   1952
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1952
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca               19
              <210>   1953
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400>   1953
                                          1444

              ggcggcaagc agagacagca          20
<removed-date>
              <210>   1954
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1954
              ggcagcaagc gaggcaaca           19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1955
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1955
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca           19
              <210>   1956
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1956
              ggcggcaagc agaggcagca          20
              <210>   1957
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1957
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca           19
              <210>   1958
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1958
              ggcagcaagc gaggcaaca           19
              <210>   1959
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                      1445

              <400> 1959
<removed-date>
              ggcagcaagc gagacaaca           19
              <210>   1960
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1960
              ggcagcaagc agaggcagca          20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   1961
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1961
              ggcagcaagc agaggcagca          20
              <210>   1962
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1962
              ggcggcaagc agaggcagca          20
              <210>   1963
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1963
              ggcagcaagc agaggcagca          20
              <210>   1964
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1964
              ggcagaaagc gaggcagca           19
              <210>   1965
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                      1446

<removed-date>
              <400> 1965
              ggcggcaagc agaggcagca                                                20
              <210>   1966
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1966
<removed-apn>
              ggcagcaagc agaggcagca                                                20
              <210>   1967
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1967
              ggcagaaagc gaggcagca                                                 19
              <210>   1968
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1968
              ggcagcaagc agaggcagca                                                20
              <210>   1969
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1969
              tggaaggggc atgcagagga g                                              21
              <210>   1970
              <211>   640
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1970
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
                                                   1447

              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
<removed-date>
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggtagggcaa cttgtatcct   480
              ttggcaattg ttctcatcta tctgggtctg tctgttggct gcccggtgac ggtatacggt   540
<removed-apn>
              gatgttctaa tagtactcaa ttggtcttgg atcggagttc atgctacggc tcctctgtta   600
              tatattacac ggctgacggc tcctccttat taatgtgtac                         640
              <210>   1971
              <211>   642
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 1971
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc    60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc   120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac   180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc   240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc   300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct   360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg   420
              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggatcctctg catctagccc   480
              cttccacaat tgttctcatc tatctgggtc tgtctgttgg ctgcccggtg acggtatacg   540
              gtgatgttct aatagtactc aattggtctt ggatcggagt tcatgctacg gctcctctgt   600
              tatatattac acggctgacg gctcctcctt attaatgtgt ac                      642
              <210>   1972
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
                                                   1448

<removed-date>
              <400> 1972
              cccccgcagc cccc                  14
              <210>   1973
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1973
<removed-apn>
              ccccgcagcc cc                    12
              <210>   1974
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1974
              cccgcgcccc a                     11
              <210>   1975
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Hordeum vulgare
              <400> 1975
              ccccgcgccc ccca                  14
              <210>   1976
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1976
              ccccgcagcc cgcc                  14
              <210>   1977
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1977
              ccccagcagc ccacca                16
              <210>   1978
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
                                        1449

              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-date>
              <400> 1978
              cccgcgcccc ca                    12
              <210>   1979
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1979
              accggcagcc cca                   13
              <210>   1980
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1980
              cccgcgcccc ca                    12
              <210>   1981
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1981
              ccccgcgccc ccca                  14
              <210>   1982
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 1982
              acggcagccc ca                    12
              <210>   1983
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sorghum bicolor
              <400> 1983
              ccccgcagcc ccc                   13
              <210>   1984
              <211>   14
                                        1450

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1984
              ccccgcgccc ccca                    14
              <210>   1985
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1985
              ccccgcagcc cc                      12
              <210>   1986
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1986
              ccccagcagc cgcca                   15
              <210>   1987
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1987
              cccccgcggc cccc                    14
              <210>   1988
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1988
              cccggcggcc ccca                    14
              <210>   1989
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1989
              cccggcggcc ccca                    14
              <210>   1990
                                          1451

              <211>   14
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Triticum aestivum
              <400> 1990
              ccccgcgccc ccca                    14
              <210>   1991
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1991
              ccccgcagcc ccc                     13
              <210>   1992
              <211>   14
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1992
              ccccgcggcc ccag                    14
              <210>   1993
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1993
              ccgcgcagcc cccga                   15
              <210>   1994
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1994
              ccccgcagcc ccc                     13
              <210>   1995
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 1995
              ttagatgacc atcagcaaac a            21
                                          1452

              <210>   1996
<removed-date>
              <211>   11
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1996
              gggaggcaca a                          11
              <210>   1997
              <211>   13
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1997
              aacggaggca caa                        13
              <210>   1998
              <211>   13
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 1998
              aacggaggca caa                        13
              <210>   1999
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica napus
              <400> 1999
              gaggaggcac aa                         12
              <210>   2000
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica rapa
              <400> 2000
              gaggaggcac aa                         12
              <210>   2001
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Brassica oleracea
              <400> 2001
              agggaggcac aa                         12
                                             1453

<removed-date>
              <210>   2002
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 2002
              gaggaggcac aa                                                        12
              <210>   2003
<removed-apn>
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 2003
              aggcgagcac aa                                                        12
              <210>   2004
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2004
              cggcgagcac aa                                                        12
              <210>   2005
              <211>   12
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2005
              cggcgagcac aa                                                        12
              <210>   2006
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2006
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attaatacgt   120
              ttcgagactc cagaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcctg gagtctaaca   180
              atgtattaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
                                                   1454

<removed-date>
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2007
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2007
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attaattctg   120
              ccctatgtct ctcaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcgag agacatcacg   180
              cggaattaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2008
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2008
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attattccat   120
              cacactctga cggaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcccg tcagagaacg   180
              atggagtaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
                                                   1455

              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                 408
<removed-date>
              <210>   2009
              <211>   2082
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2009
              atgggcgact cctcggtggc cggcgcgctc gtgccgtctg tgcccaagcc ggagcccgcg     60
<removed-apn>
              ccgtccggtg acacctccgc ggcggccgcg gcgactacag cggcgctggc gatgccggag    120
              gaggcgggta tgcgcgcggc gtcggcgtcg cctcaggggc ctgcggagga gggggagggc    180
              cccgccgata gggaccttct ctgcccgatc tgcatggccg tcatcaagga cgccttcctc    240
              accgcatgcg gccacagctt ctgctacatg tgcatcgtca cgcatctcag caacaagagc    300
              gactgcccct gctgcggcca ctaccttacc aaggcccagc tctaccccaa ctttctcctt    360
              gacaaggttc tgaagaaaat atcagcccaa caaatagcaa aaacagcatc gccgatcgat    420
              caatttcgat gtgcattgca acagggaaat gaaatggggg ttaaagagtt ggatagcctt    480
              atgactttga ttgctgagaa gaagcggcaa atggaacaac aagaatcaga gacaaatatg    540
              caaatattgc tagtcttctt acactgcctt agaaagcaaa agctagaaga gttgaatgag    600
              attcaaactg atctacaata catcaaagag gatataagtt ctgtggagag acatagggca    660
              gaattatatc gcacaaaaga aaggtactcc atgaagctgc gcatgctttt agatgagcct    720
              actgcgcaaa aaatgtggcc ctctcctata gacaaagcta gctgtcgctt tcttcccaac    780
              tctcggacac cacttagtgg atcatgtcca ggaactttac agaataagaa gcttgatttg    840
              aaagctcaag taagccatca aggatttcaa aggagagatg ctctaacttc ttctgatcct    900
              cctaactccc ctatacaatc gggtaatgtt attgctagga agaggcgagt tcaagcacag    960
              ttcaatgagc ttcaagaata ctacctgcaa agacgtcgta ctggagcaca ggcacgcaga   1020
              caggaagaaa gagatatagt tgcaatgaat agagaaggct atcatgcagg tcttcaggat   1080
              ttccagtctg tgctaacaac gttcactcga tacagtcgtc tacgtgtcat tgcggaacta   1140
              agacatggag acttgtttca ctctgccaat attgtatcca gtattgaatt tgatcgtgat   1200
              gatgaactat ttgctaccgc tggagtctcg aaacgtatta aagtcttcga attttccact   1260
              gttgttaatg aaccatcaga tgtgcattgc ccagttgttg aaatggctac cagatctaaa   1320
                                                   1456

              cttagctgcc taagctggaa caagtactca aaaaatatta ttgcaagcag tgactatgag   1380
<removed-date>
              ggtatagtaa ctgtgtggga tgttcagacc cgtcagagtg tgatggaata tgaagagcat   1440
              gagaagagag catggagtgt tgatttttct cgcacagact cttcaatgct agtatctggg   1500
              agtgatgatt gcaaggtgaa agtgtggtgc acaaatcaag aagcaagtgt gatcaatatt   1560
              gatatgaaag caaatatttg ctcggttaaa tataatcctg gatcaagctt ctacgttgca   1620
              gtcggatctg ctgatcacca tattcattac tttgatttac gtaatccaag ttcgcctgtc   1680
<removed-apn>
              catattttcg gggggcacaa gaaagcagta tcatatgtga aattcttatc taacaatgag   1740
              cttgcgtctg catcaacaga tagcacatta cgcttatggg atgtcaagga taactgcccg   1800
              gtacggacat tcagaggaca caaaaatgaa aagaactttg ttggcttgtc tgtgaacaat   1860
              gaatatattg cttgtggaag tgagacaaat gaggtttttg tttatcacaa ggctatctcg   1920
              aaaccggcag caagccatag atttgtatct tctgacccgg atgatgccga tgatgatcct   1980
              ggttcttatt tcattagtgc tgtctgctgg aagagtgata gccctacgat gttaactgct   2040
              aacagtcagg ggaccataaa agttcttgta cttgctcctt ga                      2082
              <210>   2010
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2010
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag     60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc atttgtctgc    120
              cagcttggtc cggaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcccg gaccaaaacg    180
              gtagataaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc    240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact    300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa    360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                 408
              <210>   2011
              <211>   1002
                                                   1457

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2011
              atggtggtcc tcaccaaggg cgagctggag cagatcgcgc tgccggccgt gcagcgcgca     60
              tcgccgccgc cgccggccgc cgtgccggag gtcgacctgg cagccgggga cgccgccgcc    120
              gccgcgcgcg cggtggccaa ggcgtgcgag gaccacggct tcttcaaggt gacgggccac    180
              ggcgtgccgc cgcacctcct ggcgcgcctc gaggccgccg cggccgcgtt cttcgcgctc   240
<removed-apn>
              ccgcagcggg agaaggacag ggccgccggc tgcccgttcg gatacgccag caagcggatt   300
              ggcgccaacg gcgatctcgg ctgggtcgag tacctcctgc ttgccgtcac cgccgccggc   360
              gcagcggccg cgccggggtc tgcgtgcgag ggcgcggagc cgtcctgttt ccgtgctgtg    420
              ctggacgagt acgtggcggc ggtgaggcgc atgacctgca cggtgctgca gctgatggcg    480
              caggggctgg gcctcgacga cagggacgtg ttcagccggc tggtgctgga ccgggacagc    540
              gactccatgc tgagggtgaa ccactacccg ccagcggcgg agacgaggcg gctgacgggg    600
              ttcggcgagc acaccgaccc gcagatcatc tccgtcctcc gctccaacga cgcgtccggc   660
              ctcgagatca cgctgcggga cggcacctgg gtgtccgtgc cctccgacac ggaatccttc   720
              ttcgtcaatg tcggcgacgc gttgcaggtg ctgaccaacg ggcggttccg gagcgtgcgg   780
              caccgggtga tggtgagcag cgcgcggccg cgggtgtcgg tgatcttctt cggcggcccg   840
              ccgccgcggg agcgcctggc gccgctgccg ggtctggtgg accgggaggg cggccgacgc    900
              cgctacaggg agttcacgtg gagggagtac aagaactcgg cgtaccggac caagctggca    960
              gacaacaggc tctgctcctt cgagaccatg gcgacgagct ag                      1002
              <210>   2012
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2012
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag     60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc atttgatgac   120
              catggcgcct gggaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcccc aggcgcaacg   180
                                                   1458

<removed-date>
              gtcattaaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2013
<removed-apn>
              <211>   891
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2013
              atggacgcca gcccgacccc accgctcccc ctccgcgccc caactcccag cattgacctc    60
              cccgctggca aggacagggc cgacgcggcg gctaacaagg ccgcggctgt gttcgacctg   120
              cgccgggagc ccaagatccc ggagccattc ctgtggccgc acgaagaggc gcggccgacc   180
              tcggccgcgg agctggaggt gccggtggtg gacgtgggcg tgctgcgcaa tggcgacggc   240
              gcggggctcc gccgcgccgc ggcgcaagtg gcggcggcgt gcgcgacgca cgggttcttc   300
              caggtgtgcg ggcacggcgt ggacgcggcg ctggggcgcg ccgcgctgga cggcgccagc   360
              gacttcttcc ggctgccgct ggctgagaag cagcgggccc ggcgcgtccc cggcaccgtg   420
              tccgggtaca cgagcgcgca cgccgaccgg ttcgcgtcca agctcccctg gaaggagacc   480
              ctgtccttcg gcttccacga cggcgccgcg gcgcccgtcg tcgtggacta cttcaccggc   540
              accctcggcc aagatttcga gccagtgggg cgggtgtacc agaggtactg cgaggagatg   600
              aaggagctgt cgctgacgat catggagctg ctggagctga gcctgggcgt ggagcgcggc   660
              tactaccggg agttcttcga ggacagccgc tccatcatgc ggtgcaacta ctacccgccg   720
              tgcccggtgc cggagcgcac gctgggcacg ggcccgcact gcgaccccac ggcgctgacc   780
              atcctcctgc aggacgacgt cggcgggctg gaggtcctgg tggacggcga gtggcgcccc   840
              gtccggcccg tcccaggcgc catggtcatc aacatcggcg acaccttcat g            891
              <210>   2014
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
                                                   1459

              <223>   Synthetic construct
<removed-date>
              <400> 2014
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attgcttcag   120
              cttcgtcctg gcgaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttccgc caggacaacg   180
              ctgaagcaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
<removed-apn>
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2015
              <211>   681
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2015
              atggagaggg tcgaggactt agggctcagc ctcagcctca gctcgtccct cgcgtctcct    60
              cgcactcacc atgtcgccac catgctgcta cgcgctccag agaagaggtt cctggagatg   120
              ccactgctgc tgcccgcgaa gcggacgacc gaggtcaccg gcgaggatgg cctgcgaggc   180
              ggcagcgatg aggaggacgg cggctgcggc atcgacggct ccaggaagaa gctccggctg   240
              tccaaggacc agtccgcggt gctcgaggat agcttccggg agcacccaac tctcaaccct   300
              cggcagaagg cagccttggc gcagcagcta ggcctgcggc cccgccaggt ggaggtgtgg   360
              ttccagaaca ggcgcgccag gacgaagctg aagcagacgg aggtggactg cgagtacctg   420
              aagcgctgct gcgagacgct gacggaggag aaccggcggc tgcagaagga ggtgcaggag   480
              ctccgcgcgc tcaagctcgt gtcgccgcac ctctacatgc acatgtcccc gcccaccacc   540
              ctcaccatgt gcccctcctg cgagcgcgtc tcctcgtcca acggcaactc cgcagctgcc   600
              acggcggccg cgcgcgcgcg cgccggcgcc ggcgccggcg ccatcgtctg ccacccgatc   660
              gaccgagcca ctagtacgta g                                             681
              <210>   2016
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
                                                   1460

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2016
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc atttctctgg   120
              agcgcgtagc agcaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcgct gctacgaagt   180
<removed-apn>
              ctagagaaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2017
              <211>   681
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2017
              atggagaggg tcgaggactt agggctcagc ctcagcctca gctcgtccct cgcgtctcct    60
              cgcactcacc atgtcgccac catgctgcta cgcgctccag agaagaggtt cctggagatg   120
              ccactgctgc tgcccgcgaa gcggacgacc gaggtcaccg gcgaggatgg cctgcgaggc   180
              ggcagcgatg aggaggacgg cggctgcggc atcgacggct ccaggaagaa gctccggctg   240
              tccaaggacc agtccgcggt gctcgaggat agcttccggg agcacccaac tctcaaccct   300
              cggcagaagg cagccttggc gcagcagcta ggcctgcggc cccgccaggt ggaggtgtgg   360
              ttccagaaca ggcgcgccag gacgaagctg aagcagacgg aggtggactg cgagtacctg   420
              aagcgctgct gcgagacgct gacggaggag aaccggcggc tgcagaagga ggtgcaggag   480
              ctccgcgcgc tcaagctcgt gtcgccgcac ctctacatgc acatgtcccc gcccaccacc   540
              ctcaccatgt gcccctcctg cgagcgcgtc tcctcgtcca acggcaactc cgcagctgcc   600
              acggcggccg cgcgcgcgcg cgccggcgcc ggcgccggcg ccatcgtctg ccacccgatc   660
              gaccgagcca ctagtacgta g                                             681
              <210>   2018
              <211>   408
                                                   1461

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2018
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc atttcttgct   120
<removed-apn>
              gctactctct gctaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcagc agagagaacc   180
              agcaagaaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2019
              <211>   1411
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2019
              cgatcgatcg agatatcgtg tcaacgtgcc ggccggggcg tgggaagatg atgaacctat    60
              cggctgccgc caacggccgc gacgagttcc ccccctacgt cgtgccgtcc aacgcggccg   120
              ctccgccccc ttccctgctc ccaaccatgg agcagcagca ggagagcagc atccacaggg   180
              agcatcatca gctgctgggc tacaacctcg aggccaactc gctggccctc ctgcccccgt   240
              ccaacgccgc cgccgcccac caccacacca ccttcgccgg cggccacagc ccccacgaca   300
              tcctccactt ctacacacct cctccttccg ccgcctcgca ctacctcgcc gccgccgccg   360
              gcaaccccta cagccactta gtctccgcgc ccgggaccac cttccaccag acctcgtcgt   420
              cctactaccc gcccgcggcg gcggcgcagg ccgcgcccga gtactacttc cccaccctcg   480
              tcagctccgc cgaggagaac atggccagct tcgccgccac gcagctcggc ctcaacctcg   540
              gctaccgcac ctacttcccg cccagaggag gctacacgta cggccaccac ccgccgcgct   600
              gccaggccga gggctgcaag gccgacctct ccagcgccaa gcgataccac cgtcgccaca   660
              aggtgtgcga gcaccactcc aaggcgcccg tcgtcgtcac cgccggtgga ctgcatcaga   720
              ggttctgcca gcagtgcagc agattccatc tgctggatga gttcgacgat gctaagaaga   780
                                                   1462

<removed-date>
              gctgcaggaa acgcctagcg gaccacaacc gccgccgccg gaagtcaaag ccatcggatg    840
              ctgatgccgg agacaagaaa agggcacatg cgaacaaagc agctgcagct aaagacaaag    900
              cagagagtag cagcaagaac atggatatcg gagatgggtt aggcgcacag atactgggaa    960
              gtgcactctt gtccaaggaa caagatcaaa ccatggatct tggagaggtg gtgaaagaag   1020
              cagtggatcc caaggggaag gcatcaatgc aacagcatta cggcttcccc ttccattcgt   1080
<removed-apn>
              cgtcagcagg atcttgcttc ccccagaccc aagccgtctc cagtgatacc acatccaata   1140
              taggtcaagt gcaagagcca agcttagggt tccaccatca gcaccaccaa cacagcaaca   1200
              tcttgcagct cggccaggct atgtttgatc tcgacttcga tcactagtca atatgtgatg   1260
              cacatgcacc ctctctttct caccccaccc cacccctccc ctcccctcta tcttgtttgt   1320
              gcgcgtaatc cgaatatttt tcctttttaa attatctgtg ttaattactg taacgtggac   1380
              ataataatga tagtctatgc ttgccatgca a                                  1411
              <210>   2020
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Glycine max
              <400> 2020
              ttagatgacc atcagcaaac a                                               21
              <210>   2021
              <211>   2836
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2021
              ctcctcccct ccgtcctctc tctctctctc tctctctctc tctctccctg ccgcgtagcc     60
              caagttttgt acaaaaaagc aggctggttc cggtccggaa ttcccggaca ctcacacaca    120
              cacacacaca caagcccatt gcattcgcca aacattcgcc cacgcgccat tgtagcgcac    180
              gagctcccga agccctcatc gccgtgccgt tcgtctcgcc ggatcgatcg ctccgcccct    240
              gctcctggct ttggtgccgt atgcccgtcc gtctccatag ggcttgcatt ctctctgctt    300
              tgatttgacg gtacccagct gaagcacaca aattgcctcc gtttgccggt cctgtgcgtg    360
              cgcgatcgag ttttgttgat ggtcatctag caggatcgca ggagttgacg agccgcacgc    420
                                                   1463

              cctagctcgt acgtgaaaaa aacgtggcca cgtttcaggt gctgaaacca agatggttaa    480
<removed-date>
              tttcggtaag aaattgatgg cagaccagtt ggaggagtgg cgagagtact atattaatta    540
              taagatgatg aagaaaaagg taaaacagta tgtacagcag acccaaactg gtggaaaaaa    600
              tcgtgaccag gttcttaagg agttctcaag gatgcttgat gatcagattg aaaagattgt    660
              gctatttctt ctgccacaac aaggtcatct tgctaggagg atcgagaatt taggagaaca    720
              gcgtgtcgtg cttatggaac ggtctgatgt atcccaaatt tgtcaaatac gccaggctta    780
<removed-apn>
              cagggaagtt ggatatgatc ttgtgaagct acttaggttt cttgattcga acgctactgg    840
              tatccggaag atacttaaga agttcgataa gcgctttggc tataagttta cagattatta    900
              cgtctctact cgagcaaacc atccttattc tcagctccag cagatcttca agcaagtggg    960
              agtcgtggct gttgttggtg ctttgtctcg ggggcgtgct tatctacaag atcatcaagg   1020
              aagcctagca aatatctatg attacccatc actcatcttg aaggatcccg tcatagaaca   1080
              aataaatcac tcagtacaga aactcacaca ctccacaagc tttctgcaat ttctagggca   1140
              gcatgcactt atcgttccgg gggatatgca gagcggctca gatctcggtg atgacaagga   1200
              ttaccatttc ctgtcactgc tgctgaacct agtaaacacg tttctgtaca tggttaacac   1260
              atacatcatc gttccaactg ccgatgacta ttcagtaagc ctcggagctg cagcgactgt   1320
              ttgcggtgtg attatcggat caatggcagt tgcacaaatc ttctcctcgg tatatttcag   1380
              tgcctggtcg aacagatcgt acttcagacc cctcgtattt agctgcatca tgttgtttct   1440
              ggggaaccta ttgtatgctt tggcatacga tctgaattcc ctaactgttc ttattgctgg   1500
              ccggctactg tgcggtttgg gttcggccag agccgtgaac cgccgctaca tcagcgactg   1560
              tgtacccctg aaaaccaggc tgcaggcgtc ggctgggttt gtcagcgcta gcgctcttgg   1620
              aatggcatgt ggtcccgctc ttgccggtct gctgcagaca aagtttaaga tttatgggct   1680
              tacattcaat cagaacacct tgcctgggtg ggtcatgtgc cttgcttgga ttgcatattt   1740
              gttctggctg tggatttcat tcaaagagcc gggccacatt gccacagaga attcagtcag   1800
              cacgcaatca tctgattctg gccgtcgagt aagcggtaac ttggagggtg gcctcggaga   1860
              gcctttgctc atagacgcaa aggcagggca ggatgaggac gacgaggaca atgacgaccc   1920
              cgaagaatct catacacctg ccacatcgct tgctgcagca tacagattgc tgacaccatc   1980
              tgtgaaggtt cagctactga tctacttcat gctcaagttc gccatggaaa tcctactctc   2040
                                                   1464

<removed-date>
              ggagtcgagt gttgtgacca cgttctattt caagtggaca actagtaccg tggcaatctt   2100
              tctggcagtt cttggcctga cggttctccc agttaatgtc atcgttggga gctacgtcac   2160
              caacctgttc caggacaggc aaatcctggt ggcctccgag atcatggtgt tgatcggcat   2220
              cgtcatgagc ttctgcttca cccctcacta ctccgtcccc cagtatgtca cgtcagctct   2280
              catcacgttc gtgttcgccg aggtgctcga aggggtgaac ttgtccctcc tctcccgcgt   2340
<removed-apn>
              gatgtcgtcg aggctctccc gcgggaccta caacggcggg ctgctctcga cggaggccgg   2400
              cacgctggcc cgcgttgccg ctgacatgac catcacggcc gctggctatc tggggcaggg   2460
              ccgcctcctg aacgccaccc tcctgccgtc cttggtgatc tgtctagcat ctatcgtcgc   2520
              gacgttctgc acttacaact cactctactg attaccggtc gatgaactcc tctccctctt   2580
              atacaagttg ccgaattgcg tcttgcagtg acgctgaaaa ttttcgggct gctgctgcta   2640
              atgtaaactg ctgcggcctg cgggtggacg agcggtccat gtgtatcgac gcctgtagtg   2700
              ttgcgaactt gctacggctg taacatgaca cgtgcgcgtt aaataaaatg ccctactgaa   2760
              gtaccctgtc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg cggccgctct agagtatccc tcgaggggcc   2820
              caagcttacg cgtacc                                                   2836
              <210>   2022
              <211>   642
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2022
              cctcaaagag gcagccatgg ctccacataa aagcgcccaa tgggagctcc ctcttctccc     60
              cccacgcccc tccccctctt gataagccca cgtcggcggc agggggggcg gccgccaggc    120
              ttgctatagc tggtccatgg caccatacat gtaagcacgc acacaggcac acacacacac    180
              gcacgcaatg atctacgtat ctagcagcag cttatcatgt cgtcatcatg catgcatggc    240
              cgacggaggt cgtcatctta tctgggagcg tgtgtgtctt ggcaatggga agctgcatgc    300
              gcctctcggg cgtcggcgcg tcggcgccta gctgtagggc ggcgtgccat agagctgcct    360
              cctgccgctc acaccatgct gttgacgagg actgatggtg gccatggcct ctcggcgtcg    420
                                                   1465

              gtggcggcgg cgccggcgcc gagttttacc tctctactaa ggcgtttgct gatctaggtc   480
<removed-date>
              atctaacaat tgttctcatc tatctgggtc tgtctgttgg ctgcccggtg acggtatacg   540
              gtgatgttct aatagtactc aattggtctt ggatcggagt tcatgctacg gctcctctgt   600
              tatatattac acggctgacg gctcctcctt attaatgtgt ac                      642
              <210>   2023
              <211>   489
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2023
              gcatctgctg ttctttattt ctatacatac atatatacta tcatcggtta tttgcttctc    60
              tattctgtcc gagtacttta cggtgttccg cacatagatc tcgtggccgg ctgttttgcg   120
              ctttcgcttg cgtttcttgg ccctgctggt gttgaccggt ccgaacgggg gcagatcgat   180
              gctttgggtt tgaagcggga tgcagatccg atttatgaag ggtcgttccg aagggctggt   240
              tccgctgctc gttcatggtt cccactatcc tatctcatca tgtgtatata tgtaatccat   300
              gggggagggt ttctctcgtc tttgagatag gcttgtggtt tgcatgaccg aggagctgca   360
              ccgccccctt gctggccgct cttaaatagg aattgcatcc tgcatcctga tccacccctc   420
              catttttttt tgcttgttgt gtccttcctg ggacctgaga tctgaggctc gtggtggctc   480
              actgtagat                                                           489
              <210>   2024
              <211>   2811
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2024
              ccaccactcc gccatcattc ccccgctcgg cccgcgaaac cgtaccctga gaccactccc    60
              tccgccgcca tgccggacct cccctgcgac ggcgatggcg tctgcatggt ctgccgcgtc   120
              acctccccgc cggaggtcga cctcctccat tgctccacct gcgccacgcc ctggcactcc   180
              ccgtgcctct ccaaggctcc cgccctggcc gacgccgcca gctggagctg ccccgactgc   240
              tccctggact ccgccaccgt cgccgctccc tcggcccctg ctaacaccct cgttgccgcc   300
                                                   1466

              atccgcgcca tcgagtccga caacaccctc tccgaccagg agaaggcgcg ccgccgccag    360
<removed-date>
              gccctcctcg ccggcgacgc ccccgacgtc gcggacgacg acgacgcggc cgacgatacc    420
              ctcgaaatcg tcggcaaaaa cttcagctgc gttttctgca tgaagctccc tgaacgaccc    480
              gtcaccacac catgtgggca taacttctgc ttgaaatgct tccagaagtg gattcaaagc    540
              aagaagagaa cctgtgggaa atgtcgggca ccgatccctg ccaaaatggc cgagcagcca    600
              agaatcaact ctgcgctagt tgaagttatc aggatggcta agatttcaaa gaatcataac    660
<removed-apn>
              tctgctggct cagctgttcc ataccactat atgcgaaatg atgataggcc tgataaggca    720
              tttacaactg acagagctaa gaaggctgga aaagcaaacg catcgagtgg ccagatcttt    780
              gtgaccattg cacctgatca ttttggccct atacttgcag aaaatgaccc ccgcaggaat    840
              atgggtgttc gagtcgggga aacgtgggag gacaggcttg agtgcaggca atggggtgct    900
              cactttcctc atgtggctgg tattgccggc cagtctacgc atggggctca atcagtagcc    960
              ctctccggag ggtatgaaga tgatgaagac catggggagt ggtttcttta cactggaagc   1020
              ggcgggaggg acctaagtgg taacaagcga acaaacaagg agcagtcatc tgatcagaaa   1080
              tttgagaagc tgaatgctgc tttacgcatt agttgcttga agggctaccc tgttagggtt   1140
              gtacggtcgc acaaagagaa gcgatcctcg tatgctcctg aatctggtgt gaggtatgat   1200
              ggggtttaca gaattgagaa gtgttggagg aagattggta ttcagggtaa gttcaaggtc   1260
              tgcaggtatc tctttgtacg ctgtgacaat gaaccagctc cttggaccag cgatgatcat   1320
              ggtgaccgtc cgagaccctt gccaaagata aaggagctac aaggtgcaac tgatataaca   1380
              gagaggaaag ggcgtccttc atgggattat gatgagaaag atggctggaa atggatggtg   1440
              cctccgccag tcagcaagag gcctgttctc tctggtgatc ctgagaccga caagctaatc   1500
              cggaaagcaa caaagcgtgc tcatttatct gttgctgaaa ggctgcttaa agagtttggt   1560
              tgttctatct gccgggcggt gattaaagag ccacttacaa caccatgtgc tcacaacttc   1620
              tgcaagactt gtttgcttgg tgcatatgat agccagtcct ctatgaggga aagaagccgt   1680
              ggtggtcgga ctctaagggc acagaagatt gtgaagacgt gcccttcctg ccctactgac   1740
              atctgcgact tcttagaaaa tccccagatc aaccgagaaa tgatggagtt gattgagtcc   1800
              ttgcaacgca aggctgttga agaaggcaag atggctgcag gtgatgccga ggaatctggt   1860
              gatggtgact cggaggaaaa tggtggtgct ttggtgaagg gagaagatga tagcaatttg   1920
                                                   1467

<removed-date>
              aacgaggaag gtcaagacgg tgtagacgct gatggttctg tgaagattgt ggttgaaatg   1980
              gagggtgcaa aagatgataa aaagtcaaag atgggcgcgg ctgaagtggt ggatgtgtta   2040
              gttgaagatg ctgctgcgaa acagccgaag aagcgcacgg ctgatgaaga tgctgctgcg   2100
              aaacagacga agcacaaggc tgatgctgag actggtggca agagggtgaa gagcagtgct   2160
              gcagtggaag aggttgatgt gtgcgtcact cctatgaaac ggaccaggaa gagtggtgat   2220
<removed-apn>
              atgcatgatg acggcaacgg cagccctgct gtgagcagcg gccgcagggt gactcggagc   2280
              agtgtgaatg ccacgggagc tgatgacagt ccagcgagga ggaccagaag ccgtggcaga   2340
              gcatgctgaa ggtagtgggt gctgggcgcc ctcttttttg ggtgtggaac ctttgctgtg   2400
              cgcagtgttg cagccatttc ttttggtttg ggggagaccg acctgctaca ggtattcccc   2460
              atgcttcttt cttccaggat gcaattccta tttaatttca aggtagctgc tgcactcgat   2520
              ctgcgagatg caattttgtt aactggcagc caggtgttgg cttacgccat gattttggca   2580
              caacaggttc ctagagagaa acaagatagc tgatgttctt gcaaaaaaaa agcaagacgg   2640
              gcaactaccc caaatccatg ccttttctct aggggcttca ttctccaacc tgtaatatct   2700
              agcatgtgtt ttgaaacttg gattgttcgg ggcaacatga ccccccatct ttgtaacatg   2760
              tttatgatgt aataaatctt gaattgaaaa aaaagagagg acatggaatg a            2811
              <210>   2025
              <211>   383
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2025
              cgaagagctg ggaacgggag attggagcaa tcagaatttg tgctgggggt acgaggagga     60
              agcaatgtgt gctggtgcaa tgcatttaat ttcttcctcc tctatacccc cagtatgatt    120
              tctgatgatt ctttcctttc cttttgcttt ttgcaatacg caatatgcat gtaccttatt    180
              tttcattcca tcctcattat tctatgctaa tggatagtac ttccttcttc tccatgtttc    240
              ttttattgtt ataacaacac atgataaaat tgtaatatga aacataactt ctgcagccta    300
              atttgttttt ttcgtgcatt tgataaacgg cgttggagaa ggagtttatg ttgtcatatg    360
                                                   1468

              aattaaaggg aagcactttt aaa                                            383
<removed-date>
              <210>   2026
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2026
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg     60
<removed-apn>
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc    120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc    180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
                                                   1469

              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
<removed-date>
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2027
              <211>   386
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2027
              cgaagagctg ggaacgggag attggagcaa tcagaatttg tcctgggggt aagagaagac     60
              agcaatgtgt gctggtgcaa tgcatttaat ttctgtcttc tccgtacccc caggatgatt   120
              tctgatgatt ctttcctttc cttttgcttt ttgcaatacg caatatgcat gtaccttatt    180
              tttcattcca tcctcattat tctatgctaa tggatagtac ttccttcttc tccatgtttc    240
              ttttattgtt ataacaacac atgataaaat tgtaatatga aacataactt ctgcagccta    300
              atttgttttt ttcgtgcatt tgataaacgg cgttggagaa ggagtttatg ttgtcatatg    360
              aattaaaggg aagcactttt aaatag                                         386
              <210>   2028
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2028
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg     60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc   120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc    180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
                                                   1470

              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
<removed-date>
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
<removed-apn>
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2029
              <211>   386
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2029
              cgaagagctg ggaacgggag attggagcaa tcagaatttg tggtggtggt acgaggagga     60
              agcaatgtgt gctggtgcaa tgcatttaat ttcttcctcc tctataccac cactatgatt    120
              tctgatgatt ctttcctttc cttttgcttt ttgcaatacg caatatgcat gtaccttatt    180
                                                   1471

<removed-date>
              tttcattcca tcctcattat tctatgctaa tggatagtac ttccttcttc tccatgtttc    240
              ttttattgtt ataacaacac atgataaaat tgtaatatga aacataactt ctgcagccta    300
              atttgttttt ttcgtgcatt tgataaacgg cgttggagaa ggagtttatg ttgtcatatg    360
              aattaaaggg aagcactttt aaatag                                         386
              <210>   2030
<removed-apn>
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2030
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg     60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc    120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc    180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
                                                   1472

<removed-date>
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
<removed-apn>
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2031
              <211>   383
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2031
              cgaagagctg ggaacgggag attggagcaa tcagaatttg tgctgggggt acgaggagga     60
              agcaatgtgt gctggtgcaa tgcatttaat ttcttcctcc tccatacccc cagtatgatt    120
              tctgatgatt ctttcctttc cttttgcttt ttgcaatacg caatatgcat gtaccttatt    180
              tttcattcca tcctcattat tctatgctaa tggatagtac ttccttcttc tccatgtttc    240
              ttttattgtt ataacaacac atgataaaat tgtaatatga aacataactt ctgcagccta    300
              atttgttttt ttcgtgcatt tgataaacgg cgttggagaa ggagtttatg ttgtcatatg    360
              aattaaaggg aagcactttt aaa                                            383
              <210>   2032
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2032
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg     60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc    120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc    180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
                                                   1473

<removed-date>
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
<removed-apn>
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2033
              <211>   711
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
                                                   1474

<removed-date>
              <400> 2033
              gataaataaa ctgttagcag cttgcgagca ctgcaagatc tttctgctgg catctgaata    60
              gtcagctgct ggcatctatc cgggcacctc tcgaccagcc agaggcagat acctgatccc   120
              aaactagctg gccaacatgg cgaacgatga ccctgtggac gacgaaaacc ccagatccaa   180
              caccactaat aacagcatca atgacaagtt ggctgaagtg ttcgacatgg tctcagtcca   240
              caaacatcag tataaaatgc cgacgttcgc cttccacacc aacaagacga tcaccgaagc   300
<removed-apn>
              tttacatcgg cctctactgc gagcacaagc tagcatggtc acaacctcct agcctatata   360
              tgaactggtg ttatcccgac tgaacttttc tttttgttga cacctttcgt caggcctctc   420
              caccagaggt tgactcgtat gtctgttttc tggtttctca taccagaatt aacgttcctc   480
              ctctataccc ccagttacgt gcaaatgttg ctgcactact accgtggcct ctgcgtctga   540
              aagtacagca tgtcgccatt cccactacat gcaggatcag tcccgatatt gccgtgtttg   600
              ccagccttct gcatccacct actttctgtt cccttctatc cctcctgagc taattgttgc   660
              tcctatgtaa tccgtgttta ttatttcggt accatgatga tgaaattagt t            711
              <210>   2034
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2034
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg    60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc   120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc   180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca   240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga   300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt   360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc   420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg   480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac   540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt   600
                                                   1475

              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
<removed-date>
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
<removed-apn>
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2035
              <211>   792
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2035
              gataaataaa ctgttagcag cttgcgagca ctgcaagatc tttctgctgg catctgaata     60
              gtcagctgct ggcatctatc cgggcacctc tcgaccagcc agaggcagat acctgatccc    120
              aaactagctg gccaacatgg cgaacgatga ccctgtggac gacgaaaacc ccagatccaa    180
              caccactaat aacagcatca atgacaagtt ggctgaagtg ttcgacatgg tctcagtcca    240
              caaacatcag tataaaatgc cgacgttcgc cttccacacc aacaagacga tcaccgaagc    300
              tttacatcgg cctctactgc gagcacaagc tagcatggtc acaacctcct agcctatata    360
                                                   1476

<removed-date>
              tgaactggtg ttatcccgac tgaacttttc tttttgttga cacctttcgt caggcctctc   420
              caccagaggt tgactcgtat gtctgttttc tggtttctca taccagaatt aacgttcctc   480
              ctctataccc ccagttacgt gcaaatgttg ctgcactact accgtggcct ctgcgtctga   540
              aagtacagca tgtcgccatt cccactacat gcaggatcag tcccgatatt gccgtgtttg   600
              ccagccttct gcatccacct actttctgtt cccttctatc cctcctgagc taattgttgc   660
<removed-apn>
              tcctatgtaa tccgtgttta ttatttcggt accatgatga tgaaattagt tttaatttaa   720
              aaaaaaaaaa gttcagttaa tgttttcacc cctgtggatg ctctgcaata catgaacata   780
              catagcaaaa ag                                                       792
              <210>   2036
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2036
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg    60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc   120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc   180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca   240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga   300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt   360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc   420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg   480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac   540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt   600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg   660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa   720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg   780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg   840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga   900
                                                   1477

<removed-date>
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
<removed-apn>
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2037
              <211>   383
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2037
              cgaagagctg ggaacgggag attggagcaa tcagaatttg tgctgggggt acgaggagga     60
              agcaatgtgt gctggtgcaa tgcatttaat ttcttcctcc tccatacccc cagtatgatt    120
              tctgatgatt ctttcctttc cttttgcttt ttgcaatacg caatatgcat gtaccttatt    180
              tttcattcca tcctcattat tctatgctaa tggatagtac ttccttcttc tccatgtttc    240
              ttttattgtt ataacaacac atgataaaat tgtaatatga aacataactt ctgcagccta    300
              atttgttttt ttcgtgcatt tgataaacgg cgttggagaa ggagtttatg ttgtcatatg    360
              aattaaaggg aagcactttt aaa                                            383
              <210>   2038
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
                                                   1478

              <400> 2038
<removed-date>
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg     60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc    120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc    180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
<removed-apn>
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
                                                   1479

<removed-date>
              <210>   2039
              <211>   990
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2039
              aaacctaaac ctaaacggct aatcccgacg tcaaatacca aaaagagaaa aacaagagcg    60
<removed-apn>
              ccgtcaagct ctgcaaatac gatctgtaag tccatcttaa cacaaaagtg agatgggttc   120
              ttagatcatg ttccgccgtt agatcgagtc atggtcttgt ctcatagaaa ggtactttcg   180
              tttacttctt ttgagtatcg agtagagcgt cgtctatagt tagtttgaga ttgcgtttgt   240
              cagaagttag gttcaatgtc ccggtccaat tttcaccagc catgtgtcag tttcgttcct   300
              tcccgtcctc ttctttgatt tcgttgggtt acggatgttt tcgagatgaa acagcattgt   360
              tttgttgtgc acgtgcccta cttctccata gaccatttat tcctcctcta tacccccagt   420
              tacgtgcaaa tgttgctgca ctactaccgt ggcctctgcg tctgaaagta cagcatgtcg   480
              ccaatattcc aggatatgca aaagaaaaca atgaatattg ttttgaatgt gttcaagtaa   540
              atgagatttt caagtcgtct aaagaacagt tgctaataca gttacttatt tcaataaata   600
              attggttcta ataatacaaa acatattcga ggatatgcag aaaaaaagat gtttgttatt   660
              ttgaaaagct tgagtagttt ctctccgagg tgtagcgaag aagcatcatc tactttgtaa   720
              tgtaattttc tttatgtttt cactttgtaa ttttatttgt gttaatgtac catggccgat   780
              atcggtttta ttgaaagaaa atttatgtta cttctgtttt ggctttgcaa tcagttatgc   840
              tagttttctt ataccctttc gtaagcttcc taaggaatcg ttcattgatt tccactgctt   900
              cattgtatat taaaacttta caactgtatc gaccatcata taattctggg tcaagagatg   960
              aaaatagaac accacatcgt aaagtgaaat                                    990
              <210>   2040
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2040
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg    60
                                                   1480

              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc    120
<removed-date>
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc    180
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
<removed-apn>
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2041
              <211>   990
                                                   1481

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2041
              aaacctaaac ctaaacggct aatcccgacg tcaaatacca aaaagagaaa aacaagagcg    60
              ccgtcaagct ctgcaaatac gatctgtaag tccatcttaa cacaaaagtg agatgggttc   120
<removed-apn>
              ttagatcatg ttccgccgtt agatcgagtc atggtcttgt ctcatagaaa ggtactttcg   180
              tttacttctt ttgagtatcg agtagagcgt cgtctatagt tagtttgaga ttgcgtttgt   240
              cagaagttag gttcaatgtc ccggtccaat tttcaccagc catgtgtcag tttcgttcct   300
              tcccgtcctc ttctttgatt tcgttgggtt acggatgttt tcgagatgaa acagcattgt   360
              tttgttgtga tttttctcta caagcgaata gaccatttat tcctcctcta tacccccagt   420
              tacgtgcaaa tgttgctgca ctactaccgt ggcctctgcg tctgaaagta cagcatgtcg   480
              ccaatattcc aggatatgca aaagaaaaca atgaatattg ttttgaatgt gttcaagtaa   540
              atgagatttt caagtcgtct aaagaacagt tgctaataca gttacttatt tcaataaata   600
              attggttcta ataatacaaa acatattcga ggatatgcag aaaaaaagat gtttgttatt   660
              ttgaaaagct tgagtagttt ctctccgagg tgtagcgaag aagcatcatc tactttgtaa   720
              tgtaattttc tttatgtttt cactttgtaa ttttatttgt gttaatgtac catggccgat   780
              atcggtttta ttgaaagaaa atttatgtta cttctgtttt ggctttgcaa tcagttatgc   840
              tagttttctt ataccctttc gtaagcttcc taaggaatcg ttcattgatt tccactgctt   900
              cattgtatat taaaacttta caactgtatc gaccatcata taattctggg tcaagagatg   960
              aaaatagaac accacatcgt aaagtgaaat                                    990
              <210>   2042
              <211>   1505
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2042
              aggctgctgt ctcacggctg cggctgcggc ggttcgggct ccagactcca gggatggccg    60
              ccggtgcggg aggcggcgaa ctggaggcgc tggagggcgt gcgctccatc gtgctcaagc   120
              cgtcggagtc gctcgacgag tcgcgtttca cgaggatcgc cggcgccgac ttcaacgacc   180
                                                   1482

<removed-date>
              cggccatcgg actccagggg ctgctcgcct cgctcgcgtc caccgggttc caggcatcca    240
              acctcggcga cgccatcgac gtcgtcaacc agatgttaga ctggaggttg tcgcatgaga    300
              agcccagcga ggattgtgat gaagctgaac ttgaccctaa atatagagca tctgtgaagt    360
              gcaagatatt tctgggcttc acctcgaacc tcgtgtcttc tggcatccgg gatataatcc    420
              gttttctagc tcagcatcac atggtggatg ttattgttac aagtgctggg ggtatagagg    480
<removed-apn>
              aggatctcat taaatgcctt gcaccaactt acagaggcga tttttcttta cctggagcac    540
              tgctgcggtc aaaaggactg aaccggatag gaaatctgtt ggtgcccaat gacaactatt    600
              gcaagtttga gaactggatc atgccactct tcgaccagat gctacaggag caatctactg    660
              agaatgtttg gacaccgtcg aaggtgatag cgcgccttgg caaagaaata aatgatgaaa    720
              gctcctatct ttattgggca tacaagaata acatccctgt atactgccca gcattgactg    780
              atggatcact tggagacatg ctgttctgtc atgcagttcg taatcctggc cttattattg    840
              acattgtaca agatatacgg ctgatgaatg gggaagccat ccatgcaaca ccaaggaaga    900
              cagggattat agttcttggt ggaggccttc caaagcatca tatatgcaat gccaatatgt    960
              tccgcaatgg tgcagattat gctgtctata ttaacacggc tcaagagttt gatggtagcg   1020
              attctggagc acaccccgat gaagcagtct catggggcaa gatcaagggt tcagcaaaac   1080
              ctgtaaaggt gcattgcgat gcaagtatcg ctttcccgct tcttgttgca gcaacatttg   1140
              cacgtaaggt tcataactcc aaatgaacag actgaatcgg attcggtgga gtgaatgggc   1200
              aacagaattt tgttgaactc tccaaatgac cttttggagc acgaggtcta cttcacctgc   1260
              acagggatca tgtgcaagtt ttttcggtga ctcgcggcaa ccacatgcca tcattattcg   1320
              atgttcactt gatgctgtac tagctggttg atagcatttt tgttacaact gataatttat   1380
              tgaaatacag acatacgatt gttcatccga gtcgtctgct tacgaatttt ttgtagacga   1440
              aacatctgct tacgaaattg acaaatggcc tgttttatga acacattttt tttcacctga   1500
              aaaaa                                                               1505
              <210>   2043
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
                                                   1483

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2043
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attgcaaatt   120
              gacagcaccg cctaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcagg cggtgcaacc   180
              agtttgcaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
<removed-apn>
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2044
              <211>   1014
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2044
              atggcgttat tttctcacca ccatctccag cagccacacc cgcagcaggc accgcccccg    60
              aatcagcagc agccggtgct tccttccttc aggaacgcgc taccggtgcc tgtggatggc   120
              cagatcccag cgcccctcac cttcttcaac ccgccgcctg ccttcccgga gcagcccgcg   180
              cagacaacgc tggtggatgc ggtggggctg acggcagctg ctgggcttgg gtggaggcag   240
              ccgagggagc aggaactgct tggagaaaac tcccagatgt cgtccatcga ttttctgcag   300
              acgggctcgg cggtatcgac ggggctggcg ctgtctctgg aggaccggcg ccacggcggc   360
              ggcggggctg ggaactcctc cggcgattca ccgctgctcc tgctgcccat gctggacgat   420
              gacatttcac gcgaggtcca gcggcttgac gctgatatgg accgcttcat taaagctcag   480
              agtgaacggc tgaggcaatc tatactggag aaagttcagg caaagcaatt tgaggcactg   540
              gcctcagttg aggacaagat attcagaaaa atacgggata aagaggcgga agtggaaacc   600
              atcaacaaaa ggaactctga actagaggac cagattaagc atttgggagt ggaagttggt   660
              gcttggcagc aaagggccaa gtacaatgag agcctgatca atgcactcaa gtacaacttg   720
              gaacaagtat gtgctcacca gagcaaggac ttcaaggaag gctgcggtga tagcgaggta   780
              gatgacacgg cgtcctgtcc ctatggtggt gctgtcaatt tgcaactgat gccaaaggag   840
                                                   1484

              aacagacaac cgaagaattt aacggcttgc agggtctgta aatcaagtga ggcatgcatg    900
<removed-date>
              ctcttgctgc cgtgtcggca tctttgtcta tgcaaggagt gcgagagcaa gctgagcatc    960
              tgccccctgt gccagtcctc caagatactt ggcatggaga tatattatgc atag         1014
              <210>   2045
              <211>   485
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 2045
              catcaggtag gcgcggcgcg gaccgcaaca cgccagcttt cttgctcttg tctctaagca     60
              gcagcagctt cctgtctctc cagccaccat tccattctcg ctccttggta atgaggctgg   120
              ctagccagct aatgcagctc cgaacctgtt ttgttggtgg tcatttaacc atgcatgctt   180
              cgatcgatgg attggtgcat gcatggatta ttgcatagtg tgatgcatgt ggcgcatcag    240
              tgcatggtta gatgaccatc agcaaacatg ttcttgaggc atgcaagttc tctagctaca    300
              catatcagag atcgatcacc actgcggcgc catggctact taattgaaat ggaggtttgc    360
              atttctccga acccggatgt cgtgattctg cttccgttct tgatccagga tcttccggtc    420
              ttgttcccac cattactttc cttaggaaac tggaatggtt tcaaccttaa tttgtttgtg    480
              tgtgt                                                                485
              <210>   2046
              <211>   2836
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2046
              ctcctcccct ccgtcctctc tctctctctc tctctctctc tctctccctg ccgcgtagcc     60
              caagttttgt acaaaaaagc aggctggttc cggtccggaa ttcccggaca ctcacacaca    120
              cacacacaca caagcccatt gcattcgcca aacattcgcc cacgcgccat tgtagcgcac    180
              gagctcccga agccctcatc gccgtgccgt tcgtctcgcc ggatcgatcg ctccgcccct    240
              gctcctggct ttggtgccgt atgcccgtcc gtctccatag ggcttgcatt ctctctgctt    300
              tgatttgacg gtacccagct gaagcacaca aattgcctcc gtttgccggt cctgtgcgtg    360
              cgcgatcgag ttttgttgat ggtcatctag caggatcgca ggagttgacg agccgcacgc   420
              cctagctcgt acgtgaaaaa aacgtggcca cgtttcaggt gctgaaacca agatggttaa   480
                                                   1485

<removed-date>
              tttcggtaag aaattgatgg cagaccagtt ggaggagtgg cgagagtact atattaatta    540
              taagatgatg aagaaaaagg taaaacagta tgtacagcag acccaaactg gtggaaaaaa    600
              tcgtgaccag gttcttaagg agttctcaag gatgcttgat gatcagattg aaaagattgt    660
              gctatttctt ctgccacaac aaggtcatct tgctaggagg atcgagaatt taggagaaca    720
              gcgtgtcgtg cttatggaac ggtctgatgt atcccaaatt tgtcaaatac gccaggctta    780
<removed-apn>
              cagggaagtt ggatatgatc ttgtgaagct acttaggttt cttgattcga acgctactgg    840
              tatccggaag atacttaaga agttcgataa gcgctttggc tataagttta cagattatta    900
              cgtctctact cgagcaaacc atccttattc tcagctccag cagatcttca agcaagtggg    960
              agtcgtggct gttgttggtg ctttgtctcg ggggcgtgct tatctacaag atcatcaagg   1020
              aagcctagca aatatctatg attacccatc actcatcttg aaggatcccg tcatagaaca   1080
              aataaatcac tcagtacaga aactcacaca ctccacaagc tttctgcaat ttctagggca   1140
              gcatgcactt atcgttccgg gggatatgca gagcggctca gatctcggtg atgacaagga   1200
              ttaccatttc ctgtcactgc tgctgaacct agtaaacacg tttctgtaca tggttaacac   1260
              atacatcatc gttccaactg ccgatgacta ttcagtaagc ctcggagctg cagcgactgt   1320
              ttgcggtgtg attatcggat caatggcagt tgcacaaatc ttctcctcgg tatatttcag   1380
              tgcctggtcg aacagatcgt acttcagacc cctcgtattt agctgcatca tgttgtttct   1440
              ggggaaccta ttgtatgctt tggcatacga tctgaattcc ctaactgttc ttattgctgg   1500
              ccggctactg tgcggtttgg gttcggccag agccgtgaac cgccgctaca tcagcgactg   1560
              tgtacccctg aaaaccaggc tgcaggcgtc ggctgggttt gtcagcgcta gcgctcttgg   1620
              aatggcatgt ggtcccgctc ttgccggtct gctgcagaca aagtttaaga tttatgggct   1680
              tacattcaat cagaacacct tgcctgggtg ggtcatgtgc cttgcttgga ttgcatattt   1740
              gttctggctg tggatttcat tcaaagagcc gggccacatt gccacagaga attcagtcag   1800
              cacgcaatca tctgattctg gccgtcgagt aagcggtaac ttggagggtg gcctcggaga   1860
              gcctttgctc atagacgcaa aggcagggca ggatgaggac gacgaggaca atgacgaccc   1920
              cgaagaatct catacacctg ccacatcgct tgctgcagca tacagattgc tgacaccatc   1980
              tgtgaaggtt cagctactga tctacttcat gctcaagttc gccatggaaa tcctactctc   2040
                                                   1486

              ggagtcgagt gttgtgacca cgttctattt caagtggaca actagtaccg tggcaatctt   2100
<removed-date>
              tctggcagtt cttggcctga cggttctccc agttaatgtc atcgttggga gctacgtcac   2160
              caacctgttc caggacaggc aaatcctggt ggcctccgag atcatggtgt tgatcggcat   2220
              cgtcatgagc ttctgcttca cccctcacta ctccgtcccc cagtatgtca cgtcagctct   2280
              catcacgttc gtgttcgccg aggtgctcga aggggtgaac ttgtccctcc tctcccgcgt   2340
              gatgtcgtcg aggctctccc gcgggaccta caacggcggg ctgctctcga cggaggccgg   2400
<removed-apn>
              cacgctggcc cgcgttgccg ctgacatgac catcacggcc gctggctatc tggggcaggg   2460
              ccgcctcctg aacgccaccc tcctgccgtc cttggtgatc tgtctagcat ctatcgtcgc   2520
              gacgttctgc acttacaact cactctactg attaccggtc gatgaactcc tctccctctt   2580
              atacaagttg ccgaattgcg tcttgcagtg acgctgaaaa ttttcgggct gctgctgcta   2640
              atgtaaactg ctgcggcctg cgggtggacg agcggtccat gtgtatcgac gcctgtagtg   2700
              ttgcgaactt gctacggctg taacatgaca cgtgcgcgtt aaataaaatg ccctactgaa   2760
              gtaccctgtc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaggg cggccgctct agagtatccc tcgaggggcc   2820
              caagcttacg cgtacc                                                   2836
              <210>   2047
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2047
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag     60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attgttcccg    120
              ttcccgctcc cgtaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcacg ggagcgaaca    180
              cgggagcaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc    240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact    300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa    360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                 408
                                                   1487

              <210>   2048
<removed-date>
              <211>   675
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2048
              gggtccactt ctccttcagg cctggagctc accatggctg tcccgggcct cagctcctcc    60
              tctggctcag aggggtttgg atgcaacaac aacaacggga gcgggaacgg gaacaacatg   120
              agggacctgg acatgaacca gccggcgagc ggcggcgagg aggaggagtt cccaatgggg   180
<removed-apn>
              agcgtggagg aggaggagga cgagcgcggc ggcgccggcg ggccgcaccg cgccaagaag   240
              ctccggctgt ccaaggagca gtcccgcctc ctggaggaga gcttccgcct caaccacacc   300
              ctcacaccga agcaaaagga ggccttggct gtcaagctca agctgcggcc caggcaggtg   360
              gaggtctggt tccagaaccg cagggctagg acgaagctta agcagacgga gctggagtgc   420
              gagtacctga agcgctgctt cggctcgctg accgaggaga accggcggct gcagcgggag   480
              gtggaggagc tgcgcgcgat gcgggtggcc ccgcccaccg tgctctcccc gcacacccgg   540
              cagccgctcc cggcgtccgc gctcaccatg tgcccgcgct gcgagcgcat caccgccgca   600
              acggccgcgc gcaccccacg cccgccgccc gccgcgagcc ccttccaccc gcgccgcccg   660
              tccgcggcgt tttag                                                    675
              <210>   2049
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2049
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attggttcat   120
              gtccaggtcc ctcaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcgac ggacctaacc   180
              atgaatcaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
                                                   1488

<removed-date>
              <210>   2050
              <211>   675
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2050
              gggtccactt ctccttcagg cctggagctc accatggctg tcccgggcct cagctcctcc    60
              tctggctcag aggggtttgg atgcaacaac aacaacggga gcgggaacgg gaacaacatg   120
<removed-apn>
              agggacctgg acatgaacca gccggcgagc ggcggcgagg aggaggagtt cccaatgggg   180
              agcgtggagg aggaggagga cgagcgcggc ggcgccggcg ggccgcaccg cgccaagaag   240
              ctccggctgt ccaaggagca gtcccgcctc ctggaggaga gcttccgcct caaccacacc   300
              ctcacaccga agcaaaagga ggccttggct gtcaagctca agctgcggcc caggcaggtg   360
              gaggtctggt tccagaaccg cagggctagg acgaagctta agcagacgga gctggagtgc   420
              gagtacctga agcgctgctt cggctcgctg accgaggaga accggcggct gcagcgggag   480
              gtggaggagc tgcgcgcgat gcgggtggcc ccgcccaccg tgctctcccc gcacacccgg   540
              cagccgctcc cggcgtccgc gctcaccatg tgcccgcgct gcgagcgcat caccgccgca   600
              acggccgcgc gcaccccacg cccgccgccc gccgcgagcc ccttccaccc gcgccgcccg   660
              tccgcggcgt tttag                                                    675
              <210>   2051
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2051
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attcccgcca   120
              ccgttgttgc tgaaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttctca gcaacacctg   180
              tggcgggaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
                                                   1489

<removed-date>
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
              <210>   2052
              <211>   882
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2052
              aaaaaggctt gtcgcctgtg atgggggcca cttctccttc aggcctggag ctcaccatgg    60
<removed-apn>
              ctgtccccgg cctcagctcc tcctctggct cagaggggtt tgtttgcaac aacaatatca   120
              gcaacaacgg tggcgggaac atgagggacc tggacatgaa ccagccggcg agcggcggcg   180
              aggaggagga tttcctgatg ggcggcgtgg aagaggacga ggaggagcgg ggcgccggcg   240
              gaccgcaccg cccaaagaag ctccgcctct ccaaggagca gtcccgcctc ctcgaggaga   300
              gcttccgcct caaccacacc ctctcaccga agcaaaagga ggccttggcg atcaaactga   360
              agctgcggcc caggcaggtg gaggtctggt ttcagaaccg cagggcaagg actaagctga   420
              agcacacgga gatggagtgc gagtacctga aacgctgctt cggctcgctg acggaggaga   480
              accgccgcct gcagcgggag gtggaggagc tgagggcgat gcgcatggcg ccgcccacgg   540
              tgctctcgcc gcacacacgc cagccactcc cggcgtccgc gctcaccatg tgcccccgct   600
              gcgagcgcgt caccgctgcc acctgcccgc ggatcacccg cccggccgcc tcgccgttcc   660
              accctcgccg cccctcagcg gcgttttagg gtttagttat ggtagggctt aagagaaaag   720
              gtcgaggtag atttgctagt ggtaatgtag gacgcacgat cgataagtct ttgtgtaaat   780
              tgatgatgga ggagaaaaga acatggaaaa ggcgtagtgg ggtcgtgtgg ggtttggagg   840
              cgcccccatg gaccatttgg gctaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aa                      882
              <210>   2053
              <211>   408
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2053
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attcgaacac   120
                                                   1490

<removed-date>
              ggggagaggg cccaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcggg ccctctaatc   180
              gtgtttgaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgtt                408
<removed-apn>
              <210>   2054
              <211>   990
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2054
              atggatatta tggcgcttaa tgcgagagac gaggagcagt acgggaacaa ccatctcggg    60
              ctcgggctga gcctcagcct cggcctcggc gtcgccaccg cggctccggt cgaggtcgag   120
              cccccgccac cgcccgcggc ggcggcagca gcagcagcag cgagctatca gcgtcgcgcc   180
              catcacctcc ctccccgcgc cgcagtggtg gaagtggaac ggccccggtc tcttcttcgg   240
              gacgacgatg gatccatctc tggagaggaa ccagcagcag cagcagccgg cggccgcgcg   300
              ccacggccac gagatgccgt tcctgcgggg ggtggacgtg aaccgggccc ctgccgggga   360
              gaccaggagg ggtactgcag cgaggacgac gaggagcctg gcggcgcgtc gtcgtcgcca   420
              aacagcacgc tctccagcag cctcagcggg aagcgcgcag cgccggcgag gagcggcgga   480
              gaggtggccg accacacccc gagagccgga ggcggcagcg acgacgagga ctccggcggt   540
              gggtcgcgca agaagctccg cctgtccaag gaccaggccg ccgtcctcga ggagagcttc   600
              aaggagcata acacactcaa ccccaagcag aaggcggcgc tggcgaagca gctgaacctg   660
              aagccgcgtc aggtggaggt gtggttccag aaccgcagag ccaggacgaa gctgaagcag   720
              acggaggtgg actgcgagtt cctgaagcgc tgctgcgaga cgctgacgga ggagaaccgg   780
              cggctgcagc gggaggtggc ggagctgcgc gtgctcaagc tcgtggcgcc gcaccactac   840
              gcgcgcatgc cgccgcccac cacgctcacc atgtgcccct cctgcgagcg cctcgcctcc   900
              gcgtccgcgt ccgccgacca ggcgggccgt gcagggccct gctggggccc tctccccgtg   960
              ttcgtcgacg gcccagcccg gaggccgtga                                    990
                                                   1491

              <210>   2055
<removed-date>
              <211>   425
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 2055
              cattatgtgg cgcggcccga ttcgtcccga gcaggccata ttttcattat aaatagcgcg    60
              aaatgtaagc ggtaacgcat catcgatcat cggtaggaag gaagctagga agaaagagga   120
              agaagagggg ccttgcatga gggctagagc ctgcctctgg tagccaagga tgacttgcct   180
<removed-apn>
              attgtgctct tctgaatgat gcagtgccat gatcagtgtg gcctggctgg ttcagatgag   240
              ccgagatagg cagtctcctt ggctagcctg agtggctctt gtctgtcatg gaaggcttct   300
              gcttctcatt gattcagtgc tgttctcaag tgatctgtac acctaatgtg catgcacaca   360
              ggttaatggt gatccttata tgtgtgatac tgcaatcttg tgttgtgttg gtcattgttg   420
              caact                                                               425
              <210>   2056
              <211>   673
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2056
              aattcatcta tcccccgctc tctccatctc tctacccttt ctctctctcg gatagctagc    60
              tcttcttctt cctccttcct ccgtttggat cagacgagag ggtatgtagt ggtgcaccac   120
              gagttggtga agctgccagc atgatctggt tctgatggtg gtggtatatg taagatggat   180
              gtaatctata ctacggcccc tgttaatttc tctctctctc cccggtccct gactgtcata   240
              tatggatcga cgaatccaag atgagagggg aatggagaga gagagagagg gtaattatga   300
              gcaccaggac caggtcatgc tgtagtttca tctgctggtg gccgcacatc gaaaacccta   360
              gctagctcta gtagctagct catcctcgtg caattcatat ccatgctgca ctcgccagac   420
              caccagtcaa gctagcttat ttccgccgtt gacgacgttg attaattatt cgtgataata   480
              atagccttgt cgatctagtt tcgtctctct ctttttatta ttatgccttt gcttctctct   540
              tggttcggtt gtgtattgct gtcttggtca tcactgtgtg cctacatacg atttcactgt   600
              gtgatccttc ctgctcacga taatgcagat ggtgggaagc tgtgcattgc cggaagtctt   660
                                                   1492

<removed-date>
              cttttcgaag gtc                                                      673
              <210>   2057
              <211>   568
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
<removed-apn>
              <400> 2057
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag    60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc atttcaccag   120
              cactaaccag atcaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttcgat ctggttggcg   180
              ctggtgaaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc   240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact   300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa   360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgttga gcacagctac   420
              acaggcatcc aacccaacat catgttgttc aacatgatat ttgtctgcct atgcaagaag   480
              accagggctt tggaagccta aaaagtcttc gaccagatag gatcttaggg tatgaaaccc   540
              gacgcgttct cgtgtgctgc atattgtt                                      568
              <210>   2058
              <211>   1055
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2058
              gctgcgcctc tagcctagta ggctctctgc ctcccatcat tcgattcctt tgcacttgct    60
              gtgctggctt tgcttgctct tgctctcccc tcgccagcaa taagctcggc cccattccgc   120
              ttctgccatc aagcccttgc cgcgcgcgca cccgcgcact acgtataacc agctagagta   180
              gcttggtagc taggctcggc tcgctagcga gctcgtcgat ccaatccatc gctcgttcgt   240
              ccactataac aatcgacgac gtgtacgatg gcagctgcgg cggcgccgag gcccaagtcg   300
              ccgcctgcct cgccggaccc ctgcggccgc caccgcctcc agctcgccgt cgacgcgctc   360
              caccgggaga tcggcttcct cgagggcgaa ataagttcca tcgagggggt ccacgctgcc   420
                                                   1493

<removed-date>
              tccagatgct gcaaagaggt tgatgagttc gttggaagga acccggatcc gttcctaacg    480
              attcagcaag agagaggaag ccacgatcaa tctcagcagt ttctgaagaa gttccgagga    540
              aagagctgcc tgagctacta cctctcgtgg atctgcggtg gcgggtggtg gtgcccgccg    600
              ccgttgcagc tcaagaggcc accggcgccg agctgctcct gcgcgccgcg gctggggaag    660
              ctctgctcct ccaccgcctc ctcctgctgc agctgttgct gctgccggtt ccgcgtcgtg   720
<removed-apn>
              tacgccgccg ccggctgcgg gtgctgcgcg ccgtgcccgc gctgctcgtg cgactgcacc   780
              tgcgcctgcc cgcgctgctg ctcctgcgcc tgccccatgt gcagcgccgc gtgctgcgcc   840
              ccgcgctgct gcctgtgcct atgatggcca tgagaaattt tgcgtgcatg ctagtagtag    900
              tagtacctgg agatgatgat ggatgactgg cattttgcag catggttttt tttttgttta    960
              gtttcggcga cacgagtact gttgtaactg gctgtacgtg gctgatctgg ttagtgctgg   1020
              tgaatggtgt cgattccgca aaaaaaaaaa aaaaa                              1055
              <210>   2059
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2059
              tctcttacca ctcctctgct g                                               21
              <210>   2060
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2060
              tctcagcgaa aggcagcggt c                                               21
              <210>   2061
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
                                                   1494

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2061
              ttgttcccgc ctccgcaccc g                                               21
              <210>   2062
              <211>   1912
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
<removed-apn>
              <400> 2062
              gaggaaaaac ttttttgaaa acaaaaaacc ccccactccc acgtcccacc acctcgcctc     60
              ggccgctgcg acagtgcata cgccccctcc cctcctgact cctgttgcgt atacaccgta    120
              tgtgtctact gtgactccgg gtcccggggg ggtaagcgac cgagcaaggc ttcgtctccg    180
              gcggcggagg cggatctggg agggatgggg aaccggatag gcgggcggcg caagtcgggg    240
              gtggaggagc ggttcacgcg gccgcagggt ctctacgacc acaaggacat cgaccagaag    300
              aagctgcgca agctcatcct cgaggccaag ctcgcgccct gctacccggg cgccgacgac    360
              gccgcgcccg gcggagggga cctcgaggag tgccccatct gcttcctgta ctacccaagc    420
              ctcaaccgtt caaagtgttg ctcaaagggg atatgtacag agtgttttct tcaaatgaaa    480
              ccaactcata ctgctcgacc tacacagtgc ccattctgca aaacgcctaa ttatgctgtg    540
              gagtatcgtg gtgtgaaaac aaaggaggaa aggagcatag agcagtttga agaacagaaa    600
              gtcatagaag cacagttgag gatgcgccaa aaagaactcc aagatgaaga agctaaaatg    660
              agaagaaaac agggcaggtg ttcttctagc agaacggtaa caccaacaac agaagttgag    720
              tatcgagata tttgcagcac atccttttca gtgccatcat atcaatgtac tgagcaagga    780
              aatgaatgct gttcatctga accttcatgc tctagccagg ctaacaggcg gcctttccat    840
              tctagacaca accgtgatga taatgttgac atgaatctgg agaacatgat ggttatggaa    900
              gcaatttggc gttccattca gcaggaacaa ggacatctag taaatcctgt ttgtggcagc    960
              tactttcctg taattgagcc accatcacgt gaaaggcagg catttcttcc ggctgctcct   1020
              ctagaaatgc ctcatccagg tggatactct tgtgttgcgg ctttggctga gcaccagcca   1080
              ccaagcatgg atttctctta catggctggc agtagcacat acccagtctt tgacatgatc   1140
              cgccgaccgt gcaacatgtc tagtggaagc ttgtgcagcg tcgagaacag ttcactagac   1200
                                                   1495

              acctggagcg ggatggcacc aaattgcagc agaggagtgg taagagagga gggagagtgc   1260
<removed-date>
              tcaaccgacc actggtcgga gggtgcggag gcgggaacaa gctatgccgg atcggacatc   1320
              atggtggatg caggggccat gcaaccgctg cctttcgctg agaatttcac catggctcca   1380
              agccacttcc gcccggagag catcgaggag cagatgatgt tttccatggc cgtgtcacta   1440
              gcagaaggtc atcatggtag gacgcaagcg caaggtctgg catggttgta agttgtataa   1500
              cactaatttt gacgccttga tccctgcccc tttctgttgg ttcgacctgc ttcccctgca   1560
<removed-apn>
              cctctgcttt tttgccactt tgtttagctt tttgctcctt ttttttcttt tctttctttt   1620
              ttgcatgtgt ttcttcatgg cttgatatag atcttgctat agtcctccat tgtcattgct   1680
              tatatgtatg taaaatggaa tatgtggaaa taggaaagaa aatgggtcga aagttctttt   1740
              gccggtagga tgcccagtgt gttttcgcat tgcaaagcat tccaagattt tgcaaagttg   1800
              acctggaaca ggcattttag ctattttttc cgttgacatg ttcttggggt gtaaaaatgt   1860
              ttgattttat gggaaaaaac aactagactc tgggccggct gaggttaatt tc           1912
              <210>   2063
              <211>   568
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic construct
              <400> 2063
              ggcagagccg tgcccgtctc atcccctgcc cgtgcaagca gctaggtagg acgatttgag     60
              cgtggtgtta ggccgaaccg ctgaaggaag attgctccac tgttgactgc attttaagca    120
              tcccatcctg atgaaatgta ttgcttatat tcagcaatat aatgttccat caggataaca    180
              tgcttgaaat atagtcgata gtggaagaac ggtaacatat gtggtttgca gcaggtgagc    240
              aggatgggtg tggatgattg aatatctctg ttcagtgttt tcatcatctg actgaacact    300
              gaatcagctt gctgacgtta gaggtttcag tttacctaat ttatggtctg tacccatgaa    360
              aagtgggaaa aggctgaaga attcgatttc tttctttctt tcaatgttga gcacagctac    420
              acaggcatcc aacccaacat catgttgttc aacatgatat ttgtctgcct atgcaagaag    480
              accagggctt tggaagccta aaaagtcttc gaccagatag gatcttaggg tatgaaaccc    540
              gacgcgttct cgtgtgctgc atattgtt                                       568
                                                   1496

<removed-date>
              <210>   2064
              <211>   1881
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 2064
              atggcgtcct cgctgctctc ctcccccgct aaacccacca tcaccaccac caccaaaacg     60
              accccggccc caagacccgc ccgctccgcc catgtccatg tcctctccgc cgcccgctgc    120
<removed-apn>
              ctccgcctcc gcctccgcgc gtcgtcgcag catcctccgc ctccgcccac cccgcggtcg    180
              cggcggccgg attacgtccc gaaccgcatc gacgacccca actacgtgcg catcttcgac    240
              accacgctgc gcgacgggga gcagtcgccg ggcgccacca tgacgagcgc ccagaagctc    300
              gtcgtcgcgc gccagctggc ccgcctcggc gtcgacatca tcgaggccgg gttcccggcc    360
              tcctcccccg acgacctcga cgccgtgcgc tccatcgcca tcgaggtcgg caacccggcg    420
              ccaggacccg ccggggagga ggacgccgtc cacgtgccgg tcatctgcgg cctctcgcgg    480
              tgcaaccgga aggacatcga cgccgcgtgg gaggccgtgc gccacgcgcg ccgcccccgg    540
              atccacacct tcatcgccac cagcgacatt cacatgcagc ataagctcag gaagacgccc    600
              gaccaggtgg tcgccattgc cagggagatg gtggcctacg cccgcagcct cggatgcact    660
              gacgtcgagt tcagccccga ggacgccggc aggtcaaata gagagttctt gtatcatatt    720
              ctaggggaag tcataaaagc tggagctacg actctcaata tcccggacac tgtcggatac    780
              aatcttcctt atgaatttgg aaagttgatt gctgatataa aggcaaacac tcctggaatt    840
              gaaaaggcta tcatttccac tcattgtcag aatgaccttg gtcttgcgac tgccaacaca    900
              ctagcgggcg ctcgtgcagg agcacggcag ttagaggtta ctattaatgg tattggtgaa    960
              agggctggaa atgcttcttt ggaggaggtt gtcatggcaa ttaaatgccg cagagaactg   1020
              ttagatggtc tctatactgg aatcgattcc cgacatatca ctttgacgag caaaatggtg   1080
              caagagcata gtggacttca cgtgcagcca cataaagcta ttgttggtgc caatgcgttc   1140
              gctcatgaaa gtggaattca tcaggatggg atgcttaaat ataaaggaac atacgaaatt   1200
              atatcgcctg atgatattgg tctaacacgt gcaaatgaat ttggtattgt tcttgggaaa   1260
              ctcagcggaa ggcatgctgt gagatctaag ctagtagagc ttggatatga aatcggtgac   1320
              aaggaatttg aggacttctt taaacgctac aaagaggttg cagagaagaa aaagcgcgta   1380
                                                   1497

<removed-date>
              actgatgaag acttagaagc gttattgtca gatgagatat tccagcctaa ggttatttgg     1440
              tcccttgctg atgtacaggc aacatgtggt acacttgctt tatctacggc aacagtgaaa     1500
              ttggtagcac cagatggaga ggagaaaata gcatgttcag tcggaacagg tccagtcgat     1560
              gcagcttaca aggctgttga caaaataatc cagattccaa cggttctccg agaatacagt     1620
              atgacatcag tcacagaagg cattgacgca atcgcgacaa ctcgggttgt tgtcactgga     1680
<removed-apn>
              gatgtgagca acaacgccaa acatgccctg actggccagt ccttcaaccg ctccttcagc     1740
              gggagcgggg catccatgga cattgtggtg tccagtgtca gagcttacct gagcgccctg     1800
              aacaagatct gcagtttcgc tggcgccgtg aaagccagca gcgatgtagc tgagaccgca     1860
              agcgtcccga gcacagaatg a                                               1881
              <210>      2065
              <211>      11722
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>      Synthetic construct
              <400>      2065
              cgcgcctgcc tgcaggtact cgaggtcatt catatgcttg agaagagagt cgggatagtc    60
              caaaataaaa caaaggtaag attacctggt caaaagtgaa aacatcagtt aaaaggtggt   120
              ataaagtaaa atatcggtaa taaaaggtgg cccaaagtga aatttactct tttctactat   180
              tataaaaatt gaggatgttt ttgtcggtac tttgatacgt catttttgta tgaattggtt   240
              tttaagttta ttcgcttttg gaaatgcata tctgtatttg agtcgggttt taagttcgtt   300
              tgcttttgta aatacagagg gatttgtata agaaatatct ttagaaaaac ccatatgcta   360
              atttgacata atttttgaga aaaatatata ttcaggcgaa ttctcacaat gaacaataat   420
              aagattaaaa tagctttccc ccgttgcagc gcatgggtat tttttctagt aaaaataaaa   480
              gataaactta gactcaaaac atttacaaaa acaaccccta aagttcctaa agcccaaagt   540
              gctatccacg atccatagca agcccagccc aacccaaccc aacccaaccc accccagtcc   600
              agccaactgg acaatagtct ccacaccccc ccactatcac cgtgagttgt ccgcacgcac   660
              cgcacgtctc gcagccaaaa aaaaaaagaa agaaaaaaaa gaaaaagaaa aaacagcagg   720
                                                   1498

              tgggtccggg tcgtgggggc cggaaacgcg aggaggatcg cgagccagcg acgaggagct    780
<removed-date>
              taggcctcat cgttgaagat gcctctgccg acagtggtcc caaagatgga cccccaccca    840
              cgaggagcat cgtggaaaaa gaagacgttc caaccacgtc ttcaaagcaa gtggattgat    900
              gtgatatctc cactgacgta agggatgacg cacaatccca ctatccttcg aggcctcatc    960
              gttgaagatg cctctgccga cagtggtccc aaagatggac ccccacccac gaggagcatc   1020
              gtggaaaaag aagacgttcc aaccacgtct tcaaagcaag tggattgatg tgatatctcc   1080
<removed-apn>
              actgacgtaa gggatgacgc acaatcccac tatccttcga agctccctcc ctccgcttcc   1140
              aaagaaacgc cccccatcgc cactatatac ataccccccc ctctcctccc atccccccaa   1200
              cccttctaga accatcttcc acacactcaa gccacactat tggagaacac acagggacaa   1260
              cacaccataa gatccaaggg aggcctccgc cgccgccggt aaccaccccg cccctctcct   1320
              ctttctttct ccgttttttt ttccgtctcg gtctcgatct ttggccttgg tagtttgggt   1380
              gggcgagagg cggcttcgtg cgcgcccaga tcggtgcgcg ggaggggcgg gatctcgcgg   1440
              ctggggctct cgccggcgtg gatccggccc ggatctcgcg gggaatgggg ctctcggatg   1500
              tagatctgcg atccgccgtt gttgggggag atgatggggg gtttaaaatt tccgccgtgc   1560
              taaacaagat caggaagagg ggaaaagggc actatggttt atatttttat atatttctgc   1620
              tgcttcgtca ggcttagatg tgctagatct ttctttcttc tttttgtggg tagaatttga   1680
              atccctcagc attgttcatc ggtagttttt cttttcatga tttgtgacaa atgcagcctc   1740
              gtgcggagct tttttgtagg tagaagcgga ccggtcgcgc ctcagcagtc gctgtcgtta   1800
              acccagcggt actcgctgag gcgatcgcgg gcccggtacc ctgcaatgtg accctagact   1860
              tgtccatctt ctggattggc caacttaatt aatgtatgaa ataaaaggat gcacacatag   1920
              tgacatgcta atcactataa tgtgggcatc aaagttgtgt gttatgtgta attactaatt   1980
              atctgaataa gagaaagaga tcatccatat ttcttatcct aaatgaatgt cacgtgtctt   2040
              tataattctt tgatgaacca gatgcatttt attaaccaat tccatataca tataaatatt   2100
              aatcatatat aattaatatc aattgggtta gcaaaacaaa tctagtctag gtgtgttttg   2160
              ctaattattg ggggatagtg caaaaagaaa tctacgttct caataattca gatagaaaac   2220
              ttaataaagt gagataattt acatagattg cttttatcct ttgatatatg tgaaaccatg   2280
              catgatataa ggaaaataga tagagaaata attttttaca tcgttgaata tgtaaacaat   2340
                                                   1499

<removed-date>
              ttaattcaag aagctaggaa tataaatatt gaggagttta tgattattat tattattttg   2400
              atgttcaatg aagttttttt taatttcata tgaagtatac aaaaattctt catagatttt   2460
              tgtttctatg ccgtagttat ctttaatata tttgtggttg aagaaattta ttgctagaaa   2520
              cgaatggatt gtcaattttt ttttaaagca aatatatatg aaattatact gtatattatt   2580
              ttagtcatga ttaaaatgtg gccttaattg aatcatcttt ctcattcatt ttttcaaaag   2640
<removed-apn>
              catatcagga tgattgatat ttatctattt taaaaattaa tttaagggtt caaattaaat   2700
              ttaacttaaa agtgtcctaa ccgtagttaa aggtttactt taaaaaaata ctatgaaaaa   2760
              tctaatcttc tatgaatcga cctgcaggat ttaaatccat cgttctgggg cctaacgggc   2820
              caagcttact cgaggtcatt catatgcttg agaagagagt cgggatagtc caaaataaaa   2880
              caaaggtaag attacctggt caaaagtgaa aacatcagtt aaaaggtggt ataaagtaaa   2940
              atatcggtaa taaaaggtgg cccaaagtga aatttactct tttctactat tataaaaatt   3000
              gaggatgttt ttgtcggtac tttgatacgt catttttgta tgaattggtt tttaagttta   3060
              ttcgcttttg gaaatgcata tctgtatttg agtcgggttt taagttcgtt tgcttttgta   3120
              aatacagagg gatttgtata agaaatatct ttagaaaaac ccatatgcta atttgacata   3180
              atttttgaga aaaatatata ttcaggcgaa ttctcacaat gaacaataat aagattaaaa   3240
              tagctttccc ccgttgcagc gcatgggtat tttttctagt aaaaataaaa gataaactta   3300
              gactcaaaac atttacaaaa acaaccccta aagttcctaa agcccaaagt gctatccacg   3360
              atccatagca agcccagccc aacccaaccc aacccaaccc accccagtcc agccaactgg   3420
              acaatagtct ccacaccccc ccactatcac cgtgagttgt ccgcacgcac cgcacgtctc   3480
              gcagccaaaa aaaaaaagaa agaaaaaaaa gaaaaagaaa aaacagcagg tgggtccggg   3540
              tcgtgggggc cggaaacgcg aggaggatcg cgagccagcg acgaggccgg ccctccctcc   3600
              gcttccaaag aaacgccccc catcgccact atatacatac ccccccctct cctcccatcc   3660
              ccccaaccct accaccacca ccaccaccac ctccacctcc tcccccctcg ctgccggacg   3720
              acgagctcct cccccctccc cctccgccgc cgccgcgccg gtaaccaccc cgcccctctc   3780
              ctctttcttt ctccgttttt ttttccgtct cggtctcgat ctttggcctt ggtagtttgg   3840
              gtgggcgaga ggcggcttcg tgcgcgccca gatcggtgcg cgggaggggc gggatctcgc   3900
                                                   1500

              ggctggggct ctcgccggcg tggatccggc ccggatctcg cggggaatgg ggctctcgga   3960
<removed-date>
              tgtagatctg cgatccgccg ttgttggggg agatgatggg gggtttaaaa tttccgccgt   4020
              gctaaacaag atcaggaaga ggggaaaagg gcactatggt ttatattttt atatatttct   4080
              gctgcttcgt caggcttaga tgtgctagat ctttctttct tctttttgtg ggtagaattt   4140
              gaatccctca gcattgttca tcggtagttt ttcttttcat gatttgtgac aaatgcagcc   4200
              tcgtgcggag cttttttgta ggtagaagtg atcaaccatg gcgcaagtta gcagaatctg   4260
<removed-apn>
              caatggtgtg cagaacccat ctcttatctc caatctctcg aaatccagtc aacgcaaatc   4320
              tcccttatcg gtttctctga agacgcagca gcatccacga gcttatccga tttcgtcgtc   4380
              gtggggattg aagaagagtg ggatgacgtt aattggctct gagcttcgtc ctcttaaggt   4440
              catgtcttct gtttccacgg cgtgcatgct tcacggtgca agcagccggc ccgcaaccgc   4500
              ccgcaaatcc tctggccttt ccggaaccgt ccgcattccc ggcgacaagt cgatctccca   4560
              ccggtccttc atgttcggcg gtctcgcgag cggtgaaacg cgcatcaccg gccttctgga   4620
              aggcgaggac gtcatcaata cgggcaaggc catgcaggcg atgggcgccc gcatccgtaa   4680
              ggaaggcgac acctggatca tcgatggcgt cggcaatggc ggcctcctgg cgcctgaggc   4740
              gccgctcgat ttcggcaatg ccgccacggg ctgccgcctg acgatgggcc tcgtcggggt   4800
              ctacgatttc gacagcacct tcatcggcga cgcctcgctc acaaagcgcc cgatgggccg   4860
              cgtgttgaac ccgctgcgcg aaatgggcgt gcaggtgaaa tcggaagacg gtgaccgtct   4920
              tcccgttacc ttgcgcgggc cgaagacgcc gacgccgatc acctaccgcg tgccgatggc   4980
              ctccgcacag gtgaagtccg ccgtgctgct cgccggcctc aacacgcccg gcatcacgac   5040
              ggtcatcgag ccgatcatga cgcgcgatca tacggaaaag atgctgcagg gctttggcgc   5100
              caaccttacc gtcgagacgg atgcggacgg cgtgcgcacc atccgcctgg aaggccgcgg   5160
              caagctcacc ggccaagtca tcgacgtgcc gggcgacccg tcctcgacgg ccttcccgct   5220
              ggttgcggcc ctgcttgttc cgggctccga cgtcaccatc ctcaacgtgc tgatgaaccc   5280
              cacccgcacc ggcctcatcc tgacgctgca ggaaatgggc gccgacatcg aagtcatcaa   5340
              cccgcgcctt gccggcggcg aagacgtggc ggacctgcgc gttcgctcct ccacgctgaa   5400
              gggcgtcacg gtgccggaag accgcgcgcc ttcgatgatc gacgaatatc cgattctcgc   5460
              tgtcgccgcc gccttcgcgg aaggggcgac cgtgatgaac ggtctggaag aactccgcgt   5520
                                                   1501

<removed-date>
              caaggaaagc gaccgcctct cggccgtcgc caatggcctc aagctcaatg gcgtggattg   5580
              cgatgagggc gagacgtcgc tcgtcgtgcg tggccgccct gacggcaagg ggctcggcaa   5640
              cgcctcgggc gccgccgtcg ccacccatct cgatcaccgc atcgccatga gcttcctcgt   5700
              catgggcctc gtgtcggaaa accctgtcac ggtggacgat gccacgatga tcgccacgag   5760
              cttcccggag ttcatggacc tgatggccgg gctgggcgcg aagatcgaac tctccgatac   5820
<removed-apn>
              gaaggctgcc tgatgagctc gaattcccga tcgttcaaac atttggcaat aaagtttctt   5880
              aagattgaat cctgttgccg gtcttgcgat gattatcata taatttctgt tgaattacgt   5940
              taagcatgta ataattaaca tgtaatgcat gacgttattt atgagatggg tttttatgat   6000
              tagagtcccg caattataca tttaatacgc gatagaaaac aaaatatagc gcgcaaacta   6060
              ggataaatta tcgcgcgcgg tgtcatctat gttactagat cggggatggg ggatccacta   6120
              gtgatatccg tcgactggta cctacgcgta gctagcccgt gaagtttctc atctaagccc   6180
              ccatttggac gtgaatgtag acacgtcgaa ataaagattt ccgaattaga ataatttgtt   6240
              tattgctttc gcctataaat acgacggatc gtaatttgtc gttttatcaa aatgtacttt   6300
              cattttataa taacgctgcg gacatctaca tttttgaatt gaaaaaaaat tggtaattac   6360
              tctttctttt tctccatatt gaccatcata ctcattgctg atccatgtag atttcccgga   6420
              catgaagcca tttacaattg aatatatcct gccgccgctg ccgctttgca cccggtggag   6480
              cttgcatgtt ggtttctacg cagaactgag ccggttaggc agataatttc cattgagaac   6540
              tgagccatgt gcaccttccc cccaacacgg tgagcgacgg ggcaacggag tgatccacat   6600
              gggacttttc ctagcttggc tgccattttt ggggtgaggc cgttcgcggc cgaggggcgc   6660
              agcccctggg gggatgggag gcccgcgtta gcgggccggg agggttcgag aagggggggc   6720
              accccccttc ggcgtgcgcg gtcacgcgca cagggcgcag ccctggttaa aaacaaggtt   6780
              tataaatatt ggtttaaaag caggttaaaa gacaggttag cggtggccga aaaacgggcg   6840
              gaaacccttg caaatgctgg attttctgcc tgtggacagc ccctcaaatg tcaataggtg   6900
              cgcccctcat ctgtcagcac tctgcccctc aagtgtcaag gatcgcgccc ctcatctgtc   6960
              agtagtcgcg cccctcaagt gtcaataccg cagggcactt atccccaggc ttgtccacat   7020
              catctgtggg aaactcgcgt aaaatcaggc gttttcgccg atttgcgagg ctggccagct   7080
                                                   1502

              ccacgtcgcc ggccgaaatc gagcctgccc ctcatctgtc aacgccgcgc cgggtgagtc   7140
<removed-date>
              ggcccctcaa gtgtcaacgt ccgcccctca tctgtcagtg agggccaagt tttccgcgag   7200
              gtatccacaa cgccggcggc cggccgcggt gtctcgcaca cggcttcgac ggcgtttctg   7260
              gcgcgtttgc agggccatag acggccgcca gcccagcggc gagggcaacc agcccggtga   7320
              gcgtcggaaa gggtcgatcg accgatgccc ttgagagcct tcaacccagt cagctccttc   7380
              cggtgggcgc ggggcatgac tatcgtcgcc gcacttatga ctgtcttctt tatcatgcaa   7440
<removed-apn>
              ctcgtaggac aggtgccggc agcgctctgg gtcattttcg gcgaggaccg ctttcgctgg   7500
              agcgcgacga tgatcggcct gtcgcttgcg gtattcggaa tcttgcacgc cctcgctcaa   7560
              gccttcgtca ctggtcccgc caccaaacgt ttcggcgaga agcaggccat tatcgccggc   7620
              atggcggccg acgcgctggg ctacgtcttg ctggcgttcg cgacgcgagg ctggatggcc   7680
              ttccccatta tgattcttct cgcttccggc ggcatcggga tgcccgcgtt gcaggccatg   7740
              ctgtccaggc aggtagatga cgaccatcag ggacagcttc aaggatcgct cgcggctctt   7800
              accagcctaa cttcgatcat tggaccgctg atcgtcacgg cgatttatgc cgcctcggcg   7860
              agcacatgga acgggttggc atggattgta ggcgccgccc tataccttgt ctgcctcccc   7920
              gcgttgcgtc gcggtgcatg gagccgggcc acctcgacct gaatggaagc cggcggcacc   7980
              tcgctaacgg attcaccact ccaagaattg gagccaatca attcttgcgg agaactgtga   8040
              atgcgcaaac caacccttgg cagaacatat ccatcgcgtc cgccatctcc agcagccgca   8100
              cgcggcgcat ctcgggcagc gttgggtcct ggccacgggt gcgcatgatc gtgctcctgt   8160
              cgttgaggac ccggctaggc tggcggggtt gccttactgg ttagcagaat gaatcaccga   8220
              tacgcgagcg aacgtgaagc gactgctgct gcaaaacgtc tgcgacctga gcaacaacat   8280
              gaatggtctt cggtttccgt gtttcgtaaa gtctggaaac gcggaagtca gcgccctgca   8340
              ccattatgtt ccggatctgc atcgcaggat gctgctggct accctgtgga acacctacat   8400
              ctgtattaac gaagcgctgg cattgaccct gagtgatttt tctctggtcc cgccgcatcc   8460
              ataccgccag ttgtttaccc tcacaacgtt ccagtaaccg ggcatgttca tcatcagtaa   8520
              cccgtatcgt gagcatcctc tctcgtttca tcggtatcat tacccccatg aacagaaatc   8580
              ccccttacac ggaggcatca gtgaccaaac aggaaaaaac cgcccttaac atggcccgct   8640
              ttatcagaag ccagacatta acgcttctgg agaaactcaa cgagctggac gcggatgaac   8700
                                                   1503

<removed-date>
              aggcagacat ctgtgaatcg cttcacgacc acgctgatga gctttaccgc agctgcctcg   8760
              cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag   8820
              cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg   8880
              gcgggtgtcg gggcgcagcc atgacccagt cacgtagcga tagcggagtg tatactggct   8940
              taactatgcg gcatcagagc agattgtact gagagtgcac catatgcggt gtgaaatacc   9000
<removed-apn>
              gcacagatgc gtaaggagaa aataccgcat caggcgctct tccgcttcct cgctcactga   9060
              ctcgctgcgc tcggtcgttc ggctgcggcg agcggtatca gctcactcaa aggcggtaat   9120
              acggttatcc acagaatcag gggataacgc aggaaagaac atgtgagcaa aaggccagca   9180
              aaaggccagg aaccgtaaaa aggccgcgtt gctggcgttt ttccataggc tccgcccccc   9240
              tgacgagcat cacaaaaatc gacgctcaag tcagaggtgg cgaaacccga caggactata   9300
              aagataccag gcgtttcccc ctggaagctc cctcgtgcgc tctcctgttc cgaccctgcc   9360
              gcttaccgga tacctgtccg cctttctccc ttcgggaagc gtggcgcttt ctcatagctc   9420
              acgctgtagg tatctcagtt cggtgtaggt cgttcgctcc aagctgggct gtgtgcacga   9480
              accccccgtt cagcccgacc gctgcgcctt atccggtaac tatcgtcttg agtccaaccc   9540
              ggtaagacac gacttatcgc cactggcagc agccactggt aacaggatta gcagagcgag   9600
              gtatgtaggc ggtgctacag agttcttgaa gtggtggcct aactacggct acactagaag   9660
              gacagtattt ggtatctgcg ctctgctgaa gccagttacc ttcggaaaaa gagttggtag   9720
              ctcttgatcc ggcaaacaaa ccaccgctgg tagcggtggt ttttttgttt gcaagcagca   9780
              gattacgcgc agaaaaaaag gatctcaaga agatcctttg atcttttcta cggggtctga   9840
              cgctcagtgg aacgaaaact cacgttaagg gattttggtc atgagattat caaaaaggat   9900
              cttcacctag atccttttaa attaaaaatg aagttttaaa tcaatctaaa gtatatatga   9960
              gtaaacttgg tctgacagtt accaatgctt aatcagtgag gcacctatct cagcgatctg 10020
              tctatttcgt tcatccatag ttgcctgact ccccgtcgtg tagataacta cgatacggga 10080
              gggcttacca tctggcccca gtgctgcaat gataccgcga gacccacgct caccggctcc 10140
              agatttatca gcaataaacc agccagccgg aagggccgag cgcagaagtg gtcctgcaac 10200
              tttatccgcc tccatccagt ctattaattg ttgccgggaa gctagagtaa gtagttcgcc 10260
                                                   1504

              agttaatagt ttgcgcaacg ttgttgccat tgctgcaggt cgggagcaca ggatgacgcc 10320
<removed-date>
              taacaattca ttcaagccga caccgcttcg cggcgcggct taattcagga gttaaacatc 10380
              atgagggaag cggtgatcgc cgaagtatcg actcaactat cagaggtagt tggcgtcatc 10440
              gagcgccatc tcgaaccgac gttgctggcc gtacatttgt acggctccgc agtggatggc 10500
              ggcctgaagc cacacagtga tattgatttg ctggttacgg tgaccgtaag gcttgatgaa 10560
              acaacgcggc gagctttgat caacgacctt ttggaaactt cggcttcccc tggagagagc 10620
<removed-apn>
              gagattctcc gcgctgtaga agtcaccatt gttgtgcacg acgacatcat tccgtggcgt 10680
              tatccagcta agcgcgaact gcaatttgga gaatggcagc gcaatgacat tcttgcaggt 10740
              atcttcgagc cagccacgat cgacattgat ctggctatct tgctgacaaa agcaagagaa 10800
              catagcgttg ccttggtagg tccagcggcg gaggaactct ttgatccggt tcctgaacag 10860
              gatctatttg aggcgctaaa tgaaacctta acgctatgga actcgccgcc cgactgggct 10920
              ggcgatgagc gaaatgtagt gcttacgttg tcccgcattt ggtacagcgc agtaaccggc 10980
              aaaatcgcgc cgaaggatgt cgctgccgac tgggcaatgg agcgcctgcc ggcccagtat 11040
              cagcccgtca tacttgaagc taggcaggct tatcttggac aagaagatcg cttggcctcg 11100
              cgcgcagatc agttggaaga atttgttcac tacgtgaaag gcgagatcac caaggtagtc 11160
              ggcaaataat gtctaacaat tcgttcaagc cgacgccgct tcgcggcgcg gcttaactca 11220
              agcgttagat gctgcaggca tcgtggtgtc acgctcgtcg tttggtatgg cttcattcag 11280
              ctccggttcc caacgatcaa ggcgagttac atgatccccc atgttgtgca aaaaagcggt 11340
              tagctccttc ggtcctccga tcgaggattt ttcggcgctg cgctacgtcc gcgaccgcgt 11400
              tgagggatca agccacagca gcccactcga ccttctagcc gacccagacg agccaaggga 11460
              tctttttgga atgctgctcc gtcgtcaggc tttccgacgt ttgggtggtt gaacagaagt 11520
              cattatcgca cggaatgcca agcactcccg aggggaaccc tgtggttggc atgcacatac 11580
              aaatggacga acggataaac cttttcacgc ccttttaaat atccgattat tctaataaac 11640
              gctcttttct cttaggttta cccgccaata tatcctgtca aacactgata gtttaaactg 11700
              aaggcgggaa acgacaatct gg                                          11722
              <210>      2066
              <211>      9769
                                                   1505

              <212>      DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>      Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>      Synthetic construct
              <400>      2066
              ggtccgatgt gagacttttc aacaaagggt aatatccgga aacctcctcg gattccattg    60
              cccagctatc tgtcacttta ttgtgaagat agtggaaaag gaaggtggct cctacaaatg   120
<removed-apn>
              ccatcattgc gataaaggaa aggccatcgt tgaagatgcc tctgccgaca gtggtcccaa   180
              agatggaccc ccacccacga ggagcatcgt ggaaaaagaa gacgttccaa ccacgtcttc   240
              aaagcaagtg gattgatgtg atggtccgat tgagactttt caacaaaggg taatatccgg   300
              aaacctcctc ggattccatt gcccagctat ctgtcacttt attgtgaaga tagtggaaaa   360
              ggaaggtggc tcctacaaat gccatcattg cgataaagga aaggccatcg ttgaagatgc   420
              ctctgccgac agtggtccca aagatggacc cccacccacg aggagcatcg tggaaaaaga   480
              agacgttcca accacgtctt caaagcaagt ggattgatgt gatatctcca ctgacgtaag   540
              ggatgacgca caatcccact atccttcgca agacccttcc tctatataag gaagttcatt   600
              tcatttggag aggaccaggt ggtaccggcg cgcctcagca gtcgctgtcg ttaacccagc   660
              ggtactcgct gaggcgatcg cgggccctga tcacctgtcg tacagtattt ctacatttga   720
              tgtgtgattt gtgaagaaca tcaaacaaaa caagcactgg ctttaatatg atgataagta   780
              ttatggtaat taattaattg gcaaaaacaa caatgaagct aaaattttat ttattgagcc   840
              ttgcggttaa tttcttgtga tgatcttttt ttttattttc taattatata tagtttcctt   900
              tgctttgaaa tgctaaaggt ttgagagagt tatgctcttt ttttcttcct ctttcttttt   960
              taactttatc atacaaattt tgaataaaaa tgtgagtaca ttgagctcat ttaaataagc 1020
              ttgatgggga tcagattgtc gtttcccgcc ttcagtttaa actatcagtg tttgacagga 1080
              tatattggcg ggtaaaccta agagaaaaga gcgtttatta gaataatcgg atatttaaaa 1140
              gggcgtgaaa aggtttatcc gttcgtccat ttgtatgtgc atgccaacca cagggttccc 1200
              ctcgggagtg cttggcattc cgtgcgataa tgacttctgt tcaaccaccc aaacgtcgga 1260
              aagcctgacg acggagcagc attccaaaaa gatcccttgg ctcgtctggg tcggctagaa 1320
              ggtcgagtgg gctgctgtgg cttgatccct caacgcggtc gcggacgtag cgcagcgccg 1380
                                                   1506

              aaaaatcctc gatcggagga ccgaaggagc taaccgcttt tttgcacaac atgggggatc 1440
<removed-date>
              atgtaactcg ccttgatcgt tgggaaccgg agctgaatga agccatacca aacgacgagc 1500
              gtgacaccac gatgcctgca gcatctaacg cttgagttaa gccgcgccgc gaagcggcgt 1560
              cggcttgaac gaattgttag acattatttg ccgactacct tggtgatctc gcctttcacg 1620
              tagtgaacaa attcttccaa ctgatctgcg cgcgaggcca agcgatcttc ttgtccaaga 1680
              taagcctgcc tagcttcaag tatgacgggc tgatactggg ccggcaggcg ctccattgcc 1740
<removed-apn>
              cagtcggcag cgacatcctt cggcgcgatt ttgccggtta ctgcgctgta ccaaatgcgg 1800
              gacaacgtaa gcactacatt tcgctcatcg ccagcccagt cgggcggcga gttccatagc 1860
              gttaaggttt catttagcgc ctcaaataga tcctgttcag gaaccggatc aaagagttcc 1920
              tccgccgctg gacctaccaa ggcaacgcta tgttctcttg cttttgtcag caagatagcc 1980
              agatcaatgt cgatcgtggc tggctcgaag atacctgcaa gaatgtcatt gcgctgccat 2040
              tctccaaatt gcagttcgcg cttagctgga taacgccacg gaatgatgtc gtcgtgcaca 2100
              acaatggtga cttctacagc gcggagaatc tcgctctctc caggggaagc cgaagtttcc 2160
              aaaaggtcgt tgatcaaagc tcgccgcgtt gtttcatcaa gccttacggt caccgtaacc 2220
              agcaaatcaa tatcactgtg tggcttcagg ccgccatcca ctgcggagcc gtacaaatgt 2280
              acggccagca acgtcggttc gagatggcgc tcgatgacgc caactacctc tgatagttga 2340
              gtcgatactt cggcgatcac cgcttccctc atgatgttta actcctgaat taagccgcgc 2400
              cgcgaagcgg tgtcggcttg aatgaattgt taggcgtcat cctgtgctcc cgacctgcag 2460
              caatggcaac aacgttgcgc aaactattaa ctggcgaact acttactcta gcttcccggc 2520
              aacaattaat agactggatg gaggcggata aagttgcagg accacttctg cgctcggccc 2580
              ttccggctgg ctggtttatt gctgataaat ctggagccgg tgagcgtggg tctcgcggta 2640
              tcattgcagc actggggcca gatggtaagc cctcccgtat cgtagttatc tacacgacgg 2700
              ggagtcaggc aactatggat gaacgaaata gacagatcgc tgagataggt gcctcactga 2760
              ttaagcattg gtaactgtca gaccaagttt actcatatat actttagatt gatttaaaac 2820
              ttcattttta atttaaaagg atctaggtga agatcctttt tgataatctc atgaccaaaa 2880
              tcccttaacg tgagttttcg ttccactgag cgtcagaccc cgtagaaaag atcaaaggat 2940
              cttcttgaga tccttttttt ctgcgcgtaa tctgctgctt gcaaacaaaa aaaccaccgc 3000
                                                   1507

<removed-date>
              taccagcggt ggtttgtttg ccggatcaag agctaccaac tctttttccg aaggtaactg 3060
              gcttcagcag agcgcagata ccaaatactg tccttctagt gtagccgtag ttaggccacc 3120
              acttcaagaa ctctgtagca ccgcctacat acctcgctct gctaatcctg ttaccagtgg 3180
              ctgctgccag tggcgataag tcgtgtctta ccgggttgga ctcaagacga tagttaccgg 3240
              ataaggcgca gcggtcgggc tgaacggggg gttcgtgcac acagcccagc ttggagcgaa 3300
<removed-apn>
              cgacctacac cgaactgaga tacctacagc gtgagctatg agaaagcgcc acgcttcccg 3360
              aagggagaaa ggcggacagg tatccggtaa gcggcagggt cggaacagga gagcgcacga 3420
              gggagcttcc agggggaaac gcctggtatc tttatagtcc tgtcgggttt cgccacctct 3480
              gacttgagcg tcgatttttg tgatgctcgt caggggggcg gagcctatgg aaaaacgcca 3540
              gcaacgcggc ctttttacgg ttcctggcct tttgctggcc ttttgctcac atgttctttc 3600
              ctgcgttatc ccctgattct gtggataacc gtattaccgc ctttgagtga gctgataccg 3660
              ctcgccgcag ccgaacgacc gagcgcagcg agtcagtgag cgaggaagcg gaagagcgcc 3720
              tgatgcggta ttttctcctt acgcatctgt gcggtatttc acaccgcata tggtgcactc 3780
              tcagtacaat ctgctctgat gccgcatagt taagccagta tacactccgc tatcgctacg 3840
              tgactgggtc atggctgcgc cccgacaccc gccaacaccc gctgacgcgc cctgacgggc 3900
              ttgtctgctc ccggcatccg cttacagaca agctgtgacc gtctccggga gctgcatgtg 3960
              tcagaggttt tcaccgtcat caccgaaacg cgcgaggcag ctgcggtaaa gctcatcagc 4020
              gtggtcgtga agcgattcac agatgtctgc ctgttcatcc gcgtccagct cgttgagttt 4080
              ctccagaagc gttaatgtct ggcttctgat aaagcgggcc atgttaaggg cggttttttc 4140
              ctgtttggtc actgatgcct ccgtgtaagg gggatttctg ttcatggggg taatgatacc 4200
              gatgaaacga gagaggatgc tcacgatacg ggttactgat gatgaacatg cccggttact 4260
              ggaacgttgt gagggtaaac aactggcggt atggatgcgg cgggaccaga gaaaaatcac 4320
              tcagggtcaa tgccagcgct tcgttaatac agatgtaggt gttccacagg gtagccagca 4380
              gcatcctgcg atgcagatcc ggaacataat ggtgcagggc gctgacttcc gcgtttccag 4440
              actttacgaa acacggaaac cgaagaccat tcatgttgtt gctcaggtcg cagacgtttt 4500
              gcagcagcag tcgcttcacg ttcgctcgcg tatcggtgat tcattctgct aaccagtaag 4560
                                                   1508

              gcaaccccgc cagcctagcc gggtcctcaa cgacaggagc acgatcatgc gcacccgtgg 4620
<removed-date>
              ccaggaccca acgctgcccg agatgcgccg cgtgcggctg ctggagatgg cggacgcgat 4680
              ggatatgttc tgccaagggt tggtttgcgc attcacagtt ctccgcaaga attgattggc 4740
              tccaattctt ggagtggtga atccgttagc gaggtgccgc cggcttccat tcaggtcgag 4800
              gtggcccggc tccatgcacc gcgacgcaac gcggggaggc agacaaggta tagggcggcg 4860
              cctacaatcc atgccaaccc gttccatgtg ctcgccgagg cggcataaat cgccgtgacg 4920
<removed-apn>
              atcagcggtc caatgatcga agttaggctg gtaagagccg cgagcgatcc ttgaagctgt 4980
              ccctgatggt cgtcatctac ctgcctggac agcatggcct gcaacgcggg catcccgatg 5040
              ccgccggaag cgagaagaat cataatgggg aaggccatcc agcctcgcgt cgcgaacgcc 5100
              agcaagacgt agcccagcgc gtcggccgcc atgccggcga taatggcctg cttctcgccg 5160
              aaacgtttgg tggcgggacc agtgacgaag gcttgagcga gggcgtgcaa gattccgaat 5220
              accgcaagcg acaggccgat catcgtcgcg ctccagcgaa agcggtcctc gccgaaaatg 5280
              acccagagcg ctgccggcac ctgtcctacg agttgcatga taaagaagac agtcataagt 5340
              gcggcgacga tagtcatgcc ccgcgcccac cggaaggagc tgactgggtt gaaggctctc 5400
              aagggcatcg gtcgatcgac cctttccgac gctcaccggg ctggttgccc tcgccgctgg 5460
              gctggcggcc gtctatggcc ctgcaaacgc gccagaaacg ccgtcgaagc cgtgtgcgag 5520
              acaccgcggc cggccgccgg cgttgtggat acctcgcgga aaacttggcc ctcactgaca 5580
              gatgaggggc ggacgttgac acttgagggg ccgactcacc cggcgcggcg ttgacagatg 5640
              aggggcaggc tcgatttcgg ccggcgacgt ggagctggcc agcctcgcaa atcggcgaaa 5700
              acgcctgatt ttacgcgagt ttcccacaga tgatgtggac aagcctgggg ataagtgccc 5760
              tgcggtattg acacttgagg ggcgcgacta ctgacagatg aggggcgcga tccttgacac 5820
              ttgaggggca gagtgctgac agatgagggg cgcacctatt gacatttgag gggctgtcca 5880
              caggcagaaa atccagcatt tgcaagggtt tccgcccgtt tttcggccac cgctaacctg 5940
              tcttttaacc tgcttttaaa ccaatattta taaaccttgt ttttaaccag ggctgcgccc 6000
              tgtgcgcgtg accgcgcacg ccgaaggggg gtgccccccc ttctcgaacc ctcccggccc 6060
              gctaacgcgg gcctcccatc cccccagggg ctgcgcccct cggccgcgaa cggcctcacc 6120
              ccaaaaatgg cagccaagct aggaaaagtc ccatgtggat cactccgttg ccccgtcgct 6180
                                                   1509

<removed-date>
              caccgtgttg gggggaaggt gcacatggct cagttctcaa tggaaattat ctgcctaacc 6240
              ggctcagttc tgcgtagaaa ccaacatgca agctccaccg ggtgcaaagc ggcagcggcg 6300
              gcaggatata ttcaattgta aatggcttca tgtccgggaa atctacatgg atcagcaatg 6360
              agtatgatgg tcaatatgga gaaaaagaaa gagtaattac caattttttt tcaattcaaa 6420
              aatgtagatg tccgcagcgt tattataaaa tgaaagtaca ttttgataaa acgacaaatt 6480
<removed-apn>
              acgatccgtc gtatttatag gcgaaagcaa taaacaaatt attctaattc ggaaatcttt 6540
              atttcgacgt gtctacattc acgtccaaat gggggcttag atgagaaact tcacgatcga 6600
              tgcggccacc actcgagaag cttactagtc aacaattggc caatctttgt tctaaattgc 6660
              taataaacga ccatttccgt caattctcct tggttgcaac agtctacccg tcaaatgttt 6720
              actaatttat aagtgtgaag tttgaattat gaaagacgaa atcgtattaa aaattcacaa 6780
              gaataaacaa ctccatagat tttcaaaaaa acagtcacga gaaaaaaacc acagtccgtt 6840
              tgtctgctct tctagttttt attatttttc tattaatagt tttttgttat ttcgagaata 6900
              aaatttgaac gatgtccgaa ccacaaaagc cgagccgata aatcctaagc cgagcctaac 6960
              tttagccgta accatcagtc acggctcccg ggctaattca tttgaaccga atcataatca 7020
              acggtttaga tcaaactcaa aacaatctaa cggcaacata gacgcgtcgg tgagctaaaa 7080
              agagtgtgaa agccaggtca ccatagcatt gtctctccca gattttttat ttgggaaata 7140
              atagaagaaa tagaaaaaaa taaaagagtg agaaaaatcg tagagctata tattcgcaca 7200
              tgtactcgtt tcgctttcct tagtgttagc tgctgccgct gttgtttctc ctccatttct 7260
              ctatctttct ctctcgctgc ttctcgaatc ttctgtatca tcttcttctt cttcaaggtg 7320
              agtctctaga tccgttcgct tgattttgct gctcgttagt cgttattgtt gattctctat 7380
              gccgatttcg ctagatctgt ttagcatgcg ttgtggtttt atgagaaaat ctttgttttg 7440
              ggggttgctt gttatgtgat tcgatccgtg cttgttggat cgatctgagt taattcttaa 7500
              ggtttatgtg ttagatctat ggagtttgag gattcttctc gcttctgtcg atctctcgct 7560
              gttatttttg tttttttcag tgaagtgaag ttgtttagtt cgaaatgact tcgtgtatgc 7620
              tcgattgatc tggttttaat cttcgatctg ttaggtgttg atgtttacaa gtgaattcta 7680
              gtgttttctc gttgagatct gtgaagtttg aacctagttt tctcaataat caacatatga 7740
                                                   1510

              agcgatgttt gagtttcaat aaacgctgct aatcttcgaa actaagttgt gatctgattc 7800
<removed-date>
              gtgtttactt catgagctta tccaattcat ttcggtttca ttttactttt tttttagtga 7860
              accatggcgc aagttagcag aatctgcaat ggtgtgcaga acccatctct tatctccaat 7920
              ctctcgaaat ccagtcaacg caaatctccc ttatcggttt ctctgaagac gcagcagcat 7980
              ccacgagctt atccgatttc gtcgtcgtgg ggattgaaga agagtgggat gacgttaatt 8040
              ggctctgagc ttcgtcctct taaggtcatg tcttctgttt ccacggcgtg catgcttcat 8100
<removed-apn>
              ggagcttcat ctaggccagc tactgccagg aagtctagcg ggctcagtgg caccgtgcgc 8160
              atccctggcg ataaaagtat ttcacacagg agcttcatgt tcggaggact tgctagtgga 8220
              gagacgagaa tcactggttt gcttgagggc gaagatgtta tcaacaccgg taaggcgatg 8280
              caagcaatgg gtgccagaat ccgaaaagag ggcgatacgt ggatcatcga cggtgttggt 8340
              aacggaggat tgctcgctcc cgaagcgcca cttgactttg ggaacgcagc tacggggtgc 8400
              cgtcttacta tgggactggt aggcgtgtat gactttgact ctaccttcat cggtgacgcg 8460
              agcctcacta agagaccaat gggacgagtg ctgaatcccc tgagggagat gggtgtccag 8520
              gtgaaatctg aggatggtga tcgtcttccg gttactctgc gaggccccaa gacccccacg 8580
              ccaatcacgt acagggttcc gatggcgtca gcacaggtca agtcagcggt actcctggcg 8640
              ggcctcaaca cacctggaat cacaaccgtg attgaaccca tcatgactag agaccacacg 8700
              gagaagatgt tgcagggttt cggcgctaat ctaacggtcg aaaccgacgc cgacggcgtg 8760
              aggacaatcc gcttggaggg cagaggtaaa ctgactggcc aagtcatcga tgtgcctgga 8820
              gatccctcgt ccacagcgtt tcccctcgta gctgcgttgc tcgtccctgg atctgatgtg 8880
              acgatcctga atgtcctcat gaatccaact agaaccggcc tcatcctcac attgcaggag 8940
              atgggtgctg acatcgaggt tatcaatcct aggttggcag gtggagagga tgtggccgat 9000
              ctgcgcgtgc gttctagtac actcaaaggc gtgaccgtcc ctgaggatcg cgctccatcc 9060
              atgatcgacg agtaccccat tctcgccgtt gctgctgcgt ttgccgaggg cgcaactgta 9120
              atgaacggcc ttgaggagtt gagggttaag gagagtgaca ggctgtccgc ggtggcgaat 9180
              ggcctgaagc taaacggcgt ggactgcgac gaaggtgaaa cgtcccttgt agtccgtggt 9240
              cgcccagacg ggaaggggtt ggggaatgct tcgggagctg ctgtggcgac gcaccttgat 9300
              catagaatcg ccatgtcatt tctggtgatg ggacttgtct ccgagaatcc ggtgaccgtt 9360
                                                   1511

<removed-date>
              gacgatgcta ccatgatcgc cacctccttt cctgagttca tggacctcat ggcaggcttg 9420
              ggggccaaga tcgagctgtc tgatactaag gccgcttgaa ttcccgatcg ttcaaacatt 9480
              tggcaataaa gtttcttaag attgaatcct gttgccggtc ttgcgatgat tatcatataa 9540
              tttctgttga attacgttaa gcatgtaata attaacatgt aatgcatgac gttatttatg 9600
              agatgggttt ttatgattag agtcccgcaa ttatacattt aatacgcgat agaaaacaaa 9660
<removed-apn>
              atatagcgcg caaactagga taaattatcg cgcgcggtgt catctatgtt actagatcgg 9720
              ggatcccacg tgcggaccgc ctgcaggccg cgttatcaag ctaactgca               9769
              <210>      2067
              <211>      8504
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>      Synthetic construct
              <400>      2067
              aggatttttc ggcgctgcgc tacgtccgcg accgcgttga gggatcaagc cacagcagcc     60
              cactcgacct tctagccgac ccagacgagc caagggatct ttttggaatg ctgctccgtc    120
              gtcaggcttt ccgacgtttg ggtggttgaa cagaagtcat tatcgcacgg aatgccaagc    180
              actcccgagg ggaaccctgt ggttggcatg cacatacaaa tggacgaacg gataaacctt    240
              ttcacgccct tttaaatatc cgattattct aataaacgct cttttctctt aggtttaccc    300
              gccaatatat cctgtcaaac actgatagtt taaactgaag gcgggaaacg acaatctgat    360
              ccccatcaag cttggccagc ttctgcaggt ccgattgaga cttttcaaca aagggtaata    420
              tccggaaacc tcctcggatt ccattgccca gctatctgtc actttattgt gaagatagtg    480
              gaaaaggaag gtggctccta caaatgccat cattgcgata aaggaaaggc catcgttgaa    540
              gatgcctctg ccgacagtgg tcccaaagat ggacccccac ccacgaggag catcgtggaa    600
              aaagaagacg ttccaaccac gtcttcaaag caagtggatt gatgtgatgg tccgattgag    660
              acttttcaac aaagggtaat atccggaaac ctcctcggat tccattgccc agctatctgt    720
              cactttattg tgaagatagt ggaaaaggaa ggtggctcct acaaatgcca tcattgcgat    780
              aaaggaaagg ccatcgttga agatgcctct gccgacagtg gtcccaaaga tggaccccca    840
                                                   1512

              cccacgagga gcatcgtgga aaaagaagac gttccaacca cgtcttcaaa gcaagtggat   900
<removed-date>
              tgatgtgata tctccactga cgtaagggat gacgcacaat cccactatcc ttcgcaagac   960
              ccttcctcta tataaggaag ttcatttcat ttggagagga cacagaaaaa tttgctacat 1020
              tgtttcacaa acttcaaata ttattcattt atttgtcagc tttcaaactc tttgtttctt 1080
              gtttgttgat tagatctggt accctcagca gtcgctgtgc gatcgccagc ggtactcgct 1140
              gaggtcgacg tagttagtta attcagcttt cgttcgtatc atcggtttcg acaacgttcg 1200
<removed-apn>
              tcaagttcaa tgcatcagtt tcattgcgca cacaccagaa tcctactgag tttgagtatt 1260
              atggcattgg gaaaactgtt tttcttgtac catttgttgt gcttgtaatt tactgtgttt 1320
              tttattcggt tttcgctatc gaactgtgaa atggaaatgg atggagaaga gttaatgaat 1380
              gatatggtcc ttttgttcat tctcaaatta atattatttg ttttttctct tatttgttgt 1440
              gtgttgaatt tgaaattata agagatatgc aaacattttg ttttgagtaa aaatgtgtca 1500
              aatcgtggcc tctaatgacc gaagttaata tgaggagtaa aacacttgta gttgtaccat 1560
              tatgcttatt cactaggcaa caaatatatt ttcagaccta gaaaagctgc aaatgttact 1620
              gaatacaagt atgtcctctt gtgttttaga catttatgaa ctttccttta tgtaattttc 1680
              cagaatcctt gtcagattct aatcattgct ttataattat agttatactc atggatttgt 1740
              agttgagtat gaaaatattt tttaatgcat tttatgactt gccaattgat tgacaacgcg 1800
              gccgccactc gagtggaagc tagctttccg atcctacctg tcacttcatc aaaaggacag 1860
              tagaaaagga aggtggcacc tacaaatgcc atcattgcga taaaggaaag gctatcattc 1920
              aagatgcctc tgccgacagt ggtcccaaag atggaccccc acccacgagg agcatcgtgg 1980
              aaaaagaaga cgttccaacc acgtcttcaa agcaagtgga ttgatgtgat acttccactg 2040
              acgtaaggga tgacgcacaa tcccactatc cttcgcaaga cccttcctct atataaggaa 2100
              gttcatttca tttggagagg acacgctgaa atcaccagtc tctctctaca agatcgggga 2160
              tctctagcta gacgatcgtt tcgcatgatt gaacaagatg gattgcacgc aggttctccg 2220
              gccgcttggg tggagaggct attcggctat gactgggcac aacagacaat cggctgctct 2280
              gatgccgccg tgttccggct gtcagcgcag gggcgcccgg ttctttttgt caagaccgac 2340
              ctgtccggtg ccctgaatga actgcaggac gaggcagcgc ggctatcgtg gctggccacg 2400
              acgggcgttc cttgcgcagc tgtgctcgac gttgtcactg aagcgggaag ggactggctg 2460
                                                   1513

<removed-date>
              ctattgggcg aagtgccggg gcaggatctc ctgtcatctc accttgctcc tgccgagaaa 2520
              gtatccatca tggctgatgc aatgcggcgg ctgcatacgc ttgatccggc tacctgccca 2580
              ttcgaccacc aagcgaaaca tcgcatcgag cgagcacgta ctcggatgga agccggtctt 2640
              gtcgatcagg atgatctgga cgaagagcat caggggctcg cgccagccga actgttcgcc 2700
              aggctcaagg cgcgcatgcc cgacggcgag gatctcgtcg tgacccatgg cgatgcctgc 2760
<removed-apn>
              ttgccgaata tcatggtgga aaatggccgc ttttctggat tcatcgactg tggccggctg 2820
              ggtgtggcgg accgctatca ggacatagcg ttggctaccc gtgatattgc tgaagagctt 2880
              ggcggcgaat gggctgaccg cttcctcgtg ctttacggta tcgccgctcc cgattcgcag 2940
              cgcatcgcct tctatcgcct tcttgacgag ttcttctgag cgggactctg gggttcgatc 3000
              cccaattccc gatcgttcaa acatttggca ataaagtttc ttaagattga atcctgttgc 3060
              cggtcttgcg atgattatca tataatttct gttgaattac gttaagcatg taataattaa 3120
              catgtaatgc atgacgttat ttatgagatg ggtttttatg attagagtcc cgcaattata 3180
              catttaatac gcgatagaaa acaaaatata gcgcgcaaac taggataaat tatcgcgcgc 3240
              ggtgtcatct atgttactag atcggggatc gggccactcg agtggtggcc gcatcgatcg 3300
              tgaagtttct catctaagcc cccatttgga cgtgaatgta gacacgtcga aataaagatt 3360
              tccgaattag aataatttgt ttattgcttt cgcctataaa tacgacggat cgtaatttgt 3420
              cgttttatca aaatgtactt tcattttata ataacgctgc ggacatctac atttttgaat 3480
              tgaaaaaaaa ttggtaatta ctctttcttt ttctccatat tgaccatcat actcattgct 3540
              gatccatgta gatttcccgg acatgaagcc atttacaatt gaatatatcc tgccgccgct 3600
              gccgctttgc acccggtgga gcttgcatgt tggtttctac gcagaactga gccggttagg 3660
              cagataattt ccattgagaa ctgagccatg tgcaccttcc ccccaacacg gtgagcgacg 3720
              gggcaacgga gtgatccaca tgggactttt cctagcttgg ctgccatttt tggggtgagg 3780
              ccgttcgcgg ccgaggggcg cagcccctgg ggggatggga ggcccgcgtt agcgggccgg 3840
              gagggttcga gaaggggggg cacccccctt cggcgtgcgc ggtcacgcgc acagggcgca 3900
              gccctggtta aaaacaaggt ttataaatat tggtttaaaa gcaggttaaa agacaggtta 3960
              gcggtggccg aaaaacgggc ggaaaccctt gcaaatgctg gattttctgc ctgtggacag 4020
                                                   1514

              cccctcaaat gtcaataggt gcgcccctca tctgtcagca ctctgcccct caagtgtcaa 4080
<removed-date>
              ggatcgcgcc cctcatctgt cagtagtcgc gcccctcaag tgtcaatacc gcagggcact 4140
              tatccccagg cttgtccaca tcatctgtgg gaaactcgcg taaaatcagg cgttttcgcc 4200
              gatttgcgag gctggccagc tccacgtcgc cggccgaaat cgagcctgcc cctcatctgt 4260
              caacgccgcg ccgggtgagt cggcccctca agtgtcaacg tccgcccctc atctgtcagt 4320
              gagggccaag ttttccgcga ggtatccaca acgccggcgg ccggccgcgg tgtctcgcac 4380
<removed-apn>
              acggcttcga cggcgtttct ggcgcgtttg cagggccata gacggccgcc agcccagcgg 4440
              cgagggcaac cagcccggtg agcgtcggaa agggtcgatc gaccgatgcc cttgagagcc 4500
              ttcaacccag tcagctcctt ccggtgggcg cggggcatga ctatcgtcgc cgcacttatg 4560
              actgtcttct ttatcatgca actcgtagga caggtgccgg cagcgctctg ggtcattttc 4620
              ggcgaggacc gctttcgctg gagcgcgacg atgatcggcc tgtcgcttgc ggtattcgga 4680
              atcttgcacg ccctcgctca agccttcgtc actggtcccg ccaccaaacg tttcggcgag 4740
              aagcaggcca ttatcgccgg catggcggcc gacgcgctgg gctacgtctt gctggcgttc 4800
              gcgacgcgag gctggatggc cttccccatt atgattcttc tcgcttccgg cggcatcggg 4860
              atgcccgcgt tgcaggccat gctgtccagg caggtagatg acgaccatca gggacagctt 4920
              caaggatcgc tcgcggctct taccagccta acttcgatca ttggaccgct gatcgtcacg 4980
              gcgatttatg ccgcctcggc gagcacatgg aacgggttgg catggattgt aggcgccgcc 5040
              ctataccttg tctgcctccc cgcgttgcgt cgcggtgcat ggagccgggc cacctcgacc 5100
              tgaatggaag ccggcggcac ctcgctaacg gattcaccac tccaagaatt ggagccaatc 5160
              aattcttgcg gagaactgtg aatgcgcaaa ccaacccttg gcagaacata tccatcgcgt 5220
              ccgccatctc cagcagccgc acgcggcgca tctcgggcag cgttgggtcc tggccacggg 5280
              tgcgcatgat cgtgctcctg tcgttgagga cccggctagg ctggcggggt tgccttactg 5340
              gttagcagaa tgaatcaccg atacgcgagc gaacgtgaag cgactgctgc tgcaaaacgt 5400
              ctgcgacctg agcaacaaca tgaatggtct tcggtttccg tgtttcgtaa agtctggaaa 5460
              cgcggaagtc agcgccctgc accattatgt tccggatctg catcgcagga tgctgctggc 5520
              taccctgtgg aacacctaca tctgtattaa cgaagcgctg gcattgaccc tgagtgattt 5580
              ttctctggtc ccgccgcatc cataccgcca gttgtttacc ctcacaacgt tccagtaacc 5640
                                                   1515

<removed-date>
              gggcatgttc atcatcagta acccgtatcg tgagcatcct ctctcgtttc atcggtatca 5700
              ttacccccat gaacagaaat cccccttaca cggaggcatc agtgaccaaa caggaaaaaa 5760
              ccgcccttaa catggcccgc tttatcagaa gccagacatt aacgcttctg gagaaactca 5820
              acgagctgga cgcggatgaa caggcagaca tctgtgaatc gcttcacgac cacgctgatg 5880
              agctttaccg cagctgcctc gcgcgtttcg gtgatgacgg tgaaaacctc tgacacatgc 5940
<removed-apn>
              agctcccgga gacggtcaca gcttgtctgt aagcggatgc cgggagcaga caagcccgtc 6000
              agggcgcgtc agcgggtgtt ggcgggtgtc ggggcgcagc catgacccag tcacgtagcg 6060
              atagcggagt gtatactggc ttaactatgc ggcatcagag cagattgtac tgagagtgca 6120
              ccatatgcgg tgtgaaatac cgcacagatg cgtaaggaga aaataccgca tcaggcgctc 6180
              ttccgcttcc tcgctcactg actcgctgcg ctcggtcgtt cggctgcggc gagcggtatc 6240
              agctcactca aaggcggtaa tacggttatc cacagaatca ggggataacg caggaaagaa 6300
              catgtgagca aaaggccagc aaaaggccag gaaccgtaaa aaggccgcgt tgctggcgtt 6360
              tttccatagg ctccgccccc ctgacgagca tcacaaaaat cgacgctcaa gtcagaggtg 6420
              gcgaaacccg acaggactat aaagatacca ggcgtttccc cctggaagct ccctcgtgcg 6480
              ctctcctgtt ccgaccctgc cgcttaccgg atacctgtcc gcctttctcc cttcgggaag 6540
              cgtggcgctt tctcatagct cacgctgtag gtatctcagt tcggtgtagg tcgttcgctc 6600
              caagctgggc tgtgtgcacg aaccccccgt tcagcccgac cgctgcgcct tatccggtaa 6660
              ctatcgtctt gagtccaacc cggtaagaca cgacttatcg ccactggcag cagccactgg 6720
              taacaggatt agcagagcga ggtatgtagg cggtgctaca gagttcttga agtggtggcc 6780
              taactacggc tacactagaa ggacagtatt tggtatctgc gctctgctga agccagttac 6840
              cttcggaaaa agagttggta gctcttgatc cggcaaacaa accaccgctg gtagcggtgg 6900
              tttttttgtt tgcaagcagc agattacgcg cagaaaaaaa ggatctcaag aagatccttt 6960
              gatcttttct acggggtctg acgctcagtg gaacgaaaac tcacgttaag ggattttggt 7020
              catgagatta tcaaaaagga tcttcaccta gatcctttta aattaaaaat gaagttttaa 7080
              atcaatctaa agtatatatg agtaaacttg gtctgacagt taccaatgct taatcagtga 7140
              ggcacctatc tcagcgatct gtctatttcg ttcatccata gttgcctgac tccccgtcgt 7200
                                                   1516

              gtagataact acgatacggg agggcttacc atctggcccc agtgctgcaa tgataccgcg 7260
<removed-date>
              agacccacgc tcaccggctc cagatttatc agcaataaac cagccagccg gaagggccga 7320
              gcgcagaagt ggtcctgcaa ctttatccgc ctccatccag tctattaatt gttgccggga 7380
              agctagagta agtagttcgc cagttaatag tttgcgcaac gttgttgcca ttgctgcagg 7440
              tcgggagcac aggatgacgc ctaacaattc attcaagccg acaccgcttc gcggcgcggc 7500
              ttaattcagg agttaaacat catgagggaa gcggtgatcg ccgaagtatc gactcaacta 7560
<removed-apn>
              tcagaggtag ttggcgtcat cgagcgccat ctcgaaccga cgttgctggc cgtacatttg 7620
              tacggctccg cagtggatgg cggcctgaag ccacacagtg atattgattt gctggttacg 7680
              gtgaccgtaa ggcttgatga aacaacgcgg cgagctttga tcaacgacct tttggaaact 7740
              tcggcttccc ctggagagag cgagattctc cgcgctgtag aagtcaccat tgttgtgcac 7800
              gacgacatca ttccgtggcg ttatccagct aagcgcgaac tgcaatttgg agaatggcag 7860
              cgcaatgaca ttcttgcagg tatcttcgag ccagccacga tcgacattga tctggctatc 7920
              ttgctgacaa aagcaagaga acatagcgtt gccttggtag gtccagcggc ggaggaactc 7980
              tttgatccgg ttcctgaaca ggatctattt gaggcgctaa atgaaacctt aacgctatgg 8040
              aactcgccgc ccgactgggc tggcgatgag cgaaatgtag tgcttacgtt gtcccgcatt 8100
              tggtacagcg cagtaaccgg caaaatcgcg ccgaaggatg tcgctgccga ctgggcaatg 8160
              gagcgcctgc cggcccagta tcagcccgtc atacttgaag ctaggcaggc ttatcttgga 8220
              caagaagatc gcttggcctc gcgcgcagat cagttggaag aatttgttca ctacgtgaaa 8280
              ggcgagatca ccaaggtagt cggcaaataa tgtctaacaa ttcgttcaag ccgacgccgc 8340
              ttcgcggcgc ggcttaactc aagcgttaga tgctgcaggc atcgtggtgt cacgctcgtc 8400
              gtttggtatg gcttcattca gctccggttc ccaacgatca aggcgagtta catgatcccc 8460
              catgttgtgc aaaaaagcgg ttagctcctt cggtcctccg atcg                  8504
                                                   1517

