ABSTRACT
The invention provides highly stable and versatile multilayered structure or articles, based
on cellulose nanomaterials, tailored and processed for a variety of applications, as
superior materials in the food packaging industry.
Figure 1

                  1/1
                Layer A
                Layer B
                Layer C
               Figure 1
                 Layer A
                 Layer B
                 Layer C
               Figure 2
      Layer A      Layer A          Layer A
      Layer A      Layer B          Layer A
      Layer B      Layer C          Layer B
      Layer C      Layer C          Layer C
              Figure 3B             Layer C
Figure 3A
                            Figure 3C
                    Layer A
                    Layer A
                    Layer B
                    Layer C
                    Layer B
                    Layer C
                    Layer C
              Figure 3D

                                              -1
                              MULTILAYERED ARTICLES
TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
        The invention generally concerns multilayered articles and uses thereof.
BACKGROUND
        Cellulose Nanocrystals (CNC) are one of the known forms of cellulose, the main
component of cell walls of trees and plants. CNC may be present as liquid crystal solution
in water and is known to self-assemble to macro scale ordered films having thicknesses
at the nanoscale.
        The nano-sized crystals possess interesting size-dependent structural and optical
properties. The ability to play with the processing variables provides the ability to control
the structure, composition, size, and level of dispersion of such nano crystals.
BACKGROUND ART
[1]     W02017/046798
[2]     W02013/132491
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
        The inventors of the technology disclosed herein have developed highly stable
and versatile multilayered structure or articles, based on cellulose nanomaterials, such as
cellulose nanocrystals (CNC), that can be tailored and processed for a variety of
applications and which are superior materials to aluminum sheets used, e.g., in the food
packaging industry, and which exhibit superior barriers to gases, organic solvents, oils
and other agents.
        The articles of the invention are free of metallic nanoparticles and are thus suitable
for a wide variety of applications, including as packaging materials for food, beverages,
consumer goods and pharmaceutical products. The articles may be tailored or pre
structured in accordance with one or more final uses or applications. For example, an
article according to the invention may be specifically tailored as a dry food packaging
material or as a liquid food packaging material.

                                             -2
         In a first aspect, the invention provides an article in the form of a multilayered
structure (which may or may not be in the form of a substantially two dimensional sheet)
comprising three or more materials layers, at least one of said three or more material
layers    comprising a cellulose nanomaterial       selected    from nanocrystals    (CNC),
nanofibrilar cellulose (NFC), microfibrillated cellulose (MFC),      a combination of CNC
and NFC, a combination of CNC and MFC a blend of CNC with at least one additive,
e.g., a polymer, or a blend of NFC with at least one additive, e.g., a polymer that is water
soluble or water dispersible (such as hydroxyl or carboxyl-rich polymers).
         In some embodiments, the multilayered article comprises a substrate, a cellulose
nanomaterial, e.g., CNC-based layer, and a cover layer, such that the cellulose
nanomaterial layer forms an interface between the substrate and the cover layer.
         In some embodiments, the multilayered article consists a substrate, a CNC-based
layer and a cover layer, such that the CNC-based layer forms an interface between the
substrate and the cover layer.
         In some embodiments, the substrate and the cover layer are the same. In some
embodiments, the substrate and the cover layer are different.
         In some embodiments, the article has a layered structure of the form ABC,
wherein each of A, B and C is a material layer, as depicted in Fig. 1, wherein: A is a
substrate comprising or consisting a material selected from a polymeric material, a paper
or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, e.g., a paperboard, a
nanocellulose film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material or a
membrane material; and others; B is a cellulose nanomaterial, as selected herein, e.g., a
CNC-based material comprising CNC or consisting CNC; C is a cover layer comprising
or consisting a material selected from a polymeric material, a paper or paper-based
material, a polymer coated paper-based material, e.g., a paperboard, a nanocellulose film,
nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material or a membrane material,
a metallic material, e.g., a metal sheet or foil.
         In some embodiments, layer B does not comprise nor consist NFC.
         Layers A and C may additionally or alternatively, one or both, be coated or made
of a varnish material. As known in the art, varnishes are hydrophobic materials that by
themselves can act as water-resistant layer, water vapor barrier or supply mechanical
protection to any layer they are associated with, e.g., layer B, or any of layers A and C as
defined herein. The varnish layers, either directly on layer B or on either or both layers A

                                              -3
or C may also be provided so as to gain the ability to print on. The varnish material or
composition may be obtained as commercially available or may be tailored for the
particular purpose. The varnish material is typically a composition which contains one or
more polymer, e.g., polyurethane, acrylic, epoxy, polyester; resins such as phenolic resin,
alkyd resin, polyurethane resin; and oils such as linseed oil, walnut oil, tung oil and
soybean oil.
         In some embodiments, for particular purposes and applications, the external sheet
(substrate A or cover layer C shown in Fig. 1) may be a metal film or foil or a metal
composite. The layer B is not a metallic film or foil nor comprises metallic material(s).
         In some embodiments, neither the substrate A nor the cover layer C is a
nanocellulose film nor comprises such a material.
         It should be noted that the terms "substrate"and "cover layer" should not be taken
to propose any directionality to articles of the invention. In other words, the term
"substrate" need not be the bottom-most layer or the layer from which manufacture of the
article starts. Similarly, the term "cover layer" should not be contemplated as the top-most
layer nor the layer that envelopes or covers the remaining layers or features of the
multilayered structure.
         As noted herein, layer B comprises or consists a cellulose nanomaterial, such as
CNC and NFC. In some embodiments, layer B is free of NFC.
         Cellulose nanocrystals (CNC) or nanocrystalline cellulose (NCC) are fibers
produced from cellulose, wherein the CNC are typically high-purity single crystals. They
constitute a generic class of materials having mechanical strengths equivalent to the
binding forces of adjacent atoms. The resultant highly ordered structure produces not only
unusually high strengths but also significant changes in thermal, electrical, optical,
magnetic, ferromagnetic, dielectric, conductive, and even superconductive properties.
The tensile strength properties of CNC are far above those of the current high volume
content reinforcements and allow the processing of the highest attainable composite
strengths.
         As known in the art, cellulose nanofibrils (CNF or NFC) are cellulosic materials
composed of at least one primary fibril, containing crystalline and amorphous regions,
with aspect ratios usually greater than 50. Their length is 0.1-5 pm and their diameter is
5-60 nm. Similarly, cellulose microfibrils (CMF or MFC) are cellulosic materials
containing crystalline and amorphous regions, with aspect ratios usually greater than 50.

                                           -4
Their length is few micrometers and their diameter is larger than 100 nm. CMF can
contain some fraction of CNF.
        In some embodiments, the cellulose nanomaterial is characterized by having at
least 50 percent crystallinity. In some embodiments, the cellulose nanomaterial is
monocrystalline. In some embodiments, the cellulose nanomaterial is high purity
monocrystalline material.
        In some embodiments, the nanocrystals of the nanomaterial have a length of at
least about 50 nm. In other embodiments, they are at least about 100 nm in length or are
at most 1,000 nm in length. In other embodiments, the nanocrystals are between about
100 nm and 1,000 nm in length, 100 nm and 900 nm in length, 100 nm and 600 nm in
length, or between 100 nm and 500 nm in length.
        In some embodiments, the nanocrystals are between about 10 nm and 100 nm in
length, 100 nm and 1,000 nm, 100 nm and 900 nm, 100 nm and 800 nm, 100 nm and 600
nm, 100 nm and 500 nm, 100 nm and 400 nm, 100 nm and 300 nm, or between about 100
nm and 200 nm in length.
        The nanocrystals may be selected to have an averaged aspect ratio (length-to
diameter ratio) of 10 or more. In some embodiments, the averaged aspect ratio is between
10 and 100, or between 20 and 100, or between 30 and 100, or between 40 and 100, or
between 50 and 100, or between 60 and 100, or between 70 and 100, or between 80 and
100, or between 90 and 100, or between 61 and 100, or between 62 and 100, or between
63 and 100, or between 64 and 100, or between 65 and 100, or between 66 and 100, or
between 67 and 100, or between 68 and 100, or between 69 and 100.
        In some embodiments, the averaged aspect ratio is between 67 and 100.
        In some embodiments, the cellulose nanomaterial is CNC. In some embodiments,
the nanomaterial is not NFC.
        Depending on the process utilized for the production of the CNC or the NFC, the
material may be in a variety of purities. In some cases, the cellulose nanomaterial may
comprise salts and/or carbohydrates such as hemicellulose, xyloglucane, cellulose
derivatives and others. Thus, the CNC or NFC used in accordance with the invention may
comprise between 0.01% and 0.5% of impurities, e.g., carbohydrates and salts.
        Layer B endows the multilayered structure with one or more property that may be
enhanced, reduced or otherwise modified by selecting an appropriate substrate or cover
layer. In some embodiments, the material composition of layer B is selected to exhibit

                                             -5
gas barrier properties, oil barrier properties and water vapor barrier properties. The gas
barrier properties include preventing, arresting, or minimizing permeation or transport of
gases through the multilayered structure, the gas being selected from oxygen, carbon
dioxide, aroma, SOx, NOx, methane, fluorinated gases and others. The oil barrier
properties include preventing, arresting, or minimizing permeation or transport of oils
such as vegetable oil, mineral oil and grease.
         Layer B may also be selected to have a composition or a thickness that endows
the multilayered structure with mechanical support. It may be a transparent layer or an
opaque or non-transparent, and in some cases may be tailored to block certain
wavelengths.
         In some embodiments, layer B comprises a blend of CNC with at least one other
nanocellulose material such as NFC, or with at least one additive. In some embodiments,
layer B comprises or consists NFC. Where the layer comprises NFC, it may additionally
comprise at least one additive, such as a polymer, or may be presented as a blend with
CNC.
         In some embodiments, layer B consists CNC, or a combination of CNC and NFC.
        In some embodiments, layer B comprises CNC and/or NFC in combination with
(as a blend) at least one polymer selected from PVOH, PVAc, EVOH, PVP, starch,
chitosan, poly acrylic acid, polyethyleneimine, carbohydrates, EVA and polyurethanes.
        In some embodiments, the additive or any other material used in combination with
the CNC and/or NFC is not Bi oriented poly propylene (BOPP).
        In some embodiments, layer B is a CNC layer that may consist CNC or may
comprise a blend (a mixture, not separate layers) of CNC and at least one additive, e.g.,
such as a polymer, selected to endow the CNC material or layer with one or more
properties selected from gas barrier, oil barrier, water-vapor barrier, better mechanical
properties, thermal properties, adhesive properties and others.
         The cellulose nanomaterial, e.g., CNC, layer may be comprised of the
nanomaterial, such as CNC and at least one additive, e.g., a polymeric material, wherein
the amount of the additive, e.g., polymeric material ranges between 0.1-99wt% of the
nanomaterial layer (relative to the total weight amount of the materials making up the
layer). In some embodiments, the amount of the polymeric material is between 0.1 and
90%, 0.1 and 85%, 0.1 and 80%, 0.1 and 75%, 0.1 and 70%, 0.1 and 65%, 0.1 and 60%,
0.1 and 55%, 0.1 and 50%, 0.1 and 45%, 0.1 and 40%, 0.1 and 35%, 0.1 and 30%, 0.1

                                                -6
and 25%,0.1 and 20%, 0.1 and 15%, 0.1 and 10%, 0.1 and 9%, 0.1 and 8%, 0.1 and 7 %,
0.1 and 6%, 0.1 and 5%, 0.1 and 4%, 0.1 and 3%, 0.1 and 2%, 0.1 and 1%, 1 and 90%,5
and 90%, 10 and 90%, 15 and 90%, 20 and 90%, 25 and 90%, 30 and 90%, 35 and 90%,
40 and 90%, 45 and 90%, 50 and 90%, 55 and 90%, 60 and 90%, 65 and 90%, 70 and
90%,75 and 90%, 80 and 90%, 85 and 90%, 1 and 85%, 5 and 80%, 10 and 80%, 15 and
75%,20 and 70%, 25 and 65%, 30 and 60%, 35 and 55% or 40 and 50%.
         In some embodiments, the additive is a polymer such as PVOH, present in an
amount between 50 and 70% or between 60 and 70% or between 70 and 90% or between
70 and 80% of a composition consisting the additive and CNC (in other words- an amount
between 70% and 90% polymer means 70-90% polymer and 30-10% CNC).
         In some embodiments, the ratio of additive to CNC is 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6,
 1:7, 1:8, 1:9, 1:10, 10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1 or 2:1.
         The at least one additive may be a polymer or any other additive such as a
plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol; a surfactant; a particulate material such as Mg
particles or nanoparticles (excluding nanoparticles of others elements); a pigment; a
carbohydrate; a salt; a conductive material; an oxygen scavenger and others.
         Where the additive is not a polymer, it may be present in amounts as indicated
above or in amounts ranging from 1% and 20%.
         In some embodiments, layer B comprises CNC/PVOH. The layer has a thickness
of 100 nm - 20 pim. In some embodiments, the thickness is between 100 and 900nm,
between 900 nm and 20 pim, between 1000nm and 20 pim, between 1 pm and 20 pm or
between 1 pm -10 pim.
         In some embodiments, the thickness is between 1 pm and 20 pim, between 1 pm
and 20 gim, between 1 pm and 15 gim, between 1 pm and 10 pm or between 1 pm and 5
pim.
         Each of layers A and C endows the multilayered structure with mechanical and
barrier capabilities that may be tailored to meet one or more end applications. Both the
substrate and the cover layer may be printed on, laminated or otherwise associated with
one or more layers, sheets, films or coats. A multilayered structure having the general
form ABC, may be folded or arranged into a pocket or a container or an enclosure such
that either A or C can be the external surface of the pocket or container or enclosure, or
the internal surface thereof. Depending on the final product, the material or composition
of each of layers A and C may be selected.

                                              -7
         In some embodiments, each of layers A and C is selected, independently of each
other, amongst polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylene vinyl
alcohol,      polyamide,       polystyrene,     polylactic     acid,    polyhydroxyalkanote,
polycaprolactone,       polyhydroxybutyrate,       polyvinyl     acetate,   polyacrylonitrile,
polyvinylidene chloride, cellulose, polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinyl chloride and
polycarbonate.
         In some embodiments, one of layers A and C is a polymer coated paperboard,
wherein the polymer is selected from polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester, polyvinyl
alcohol,     ethylene    vinyl    alcohol,   polyamide,     polystyrene,    polylactic    acid,
polyhydroxyalkanote,       polycaprolactone,     polyhydroxybutyrate,     polyvinyl    acetate,
polyacrylonitrile,    polyvinylidene    chloride,   cellulose,   polyethylene   terephthalate,
polyvinyl chloride and polycarbonate.
         In some embodiments, at least one of layers A and C, independently of the other,
is or comprises a fabric. The fabric may be any textile, natural fabric, synthetic fabric,
knit, woven material, nonwoven material or mesh of a material selected from cellulose,
viscose, glass fibers, carbon fibers and synthetic fibers. Similarly, the fabric may be in
the form of a membrane, selected as indicated.
        In some embodiments, where a metal sheet or foil constitutes at least one of layers
A and C, independently of the other, the metal may be selected from aluminum, silicon,
zinc, iron, titanium or an oxide or alloy thereof
        Layers A and B and/or layers B and C may be associated with each other directly
or may be separated by an interface material(s) as depicted for the purpose of
exemplification in Fig. 2. The interface material between A and B need not be the same
as the interface material associating layers B and C, or one or both interface materials
may be absent. Independently on whether or not the layers are directly associated or via
an interface material, the substrate layer and/or the cover layer may be pretreated to permit
stable and long lasting association between the layers. Pretreatment may involve one or
more of plasma, corona, flame, heat or any known pretreatment methods.
        Additionally or alternatively, the layers may be associated to each other via a
primer material or an adhesive material, shown in Fig. 2 as the layers between layers A
and B or between layer B and C. This primer or adhesive may be inherent to the substrate
or the cover layer (namely embedded within the substrate/cover layer or pre-associated
with the substrate/cover layer or is the substrate/cover layer material) and thus may not

                                               -8
be added as a separate film or layer or as a separate pretreatment or process step. In cases
where the primer or adhesive materials are not part of the substrate or cover layer, they
may be coated on the substrate or the cover layer to form an additional layer which
purpose may be to induce adhesion or association between the layers and which typically,
while optionally not having an effect any mechanical or functional or otherwise
characteristic properties of the multilayered structure. The primer or adhesive layer or
film is typically not used for endowing the multilayered structure with one or more
functional properties. However, the selection of a primer or an adhesive material may be
to additionally introduce, strengthen or diminish one or more property associated with the
multilayered structure as a whole or with one or more layers thereof Such property may
be foldability, elasticity, transparency, absorptivity, light transmittance, permeability of
gases or solvents, wettability, thermal resistance and others. The primer layer or adhesive
layer comprises a material selected from polyurethane, epoxy, acrylate, hot-melt
adhesives, polyelectrolytes (e.g polyethyleneimine) and varnish materials.
        In some embodiments, the multilayered structure comprises 3 layers: a substrate
layer (A), a CNC layer (B) and a cover layer (C), each as defined herein, as exemplified
in Fig. 1. In some embodiments, the multilayered structure comprises 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or
7 or 8 or 9 or 10 layers, such that at least one layer constitutes a substrate layer, as defined,
a cellulose nanomaterial layer, as defined, and a cover layer, as defined. In some
embodiments, the material of each layer may be different from the material of an adjacent
layer or from the material of one or more other layers in the multilayered structure, or
may the different from a material of any one adjacent layer but the same as the material
of a non-adjacent layer. For example in a multilayered structure of the form ABCC,
material layer A may be different from as each of material layers C, and each of material
layers C may also be different from each other, forming a multilayered structure of the
form ABC1C2. Exemplary multistructures are provided in Figs. 3A-D.
         In some embodiments, each of layers A and C is repeated twice or more, namely
a multilayered structure may be in the formAABCC, orABCC, orAABC, or AABCBC,
or ABCBCC, wherein each ofA, B and C are as defined herein, and further wherein each
pair of adjacent layers may be associated directly or via a primer or adhesive film or layer.
For example, in a structure of the from AABCC, each A may be different from the other
and each C may be different from another C. As material layers A and C may be selected

                                              -9
amongst the same materials, the multilayered structure may be symmetric around the
central layer B or asymmetric.
         The multilayered structure of the invention may be in the form of a sheet or a
folded or shaped sheet of material, as defined herein. Where presented as a material sheet,
it may be of any size and shape, may be printed or colored, may be fully transparent or
opaque and may be surface treated. The sheet may be cut, folded, or processed into any
one shape, size or object such as a pocket or an enclosure or an envelope or a container
that is formed of the sheet, or that comprises at least one element or feature that is made
of a multilayered structure of the invention. In some embodiments, the object is for
packaging of goods, foods, liquids, pharmaceuticals or any material that requires isolation
or protection from the environment, e.g., gases, water vapor, certain light wavelengths,
and other damaging agents or effects which the multilayered structure can protect from
(by forming an impermeable barrier).
         Due to its unique properties, the sheet may be used as a replacement for aluminum
sheets in packaging materials. As known in the field, aluminum sheets are widely used in
packaging products due to their ability to fully block permeation of gases, water and light,
and also due to their contribution to the mechanical stability of the package. There are
however certain disadvantages for the use of aluminum foils, mainly having to do with
its impact on the environment caused by its inability to undergo degradation, and
difficulties associated with the recycling of packages containing aluminum. Light
blocking properties of aluminum are also considered a disadvantage when transparent
packages are needed. Another disadvantage of aluminum is heat transmittance which is
not desired in applications such as vacuum insulated panels, where good gas barrier is
needed but without high heat transfer.
         The layered structure of the invention is a suitable replacement of aluminum by
providing a material having barrier and mechanical properties, with the benefit of being
recyclable and degradable, being transparent to light, thermal insulator, and can be
provided as much thinner barrier layers, achieving the same desired barrier properties (for
example, a 2 pm barrier layer leads to the desired OTR level in a structure that 5 pm of
aluminum foil is usually used in).
         Thus, in accordance with some aspects, the invention provides an article in the
form of a multilayered structure consisting between 3 and 7 material layers, the

                                             - 10
multilayered structure being of the form ABC, wherein each of A, B and C is a material
layer, wherein:
        Layer A is a substrate comprising a material selected from a polymeric material,
a paper or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, a nanocellulose
film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material, a membrane
material, a mineral material, a varnish and a metallic material;
        Layer B is a cellulose nanomaterial selected from nanocrystals (CNC),
nanofibrilar cellulose (NFC), microfibrillated cellulose (MFC), a combination of CNC
and NFC, a combination of CNC and MFC, and a blend of CNC with at least one water
soluble or water dispersible additive;
        Layer C is a cover layer comprising a material selected from a polymeric
material, a paper or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, a
nanocellulose film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material, a
membrane material, a mineral material, a varnish and a metallic material.
        In some embodiments, the layer of the cellulose nanomaterial comprising between
0. 1wt% and 3wt% impurities of the total weight of the layer, wherein the impurities are
selected from carbohydrates and salts.
        In some embodiments, the article consisting a layer of CNC or a layer of a blend
of CNC and at least one additive; a substrate; and a cover layer.
        In some embodiments, the article consisting a layer of a blend of CNC and PVOH;
a substrate and a cover layer.
        In some embodiments, each of layer A and layer C is a paper or paper-based
material.
        In some embodiments, each of layer A and layer C is of a polymeric material, a
polymer coated paper-based material, or a nanocellulose/polymer film.
        In some embodiments, layer B comprises CNC and/or NFC blended with at least
one polymer selected from PVOH, PVAc, EVOH, PVP, starch, chitosan, poly acrylic
acid, polyethyleneimine, carbohydrates, EVA and polyurethanes.
        In some embodiments, the amount of the at least one polymer ranges between 0.1
and 99wt% of the nanocellulose material.
        In some embodiments, the at least one additive is a polymer or an additive selected
from a plasticizer; a surfactant; a particulate material; a pigment; a carbohydrate; a salt; a
conductive material; and an oxygen scavenger.

                                            - 11
        In some embodiments, the at least one additive is present in an amount ranging
from 1% and 20%.
        In some embodiments, layer B is of a thickness of 100 nm - 20 pim.
        In some embodiments, each of layers A and C is of a material selected,
independently of the other, from polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester, polyvinyl
alcohol,    ethylene    vinyl   alcohol,   polyamide,     polystyrene,   polylactic    acid,
polyhydroxyalkanote,      polycaprolactone,    polyhydroxybutyrate,    polyvinyl    acetate,
polyacrylonitrile,   polyvinylidene   chloride,   cellulose,  polyethylene    terephthalate,
polyvinyl chloride and polycarbonate.
        In some embodiments, one or both of layers A and C is a polymer coated
paperboard, wherein the polymer is selected from polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester,
polyvinyl alcohol, ethylene vinyl alcohol, polyamide, polystyrene, polylactic acid,
polyhydroxyalkanote,      polycaprolactone,    polyhydroxybutyrate,    polyvinyl    acetate,
polyacrylonitrile,   polyvinylidene   chloride,   cellulose,  polyethylene    terephthalate,
polyvinyl chloride and polycarbonate.
        In some embodiments, at least one of layers A and C, independently of the other,
is or comprises a fabric.
        In some embodiments, layers A and B and/or layers B and C are associated with
each other directly or separated by an interface material selected from primer material
and an adhesive material.
        In some embodiments, the article consists 3 layers: a substrate layer, a CNC layer
and a cover layer.
        In some embodiments, the CNC layer consisting a blend of CNC and PVOH.
        In some embodiments, the multilayered structure is of a form selected from
AABCC, ABCC, AABC, AABCBC, ABCBCC, wherein each of A, B and C are as
defined herein.
        In some embodiments, the article is provided when used in packaging of goods,
foods, liquids, and pharmaceuticals.
        The invention additionally provides an article in the form of a multilayered
structure consisting between 3 and 7 material layers, the multilayered structure being of
the form ABC, wherein each A, B and C is a material layer, wherein:
        Layer A is a substrate comprising a material selected from a polymeric material,
a paper or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, a nanocellulose

                                            - 12
film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material, a membrane
material, a mineral material, a varnish and a metallic material;
        Layer B is a cellulose nanomaterial selected from nanocrystals (CNC) and a blend
of CNC with at least one water soluble or water dispersible additive or material, wherein
the layer is free of metallic nanoparticulate material and nanofibrilated cellulose (NFC);
        Layer C is a cover layer comprising a material selected from a polymeric
material, a paper or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, a
nanocellulose film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material, a
membrane material, a mineral material, a varnish and a metallic material.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
Example 1: a 3-layered structure:
        Layer A: low density polyethylene (LDPE) - 20 pim, treated with Corona
        Layer B: a layer of PVOH/CNC - 5 pm
        Layer C: low density polyethylene (LDPE) - 20 pim, treated with Corona and
coated on the treated side with an adhesive
        The multilayer includes Layer A/ Layer B/ Layer C
        Preparation method:
    1. LDPE film (Layer A) was surface treated with corona;
    2. PVOH/CNC water suspension was coated on the treated surface of the LDPE,
        followed by complete drying (Layer B);
    3.  Corona treated LDPE film coated with an adhesive layer and laminated to Layer
        B, with the adhesive coated side facing the PVOH/CNC layer (Layer C).
        The multilayer structure was transparent, flexible and could be further laminated
to include additional layers for the production of flexible or rigid packages with good
barrier capabilities. The LDPE layers provided water, water vapor and oil barrier
capabilities. The PVOH/CNC inner layer provided gas barrier capabilities.
Example 2: a multilayer structure (3 layers):
        Layer A: polypropylene - 30 pim, coated with a hot-melt adhesive (e.g. ethylene
vinyl acetate) layer
        Layer B: a layer of PVOH/CNC - 5 pm

                                            - 13
        Layer C: polypropylene - 30 pim, coated with a hot-melt adhesive (e.g. ethylene
vinyl acetate) layer
        The multilayer includes Layer A/ Layer B/ Layer C
        Preparation method:
     1. Polypropylene film (Layer A) is coated with a hot-melt adhesive (e.g. ethylene
        vinyl acetate)
    2. PVOH/CNC water suspension is coated on the hot-melt layer, followed by
        complete drying (Layer B)
    3. Polypropylene film, coated with a hot-melt layer is laminated to Layer B, with
        the adhesive coated side facing the PVOH/CNC layer (Layer C)
        The multilayer structure is transparent, flexible, and can be further laminated to
more layers for the production of flexible or rigid packages with good barrier capabilities.
The Polypropylene layers give water, water vapor and oil barrier capabilities. The
PVOH/CNC inner layer gives gas barrier capabilities and improves mechanical
properties.
        Mechanical properties of the layered structures described in Example 2 were
tested by tensile tests, using an Instron machine:
        *   Elastic modulus is improved by 40%-125% compared to reference of layers
            A and C laminated together.
        *   Elongation at break is improved by 7-20% compared to reference of layers A
            and C laminated together.
Example 3: a 5-layer structure:
        Layer Al: low density polyethylene (LDPE) - 20 pm
        Layer A2: paperboard, coated with LDPE
        Layer A3: low density polyethylene (LDPE) - 15 pim, treated with corona
        Layer B: a layer of PVOH/CNC - 4 pm
        Layer Cl: low density polyethylene (LDPE) - 15 pim, treated with corona
        Layer C2: low density polyethylene (LDPE)
        The multilayer includes Layer Al/ Layer A2/ Layer B/ Layer Cl/ Layer C2
    Preparation method:
     1. LDPE film (Layer A3) was surface treated with coronal

                                           - 14
   2. PVOH/CNC water suspension was coated on the treated surface of the LDPE,
        followed by complete drying (Layer B);
   3.   Corona treated LDPE film was laminated to Layer B, with the corona treated
        side facing the PVOH/CNC layer (Layer Cl);
   4. LDPE was extruded onto the surface of a paperboard (layer A2);
   5. LDPE was extruded from the other side of the paperboard (layer Al);
   6. The multilayer of layers A3/B/C1 was laminated to Layer A2;
   7. LDPE was extruded onto Layer C1 (layer C2).
        This multilayer structure may be used for rigid packages. The paperboard layer
gave mechanical stability, the LDPE layers gave water, water vapor and oil barrier
capabilities. The PVOH/CNC inner layer gave gas barrier capabilities:
            "   This structure with Layer B having a thickness of-1.2 pm had OTR~4 at
                80%RH
            "   This structure with Layer B having a thickness of ~2.4 pm had OTR~2 at
                80%RH
            "   This structure with Layer B having a thickness of ~4 pm had OTR-   at
                80%RH
            "   This structure with Layer B having a thickness of ~5 pm had OTR<1 at
                80%RH.

                                            - 15
CLAIMS:
1.      An article in the form of a multilayered structure consisting between 3 and 7
material layers, the multilayered structure being of the form ABC, wherein each A, B and
C is a material layer, wherein:
        Layer A is a substrate comprising a material selected from a polymeric material,
a paper or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, a nanocellulose
film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material, a membrane
material, a mineral material, a varnish and a metallic material;
        Layer B is a cellulose nanomaterial selected from nanocrystals (CNC) and a blend
of CNC with at least one water soluble or water dispersible additive or material, wherein
the layer is free of metallic nanoparticulate material and nanofibrilated cellulose (NFC);
        Layer C is a cover layer comprising a material selected from a polymeric
material, a paper or paper-based material, a polymer coated paper-based material, a
nanocellulose film, nanocellulose/polymer film, a fabric material, a porous material, a
membrane material, a mineral material, a varnish and a metallic material.
2.      The article according to claim 1, the article consisting a layer of CNC or a layer
of a blend of CNC and at least one additive or material; a substrate; and a cover layer.
3.      The article according to claim 1, the article consisting a layer of a blend of CNC
and PVOH; a substrate and a cover layer.
4.      The article according to claim 1, wherein each of layer A and layer C is a paper
or paper-based material.
5.      The article according to claim 1, wherein each of layer A and layer C is of a
polymeric material, a polymer coated paper-based material, or a nanocellulose/polymer
film.
6.      The article according to claim 1, wherein layer B consists CNC blended with
PVOH.
7.      The article according to claim 6, wherein the amount of the PVOH ranges between
0.1 and 99wt% of the CNC material.
8.      The article according to claim 1, wherein the at least one additive or material is a
polymer or an additive selected from a plasticizer; a surfactant; a particulate material; a
pigment; a carbohydrate; a salt; a conductive material; and an oxygen scavenger.
9.      The article according to claim 1, wherein each of layers A and C is of a material
selected, independently of the other, from polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester,

                                             - 16
polyvinyl alcohol, ethylene vinyl alcohol, polyamide, polystyrene, polylactic acid,
polyhydroxyalkanote,       polycaprolactone,    polyhydroxybutyrate,   polyvinyl    acetate,
polyacrylonitrile,   polyvinylidene    chloride,   cellulose, polyethylene    terephthalate,
polyvinyl chloride and polycarbonate.
10.     The article according to claim 1, wherein one or both of layers A and C is a
polymer coated paperboard, wherein the polymer is selected from polyethylene,
polypropylene,     polyester, polyvinyl   alcohol, ethylene    vinyl alcohol, polyamide,
polystyrene,        polylactic     acid,       polyhydroxyalkanote,      polycaprolactone,
polyhydroxybutyrate, polyvinyl acetate, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinylidene chloride,
cellulose, polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinyl chloride and polycarbonate.
11.     The article according to claim 1, wherein layers A and B and/or layers B and C
are associated with each other directly or separated by an interface material selected from
primer material and an adhesive material.
12.      The article according to claim 1, consisting 3 layers: a substrate layer, a CNC
layer and a cover layer.
13.     The article according to claim 1, wherein the multilayered structure is of a form
selected from AABCC, ABCC, AABC, AABCBC, ABCBCC, wherein each of A, B
and C are as defined in claim 1.
14.     The article according to claim 1, when used in packaging of goods, foods, liquids,
and pharmaceuticals.

<removed-date>
                                1/1
                               Layer A
                               Layer B
                               Layer C
                             Figure 1
<removed-apn>
                               Layer A
                               Layer B
                               Layer C
                             Figure 2
                   Layer A       Layer A           Layer A
                   Layer A       Layer B           Layer A
                   Layer B       Layer C           Layer B
                   Layer C       Layer C           Layer C
                                                   Layer C
              Figure 3A      Figure 3B
                                            Figure 3C
                                  Layer A
                                  Layer A
                                  Layer B
                                  Layer C
                                  Layer B
                                  Layer C
                                  Layer C
                             Figure 3D

