                                             ABSTRACT
An improved tumbling barrel and combination track toy where the barrel has a diameter of 28 mm
and a length of 43 mm, plus or minus 15%. The barrel can tumble end to end more than 10 times
over a distance of a 295mm on a balance beam amusement track. The amusement track also folds in
half to become the carry pack for barrels not in use.

IC0_
      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

       AN IMPROVED TUMBLING BARREL AND COMBINATION TRACK TOY
   Tumbling barrel toys are known within the toy industry and various designs are known to the
   inventor of the improved tumbling barrel and combination track toy. The general purpose of a
   tumbling barrel toy is to tip it end to end on a flat surface so that the momentum keeps the
   barrel tumbling end to end over a given distance. The original curved barrel tumbling toy has
5  a diameter of approximately 29 mm and a length of 83 mm. This design is well known and
   causes the toy to tumble end to end over a flat surface using a tip propulsion method.
   Originally the toy was carved from wood but later versions are moulded in plastic. The
   problem with these designs is that the tricks a user can perform is very limited. It is this
   problem the inventor of the improved tumbling barrel and combination track toy with a
10 diameter of 28 mm and a length of 43 mm, plus or minus 15 % has sought to solve.
   It has been discovered that these new parameters permit the user to tumble the barrel multiple
   times over a short distance of 295 mm. This in turn permits the user to perform unique tricks
   not capable by other tumbling barrels. The preferred length of the barrel is 43 mm with a
   diameter 28 mm plus or minus 15%, which enables the toy to tumble multiple times and more
15 than 10 times over a distance of 295 mm. This is visually fascinating and unique in its
   performance. Another feature of the improved tumbling barrel toy is that it is able to fit into
   an amusement balance beam tumble track because of its size. New games and races are now
   possible because of this combination. The balance beam can be rocked sideways causing the
   barrel to tumble back and forth. A further feature of the improved tumbling barrel and
20 combination track toy is that the balance beam track can fold in half to double as a carry case.
   To better understand the improved tumbling barrel and combination track toy, drawings
   illustrate the following;

   Figure 1     Is an improved tumbling barrel.
   Figure 2     Is an improved tumbling barrel and combination balance beam track toy.
   Figure 3.    Is an improved tumbling barrel and combination balance beam track toy where
               the barrel is tumbling end to end on the track.
5  Figure 4.   Is the balance beam track that can fold in half to function as a carry case for
               the barrels.
   Figure 5.   Is a closed balance beam track.
   In Figure 1  The Improved Tumble Barrel Toy shows a preferred height of 43mm plus or
               minus 15% and a width of 28mm plus or minus 15%
10 In Figure 2 The balance beam is shown with a preferred length of 295mm plus or minus
                15% and a stationery tumble barrel at the start of the balance beam track
   In Figure 3 The tumble barrel is shown in motion along the balance beam track and can
               tumble end to end more than 10 times along this 295mm track
   In Figure 4 An isometric drawing shows tumble barrels stored within the balance beam
15             track when not in use. The balance beam is hinged at the centre to fold in half
               for easy storage of the combination tumble barrels and balance beam track.
   In Figure 5 A side drawing shows a fully closed combination balance beam track and
               tumble barrels.

The tumble barrel 1 is placed in the balance bean track 2 and rolled end to end 3 more than 10
times over the distance of 295mm 2b, When the tumble barrels 1 are not in use they can be
placed in the folded 4 balance beam 2 for storage

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                               CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION
An improved tumbling barrel and combination balance beam track toy where the barrel has a
diameter of 28 mm and a length of 43 mm, plus or minus 15% that can tumble end to end more than
10 times over a track distance of 295 mm.
As in claim 1 where the barrel can tumble end to end back and forth on the balance beam track.
As in claim 1 and 2 where the balance beam can fold in two to become a carry pack for the unused
barrels.
         ........                                          6th November 2017
Peter Alan Fish

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
