                                          ABSTRACT
      A fan comprising: a main body (1) having a plurality of blades; a lower cover (2) provided
with a plurality of buckles (21) and a plurality of mounting positions (22), the lower cover (2) being
connected to the main body (1), wherein the plurality of buckles (21) and the plurality of mounting
positions (22) are arranged around the lower cover (2); and either of: a lamp assembly comprising: a
fixing part (3) provided with a plurality of mounting holes, wherein each of the plurality of
mounting holes corresponds to one of the mounting positions on the lower cover (2), the fixing part
(3) is connected to the lower cover (2) by a connection device; a lamp (4) connected to the fixing
part (3); a lamp cover (6) formed as a hemisphere, the lamp cover (6) being configured to cover the
fixing part (3); and an end cover (5) connected to the lower cover (2) for use in case of no
illumination needed.
                                                    1

          1/4
                                            ~2
        I
        B      _______________________________
      r
L                                           ~~~~1
  4 2
                 5
  6
        Fig. 1

          Editorial Note
               <removed-apn>
There are five pages of description only

                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                 A FAN
TECHNICAL FIELD
      The present utility model relates to the field of household appliances, and in particular to a fan.
BACKGROUND
      An air-conditioner is a household appliance which is usually used in a house. However, heavy
use of air-conditioners often leads to environment concerns, especially energy consumption.
Because the exploitation of the energy source and the heat produced during the use of the energy
have brought a large burden to the nature, the fan returns to people' lives because of its lower
energy consumption.
      Furthermore, the fans in prior art only have one single function, which is only used as a fan.
Therefore, multiple function fans would be popular in the market.
SUMMARY
      In order to overcome the above deficiencies in the prior art, the present invention provides for
a fan, which is unique and novel, and a lamp which can be conveniently connected to the fan at the
bottom thereof when the lamp is needed, and the lamp can be conveniently dismantled when it is
not needed.
      The technical solution adopted by the present invention to solve its technical problems is as
follows:
      a fan, comprising:
      a main body having a plurality of blades;
      a lower cover provided with a plurality of buckles and a plurality of mounting positions, the
lower cover being connected to the main body, wherein the plurality of buckles and the plurality of
mounting positions are arranged around the lower cover; and either of:
      a lamp assembly comprising:
           a fixing part provided with a plurality of mounting holes, wherein each of the plurality of
     mounting holes corresponds to one of the mounting positions on the lower cover, the fixing part
     is connected to the lower cover by a connection device;
           a lamp connected to the fixing part;
           a lamp cover formed as a hemisphere, the lamp cover being configured to cover the fixing
     part and
                                                     1

     an end cover connected to the lower cover for use in case of no illumination needed.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, the number of the plurality of
buckles is 3.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, the number of the plurality of
mounting positions is 3.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, the connection device is a screw.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, the end cover is provided with a
plurality of grooves.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, each of the plurality of grooves
comprises a first section, a second section and a third section.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, the first section is of a rectangle
shape, the second section is of a semi-circle shape and the third section is of a trapezoid shape.
     As a further improvement to the above technical solution, the rectangle has a width bigger than
a diameter of each buckle, the semi-circle has a diameter bigger than the diameter of each buckle,
and the trapezoid has an upper line with a length being equal to the diameter of each buckle.
     The present invention has the following beneficial effects: 1) a lamp can be connected to the
fan by screws without special tools so as to make its operation simple and save space for a small
house; 2) the fan is provided with an end cover so that the lamp can be dismantled when the lamp is
not needed; 3) it has lower cost to manufacture and simple operation; 4) it is a product which has
technical, economical and practical advantageous.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     The subject matter of the present invention is particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed in
the concluding portion of the specification. The invention, however, both as to organization and
method of operation, together with objects, features, and advantages thereof, may best be
understood by reference to the following detailed description when read with the accompanying
drawings in which:
     Fig. 1 is a structural representation of a main body of a fan according to the present invention
     Fig. 2 is a front view of a lower cover of the fan according to the present invention;
     Fig. 3 is a front view of an end cover of the fan according to the present invention; and
     Fig. 4 is a partial enlarged view of the end cover of the fan according to the present invention.
     List of parts
     1. main body;

     2. lower cover;
     21. Buckle;
     22. mounting position;
     3. fixing part;
     4. a lamp;
     5. end cover;
     51. groove;
     511. first section;
     512. second section;
     513. third section;
     6. lamp cover.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide
a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be understood by those skilled in the art
that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances,
well-known methods, procedures, and components have not been described in detail so as not to
obscure the present invention.
     The subject matter regarded as the invention is particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed
in the concluding portion of the specification. The invention, however, both as to organization and
method of operation, together with objects, features, and advantages thereof, may best be
understood by reference to the following detailed description when read with the accompanying
drawings.
     It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration, elements shown in the
figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the
elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further, where considered
appropriate, reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or
analogous elements.
     Because the illustrated embodiments of the present invention may for the most part, be
implemented using electronic components and circuits known to those skilled in the art, details will
not be explained in any greater extent than that considered necessary as illustrated above, for the
understanding and appreciation of the underlying concepts of the present invention and in order not

to obfuscate or distract from the teachings of the present invention.
      Embodiment 1
      Referring to Figs. 1-2, the present invention provides a fan, which comprises:
      a main body 1 having a plurality of blades;
      a lower cover 2 provided with three buckles 21 and three mounting positions 22, the lower
cover 2 being connected to the main body 1, wherein the three buckles 21 and the plurality of
mounting positions 22 are arranged around the lower cover 2;
      a fixing part 3 provided with three mounting holes, wherein each mounting hole corresponds to
one of the mounting positions on the lower cover 2, the fixing part 3 is connected to the lower cover
2 by a connection device;
      a lamp 4 connected to the fixing part 3;
      a lamp cover 6 formed as a hemisphere, the lamp cover 6 being configured to cover the fixing
part 3.
      In the present embodiment, the three buckles 21 are uniformly arranged around the lower
cover 2 in such a way that an angle between the adjacent two buckles 21 is 1200.
      The three mounting positions 22 are uniformly arranged around the lower cover 2 in such a
way that an angle between the adjacent two mounting positions 22 is 1200.
      The three buckles 21 and the three mounting positions 22 are configured in such a way that an
angle between each buckle 21 and its adjacent mounting position is 600.
      In the present embodiment, the connection device is preferably selected as a screw.
      The fixing part 3 including the lamp 4 is attached under the lower cover 2 by the crews
through the three mounting holes, then the lamp cover 6 is connected to the main body to cover the
fixing part 3. After that, the connection between the fan and the lamp is fulfilled so that the fan and
the lamp are assembled in an integral entity.
      Embodiment 2
      Referring to Figs. 1, 3-4, the present invention provides a fan, which comprises:
      a main body 1 having a plurality of blades;
      a lower cover 2 provided with three buckles 21 and three mounting positions 22, the lower
cover 2 being connected to the main body 1, wherein the three buckles 21 and the plurality of
mounting positions 22 being arranged around the lower cover 2;
      an end cover 5 being provided with three grooves 51.
      In the present embodiment, the three buckles 21 are uniformly arranged around the lower

cover 2 in such a way that an angle between the adjacent two buckles 21 is 1200.
      The three mounting positions 22 are uniformly arranged around the lower cover 2 in such a
way that an angle between the adjacent two mounting positions 22 is 1200.
      The three buckles 21 and the three mounting positions 22 are configured in such a way that an
angle between each buckle 21 and its adjacent mounting position is 600.
      The three grooves 51 are uniformly arranged around the end cover 5 in such a way that an
angle between the adjacent two grooves 51 is 1200.
      In the present embodiment, preferably, the three grooves 51 comprise a first section 511, a
second section 512 and a third section 513 which are in communication with each other, wherein
the first section 511 is of a rectangle shape, the second section 512 is of a semi-circle shape and the
third section 513 is of a trapezoid shape.
      In the present embodiment, preferably, the rectangle has a width bigger than a diameter of each
buckle 21, the semi-circle has a diameter bigger than the diameter of each buckle 21, and the
trapezoid has an upperline with a length being equal to the diameter of each buckle 21.
      In the present embodiment, preferably, the bottom surface of the end cover 5 is of an
arc-shape.
      The end cover 5 is connected to the lower cover 2 by aligning the first section 511 with the
buckle 21 to make sure that each buckle 21 enters its corresponding first section 511, then the end
cover 5 is rotated in clock wise direction while the three buckles 21 are sliding inside the third
sections 513 until all the buckles 21 enter inside the second sections 512. Finally, the end cover 5 is
connected to the lower cover 2 by the three buckles 21, and thus the fan without a lamp is installed
completely.
      The present invention has the following beneficial effects: 1) a lamp can be connected to the
fan by screws without special tools so as to make its operation simple and save space for a small
house; 2) the fan is provided with an end cover so that the lamp can be dismantled when the lamp is
not needed; 3) it has lower cost to manufacture and simple operation; 4) it is a product which has
technical, economical and practical advantageous.
      The above are merely the preferred embodiments of the present invention, but the present
invention is not limited thereto, and all embodiments should belong to the protection scope of the
present invention so long as they achieve the technical effects of the present invention by the same
or similar means.

       Editorial Note
           <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                    CLAIMS
      1. A fan, comprising:
     a main body (1) having a plurality of blades;
     a lower cover (2) provided with a plurality of buckles (21) and a plurality
of mounting positions (22), the lower cover (2) being connected to the main
body (1), wherein the plurality of buckles (21) and the plurality of mounting
positions (22) are arranged around the lower cover (2); and either of:
     a lamp assembly comprising:
          a fixing part (3) provided with a plurality of mounting holes, wherein
    each of the plurality of mounting holes corresponds to one of the mounting
    positions on the lower cover (2), the fixing part (3) is connected to the lower
    cover (2) by a connection device;
          a lamp (4) connected to the fixing part (3);
          a lamp cover (6) formed as a hemisphere, the lamp cover (6) being
    configured to cover the fixing part (3) and
     an end cover (5) connected to the lower cover (2) for use in case of no
illumination needed.
     2. The fan according to claim 1, wherein the number of the plurality of
buckles (21) is 3.
     3. The fan according to claim 1, wherein the number of the plurality of
mounting positions (22) is 3.
     4. The fan according to claim 1, wherein the connection device is a screw.
     5. The fan according to claim 1, wherein the end cover (5) is provided with
a plurality of grooves (51); wherein each of the plurality of grooves (51)
comprises a first section (511), a second section (512) and a third section (513);
wherein the first section (511) is of a rectangle shape, the second section (512)
is of a semi-circle shape and the third section (513) is of a trapezoid shape; and
wherein the rectangle has a width bigger than a diameter of each buckle (21), the
semi-circle has a diameter bigger than the diameter of each buckle (21), and the
trapezoid has an upperline with a length being equal to the diameter of each
buckle (21).

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1                        1/4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 2                        2/4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 3                        3/4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4                        4/4

