                                           ABSTRACT
        The present disclosure provides nitroxyl donating pharmaceutical compositions
comprising N-substituted hydroxylamine derivatives. The compositions are highly
efficacious in treating cardiovascular diseases (e.g., heart failure), have a suitable
toxicological profile, and are sufficiently stable for intravenous or oral administration.

        PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING NITROXYL DONORS
   1.       BACKGROUND
            Nitroxyl (HNO) has been shown to have positive cardiovascular effects in in vitro and
   in vivo models of failing hearts. However, at physiological pH, HNO dimerizes to hyponitrous
 5 acid, which subsequently dehydrates to nitrous oxide; due to this metastability, HNO for
   therapeutic use must be generated in situ from donor compounds. A variety of compounds
   capable of donating nitroxyl have been described and proposed for use in treating disorders
   known or suspected to be responsive to nitroxyl. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,936,639;
   7,696,373; 8,030,356; 8,268,890; 8,227,639; and 8,318,705 and U.S. pre-grant publication nos.
10 2009/0281067; 2009/0298795; 2011/0136827; and 2011/0144067. Although all of these
   compounds are capable of donating nitroxyl, they differ in various physicochemical properties,
   and there remains a need to identify nitroxyl donors that have physicochemical properties best
   suited for treating specific clinical conditions via specific routes of administration.
            U.S. Pat. No. 8,030,056 describes the synthesis of derivatives of Piloty's acid type
15 compounds that are capable of donating nitroxyl under physiological conditions and are useful
   in treating heart failure and ischemia/reperfusion injury. The nitroxyl donor CXL-1020
   (N-hydroxy-2-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide) has been evaluated in a Phase I safety
   study in healthy volunteers and in a Phase Ila placebo-controlled, double-blind, dose
   escalation study conducted at multiple hospitals. Sabbah et al., "Nitroxyl (HNO) a novel
20 approach for the acute treatment of heart failure", Circ HeartFail., published online October
   9, 2013 (Online ISSN: 1941-3297, Print ISSN: 1941-3289). The studies demonstrated that in
   patients with systolic heart failure, CXL-1020, when administered intravenously as an aqueous
   solution at pH   = 4, reduced both left and right heart filling pressures and systemic vascular
   resistance, while increasing cardiac and stroke volume index. Hence, the studies demonstrated
25 that CXL- 1020 enhances myocardial function in human patients suffering from heart failure.
   However, at threshold doses of CXL- 1020 needed to produce hemodynamic effects, the
   compound was found to induce side effects, including unacceptable levels of inflammatory
   irritation at and distal to the intravenous insertion site, and the authors report that because of
   such side effects, this compound would not be a viable candidate for a human therapeutic.
                                                       1

            Accordingly, there is a need to develop new nitroxyl donating compounds (referred to
   herein as nitroxyl donors) and compositions that are useful for the treatment of heart failure
   and that have a suitable toxicological profile. Development of such compounds requires an
   understanding of the pharmacokinetic profile associated with nitroxyl donation and the factors
 5 influencing the toxicological profile. Failure to understand these factors has hampered the
   development of nitroxyl donors for clinical use.
            Moreover, formulating nitroxyl donors has proven to be a considerable challenge.
   Many of the current nitroxyl donors are insoluble in aqueous solutions and/or are insufficiently
   stable. Solubility and stability problems often preclude the use of such compounds in
10 pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral and/or oral administration. Accordingly, there
   exists a need to develop compositions containing nitroxyl donors at sufficient concentration
   for parenteral and/or oral administration that are sufficiently stable and have favorable
   pharmacological and toxicological profiles.
            Citation of any reference in Section 1 of this application is not to be construed as an
15 admission that such reference is prior art to the present application.
   2.       SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
            The present disclosure relates to the discovery of nitroxyl donating compositions that
   are highly effective in treating cardiovascular diseases (e.g., heart failure), have a suitable
   toxicological profile, and are sufficiently stable for intravenous or oral administration.
20          It has been discovered that the toxicological profile of N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donors that have sufficiently long half-lives under physiological conditions is
   significantly better than the toxicological profile of N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
   donors with shorter half-lives (e.g., CXL-1020). In particular, it has been discovered that N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors with short half-lives (i.e., 10 minutes or less when
25 measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution at a pH of 7.4 or in plasma
   (e.g., human plasma) according to the procedure described in Example 2 (in Section 5.2) have
   undesirable toxicity when administered parenterally (e.g., intravenously). It will be
   understood that the term "N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor" includes both
                                                     2

   compounds with a free sulfonamide hydroxyl group (e.g., compounds depicted in Tables 1 and
   2 of Section 4.2) and compounds in which the N-hydroxy group of the sulfonamide is
   esterified, as depicted below:
                                                    0
                                                         NH          O
                                                 --
                                                             \00
 5                                                      (99)
   where     represents the aromatic, heteroaromatic or polycyclic portion of the compound (see
   Section 4.2 for definitions of R).
            In accordance with the present disclosure, N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors
   that have half-lives of greater than 10 minutes when measured in PBS or human plasma show
10 significant improvements in the toxicological profile relative to N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donors, such as CXL-1020, that have half-lives of less than 10 minutes, while
   retaining a high level of efficacy in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases (e.g., heart
   failure).
            In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
15 pharmaceutical composition (i.e., in a nitroxyl donating composition) of the disclosure has a
   half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline
   (PBS) solution at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2. In particular
   embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
   composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 150 minutes
20 when measured in an aerated PBS solution at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in
   Example 2. In specific embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from about 15 minutes to about
   70 minutes when measured in an aerated PBS solution at a pH of 7.4 under conditions
                                                      3

   specified in Example 2. Specific examples of such compounds of the disclosure are listed in
   Tables 1 and 2 (see Section 4.2).
           In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure has a half-life of greater than 10 minutes when
 5 measured in human plasma at pH 7.4 in the presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or
   sodium citrate), under conditions specified in Example 2. In particular embodiments, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
   disclosure has a half-life of from greater than 10 minutes to about 85 minutes when measured
   in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2. In some
10 embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
   composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes
   when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2. In
   particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about
15 75 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in
   Example 2. Specific examples of such compounds of the disclosure are listed in Tables 1 and
   2.
           In a particular embodiment, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is a compound of the formula (1):
20                                      H3C      e      SO2NHOH
                                                   (1).
           In another embodiment, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is a compound of the formula (2):
                                                    4

                                                 SO 2NHOH
                                                        SO 2 CH 3
                                                     (2).
           It has further been discovered that a composition comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor formulated at a pH of about 5 or greater has a significantly improved
 5 toxicological profile relative to compositions comprising the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor formulated at more acidic pH levels, such as the CXL- 1020 compositions
   evaluated in Phase I and Phase Ila clinical trials. Thus, in various embodiments, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor can be formulated for parenteral injection at a pH of
   from about 5 to about 6 (e.g., a pH of about 5, about 5.5 or about 6). Formulating within this
10 pH range mitigates potential undesirable side effects (e.g., reduced venous irritation) relative
   to more acidic compositions. Surprisingly, formulating a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
   donor at a pH within the range of a pH of from about 5 to about 6 can be achieved without a
   deleterious effect on the stability of the nitroxyl donors.
           Additionally, it has been discovered that particular excipients can be used to stabilize
15 and/or solubilize nitroxyl donors useful in compositions of the disclosure. In various
   embodiments, at least one such pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises at least one
   species of cyclodextrin. In one such embodiment, the excipient is a p-cyclodextrin. One
   preferred P-cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*.
           In embodiments where a cyclodextrin (e.g., CAPTISOL*) serves an excipient in the
20 disclosed pharmaceutical compositions, the quantity of the cyclodextrin in the composition
   will depend on the solubility and/or stability of the nitroxyl donor. For example, the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
   the composition can be from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1. In particular embodiments, the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
25 the composition can be from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1. In certain embodiments, the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
                                                      5

   the composition can be from about 0.1:1 to about 1:1. In certain embodiments, the molar ratio
   between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the
   composition can be from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
           Compounds and/or compositions of the disclosure can be used to treat a variety of
 5 conditions that are responsive to nitroxyl therapy. For instance, the compounds and/or
   compositions of the disclosure can be used to treat or prevent the occurrence of cardiovascular
   diseases. In certain embodiments, a nitroxyl donating composition of the disclosure can be
   used to treat cardiovascular disease, ischemia/reperfusion injury, pulmonary hypertension or
   another condition responsive to nitroxyl therapy. In particular embodiments, a nitroxyl
10 donating composition of the disclosure can be used to treat heart failure. In a particular
   embodiment, a compound and/or composition of the disclosure can be used to treat
   decompensated heart failure (e.g., acute decompensated heart failure). In certain
   embodiments, the compounds and/or compositions of the disclosure can be used to treat
   systolic heart failure. In particular embodiments, the compounds and/or compositions of the
15 disclosure can be used to treat diastolic heart failure.
           In one aspect, the compound and/or composition of the disclosure can be administered
   via parenteral (e.g., subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous or intradermal) administration.
   When administered parenterally (e.g., intravenously) to a human subject, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in, for example, a pharmaceutical composition
20 of the disclosure, can be dosed at a rate of from about 5 ptg/kg/min to about 100 pig/kg/min. In
   certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
   composition of the disclosure can be dosed to a human subject at a rate of from about 10
   pg/kg/min to about 70 ptg/kg/min. In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be dosed to a
25 human subject at a rate of from about 15 ptg/kg/min to about 50 pg/kg/min. In certain
   embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
   composition of the disclosure can be dosed to a human subject at a rate of from about 20
   pg/kg/min to about 30 pLg/kg/min. In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be dosed to a
30 human subject at a rate of from about 10 tg/kg/min to about 20 ptg/kg/min.
                                                     6

           In another embodiment, the compounds and/or compositions of the disclosure can be
   formulated for oral administration. Compounds for oral administration can be formulated as
   liquid or solid dosage forms. In particular embodiments where a nitroxyl donor is formulated
   as an oral liquid dosage form, polyethylene glycol 300 (PEG300) can serve as an exemplary
 5 excipient.
   3.      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
   FIG. 1 shows the hemodynamic profile of CXL-1020 and five compounds useful in
   pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure (compounds of formulas (1), (2), (83), (84) and
   (85)) using a canine tachycardia-pacing model of heart failure (see Example 3). Each
10 compound was administered intravenously at a rate of 100 tg/kg/min. Hemodynamic
   parameters were obtained 180 minutes after administration of the respective compound.
   FIG.2 shows the assessment of the toxicological profile of CXL- 1020 and compounds useful
   in pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure (compounds of formulas (1), (2), (83), (84),
   (85) and (86)) following 24 hour infusion at multiple doses using a canine peripheral vein
15 toxicity model (see Example 5). Key inflammatory markers measured include white blood
   cells (WBC), fibrinogen, and C-reactive protein (CRP).
   FIG. 3 shows measures of inflammation observed using a canine implanted central catheter 72
   hour model using different doses of CXL- 1020 and four compounds useful in pharmaceutical
   compositions of the disclosure (compounds of formulas (1), (2), (83) and (84)) (see Example
20 5). Scores shown in the table are based on microscopic pathology findings of edema,
   hemorrhage, vascular inflammation and perivascular inflammation observed at and around the
   catheter tip and proximal to the catheter tip.
   FIG. 4 shows the assessment of the toxicological profile of CXL- 1020 and two compounds of
   the disclosure (compounds of formulas (2) and (86)), formulated at a pH of 4 or 6, following
25 24 hour infusion at a rate of 3 ptg/kg/min (see Examples 4 and 6).
   4.      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           The invention includes the following:
                                                    7

   (1.) A method of treating heart failure, comprising administering to a human patient a nitroxyl
   donor composition, said composition comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor
   that has a half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4
   by the procedure described in Example 2 and a cyclodextrin.
 5 (2.) The method of the above (1.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has
   a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes when measured in human plasma at a
   pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
   (3.) The method of the above (1.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has
   a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75 minutes when measured in human plasma at a
10 pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
   (4.) The method of the above (1.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has
   a half-life of less than 95 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under
   conditions specified in Example 2.
   (5.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(4.), wherein the cyclodextrin is a sulfo-n-butyl
15 ether derivative of p-cyclodextrin having six or seven sulfo-n-butyl ether groups per
   cyclodextrin molecule.
   (6.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(4.), wherein the cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*.
   (7.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(6.), wherein the molar ratio between the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
20 from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1.
   (8.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(6.), wherein the molar ratio between the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
   from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1.
   (9.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(6.), wherein the molar ratio between the N
25 hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
   from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
                                                    8

   (10.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(9.), wherein the composition is suitable for
   parenteral administration.
   (11.) The method of the above (10.), wherein the composition is suitable for intravenous
   administration.
 5 (12.) The method of the above (10.) or the above (11.), wherein the composition is formulated
   at a pH of from about 4 to about 6.
   (13.) The method of the above (10.) or the above (11.), wherein the composition is formulated
   at a pH of from about 5 to about 6.
   (14.) The method of the above (10.) or the above (11.), wherein the composition is formulated
10 at a pH of from about 5.5 to about 6.
   (15.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(14.), wherein the heart failure is acute
   decompensated heart failure.
   (16.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(15.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1):
                                       H 3 C-tY     -SO      2 NHOH
15
                                                     (1)
   (17.) The method of any one of the above (1.)-(15.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                               SO 2 NHOH
                                                        SO 2 CH 3
20                                                   (2)
                                                      9

   (18.) A method of treating heart failure, comprising administering to a human patient a
   nitroxyl donor composition comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor that has a
   half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 by the
   procedure described in Example 2, wherein said composition is administered parenterally at a
 5 pH of from about 5 to about 6.5.
   (19.) The method of the above (18.), wherein the composition is administered intravenously.
   (20.) The method of the above (18.) or the above (19.), wherein the composition is
   administered at a pH of from about 5.5 to about 6.
   (21.) The method of the above (18.) or the above (19.), wherein the composition is
10 administered at a pH of about 6.
   (22.) The method of any one of the above (18.)-(21.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes when measured in
   human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
   (23.) The method of any one of the above (18.)-(2 1.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
15 nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75 minutes when measured in
   human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
   (24.) The method of any one of the above (18.)-(21.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor has a half-life of less than 95 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH
   of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
20 (25.) The method of any one of the above (18.)-(24.), wherein the composition further
   comprises a stabilizing agent.
   (26.) The method of the above (25.), wherein the stabilizing agent is a cyclodextrin.
   (27.) The method of the above (26.), wherein the cyclodextrin is a p-cyclodextrin.
   (28.) The method of any one of the above (18.)-(27.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
25 nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1):
                                                   10

                                         H 3 C-k#>-SO       2 NHOH
                                                      (1)
   (29.) The method of any one of the above (18.)-(27.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                                 SO2NHOH
 5                                                      SO 2CH 3
                                                      (2)
   (30.) A pharmaceutical composition comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor
   that has a half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4
   by the procedure described in Example 2 and an aqueous buffer, wherein the composition has
10 a pH of from about 5 to about 6.
   (31.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (30.), wherein the aqueous buffer provides
   a pH to the composition of from about 5.5 to about 6.2.
   (32.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (30.), wherein the aqueous buffer provides
   a pH to the composition of about 6.
15 (33.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(32.), wherein the buffer
   is a phosphate or acetate buffer.
   (34.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (33.), wherein the buffer is a potassium
   phosphate buffer.
   (35.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (33.), wherein the buffer is a potassium
20 acetate buffer.
   (36.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(35.), further comprising
   a stabilizing agent.
                                                       11

   (37.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (36.), wherein the stabilizing agent is a
   cyclodextrin.
   (38.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (37.), wherein the cyclodextrin is a sulfo
   n-butyl ether derivative of p-cyclodextrin having six or seven sulfo-n-butyl ether groups per
 5 cyclodextrin molecule.
   (39.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (37.) or the above (38.), wherein the
   cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*.
   (40.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (37.)-(39.), wherein the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
10 the composition is from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1.
   (41.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (37.)-(39.), wherein the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
   the composition is from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1.
   (42.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (37.)-(39.), wherein the molar
15 ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
   the composition is from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
   (43.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(42.), wherein the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85
   minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in
20 Example 2.
   (44.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(42.), wherein the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75
   minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in
   Example 2.
25 (45.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(42.), wherein the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has a half-life of less than 95 minutes when measured
   in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
                                                  12

   (46.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(42.), wherein the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1)
                                         H 3 C-tY      -SO   2 NHOH
                                                       (1)
 5 (47.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(42.), wherein the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                                  SO 2NHOH
                                                         SO 2CH 3
                                                       (2)
   (48.) A pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
10 donor that has a half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH
   of 7.4 by the procedure described in Example 2 and (ii) a cyclodextrin.
   (49.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (48.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes when
   measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
15 (50.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (48.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75 minutes when
   measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
   (51.) The pharmaceutical composition of the above (48.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor has a half-life of less than 95 minutes when measured in human plasma at
20 a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
                                                        13

   (52.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(5 1.), wherein the
   cyclodextrin is a sulfo-n-butyl ether derivative of p-cyclodextrin having six or seven sulfo-n
   butyl ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule.
   (53.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(5 1.), wherein the
 5 cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*.
   (54.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(53.), wherein the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
   the composition is from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1.
   (55.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(53.), wherein the molar
10 ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
   the composition is from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1.
   (56.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(53.), wherein the molar
   ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in
   the composition is from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
15 (57.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(53.), wherein the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1):
                                       H3C             SO2NHOH
                                                   (1)
   (58.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (48.)-(53.), wherein the N
20 hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                              SO 2NHOH
                                                     SO 2CH 3
                                                   (2)
                                                    14

   (59.) An admixture comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor that has a half
   life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 by the
   procedure described in Example 2 and a cyclodextrin, wherein the molar ratio between the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
 5 from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1.
   (60.) The admixture of the above (59.), which is formed by lyophilization.
   (61.) The admixture of the above (59.) or the above (60.), wherein the molar ratio between the
   N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
   from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1.
10 (62.) The admixture of the above (61.), wherein the molar ratio between the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
   from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
   (63.) The admixture of any one of the above (59.)-(62.), further comprising a buffering agent.
   (64.) The admixture of the above (63.), wherein the buffering agent is potassium acetate.
15 (65.) The admixture of any one of the above (59.)-(64.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1):
                                      H 3 C-k   >-SO     2 NHOH
                                                   (1)
   (66.) The admixture of any one of the above (59.)-(64.), wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide
20 type nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                              SO 2NHOH
                                                     SO 2CH 3
                                                   (2)
                                                    15

   (67.) Use of a pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(58.) for the
   manufacture of a medicament useful for treating a cardiovascular disease.
   (68.) Use of a pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(58.) for the
   manufacture of a medicament useful for treating heart failure.
 5 (69.) Use of a pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(58.) for the
   manufacture of a medicament useful for treating acute decompensated heart failure.
   (70.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(58.) for use in the
   treatment of a cardiovascular disease.
   (71.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(58.) for use in the
10 treatment of heart failure.
   (72.) The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the above (30.)-(58.) for use in the
   treatment of acute decompensated heart failure.
           4.1     Definitions
           Unless clearly indicated otherwise, the following terms as used herein have the
15 meanings indicated below.
           A "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to a salt of any therapeutic agent disclosed
   herein, which salt can include any of a variety of organic and inorganic counter ions known in
   the art and which salt is pharmaceutically acceptable. When the therapeutic agent contains an
   acidic functionality, various exemplary embodiments of counter ions are sodium, potassium,
20 calcium, magnesium, ammonium, tetraalkylammonium, and the like. When the therapeutic
   agent contains a basic functionality, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can include as a
   counter ion, by way of example, an organic or inorganic acid, such as hydrochloride,
   hydrobromide, tartrate, mesylate, acetate, maleate, oxalate, and the like. Illustrative salts
   include, but are not limited to, sulfate, citrate, acetate, chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate,
25 bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate, lactate, salicylate, acid citrate, tartrate, oleate, tannate,
   pantothenate, bitartrate, ascorbate, succinate, maleate, besylate, fumarate, gluconate,
   glucaronate, saccharate, formate, benzoate, glutamate, methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate,
                                                      16

   benzenesulfonate, and p-toluenesulfonate salts. Accordingly, a salt can be prepared from a
   compound of any one of the formulae disclosed herein having an acidic functional group, such
   as a carboxylic acid functional group, and a pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic
   base. Suitable bases include, but are not limited to, hydroxides of alkali metals such as
 5 sodium, potassium, and lithium; hydroxides of alkaline earth metal such as calcium and
   magnesium; hydroxides of other metals, such as aluminum and zinc; ammonia, and organic
   amines, such as unsubstituted or hydroxy-substituted mono-, di-, or trialkylamines;
   dicyclohexylamine; tributyl amine; pyridine; N-methyl-N-ethylamine; diethylamine;
   triethylamine; mono-, bis-, or tris-(2-hydroxy-lower-alkyl amines), such as mono-, bis-, or tris
10 (2-hydroxyethyl)amine, 2-hydroxy-tert-butylamine, or tris-(hydroxymethyl)methylamine,
   N,N-di-lower-alkyl-N-(hydroxy-lower-alkyl)-amines, such as NN-dimethyl-N-(2
   hydroxyethyl) amine, or tri-(2-hydroxyethyl)amine; N-methyl-D-glucamine; and amino acids
   such as arginine, lysine, and the like. A salt can also be prepared from a compound of any one
   of the formulae disclosed herein having a basic functional group, such as an amino functional
15 group, and a pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acid. Suitable acids include
   hydrogen sulfate, citric acid, acetic acid, hydrochloric acid (HCl), hydrogen bromide (HBr),
   hydrogen iodide (HI), nitric acid, phosphoric acid, lactic acid, salicylic acid, tartaric acid,
   ascorbic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, besylic acid, fumaric acid, gluconic acid, glucaronic
   acid, formic acid, benzoic acid, glutamic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid,
20 benzenesulfonic acid, and p-toluenesulfonic acid.
           "Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" refers to any substance, not itself a therapeutic
   agent, used as a carrier, diluent, adjuvant, binder, and/or vehicle for delivery of a therapeutic
   agent to a patient, or added to a pharmaceutical composition to improve its handling or storage
   properties or to permit or facilitate formation of a compound or pharmaceutical composition
25 into a unit dosage form for administration. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are known
   in the pharmaceutical arts and are disclosed, for example, in Gennaro, Ed., Remington: The
   Science and PracticeofPharmacy, 2 0 th Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD,
   2000) and Handbook ofPharmaceuticalExcipients, American Pharmaceutical Association,
   Washington, D.C., (e.g., 1", 2 nd and  3 rd Eds., 1986, 1994 and 2000, respectively). As will be
30 known to those in the art, pharmaceutically acceptable excipients can provide a variety of
   functions and can be described as wetting agents, buffering agents, suspending agents,
                                                      17

   lubricating agents, emulsifiers, disintegrants, absorbents, preservatives, surfactants, colorants,
   flavorants, and sweeteners. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include
   without limitation: (1) sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; (2) starches, such as corn
   starch and potato starch; (3) cellulose and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl
 5 cellulose, ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, and
   hydroxypropylcellulose; (4) powdered tragacanth; (5) malt; (6) gelatin; (7) talc; (8) excipients,
   such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; (9) oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil,
   safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean oil; (10) glycols, such as propylene
   glycol; (11) polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol and polyethylene glycol; (12) esters,
10 such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; (13) agar; (14) buffering agents, such as magnesium
   hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; (15) alginic acid; (16) pyrogen-free water; (17) isotonic
   saline; (18) Ringer's solution; (19) ethyl alcohol; (20) pH buffered solutions; (21) polyesters,
   polycarbonates and/or polyanhydrides; and (22) other non-toxic compatible substances
   employed in pharmaceutical formulations.
15          "Unit dosage form" refers to a physically discrete unit suitable as a unitary dosage for a
   human or an animal. Each unit dosage form can contain a predetermined amount of a
   therapeutic agent calculated to produce a desired effect.
            Unless clearly indicated otherwise, a "patient" refers to an animal, such as a mammal,
   including but not limited to, a human. Hence, the methods disclosed herein can be useful in
20 human therapy and veterinary applications. In particular embodiments, the patient is a
   mammal. In certain embodiments, the patient is a human.
            "Effective amount" refers to such amount of a therapeutic agent or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof, which in combination with its parameters of efficacy and potential for
   toxicity, as well as based on the knowledge of the practicing specialist, should be effective in a
25 given therapeutic form. As is understood in the art, an effective amount can be administered in
   one or more doses.
            "Treatment", "treating" and the like is an approach for obtaining a beneficial or desired
   result, including clinical results. For purposes of this disclosure, beneficial or desired results
   include but are not limited to inhibiting and/or suppressing the onset and/or development of a
                                                     18

   condition or reducing the severity of such condition, such as reducing the number and/or
   severity of symptoms associated with the condition, increasing the quality of life of those
   suffering from the condition, decreasing the dose of other medications required to treat the
   condition, enhancing the effect of another medication a patient is taking for the condition,
 5 and/or prolonging survival of patients having the condition.
            "Prevent", "preventing" and the like refers to reducing the probability of developing a
   condition in a patient who does not have, but is at risk of developing a condition. A patient "at
   risk" may or may not have a detectable condition, and may or may not have displayed a
   detectable condition prior to the treatment methods disclosed herein. "At risk" denotes that a
10 patient has one or more so-called risk factors, which are measurable parameters that correlate
   with development of a condition and are known in the art. A patient having one or more of
   these risk factors has a higher probability of developing the condition than a patient without
   such risk factor(s).
            "Positive inotrope" refers to an agent that causes an increase in myocardial contractile
15 function. Exemplary positive inotropes are a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist, an inhibitor of
   phosphodiesterase activity, and calcium-sensitizers. Beta-adrenergic receptor agonists include,
   among others, dopamine, dobutamine, terbutaline, and isoproterenol. Analogs and derivatives
   of such compounds are also intended. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,663,351 discloses a
   dobutamine prodrug that can be administered orally.
20          A condition that is "responsive to nitroxyl therapy" includes any condition in which
   administration of a compound that donates an effective amount of nitroxyl under physiological
   conditions treats and/or prevents the condition, as those terms are defined herein. A condition
   whose symptoms are suppressed or diminished upon administration of nitroxyl donor is a
   condition responsive to nitroxyl therapy.
25          "Pulmonary hypertension" or "PH" refers to a condition in which the pulmonary
   arterial pressure is elevated. The current hemodynamic definition of PH is a mean pulmonary
   arterial pressure (MPAP) at rest of greater than or equal to 25 mmHg. Badesch et al., J. Amer.
   Coll. Cardiol.54(Suppl.):S55-S66 (2009).
                                                     19

            "N/A" means not assessed.
            "(Ci -C6)alkyl" refers to saturated linear and branched hydrocarbon structures having 1,
   2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 carbon atoms. When an alkyl residue having a specific number of carbons is
   named, all geometric isomers having that number of carbons are intended to be encompassed;
 5 thus, for example, "propyl" includes n-propyl and iso-propyl and "butyl" includes n-butyl, sec
   butyl, iso-butyl and tert-butyl. Examples of(CI-C6)alkyl groups include methyl, ethyl, n
   propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, tert-butyl, n-hexyl, and the like.
            "(C 1-C4)alkyl" refers to saturated linear and branched hydrocarbon structures having 1,
   2, 3, or 4 carbon atoms. Examples of (CI-C4)alkyl groups include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso
10 propyl, n-butyl and tert-butyl.
            "(C3-C5)alkyl" refers to saturated linear and branched hydrocarbon structures having 3,
   4, or 5 carbon atoms. When an alkyl residue having a specific number of carbons is named, all
   geometric isomers having that number of carbons are intended to be encompassed; thus, for
   example, "propyl" includes n-propyl and iso-propyl and "butyl" includes n-butyl, sec-butyl,
15 iso-butyl and tert-butyl. Examples of (C3-C5)alkyl groups include n-propyl, iso-propyl,
   n-butyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl, and the like.
            "(C2-C4)alkenyl" refers to a straight-chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical
   having 2, 3, or 4 carbon atoms and a double bond in any position, e.g., ethenyl, 1-propenyl,
   2-propenyl (allyl), 1-butenyl, 2-butenyl, 3-butenyl, 1-methylethenyl, 1-methyl-1-propenyl,
20 2-methyl-2-propenyl, 2-methyl-1-propenyl, 1-methyl-2-propenyl, and the like.
            "(C2-C3)alkynyl" refers to a straight chain non-cyclic hydrocarbon having 2 or 3 carbon
   atoms and including at least one carbon-carbon double bond. Examples of (C2-C3)alkenyls
   include -vinyl, -allyl, and 1-prop-1-enyl.
            "(C5-C7)heterocycloalkyl" refers to a 5-, 6-, or 7-membered, saturated or unsaturated,
25 bridged, mono- or bicyclic-heterocycle containing 1, 2, 3, or 4 ring heteroatoms each
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. Examples of (C5
   C7)heterocycloalkyl groups include pyrazolyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl,
   tetrahydro-oxazinyl, tetrahydrofuran, thiolane, dithiolane, pyrroline, pyrrolidine, pyrazoline,
                                                     20

   pyrazolidine, imidazoline, imidazolidine, tetrazole, piperidine, pyridazine, pyrimidine,
   pyrazine, tetrahydrofuranone, 7-butyrolactone, a-pyran, 7-pyran, dioxolane, tetrahydropyran,
   dioxane, dihydrothiophene, piperazine, triazine, tetrazine, morpholine, thiomorpholine,
   diazepan, oxazine, tetrahydro-oxazinyl, isothiazole, pyrazolidine, and the like.
 5          "(5- or 6-membered)heteroaryl" refers to a monocyclic aromatic heterocycle ring of 5
   or 6 members, i.e., a monocyclic aromatic ring comprising at least one ring heteroatom, e.g., 1,
   2, 3, or 4 ring heteroatoms, each independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
   Examples of -(5- or 6-membered)heteroaryls include pyridyl, pyrrolyl, furyl, imidazolyl,
   oxazolyl, imidazolyl, thiazolyl, isoxazolyl, 1,2,3-oxadiazolyl, 1,3,4-oxadiazolyl,
10 1,2,5-oxadiazolyl, 1,2,3-triazolyl, pyrazolyl, isothiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazinyl,
   1,2,3-thiadiazolyl, 1,3,4-thiadiazolyl, 1,2,5-thiadiazolyl, 1,3,5-triazinyl, and thiophenyl.
            "Halo" refers to -F, -Cl, -Br or -I.
            "Sulfo-n-butyl ether derivative of   p-cyclodextrin" refers to P-cyclodextrin having at
   least one -OH group that is derivatized by replacing the hydrogen atom thereof with -(CH2)4
15 S(O)2-OH or -(CH2)4-S(O)2-0 - Z' to provide a -O-(CH2)4-S(O)2-OH or -O-(CH2)4-S(O)2
   O - Z' group, respectively, where Z' is a cation such as sodium, potassium, ammonium,
   tetramethylammonium, and the like. In one embodiment, each Z is sodium.
            4.2     N-Hydroxysulfonamide Type Nitroxyl Donors
            It has been discovered that N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors that have
20 sufficiently long half-lives under physiological conditions have significantly better
   toxicological profiles as compared to N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors that have
   shorter half-lives (e.g., CXL-1020). These longer half-life nitroxyl donors provide efficacy
   levels similar to CXL- 1020 when administered intravenously but show significantly reduced
   side effects (e.g., irritation and/or inflammation) (see Examples 4-6). Moreover, these nitroxyl
25 donors provide an onset of hemodynamic effects in 1 hour or less, which is clinically
   desirable.
            Without being bound by theory, the experiments reported in the Examples of this
   disclosure suggest that nitroxyl donors with half-lives substantially shorter than 10 minutes
                                                     21

   when measured in PBS or human plasma (see Example 2), such as CXL-1020, produce high
   local concentrations of nitroxyl upon administration, and that the high local concentration of
   nitroxyl is a cause of the observed side effects. Nitroxyl at high concentration dimerizes,
   resulting in the formation of hyponitrous acid, which is capable of producing hydroxyl
 5 radicals. Alternatively, or in addition, peroxide emanating from white blood cells can react
   with nitroxyl to form hydroxyl radicals. Hydroxyl radicals can be toxic to endothelial cells,
   resulting in inflammation or intolerance. While nitroxyl compounds with longer half-lives
   could, in theory, produce hydroxyl radicals through similar mechanisms, formation of such
   radicals would be expected to be reduced by virtue of the low concentrations of nitroxyl, thus
10 reducing the ability of nitroxyl to dimerize or react with peroxide. Compounds with very long
   half-lives (e.g., greater than 95 minutes when measured in human plasma in accordance with
   the method described in Example 2) would therefore be expected to have a favorable
   toxicological profile; however, because these compounds would be expected to be cleared
   from the circulation and/or diluted prior to substantial nitroxyl formation, such compounds are
15 expected to have low efficacy.
           Accordingly, the disclosure provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors with half-lives greater than about 10 minutes when
   measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human
   plasma in the presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in
20 accordance with the procedure described in Example 2. In particular embodiments, the
   disclosure provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donors with half-lives greater than about 17 minutes when measured in an aerated
   phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the presence of an
   anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance with the procedure
25 described in Example 2.
           N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors with half-lives within the range of from
   about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes when measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline
   (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin
   or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2,
30 have been found to have favorable efficacy and an improved toxicological profile relative to
                                                    22

   compounds with shorter half-lives. In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from
   about 15 minutes to about 80 minutes when measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline
   (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin
 5 or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2.
   In particular embodiments, a nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
   disclosure has a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75 minutes when measured in an
   aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the
   presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance
10 with the procedure described in Example 2. In particular embodiments, a nitroxyl donor
   useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from about 25
   minutes to about 60 minutes when measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS)
   solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or
   sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2. In
15 particular embodiments, a nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
   disclosure has a half-life of from about 35 minutes to about 60 minutes when measured in an
   aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the
   presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance
   with the procedure described in Example 2. In particular embodiments, a nitroxyl donor
20 useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure has a half-life of from about 35
   minutes to about 50 minutes when measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS)
   solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the presence of an anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or
   sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance with the procedure described in Example 2. In
   particular embodiments, a nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
25 disclosure has a half-life of from about 40 minutes to about 50 minutes an aerated phosphate
   buffered saline (PBS) solution at pH 7.4, or in human plasma in the presence of an
   anticoagulant (e.g., heparin or sodium citrate) at pH 7.4, each in accordance with the procedure
   described in Example 2.
           N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors useful in pharmaceutical compositions of
30 the disclosure are capable of donating nitroxyl at physiological pH (i.e., a pH of about 7.4) and
   physiological temperature (i.e., a temperature of about 37 0 C) (together, "physiological
                                                   23

   conditions"). The level of nitroxyl donating ability can be expressed as a percentage of a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor's theoretical stoichiometric maximum. A compound
   that donates a "significant level of nitroxyl" means, in various embodiments, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
 5 disclosure that donates about 40% or more, about 50% or more, about 60% or more, about
   7 0%  or more, about 80% or more, about 90% or more, or about 95% or more of its theoretical
   maximum amount of nitroxyl under physiological conditions. In particular embodiments, a
   N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition donates
   from about 70% to about 90% of its theoretical maximum amount of nitroxyl. In particular
10 embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
   composition of the disclosure donates from about 85% to about 95% of its theoretical
   maximum amount of nitroxyl. In particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition donates from about 90% to about 95%
   of its theoretical maximum amount of nitroxyl. Compounds that donate less than about 40%,
15 or less than about 50%, of their theoretical maximum amount of nitroxyl are still nitroxyl
   donors and can be used in the methods disclosed. A N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
   donor that donates less than about 50% of its theoretical amount of nitroxyl can be used in the
   methods disclosed, but may require higher dosing levels as compared to a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor that donates a higher level of nitroxyl.
20          It will be understood that a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can also donate a limited amount of nitric oxide,
   so long as the amount of nitroxyl donation exceeds the amount of nitric oxide donation. In
   certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
   composition of the disclosure can donate about 25 mole% or less of nitric oxide under
25 physiological conditions. In particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
   donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can donate about 20 mole% or
   less of nitric oxide under physiological conditions. In particular embodiments, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
   disclosure can donate about 15 mole% or less of nitric oxide under physiological conditions.
30 In particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure donating compound can donate about 10 mole%
                                                   24

   or less of nitric oxide under physiological conditions. In particular embodiments, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
   disclosure can donate about 5 mole% or less of nitric oxide under physiological conditions. In
   particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
 5 pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can donate about 2 mole% or less of nitric oxide
   under physiological conditions. In a particular embodiment, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can donate an
   insignificant amount (e.g., about 1 mole% or less) of nitric oxide under physiological
   conditions.
10         Particular embodiments of N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors useful in
   pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure are provided in Table 1 and Table 2. The
   compounds listed in Table 1 have been developed to optimize the half-life and toxicological
   profile of the nitroxyl donor, in accordance with one of the goals of the present disclosure.
   Compounds listed in Table 2 have previously been described (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
15 8,030,356, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety). The
   compounds listed in Table 1 and Table 2 generally have half-lives of greater than 10 minutes
   when measured in an aerated phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution and/or in plasma (see
   Table 4 in Section 5.2).
20    Table 1. Representative Novel N-Hydroxysulfonamide Compounds of the Disclosure
                                                SO2NHOH                              SO 2 NHOH
      H3 C   -        S  2 NHOH
                                                                            N   O      CH3
                                                       SO2CH3
       N-Hydroxy-5-methylfuran-                 N-Hydroxy-             N-Hydroxy-5-methyl- 1,2-oxazole
           2-sulfonamide (1)            3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-           4-sulfonamide (3)
                                              sulfonamide (2)
                                                     25

                                                            SO2NHOH                         SO 2 NHOH
                                   H3C       H
                     SH                                  S                            0
         SO 2 N HO H
                                  4-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-        N-Hydroxy-1-benzofuran
  N-Hydroxy-1-benzofuran-           yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide (5)              3-sulfonamide (6)
       7-sulfonamide (4)
  H3C                                                     SO 2 NHOH          Br
                   0
           CF 3         N                   0                                 0CH                      3
                                                                        OH
     N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-                      N-Hydroxy
   2-(trifluoromethyl)furan-         5-methanesulfonylthiophene-3-    1-Acetyl-5-bromo-N-hydroxy-2,3
       3-sulfonamide 0=C
                       (7)    S=             sulfonamide (8)          dihydro-\I1H-indole-6-sulfonamide
                                                                                        (9)
                 O=     OO               OCI                                C
                             CO3H
                                                                  C     CI                         NH
                                                                                       ~(9)
   HO                                                                                        O      OH
                                   1 -Acetyl-5-chloro-N-hydroxy-2,3- 4,5-Dichloro-N-hydroxythiophene
    2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-          dihydro-1LH-indole-6- sulfonamide           2-sulfonamide (12)
 (hydroxymethyl)benzene-1-                         (11) 00
        sulfonamide (10)
             H3C  OH     Oi                                                                        NH
                                               HO   N
                                                                              N
                         0     OH               oso                         c/
                           S-NHF
  N-Hydroxy-6-methoxy-1-                                                                           OH
benzofuran-2-sulfonamide (13)                       CH3
                                                                     N-Hydroxy-2, 1 ,3-benzothiadiazole
                                         2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-4-                 5-sulfonamide (15)
                                   methylbenzene-1 -sulfonamide(14)
                                                     26

                                                                                          HO
                          H~~ ~      ~           ~       HO~                                     =
                                                                                               NHO
        S0                     OH                       I~~
                                                BrN           0H
                                                              O.   3                    C             CH
            N-Hydroxy-4-                                                                       c
   methanesulfonylthiophene-2-                5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-2-4-hroNydx-25
          sulfonamide (16)              methoxybenzene-1-sulfonamide (17)     dimehlbene-N-sufonamide
                                                                                            (18)
 HO      0                   O  3                 HO,                          O
         II                                              HH                                 /H
   HN-S        /IfH
                                               N                                     11                  0
         0      SD YN,_,H         3                0=5=                              0                 N
                                                                                                   0
           N,N-Diethyl-5-                       F                              N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4
 (hydroxysulfamoyl)thiophene-2-                                              croy~hohn--ufnmd
         carboxamide (19)                     5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-                          (abnltipe2
                                                                                                     uloamd
                                         methylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide (20)                  (1
                      H3C        CH3
                                                                                 0       O
       o                                                                        0NO
                              NH                                  \\                  /
 HO                                                          H   ,CS            0
5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-                N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide (23)
  2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxan-ide
                 (22)
                                / N0                                                              H
                                                                                              s-   N.O
                                     0=s                                                              OH~N
                                     HNN
         N-Hydroxy-2, 1,3-                                                   N-Hydroxypyridine-3-sulfonamide
 benzothiadiazole-4-sulfonamide                                                             (26)
                 (24)
                                                         27

                                       HO-NH                                                        CH3
                                                                               AHN                       CH3
                                                                                 H       0        = O
                                                    S6                      HO       /
                                                                    04
                                        N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4
                                     carbonyl)thiophene-3-sulfonamide     1-N-Hydroxy-2-N-(propan-2
                                                       (28)            yl)benzene-1,2-disulfonamide (29)
             HO   NH                              HO    NH
          Cl             CH
                                                                                                   NH
               /N-N                                      -N                        N
           H3C                                                 CH3                                OH
5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-1,3-dimethyl-     N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-lH-pyrazole-   N-Hydroxypyridine-2-sulfonamide
  1H-pyrazole-4-sulfonamide (30)             4-sulfonamide (31)                          (32)
                                                                                              0
                                                                 HN-OH
                HN    OH
                         o                                          o                                 N/
                         Br                                            HO      \
             N                                                              N              S
                                      H2 N              S                   H
                                                            00
  3-Bromo-N-hydroxypyridine-2-           4-N-Hydroxythiophene-2,4-        N-ydroxy-4-(morpholine-4
          sulfonamide (33)                   disulfonamide (34)        carbonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide
                                                                                         (35)
                                                        OH
                                                  HNA
                                  aI
 F3C                          /OH           Cl0
                                      S~1 fNf                                                             OH
                     /         H            ci      /N         \           N
                                                  HN                                   s        C~
N-Hydroxy-5-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-                             S        N -O
    1,2-oxazol-3-yl]thiophene-2
          sulfonamide (36)              6-Chloro-N-hydroxy-7H,7aH-         N-Hydroxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-5
                                       imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]thiazole-5-   yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide (38)
                                               sulfonamide (37)
                                                        28

           HO
               NH                                                                                   HN -OH
                                                                                                    HN-O
                        CH                                             OHH
                                                                                   H3C          s
               F
    4-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-              N-Hydroxy-5-(1,3-oxazol-5-           N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylthiophene
 methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide         yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide (40)                 3-sulfonamide (41)
              (39)
                     OH3                                             0
                     CH\ 0                                s        /    NH
H3CO                     //     OH               \o                      OH                   S              NH
               S            'N/
     O                        H                                              0   -N                   O        OH
Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-4-            5-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N
 methylthiophene-2-carboxylate       hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide           y-thophene-2-sulfonade (44)
              (42)                                  (43)                       ltipee2sload                 (4
                                                    Br
                       0\                                                          NO
 Br        s                NH
                                      Br                  IIS,  -NH/1
                                                                                            ~               O
                                                                                                            OHI
                                   OH0                             OH                     s         /H
                                                                                                 0
5-Bromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-       3,5-Dibromo-N-hydroxythiophene-                5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-4
        sulfonamide (45)                    2-sulfonamide (46)              nitrothiophene-2-sulfonamide (47)
              CI                                       HN      OH                           HO   NH
                      SHN-NHCH0                         1                                         1      C1
                            H
         s         IICH,                                                                 N               cl
                   0         OH                                                       o"l
                                                         H3C                             N
3-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-               HC&N
        sulfonamide (48)            N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylbenzene-l-             5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,1,3
                                             sulfonamide (49)               benzoxadiazole-4-sulfonamide (50)
                                                     29

                                                                                  HO
                                                   HO,           NHH  NH          H   IN
                                                    O=s5=O                         O=S-
                                                                             H3C               CH3
                   o-      S -NH            H3 CO                            HC                CH,
                            SHOCH3
     4-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-                                                   N-Hydroxy-2,3,5,6
hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide     N-Hydroxy-3,4-dimethoxybenzene-     tetramethylbenzene- 1 -sulfonamide
                (51)                       1-sulfonamide (52)                          (53)
             HO   NH                               HON                                   HN   OH
              O=S=O                                      NH
                                                    O=S=OOsO
                                                                CI
                                                               | l                     |
        F3 C              CF 3           H3CO           .                       Hfc
          N-Hydroxy-3,5
 bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene- 1-           Methyl 4-chloro-3-                2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-5
         sulfonamide (54)           (hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoate (55)    methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide (56)
                  HONH                                HO NH
   CI                   I
                   O=S=O               OH               O=S=0
                                CI     N-                          CI
           HN                                    N        &
                O0
 4-Chloro-N-(3-chloropropyl)-3-        2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-[4
 (hydroxysulfamoyl)-benzamide         (hydroxyimino)piperidine-1
                (57)                carbonyl]benzene-1-sulfonamide
                                                   (58)
                HO                                                                  HO
                    H NH
                                                                   OH                    NH
                 O=S=0                                      \\   NH                 u    S  0
         HO                               (N
              0       OH                     CH3                                         OH
                                   N-Hydroxy-4-methyl-3,4-dihydro
           2-Hydroxy-5-            2H-1,4-benzoxazine-7-sulfonamide    2-Chloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene-1
(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoic acid                     (61)                         sulfonamide (62)
                (60)
                                                     30

              HO                                       HO
                   NH                                        NH             OH
               oso                                       OS     OH                   o              CH 3
                                                                                    4              N
                                                                    cl
                                                 CH3                                               N
           ci               ci             H"c
                   OH                                0       OH
                                                                       5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3
        3,5-Dichloro-N,4-                  4-Chloro-2-hydroxy-5-        dihydro- 1H-indole-6-sulfonamide
dihydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide          (hydroxysulfamoyl)-NN-                           (65)
                (63)                      dimethylbenzamide (64)
                                             Br
                                                                  'N                     HO,
                 HN     OH                 OH,                                                 NH
                                                                N                          O=S=
                                       HN                                                            Cl
                                                 O               CH 3
                   HN                   OH                                    H3CO
                                    5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-           2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5
2-Chloro-N,5-dihydroxybenzene-      dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide        (methoxymethyl)benzene-1
        1-sulfonamide (66)                           (67)                         sulfonamide (68)
                          H0C   OH                         0      H    HO   H
                                                                            N       0
                           S-NH      HNc
  H3 00                               3                       0               0~
                            O,
                                                         CH 3
             Methyl 5
   (hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-2-        N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylfuran-3-         oxatricyclo[7.4.0.trideca
                                                )sulfonande(70)           1(9),2(7),3,5,10,12-hexaene-4
                                                                                   sulfonamide (71)
      HON                                  HO N H                                           0
                  O SO      CsO=S=O                    0   OCH3                      \   I      N
              H          I                  u~~=                             HN        0      Hc
                      \                                         CH3          HN /\O
                                              0                                 OH
      2-(Ethanesulfonyl)-N-             N-Hydroxy-2-(propane-2-         4-Acetyl-N-hydroxy-3,4-dihydro
 hydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide       sulfonyl)benzene- 1-sulfonamide   2H-1,4-benzoxazine-6-sulfonamide
                (72)                                 (73)                                 (74)
                                                       31

                                                              CH3                            0
             H 3C       O                                  HNA    O                             N       CH
         0        N        OCH3                          S                                  0
   HN-S
                     II                             0
 HO      0,
                                                    H     O                                     HN/
Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-1-                       IH                                             OH
methyl-1H-pyrrole-2-carboxylate
                (75)                    N-[5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-1,3-             N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-4
                                          thiazol-2-yl]acetamide (76)          (morpholine-4-carbonyl)furan-3
                                                                                      sulfonamide (77)
                                                                       0
                                          OH
                          0              NH
    H3C                              "'
                                     O    /   \~                        0
                                                                        0      HN4/
                                      00                                                  s
          3-            O
Ethyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-3-carboxylate (78)         5-Chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamidooxane-4-carboxylate
                                                                                   (79)
             0                                               OH                               OH
                                                      O==                                IOO
             H    00=3=0                        H3C     y
        HO   N                                  H3                                            0
                   0  1/\                                                                            NQ
                                00
    N-Hydroxy-2-(oxan-4-           N
ylmethanesulfonyl)benzene- 1-        -lydroxy-3-methyl- 1-benzofuran-2-          N-Hydroxy-5-(piperidine-1
       sulfonamide (80)                        sulfonamide (81)               carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonamide (82)
                                                        32

         Table 2. Additional N-Hydroxysulfonamide Donors with Desired Half-Lives
                                     SO2NHOHH
          0-S
                    2NHOH                H3C-      g -SO      2 NHOH
                                                                                        N   N
 N-Hydroxyfuran-2-sulfonamide           N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-                  CHa
                 (83)                         2-sulfonamide (84)
                                                                        N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole
                                                                               3-sulfonamide (85)
                                                    SO 2 NHOH
               s        S  2 NHOH2NHOH
  C
                                                    F                   HOHNO2
5-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2
          sulfonamide (86)                    3-Chloro-4-fluoro-         1-N,3-N-Dihydroxybenzene- 1,3
                                       N-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide          disulfonamide(88)
                                                      (87)
                                        F
                                                                            H3C            SO 2 NHOH
                       SO2NHOH
                                                             SO2NHOH
                                                                                                 H
   BrC
                                                       H3                 N-Hydroxy-3,5-dimethyl-1,2
 3-Bromo-N-hydroxybenzene-1-                                               oxazole-4-sulfonamide (91)
          sulfonamide (89)                  5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2
                                       methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide (90)
              SO2 NHOH                                  HO NH
                      OCF
                          3
             N-Hydroxy
 3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzene-1-                            CH
          sulfonamide (92)
                                                N-Hydroxy-4
                                          methanesulfonylbenzene- 1
                                                       33

                                                sulfonamide (93)
                  HON
                      CI
   3,4-Dichloro-N-hydroxybenzene- 1
             sulfonamide (95)
            In certain embodiments, the nitroxyl donors listed in Table 1 and Table 2 can be
   converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Representative salts include, but are
   not limited, to oxalate, chloride, bromide, iodide, sulfate, citrate, acetate, trifluoroacetate,
 5 nitrate, bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate, isonicotinate, lactate, glutamate, salicylate, acid
   citrate, tartrate, oleate, tannate, pantothenate, bitartrate, ascorbate, succinate, maleate,
   gentisinate, fumarate, gluconate, glucoronate, saccharate, formate, benzoate,
   methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and pamoate salts.
            In some embodiments, the N-hydroxyl group of the compounds listed in Tables 1 and 2
10 can be esterified to produce compounds of the general formula (99), indicated below:
                                                     0
                                                       - -NH            0
                                                           (99)
   where      represents the aromatic, heteroaromatic or polycyclic portion of the compounds
   depicted in Tables 1 and 2 - including the substituents(s) depicted in Tables 1 and 2, if any
15 and where R is hydrogen, -(C1-C6)alkyl, -(C2-C4)alkenyl, phenyl, benzyl, cyclopentyl,
                                                        34

   cyclohexyl, -(C5-C7)heterocycloalkyl, benzyloxy, -O-(CI-C6)alkyl, -NH2, -NH-(Ci-C4)alkyl, or
   -N((Ci-C4)alkyl)2, wherein said -(Ci-C6)alkyl, -(C2-C4)alkenyl, phenyl, benzyl, cyclopentyl,
   cyclohexyl, -(C5-C7)heterocycloalkyl, benzyloxy, -O-(CI-C6)alkyl, -NH-(Ci-C4)alkyl, or
   -N((CI-C4)alkyl)2 can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents selected
 5 from halo, -(C1-C6)alkyl, -(C2-C4)alkenyl, -(C2-C3)alkynyl, -(5- or 6-membered)heteroaryl, -0
   (C1-C6)alkyl, -S-(C1-C6)alkyl, -C(halo)3, -CH(halo)2, -CH2(halo), -CN, -N02, -NH2, -NH-(Ci
   C4)alkyl, -N(-(Ci-C4)alkyl)2, -C(=O)(CI-C4)alkyl, -C(=O)O(C1-C4)alkyl, -OC(=0)(Ci
   C4)alkyl, -OC(=O)NH2, -S(=O)(CI-C4)alkyl, or -S(=0) 2 (CI-C4)alkyl. In particular
   embodiments, R is methyl, ethyl, benzyl, or phenyl. In particular embodiments, R is methyl or
10 ethyl. In particular embodiments, R is methyl. In particular embodiments, R is ethyl. In
   particular embodiments, R is benzyl or phenyl. In particular embodiments, R is benzyl. In
   particular embodiments, R is phenyl.
           4.3     Measuring Nitroxyl Donating Ability
           Compounds are easily tested for nitroxyl donation by routine experiments. Because it
15 is typically impractical to directly measure whether nitroxyl is donated, several analytical
   approaches are accepted as suitable proxies for determining whether a compound donates
   nitroxyl. For example, the compound of interest can be placed in solution, for example in
   phosphate buffered saline (PBS) or in a phosphate buffered solution at a pH of about 7.4, in a
   sealed container. After sufficient time for disassociation has elapsed, such as from several
20 minutes to several hours, the headspace gas is withdrawn and analyzed to determine its
   composition, such as by gas chromatography and/or mass spectrometry. If the gas N20 is
   formed (which occurs by HNO dimerization), the test is positive for nitroxyl donation and the
   compound is deemed to be a nitroxyl donor.
           For compounds in which the N-hydroxyl group of a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
25 nitroxyl donor is esterified, porcine liver esterase (PLE) can be added to the stock solution
   used to perform the headspace analysis.
           If desired, nitroxyl donation also can be detected by exposing the test compound to
   metmyoglobin (Mb 31). See Bazylinski et al., J Amer. Chem. Soc. 107(26):7982-7986 (1985).
   Nitroxyl reacts with Mb 31 to form a Mb 2 +-NO complex, which can be detected by changes in
                                                     35

   the ultraviolet/visible spectrum or by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR). The Mb 2 +-NO
   complex has an EPR signal centered around a g-value of about 2. Nitric oxide, on the other
   hand, reacts with Mb3" to form an Mb 3 *-NO complex that has a negligible, if any, EPR signal.
   Accordingly, if a compound reacts with Mb3" to form a complex detectable by common
 5 methods, such as ultraviolet/visible or EPR, then the test is positive for nitroxyl donation.
           4.4     Pharmaceutical Compositions
           The disclosure encompasses pharmaceutical compositions comprising a nitroxyl donor
   and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Examples of pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipients include those described above, such as carriers, surface active agents,
10 thickening or emulsifying agents, solid binders, dispersion or suspension aids, solubilizers,
   colorants, flavoring agents, coatings, disintegrating agents, lubricants, sweeteners,
   preservatives, isotonic agents, and any combination thereof. The selection and use of
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipients is taught, e.g., in Troy, Ed., Remington: The Science
   and PracticeofPharmacy,21S" Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2005).
15         The pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated for administration in solid or
   liquid form, including those adapted for the following: (1) oral administration, for example, as
   drenches (for example, aqueous or non-aqueous solutions or suspensions), tablets (for
   example, those targeted for buccal, sublingual and systemic absorption), caplets, boluses,
   powders, granules, pastes for application to the tongue, hard gelatin capsules, soft gelatin
20 capsules, mouth sprays, troches, lozenges, pellets, syrups, suspensions, elixirs, liquids,
   emulsions and microemulsions; or (2) parenteral administration by, for example,
   subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous or epidural injection as, for example, a sterile
   solution or suspension. The pharmaceutical compositions can be for immediate, sustained or
   controlled release.
25         The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein can be prepared as
   any appropriate unit dosage form, such as capsules, sachets, tablets, powder, granules,
   solution, suspension in an aqueous liquid, suspension in a non-aqueous liquid, oil-in-water
   liquid emulsion, water-in-oil liquid emulsion, liposomes or bolus.
                                                   36

                   4.4.1   Compositions for Parenteral Administration
            The disclosure provides nitroxyl donating compositions for parenteral (e.g.,
   intravenous) administration. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is
   formulated for intravenous administration by continuous infusion.
 5          Various embodiments of pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral
   administration include, without limitation, either aqueous sterile injection solutions or non
   aqueous sterile injection solutions, each containing, for example, anti-oxidants, buffers,
   bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended
   recipient; and aqueous sterile suspensions and non-aqueous sterile suspensions, each
10 containing, for example, suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations can be
   presented in unit-dose or multi-dose containers, for example, sealed ampules or vials, and can
   be stored in a freeze dried lyophilizedd) condition requiring only the addition of a sterile liquid
   carrier, such as water, immediately prior to use. Alternately, the formulation can be in the
   form of a liquid.
15          Pharmaceutical compositions administered parenterally can be administered in an
   acidic, neutral or basic solution. In one embodiment, pharmaceutical compositions comprising
   a nitroxyl donor can be formulated in an acidic solution having a pH of from about 4 to about
   5, for instance, a pH of about 4, about 4.5, about 4.8, or about 5, including values there
   between. While a pH of about 4 has generally been considered optimal for formulating N
20 hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors in order to achieve adequate stability of the donor, it
   has been discovered that formulating under such acidic conditions can potentially cause or
   exacerbate venous irritation following parenteral administration. The amount of irritation can
   be attenuated by formulating the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors in a less acidic
   medium (see Example 6 and FIG. 4).
25          Accordingly, in certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor
   useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is formulated for parenteral injection
   at a pH of from about 5 to about 6.5 in some embodiments, from about 5 to about 6 in some
   embodiments, from about 5.5 to about 6 in some embodiments, from about 5 to about 5.5 in
   some embodiments, from about 5.2 to about 6.2 in some embodiments, from about 5.5 to
                                                    37

   about 6.2 in some embodiments, from about 5.8 to about 6.2 in some embodiments, and at a
   pH of about 6 in particular embodiments. In another embodiment, a N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is formulated for
   parenteral injection at a pH of about 5.
 5         To achieve the desired pH of the pharmaceutical composition, a N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donor can be formulated in an aqueous buffer. For example, a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor can be formulated in a phosphate or acetate buffer.
   In particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is formulated in a
   potassium phosphate or sodium phosphate buffer. In other embodiments, a N
10 hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is formulated in a potassium phosphate buffer or
   sodium phosphate buffer. In other embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor
   is formulated in a potassium citrate buffer or sodium citrate buffer.
           The aqueous buffer can also include an appropriate sugar in order to maintain an
   appropriate osmolality. For instance, the pharmaceutical composition can include an
15 appropriate amount of dextrose. The pharmaceutical compositions exemplified in the
   Examples of the disclosure were generally prepared by diluting a concentrate comprising a N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor, optionally a cyclodextrin (see Section 4.4.3) and an
   appropriate buffer into an aqueous solution comprising 5% dextrose (D5W) or 2.5% dextrose
   (D2.5W).
20                 4.4.2   Compositions for Oral Administration
           Pharmaceutical compositions comprising N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors
   can be formulated for oral administration. Compounds for oral administration can be
   formulated as liquid or solid dosage forms. In particular embodiments where the nitroxyl
   donors are formulated as oral liquid dosage forms, polyethylene glycol 300 (PEG300) can
25 usefully serve as an excipient.
           Tablets for oral administration can be made by compression or molding, optionally
   with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets can be prepared by compressing
   in a suitable machine the therapeutic agent or agents in a free-flowing form such as a powder
                                                   38

   or granules, optionally mixed with a binder, lubricant, inert diluent, preservative, surface
   active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets can be made by molding in a suitable machine a
   mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets can be
   optionally coated or scored and can be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release
 5 of the active ingredient therein. Methods of formulating such slow or controlled release
   compositions of pharmaceutically active ingredients, such as the therapeutic agents herein and
   other compounds known in the art, are known in the art and disclosed in issued U.S. patents,
   some of which include, but are not limited to, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,369,174, 4,842,866, and the
   references cited therein. Coatings can be used for delivery of compounds to the intestine (see,
10 e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,638,534, 5,217,720, 6,569,457, and the references cited therein). An
   artisan will recognize that in addition to tablets, other dosage forms can be formulated to
   provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient. Such dosage forms include, but are
   not limited to, capsules, granulations and gel-caps.
                    4.4.3   Stabilizing and Solubility Enhancing Agents
15          It has been discovered that N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors can suffer from
   stability problems when formulated for parenteral and oral administration. In particular, the N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors gradually release nitroxyl and at least one byproduct
   in the pharmaceutical composition, which can compromise the efficacy and safety of the
   composition. For instance, compounds of formula (1) and formula (2) release nitroxyl and
20 sulfinic acid byproducts (respectively, compounds of formula (100) and formula (101))
   according to the following schemes.
                                 OH
                            HN                                     OH
                                                      -__           '..o      +      HNO
                                      H3                                 CH 3
                             (1)                                 (100)
                                                     39

                                  OH
                             HN/                                 OH
                                                                               +      HNO
                                        So2 CH3                           SO2 CH 3
                              (2)                                101)
           Moreover, N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors can also have solubility
   problems that limit or preclude their use in an oral or parenteral dosage form. Accordingly,
   increasing the stability and solubility of N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors can be
 5 important before the donors can be used in therapeutic applications.
           In accordance with one aspect of the disclosure, it has been found that cyclodextrins
   can be used to dramatically enhance the stability and/or solubility of N-hydroxysulfonamide
   type nitroxyl donors. Specifically, the cyclodextrins can mitigate or eliminate the formation of
   nitroxyl and sulfinic acid byproducts (e.g., compounds of formula (100) and (101)) in a
10 pharmaceutical composition during storage prior to administration to a patient. The presence
   of the cyclodextrin also allows some of the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors to be
   stabilized at a higher pH (e.g. pH of between 5 and 6), which, for reasons discussed in Section
   4.4.2, results in the production of a composition with an improved toxicological profile.
           In various embodiments, the at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient
15 comprises at least one species of cyclodextrin. In a particular embodiment, the cyclodextrin is
   a cyclic structure having glucose units linked by a(1-4) linkages. In another embodiment, the
   cyclodextrin is a p-cyclodextrin, i.e., a cyclic structure having seven glucose units linked by
   a(1-4) linkages. In another embodiment, the cyclodextrin is chemically modified by
   derivatizing any combination of the three available hydroxyl groups on each glucopyranose
20 unit thereof.
           In some embodiments where the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises at
   least one species of cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo(CI-C6)alkyl ether derivative of
   p-cyclodextrin.    In certain of these embodiments, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo(C1-C6)alkyl ether
                                                     40

   derivative of p-cyclodextrin having from about six to about seven sulfo(C1-C6)alkyl ether
   groups per cyclodextrin molecule. In various embodiments, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo(Ci
   C6)alkyl ether derivative of p-cyclodextrin having an average of from about six to about seven
   sulfo(C1-C6)alkyl ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule. In another such embodiment, the
 5 cyclodextrin is a sulfo(C1-C6)alkyl ether derivative of p-cyclodextrin having six or seven
   sulfo(C1-C6)alkyl ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule.
            In a particular series of embodiments where the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient
   comprises at least one species of cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl ether
   derivative of P-cyclodextrin. In one such embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl
10 ether derivative of   p-cyclodextrin  having from about six to about seven sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl ether
   groups per cyclodextrin molecule. In various such embodiments, the cyclodextrin is a
   sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl ether derivative of    p-cyclodextrin having an average of from about six to
   about seven sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule. In another such
   embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl ether derivative of    p-cyclodextrin  having
15 six or seven sulfo(C3-C5)alkyl ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule.
            In particular embodiments where the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises
   at least one species of cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin is a sulfobutyl ether derivative of
   p-cyclodextrin.    In certain of these embodiments, the cyclodextrin is a sulfobutyl ether
   derivative of p-cyclodextrin having from about six to about seven sulfobutyl ether groups per
20 cyclodextrin molecule. In another such embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a sulfobutyl ether
   derivative of p-cyclodextrin having an average of from about six to about seven sulfobutyl
   ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule. In another such embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a
   sulfobutyl ether derivative of p-cyclodextrin having six or seven sulfobutyl ether groups per
   cyclodextrin molecule.
25          In certain embodiments where the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises at
   least one species of cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo-n-butyl ether derivative of
   P-cyclodextrin. In one such embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo-n-butyl ether derivative of
   P-cyclodextrin having from about six to about seven sulfo-n-butyl ether groups per
   cyclodextrin molecule. In another such embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a sulfo-n-butyl ether
                                                     41

   derivative of p-cyclodextrin having an average of from about six to about seven sulfo-n-butyl
   ether groups per cyclodextrin molecule. In another such embodiment, the cyclodextrin is a
   sulfo-n-butyl ether derivative of f3-cyclodextrin having six or seven sulfo-n-butyl ether groups
   per cyclodextrin molecule.
 5         In various particular embodiments where the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient
   comprises at least one species of cyclodextrin, the cyclodextrin comprises a plurality of
   negative charges at physiologically compatible pH values, e.g., at a pH of from about 5.0 to
   about 6.8 in some embodiments, from about 5.5 to about 6.5 in some embodiments, from
   about 5.7 to about 6.3 in some embodiments, from about 5.8 to about 6.2 in some
10 embodiments, from about 5.9 to about 6.1 in some embodiments, and about 6.0 in particular
   embodiments. In one such embodiment, the at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient
   comprises CAPTISOL* cyclodextrin (Ligand Pharmaceuticals, La Jolla, CA).
           The molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1. In certain
15 embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.1:1 to about 1:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
20 cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be in from about 0.7:1 to about 1:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.1:1 to about 0.8:1. In certain
25 embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.1:1 to about 0.6:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.2:1 to about 1:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
30 cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.2:1 to about 0.8:1. In certain
                                                    42

   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.4:1 to about 0.8:1. In certain
   embodiments, the molar ratio between the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the
   cyclodextrin present in the composition can be from about 0.4:1 to about 0.6:1. In particular
 5 embodiments, the cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*. For the purposes of calculating molar
   amounts, it will be assumed that CAPTISOL* has an average molecular weight (MW) of 2163
   g/mol.
            In embodiments where a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor is administered
   parenterally (e.g., intravenously) as an aqueous composition, the cyclodextrin can be present in
10 the composition within the range of from about 0.001% cyclodextrin (w/v) to about 10%
   cyclodextrin (w/v). In some embodiments, the cyclodextrin can be present in the composition
   within the range of from about 0.005% cyclodextrin (w/v) to about 8% cyclodextrin (w/v). In
   certain embodiments, the cyclodextrin can be present in the composition within the range of
   from about 0.010% cyclodextrin (w/v) to about 6% cyclodextrin (w/v). In certain
15 embodiments, the cyclodextrin can be present in the composition within the range of from
   about 0.5% cyclodextrin (w/v) to about 8% cyclodextrin (w/v). In certain embodiments, the
   cyclodextrin can be present in the composition within the range of from about 1% cyclodextrin
   (w/v) to about 8% cyclodextrin (w/v). In certain embodiments, the cyclodextrin can be present
   in the composition within the range of from about 2% cyclodextrin (w/v) to about 8%
20 cyclodextrin (w/v). In certain embodiments, the cyclodextrin can be present in the
   composition within the range of from about 2% cyclodextrin (w/v) to about 6% cyclodextrin
   (w/v). In particular embodiments, the cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*.
            As described in Example 7, compositions comprising a nitroxyl donor and a
   cyclodextrin can be prepared as a concentrate at a particular pH. Such a concentrate can be
25 prepared by adding the nitroxyl donor to an aqueous solution of the cyclodextrin at a particular
   pH (e.g., pH of 4). The concentrate can then be diluted into an appropriate aqueous solution
   (e.g., buffer) and administered to a patient. Alternatively, the concentrate comprising the
   nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin can be lyophilized to form a powder. The lyophilized
   powder can be reconstituted in the appropriate aqueous vehicle prior to administration.
                                                   43

           4.5      Methods of Using the Compounds and Pharmaceutical Compositions of
                    the Disclosure
           In one aspect, the disclosure provides a method of increasing in vivo nitroxyl levels,
   comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a compound or a
 5 pharmaceutical composition as disclosed herein. In various embodiments, the patient has, is
   suspected of having, or is at risk of having or developing a condition that is responsive to
   nitroxyl therapy.
           In particular embodiments, the disclosure provides a method of treating, preventing or
   delaying the onset and/or development of a condition, comprising administering to a patient
10 (including a patient identified as in need of such treatment, prevention or delay) an effective
   amount of a compound or a pharmaceutical composition as disclosed herein. Identifying a
   patient in need thereof can be in the judgment of a physician, clinical staff, emergency
   response personnel or other health care professional and can be subjective (e.g., opinion) or
   objective (e.g., measurable by a test or diagnostic method).
15         Particular conditions embraced by the methods disclosed herein include, without
   limitation, cardiovascular diseases, ischemia/reperfusion injury, and pulmonary hypertension
   (PH).
                    4.5.1  Cardiovascular Diseases
           In one embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of treating a cardiovascular
20 disease, comprising administering an effective amount of a compound or a pharmaceutical
   composition as disclosed herein to a patient in need thereof.
           Examples of cardiovascular diseases and symptoms that can usefully be treated with
   the compounds and compositions disclosed herein include cardiovascular diseases that are
   responsive to nitroxyl therapy, coronary obstructions, coronary artery disease (CAD), angina,
25 heart attack, myocardial infarction, high blood pressure, ischemic cardiomyopathy and
   infarction, pulmonary congestion, pulmonary edema, cardiac fibrosis, valvular heart disease,
   pericardial disease, circulatory congestive states, peripheral edema, ascites, Chagas' disease,
   ventricular hypertrophy, heart valve disease, heart failure, diastolic heart failure, systolic heart
                                                    44

   failure, congestive heart failure, acute congestive heart failure, acute decompensated heart
   failure, and cardiac hypertrophy.
                             4.5.1.1         Heart Failure
            The nitroxyl donating compositions of the disclosure can be used to treat patients
 5 suffering from heart failure. The heart failure can be of any type or form, including any of the
   heart failures disclosed herein. Nonlimiting examples of heart failure include early stage heart
   failure, Class I, II, III and IV heart failure, acute heart failure, congestive heart failure (CHF)
   and acute congestive heart failure. In one embodiment, the compounds and compositions of
   the disclosure can be used to treat acute decompensated heart failure.
10          In embodiments where the nitroxyl donating compositions of the disclosure are used to
   treat patients suffering from heart failure, another active agent that treats heart failure can also
   be administered. In one such embodiment, the nitroxyl donor can be administered in
   conjunction with a positive inotrope such as a beta-agonist. Examples of beta-agonists
   include, without limitation, dopamine, dobutamine, isoproterenol, analogs of such compounds
15 and derivatives of such compounds. In another embodiment, nitroxyl donor can be
   administered in conjunction with a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist (also referred to herein
   as beta-antagonist or beta-blocker). Examples of beta-antagonists include, without limitation,
   propranolol, metoprolol, bisoprolol, bucindolol, and carvedilol.
            As described in Example 3, a heart failure model was used to evaluate the
20 hemodynamic profiles of compositions comprising several of the longer half-life nitroxyl
   donors. As shown in FIG. 1, which are discussed in Example 3, the compositions of the
   disclosure produced significant enhancement of inotropy and lusitropy, and modest reductions
   in blood pressure without tachycardia. Moreover, the onset of significant hemodynamic
   effects was rapid (e.g., within 1 hour) and for all compositions near-maximal effect was
25 achieved within 2 hours.
            While the hemodynamic activity of compositions of the disclosure are similar to
   compositions comprising the nitroxyl donor CXL-1020 when administered intravenously, the
   toxicological profile of the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors, which have longer
   half-lives than CXL-1020, is significantly improved as compared to compositions comprising
                                                      45

   CXL-1020 (see Examples 5 and 6 and FIGS. 2-4). For example, the "No Observed Adverse
   Effect Levels" (NOAEL) of nitroxyl donors useful in compositions of the disclosure were
   substantially higher than the NOAEL for CXL- 1020 (see Example 5 for description of
   NOAEL determination). In particular, the compound of formula (1) has the most favorable
 5 toxicological profile of all N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donors tested thus far and
   shows no adverse effects on clinical markers of inflammation when administered
   intravenously at concentrations at least as high as 30 pg/kg/min (FIG. 2). In contrast, CXL
   1020 begins to show undesirable side effects at concentrations as low as 0.3 pg/kg/min.
                            4.5.1.2        Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury
10         In another embodiment, the disclosed subject matter provides a method of treating,
   preventing or delaying the onset and/or development of ischemia/reperfusion injury,
   comprising administering an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition
   as disclosed herein to a subject in need thereof.
           In a particular embodiment, the method is for preventing ischemia/reperfusion injury.
15 In a particular embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered
   prior to the onset of ischemia. In a particular embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of
   the disclosure is administered prior to procedures in which myocardial ischemia can occur, for
   example an angioplasty or surgery, such as a coronary artery bypass graft surgery. In a
   particular embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered after
20 ischemia but before reperfusion. In a particular embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of
   the disclosure is administered after ischemia and reperfusion.
           In a another embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be
   administered to a patient who is at risk for an ischemic event. In a particular embodiment, a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered to a patient at risk for a future
25 ischemic event, but who has no present evidence of ischemia. The determination of whether a
   patient is at risk for an ischemic event can be performed by any method known in the art, such
   as by examining the patient or the patient's medical history. In a particular embodiment, the
   patient has had a prior ischemic event. Thus, the patient can be at risk of a first or subsequent
   ischemic event. Examples of patients at risk for an ischemic event include patients with
                                                    46

   known hypercholesterolemia, EKG changes associated with ischemia (e.g., peaked or inverted
   T-waves or ST segment elevations or depression in an appropriate clinical context), abnormal
   EKG not associated with active ischemia, elevated CKMB, clinical evidence of ischemia (e.g.,
   crushing sub-sternal chest pain or arm pain, shortness of breath and/or diaphoresis), prior
 5 history of myocardial infarction, elevated serum cholesterol, sedentary lifestyle, angiographic
   evidence of partial coronary artery obstruction, echocardiographic evidence of myocardial
   damage, or any other evidence of a risk for a future ischemic event. Examples of ischemic
   events include, without limitation, myocardial infarction (MI) and neurovascular ischemia,
   such as a cerebrovascular accident (CVA).
10         In another embodiment, the subject of treatment is an organ that is to be transplanted.
   In a particular embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be
   administered prior to reperfusion of the organ in a transplant recipient. In a particular
   embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be administered prior to
   removal of the organ from the donor, for example through the perfusion cannulas used in the
15 organ removal process. If the organ donor is a live donor, for example a kidney donor, the
   compounds or pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure can be administered to the organ
   donor. In a particular embodiment, the compounds or pharmaceutical compositions of the
   disclosure are administered by storing the organ in a solution comprising the compound or
   pharmaceutical composition. For example, a compound or pharmaceutical composition of the
20 disclosure can be included in the organ preservation solution, such as the University of
   Wisconsin "UW" solution, which is a solution comprising hydroxyethyl starch substantially
   free of ethylene glycol, ethylene chlorohydrin and acetone (see U.S. Pat. No. 4,798,824). In a
   particular embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure that is administered is
   such that ischemia/reperfusion injury to the tissues of the organ is reduced upon reperfusion in
25 the recipient of transplanted organ. In a particular embodiment, the method reduces tissue
   necrosis (the size of infarct) in at-risk tissues.
           Ischemia/reperfusion injury can damage tissues other than those of the myocardium
   and the disclosed subject matter embraces methods of treating or preventing such damage. In
   various embodiments, the ischemia/reperfusion injury is non-myocardial. In particular
30 embodiments, the method reduces injury from ischemia/reperfusion in the tissue of the brain,
                                                      47

   liver, gut, kidney, bowel, or any part of the body other than the myocardium. In another
   embodiment, the patient is at risk for such injury. Selecting a person at risk for non
   myocardial ischemia could include a determination of the indicators used to assess risk for
   myocardial ischemia. However, other factors can indicate a risk for ischemia/reperfusion in
 5 other tissues. For example, surgery patients often experience surgery related ischemia. Thus,
   patients scheduled for surgery could be considered at risk for an ischemic event. The
   following risk factors for stroke (or a subset of these risk factors) could demonstrate a patient's
   risk for ischemia of brain tissue: hypertension, cigarette smoking, carotid artery stenosis,
   physical inactivity, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, transient ischemic attack, atrial
10 fibrillation, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, past myocardial infarction, left
   ventricular dysfunction with mural thrombus, and mitral stenosis. Ingall, Postgrad.Med.
   107(6):34-50 (2000). Further, complications of untreated infectious diarrhea in the elderly can
   include myocardial, renal, cerebrovascular and intestinal ischemia. Slotwiner-Nie et al.,
   Gastroenterol.Clin. N. Amer. 30(3):625-635 (2001). Alternatively, patients could be selected
15 based on risk factors for ischemic bowel, kidney and/or liver disease. For example, treatment
   would be initiated in elderly patients at risk of hypotensive episodes (such as surgical blood
   loss). Thus, patients presenting with such an indication would be considered at risk for an
   ischemic event. In another embodiment, the patient has any one or more of the conditions
   listed herein, such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Other conditions that can result in
20 ischemia, such as cerebral arteriovenous malformation, could demonstrate a patient's risk for
   an ischemic event.
                    4.5.2  Pulmonary Hypertension
            In another embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be used to
   prevent or delay the onset and/or development of pulmonary hypertension. In one such
25 embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be used to prevent or delay
   the onset and/or development of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
            In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of reducing mean pulmonary
   arterial pressure (MPAP), comprising administering an effective amount of a compound or a
   pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein to a patient in need thereof. In another
30 embodiment, the MPAP is reduced by up to about 50%. In another embodiment, the MPAP is
                                                    48

   reduced by up to about 25%. In another embodiment, the MPAP is reduced by up to about
   20%. In another embodiment, the MPAP is reduced by up to about 15%. In another
   embodiment, the MPAP is reduced by up to 10%. In another embodiment, the MPAP is
   reduced by up to about 5%. In another embodiment, the MPAP is reduced to be from about 12
 5 mmHg to about 16 mmHg. In another embodiment, the MPAP is reduced to be about 15
   mmHg.
           4.6      Administration Modes, Regimens and Dose Levels
           The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure can be
   administered via parenteral (e.g., subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous or intradermal)
10 administration. In certain embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful
   in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered by intravenous infusion. In
   other embodiments, the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure can be
   administered by oral administration.
           When a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the present disclosure
15 is administered, dosages are expressed based on the amount of active pharmaceutical
   ingredient, i.e., the amount of nitroxyl donor compound(s) of the disclosure present in the
   pharmaceutical composition.
           For intravenous administration, the dose can usefully be expressed per unit time, either
   as a fixed amount per unit time or as a weight-based amount per unit time.
20         In various embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered intravenously in an amount of at
   least about 0.1 pg/kg/min, at least about 0.2 pg/kg/min, at least about 0.3 pg/kg/min, at least
   about 0.4 pg/kg/min, at least about 0.5 pg/kg/min, at least about 1 pg/kg/min, at least about 2.5
   pg/kg/min, at least about 5 pg/kg/min, at least about 7.5 pg/kg/min, at least about 10
25 pg/kg/min, at least about 11 pg/kg/min, at least about 12 ptg/kg/min, at least about 13
    tg/kg/min, at least about 14 pg/kg/min, at least about 15 pg/kg/min, at least about 16
   pg/kg/min, at least about 17 gg/kg/min, at least about 18 pg/kg/nin, at least about 19
   pg/kg/min, at least about 20 pg/kg/nin, at least about 21 ptg/kg/min, at least about 22
    tg/kg/min, at least about 23 pg/kg/min, at least about 24 ptg/kg/nin, at least about 25
                                                   49

   ptg/kg/min, at least about 26 pg/kg/min, at least about 27 pLg/kg/min, at least about 28
   pg/kg/min, at least about 29 Vg/kg/min, at least about 30 tg/kg/min, at least about 31
   ptg/kg/min, at least about 32 pg/kg/min, at least about 33 pig/kg/min, at least about 34
   pg/kg/min, at least about 35 pg/kg/min, at least about 36 ptg/kg/min, at least about 37
 5 pig/kg/min, at least about 38 jig/kg/min, at least about 39 pLg/kg/min, or at least about 40
   pg/kg/min.
           In various embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered intravenously in an amount of no
   more than about 100 pig/kg/min, no more than about 90 pig/kg/min, no more than about 80
10 jg/kg/min, no more than about 70 pig/kg/min, no more than about 60 pig/kg/min, no more than
   about 50 pig/kg/min, no more than about 49 pLg/kg/min, no more than about 48 pig/kg/min, no
   more than about 47 pig/kg/min, no more than about 46 pg/kg/min, no more than about 45
   jig/kg/min, no more than about 44 pg/kg/min, no more than about 43 pg/kg/min, no more than
   about 42 pg/kg/min, no more than about 41 pig/kg/min, no more than about 40 pg/kg/min, no
15 more than about 39 pg/kg/min, no more than about 38 pg/kg/min, no more than about 37
   pg/g/kmin, no more than about 36 pg/kg/min, no more than about 35 pg/kg/min, no more than
   about 34 pg/kg/min, no more than about 33 jig/kg/min, no more than about 32 pg/kg/min, no
   more than about 31 pg/kg/min, or no more than about 30 pg/kg/min
           In some embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
20 pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered intravenously in an amount
   ranging from about 0.1 pg/kg/min to about 100 pig/kg/min, about 1 pg/kg/min to about 100
   pig/kg/min, about 2.5 pig/kg/min to about 100 pg/kg/min, about 5 pg/kg/min to about 100
   pg/kg/min, about 10 pig/kg/min to about 100 pg/kg/min, about 1.0 pg/kg/min to about 80
    ig/kg/min, from about 10.0 pg/kg/min to about 70 pig/kg/min, from about 20 pig/kg/min to
25 about 60 pg/kg/min, from about 15 pg/kg/min to about 50 pg/kg/min, from about 0.01
   jig/kg/min to about 1.0 pg/kg/min, from about 0.01 pg/kg/min to about 10 pg/kg/min, from
   about 0.1 pg/kg/min to about 1.0 pig/kg/min, from about 0.1 pg/kg/min to about 10 pg/kg/min,
   from about 1.0 pg/kg/min to about 5 pig/kg/min, from about 70 pg/kg/min to about 100
   pig/kg/min, or from about 80 jig/kg/min to about 90 pg/kg/min.
                                                    50

           In particular embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered intravenously in an amount
   ranging from about 10 pg/kg/min to about 50 pg/kg/min, about 20 pig/kg/min to about 40
   pg/kg/nin, about 25 tg/kg/min to about 35 ptg/kg/min, or about 30 pg/kg/min to about 40
 5 ptg/kg/min. In particular embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in
   a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered intravenously in an amount of
   from about 20 pg/kg/min to about 30 pg/kg/min.
           In a variety of embodiments, including various oral administration embodiments, the
   compounds or pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure are administered according to a
10 weight-based daily dosing regimen, either as a single daily dose (QD) or in multiple divided
   doses administered, e.g., twice a day (BID), three times a day (TID), or four times a day
   (QID).
           In certain embodiments, the nitroxyl donating N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
   donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered in a dose of at
15 least about 0.5 mg/kg/d, at least about 0.75 mg/kg/d, at least about 1.0 mg/kg/d, at least about
   1.5 mg/kg/d, at least about 2 mg/kg/d, at least about 2.5 mg/kg/d, at least about 3 mg/kg/d, at
   least about 4 mg/kg/d, at least about 5 mg/kg/d, at least about 7.5 mg/kg/d, at least about 10
   mg/kg/d, at least about 12.5 mg/kg/d, at least about 15 mg/kg/d, at least about 17.5 mg/kg/d, at
   least about 20 mg/kg/d, at least about 25 mg/kg/d, at least about 30 mg/kg/d, at least about 35
20 mg/kg/d, at least about 40 mg/kg/d, at least about 45 mg/kg/d, at least about 50 mg/kg/d, at
   least about 60 mg/kg/d, at least about 70 mg/kg/d, at least about 80 mg/kg/d, at least about 90
   mg/kg/d, or at least about 100 mg/kg/d.
           In certain embodiments, the nitroxyl donating N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl
   donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered at a dose of no
25 more than about 100 mg/kg/d, no more than about 100 mg/kg/d, no more than about 90
   mg/kg/d, no more than about 80 mg/kg/d, no more than about 80 mg/kg/d, no more than about
   75 mg/kg/d, no more than about 70 mg/kg/d, no more than about 60 mg/kg/d, no more than
   about 50 mg/kg/d, no more than about 45 mg/kg/d, no more than about 40 mg/kg/d, no more
   than about 35 mg/kg/d, no more than about 30 mg/kg/d.
                                                   51

           In a variety of embodiments, the dose is from about 0.001 mg/kg/d to about 10,000
   mg/kg/d. In certain embodiments, the dose is from about 0.01 mg/kg/d to about 1,000
   mg/kg/d. In certain embodiments, the dose is from about 0.01 mg/kg/d to about 100 mg/kg/d.
   In certain embodiments, the dose is from about 0.01 mg/kg/d to about 10 mg/kg/d. In certain
 5 embodiments, the dose is from about 0.1 mg/kg/d to about 1 mg/kg/d. In certain
   embodiments, the dose is less than about 1 g/kg/d.
           In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered in a dose range in which the low
   end of the range is any amount from about 0.1 mg/kg/day to about 90 mg/kg/day and the high
10 end of the range is any amount from about 1 mg/kg/day to about 100 mg/kg/day (e.g., from
   about 0.5 mg/kg/day to about 2 mg/kg/day in one series of embodiments and from about 5
   mg/kg/day to about 20 mg/kg/day in another series of embodiment).
           In particular embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered in a dose range of about 3 to
15 about 30 mg/kg, administered from once a day (QD) to three times a day (TID).
           In certain embodiments, compounds or pharmaceutical compositions of the disclosure
   are administered according to a flat (i.e., non-weight-based) dosing regimen, either as a single
   daily dose (QD) or in multiple divided doses administered, e.g., twice a day (BID), three times
   a day (TID), or four times a day (QID).
20         In various embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered at a dose of at least about 0.01
   grams/day (g/d), at least about 0.05 g/d, at least about 0.1 g/d, at least about 0.5 g/d, at least
   about 1 g/d, at least about 1.5 g/d, at least about 2.0 g/d, at least about 2.5 g/d, at least about
   3.0 g/d, or at least about 3.5 g/d.
25         In various embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered at a dose of no more than about 5
   g/d, no more than about 4.5 g/d, no more than about 4 g/d, no more than about 3.5 g/d, no
   more than about 3 g/d, no more than about 2.5 g/d, or no more than about 2 g/d.
                                                     52

           In certain embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered in a dose of about 0.01 grams per
   day to about 4.0 grams per day. In certain embodiments, a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
   nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be administered at
 5 a dose in which the low end of the range is any amount from about 0.1 mg/day to about 400
   mg/day and the high end of the range is any amount from about 1 mg/day to about 4000
   mg/day. In certain embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a
   pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered in a dose of about 5 mg/day to
   about 100 mg/day. In various embodiments, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor
10 useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure is administered at a dose of from
   about 150 mg/day to about 500 mg/day.
           The dosing interval for parenteral or oral administration can be adjusted according to
   the needs of the patient. For longer intervals between administrations, extended release or
   depot formulations can be used.
15         A N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition
   of the disclosure as disclosed herein can be administered prior to, at substantially the same
   time with, or after administration of an additional therapeutic agent. The administration
   regimen can include pretreatment and/or co-administration with the additional therapeutic
   agent. In such case, the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical
20 composition of the disclosure and the additional therapeutic agent can be administered
   simultaneously, separately, or sequentially.
           Examples of administration regimens include without limitation: administration of each
   compound, pharmaceutical composition or therapeutic agent in a sequential manner; and co
   administration of each compound, pharmaceutical composition or therapeutic agent in a
25 substantially simultaneous manner (e.g., as in a single unit dosage form) or in multiple,
   separate unit dosage forms for each compound, pharmaceutical composition or therapeutic
   agent.
           It will be appreciated by those in the art that the "effective amount" or "dose" ("dose
   level") will depend on various factors such as the particular administration mode,
                                                    53

   administration regimen, compound, and pharmaceutical composition selected, as well as the
   particular condition and patient being treated. For example, the appropriate dose level can
   vary depending upon the activity, rate of excretion and potential for toxicity of the specific N
   hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor useful in a pharmaceutical composition of the
 5 disclosure employed; the age, body weight, general health, gender and diet of the patient being
   treated; the frequency of administration; the other therapeutic agent(s) being co-administered;
   and the type and severity of the condition.
           4.7      Kits Comprising the Compounds or Pharmaceutical Compositions
           The disclosure provides kits comprising a compound or a pharmaceutical composition
10 disclosed herein. In a particular embodiment, the kit comprises a compound or a
   pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein, each in dry form, and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable liquid diluent.
           Either a compound in dry form or a pharmaceutical composition in dry form contains
   about 2.0% or less water by weight, about 1.5% or less water by weight, about 1.0% or less
15 water by weight, about 0.5% or less water by weight, about 0.3% or less water by weight,
   about 0.2% or less water by weight, about 0. 1% or less water by weight, about 0.05% or less
   water by weight, about 0.03% or less water by weight, or about 0.01% or less water by weight.
           Pharmaceutically acceptable liquid diluents are known in the art and include but are not
   limited to sterile water, saline solutions, aqueous dextrose, glycerol, glycerol solutions, and the
20 like. Other examples of suitable liquid diluents are disclosed by Nairn, "Solutions, Emulsions,
   Suspensions and Extracts," pp. 721-752 in Gennaro, Ed., Remington: The Science and
   PracticeofPharmacy,20th Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2000).
           In one embodiment, the kit further comprises instructions for using the compound or
   pharmaceutical composition. The instructions can be in any appropriate form, such as written
25 or electronic form. In another embodiment, the instructions can be written instructions. In
   another embodiment, the instructions are contained in an electronic storage medium (e.g.,
   magnetic diskette or optical disk). In another embodiment, the instructions include
   information as to the compound or pharmaceutical composition and the manner of
   administering the compound or pharmaceutical composition to a patient. In another
                                                    54

   embodiment, the instructions relate to a method of use disclosed herein (e.g., treating,
   preventing and/or delaying onset and/or development of a condition selected from
   cardiovascular diseases, ischemia/reperfusion injury, pulmonary hypertension and other
   conditions responsive to nitroxyl therapy).
 5         In another embodiment, the kit further comprises suitable packaging. Where the kit
   comprises more than one compound or pharmaceutical composition, the compounds or
   pharmaceutical compositions can be packaged patiently in separate containers, or combined in
   one container when cross-reactivity and shelf life permit.
   5.      EXAMPLES
10         The following examples are presented for illustrative purposes and should not serve to
   limit the scope of the disclosed subject matter.
           5.1      Example 1: HNO Production as Determined via N20 Quantification
           Nitrous oxide (N20) is produced via the dimerization and dehydration of HNO, and is
   the most common marker for nitroxyl production (Fukuto et al., Chem. Res. Toxicol. 18:790
15 801 (2005)). Nitroxyl, however, can also be partially quenched by oxygen to provide a
   product that does not produce N20 (see Mincione et al., J Enzyme Inhibition 13:267-284
   (1998); and Scozzafava et al., J Med. Chem. 43:3677-3687 (2000)). Using either nitrous
   oxide gas or Angeli's salt (AS) as a standard, the relative amounts of N20 released from
   compounds of the disclosure was examined via gas chromatography (GC) headspace analysis.
20         A procedure for determining the relative amounts of N20 released from compounds of
   the disclosure is as follows. GC was performed on an Agilent gas chromatograph equipped
   with a split injector (10:1 splitting), microelectron capture detector, and a HP-MOLSIV 30 m x
   0.32 mm x 25 pm molecular sieve capillary column. Helium was used as the carrier (4
   mL/min) gas and nitrogen was used as the make-up (20 mL/min) gas. The injector oven and
25 the detector oven were kept at 200'C and 325'C, respectively. All nitrous oxide analyses were
   performed with the column oven held at a constant temperature of 200'C.
           All gas injections were made using an automated headspace analyzer. Vial
   pressurization was 15 psi. The analyzer's sample oven, sampling valve, and transfer line were
                                                     55

   kept at 40'C, 45'C, and 50'C, respectively. The oven stabilization, vial pressurization, loop
   fill, loop equilibration, and sample injection times were 1.00 min., 0.20 min., 0.20 min., 0.05
   min., and 1.00 min., respectively.
            All determinations used a batch of nominal 20 mL headspace vials with volumes pre
 5 measured for sample uniformity (actual vial volume varied by < 2.0% relative standard
   deviation (n=6)). The average vial volume for the batch was determined from six randomly
   selected vials by calculating the weight difference between the capped and sealed empty (i.e.,
   air-filled) vial and the capped and sealed deionized water-filled vial using the known density
   of deionized water, then averaging. Blanks were prepared by sealing and capping two vials
10 then purging each for 20 seconds with a gentle argon stream. Nitroxyl standards were
   prepared by sealing and capping four vials then purging each for 1 minute with a gentle
   stream, from a gas cylinder, of a 3000 ppm nitroxyl standard.
            CXL- 1020 (N-hydroxy-2-methanesulfonylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide) "standards" were
   prepared by, in duplicate, accurately weighing 100.5 mg of CXL-1020 and adding it to each 4
15 mL vial. Using an auto pipette, 1 mL of argon-purged anhydrous DMF (Sigma-Aldrich) was
   added to each 4 mL vial to form a CXL- 1020 stock solution for each sample and the vials were
   capped and shaken and/or sonicated to insure complete dissolution upon visual observation.
   Using an auto pipette, 20 mL vials were charged with 5 mL of PBS (purged for at least 30 min.
   with argon prior to use), purged with argon for at least 20 sec., and sealed with a rubber
20 septum. Using a 50 pL syringe, 50 pL of the CXL-1020 stock solution was injected into each
   20 mL vial containing the PBS.
            Samples were prepared as follows. In duplicate, 181 mg of each sample was
   accurately weighed into each 4 mL vial. Using an auto pipette, 1 mL of argon-purged
   anhydrous DMF was added to each 4 mL vial to form a sample stock solution for each sample
25 and the vials were capped and shaken and/or sonicated to insure complete sample dissolution
   upon visual observation. Using an auto pipette, 20 mL vials were charged with 5 mL of PBS
   (purged for at least 30 min. with argon prior to use), purged with argon for at least 20 sec., and
   sealed with a rubber septum. The vials were equilibrated for at least 10 min. at 37 0 C in a dry
   block heater. Thereafter, using a 50 pL syringe, 50 pL of a sample stock solution was injected
                                                    56

   into each 20 mL vial containing the PBS. The vials were then held at 37'C in the dry block
   heater for a time period such that the sum of the time spent in the dry block heater plus the
   time spent in the automated headspace analyzer oven before sample injection equaled the
   desired incubation time.
 5          The sequence for auto-injection was as follows: blank replicate 1, blank replicate 2,
   N20 standard replicate 1, N20 standard replicate 2, CXL-1020 standard replicate 1, CXL-1020
   standard replicate 2, sample 1 replicate 1, sample 1 replicate 2, sample 2 replicate 1, sample 2
   replicate 2, etc., concluding with N20 standard replicate 3, and N20 standard replicate 4. An
   EXCEL spreadsheet is used for inputting data thus determined and calculating, for each
10 sample, the relative N20 yield in percent for each incubation time. The results obtained are
   provided in Table 3. "-" indicates that results were not determined.
                             Table 3. Results of N2 0 Headspace Analysis
                                                                      Relative N20    Relative N20
    Compound                          Compound                            Yield            Yield
        No.                                                            (90 minutes     (360 minutes
                                                                       incubation)      incubation)
         1             N-Hydroxy-5-methylfuran-2-sulfonamide               52%
         2            N-Hydroxy-3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-                82%              94%
                                     sulfonamide
         3               N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-1,2-oxazole-4-                 45%              56%
                                     sulfonamide
         4             N-Hydroxy- 1-benzofuran-7 sulfonamide               64%
         5               4-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-                 48%              72%
                             yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
         6             N-Hydroxy-1-benzofuran-3-sulfonamide                85%
         7         N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-2-(trifluoromethyl)furan-            51%
                                    3-sulfonamide
         8            N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-3-              77%
                                     sulfonamide
         9          1-Acetyl-5-bromo-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-             53%              71%
                                                   57

                                                        Relative N20 Relative N20
Compound                    Compound                        Yield        Yield
  No.                                                    (90 minutes (360 minutes
                                                         incubation)  incubation)
                       indole-6-sulfonamide
   10                 2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-                  91%
             (hydroxymethyl)benzene- 1-sulfonamide
   1     1-Acetyl-5 -chloro-N-hydroxy-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-      55%         81%
                       indole-6-sulfonamide
   12          4,5-Dichloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-            29%
                           sulfonamide
   13        N-Hydroxy-6-methoxy- 1-benzofuran-2-            86%
                           sulfonamide
   14       2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-4-methylbenzene-1-            48%         70%
                           sulfonamide
   15         N-Hydroxy-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-5-            59%         71%
                           sulfonamide
   16      N-Hydroxy-4-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-           86%
                           sulfonamide
   17      5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-2-methoxybenzene-1-             53%         77%
                           sulfonamide
   18     4-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,5 -dimethylbenzene- 1-        56%         73%
                           sulfonamide
   19    NN-Diethyl-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)thiophene-2-         77%
                           carboxamide
   20        5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-methylbenzene-1-           90%
                           sulfonamide
   21              N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4-               73.5%
                carbonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide
   22          5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-             85%
                   yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
   24         N-Hydroxy-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4-            60%         69%
                           sulfonamide
   25    N-Hydroxy-2-methoxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide            7%         28%
   26           N-Hydroxypyridine-3-sulfonamide             73.5%
   27        N-Hydroxy-3,5-dimethyl- 1,2-oxazole-4-         35.5%        66%
                           sulfonamide
   28              N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4-                74%
                carbonyl)thiophene-3-sulfonamide
   30         5-Chloro-N-hydroxy- 1,3-dimethyl- 1H-          27%
                     pyrazole-4-sulfonamide
   32           N-Hydroxypyridine-2-sulfonamide              71%
   33      3-Bromo-N-hydroxypyridine-2-sulfonamide          85.5%
   34       4-N-Hydroxythiophene-2,4-disulfonamide           100%
   35              N-Hydroxy-4-(morpholine-4-                100%
                carbonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide
                                         58

                                                        Relative N20 Relative N20
Compound                     Compound                       Yield        Yield
  No.                                                    (90 minutes (360 minutes
                                                         incubation)  incubation)
   36     N-Hydroxy-5-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2-oxazol-       51%
                  3-yl]thiophene-2-sulfonamide
   37      6-Chloro-N-hydroxy-7H,7aH-imidazo[2,1-            51%
                  b][1,3]thiazole-5-sulfonamide
   38      N-Hydroxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-         25%
                            sulfonamide
   39       4-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-methylbenzene-1-            60%         75%
                            sulfonamide
   40      N-Hydroxy-5-(1,3-oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-         50%
                            sulfonamide
   41         N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylthiophene-3-             13%
                            sulfonamide
   42           Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-4-               91%
                 methylthiophene-2-carboxylate
   43     5-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-hydroxythiophene-2-          82%
                            sulfonamide
   44      N-Hydroxy-5 -(1,2-oxazol-3-yl)thiophene-2-        81%
                            sulfonamide
   45     5-Bromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide           76%
   46         3,5-Dibromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-              95%
                            sulfonamide
   47       5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-4-nitrothiophene-2-           58%         70%
                            sulfonamide
   48     3-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide          82%
   49         N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylbenzene-1-               42%         68%
                            sulfonamide
   50     5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole-4-         31%
                            sulfonamide
   51     4-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-hydroxythiophene-2-          96%
                            sulfonamide
   52         N-Hydroxy-3,4-dimethoxybenzene- 1-             11%
                            sulfonamide
   53      N-Hydroxy-2,3,5,6-tetramethylbenzene- 1-          70%
                            sulfonamide
   54    N-Hydroxy-3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene- 1-       2%
                            sulfonamide
   55    Methyl 4-chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoate        87%
   56       2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-5-methylbenzene-1-            72%         78%
                            sulfonamide
                    2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-[4
   58    (hydroxyimino)piperidine- 1-carbonyl]benzene-       92%
                           S1-sulfonamide
                                          59

                                                         Relative N20 Relative N20
Compound                     Compound                        Yield        Yield
  No.                                                     (90 minutes (360 minutes
                                                          incubation)  incubation)
   59          4-Chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(2-            82%
                methoxyethyl)-N-methylbenzamide
   60     2-Hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoic acid           9%
   61        N-Hydroxy-4-methyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-            11%
                    benzoxazine-7-sulfonamide
   62    2-Chloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide         28%
   64       4-Chloro-2-hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-          36%
                     N,N-dimethylbenzamide
   65    5 -Chloro-N-hydroxy- 1-methyl-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-      71%
                       indole-6-sulfonamide
   66    2-Chloro-N,5-dihydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide         80%
   67    5 -Bromo-N-hydroxy- 1-methyl-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-       59%
                       indole-6-sulfonamide
   68                 2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-                   86%
              (methoxymethyl)benzene- 1-sulfonamide
   69          Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-2-            100%
                             carboxylate
   70     N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylfuran-3-sulfonamide            6%
   72        2-(Ethanesulfonyl)-N-hydroxybenzene- 1-          97%
                            sulfonamide
   73     N-Hydroxy-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene- 1-         97%
                            sulfonamide
   74        4-Acetyl-N-hydroxy-3,4-dihydro-2H- 1,4-           17%
                    benzoxazine-6-sulfonamide
   75       Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-1-methyl-1H-           4%
                       pyrrole-2-carboxylate
   76         N-[5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-1,3-thiazol-2-          76%
                            yl]acetamide
   77       N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-4-(morpholine-4-            14%
                   carbonyl)furan-3-sulfonamide
   78    Ethyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-3-carboxylate        86%
   83             N-Hydroxyfuran-2-sulfonamide                42%         86%
   84     N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-2-sulfonamide           52%         67%
   85          N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-iH-pyrazole-3-             33.5%
                            sulfonamide
   87         3-Chloro-4-fluoro-N-hydroxybenzene-1-           53%         79%
                            sulfonamide
                                          60

                                                                     Relative N20    Relative N20
    Compound                           Compound                           Yield          Yield
        No.                                                           (90 minutes    (360 minutes
                                                                       incubation)    incubation)
         88         1-N,3-N-Dihydroxybenzene-1,3-disulfonamide            53%            100%
         90           5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-methylbenzene-1-               90%
                                      sulfonamide
         92          N-Hydroxy-3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzene-1-             59%
                                      sulfonamide
         93           N-Hydroxy-4-methanesulfonylbenzene- 1-              86%
                                      sulfonamide
            For compounds of formula (99), determinations are as described above except
   enzyme activated samples are also prepared as follows: (i) accurately weigh 50 mg of
   porcine liver esterase (PLE, E3019-20KU, crude, Sigma-Aldrich) into a 20 mL headspace
 5 vial; (ii) using an auto pipette, 5 mL of argon-purged anhydrous PBS is added to form a PLE
   stock solution; (iii) the vial is capped and shaken to insure complete dissolution upon visual
   observation; (iv) samples of nitroxyl donors are prepared as disclosed above except 4.75 mL
   of PBS is added instead of 5 mL; and (v) using an auto pipette, the 20 mL vials are then
   charged with 250 pmL of PLE stock solution prior to sample addition. The sequence for
10 auto-injection is as follows: blank replicate 1, blank replicate 2, N20 standard replicate 1,
   N20 standard replicate 2, CXL- 1020 standard replicate 1, CXL- 1020 standard replicate 2,
   sample 1 (no PLE) replicate 1, sample 1 (no PLE) replicate 2, sample 1 (with PLE) replicate
   1, sample 1 (with PLE) replicate 2, sample 2 (no PLE) replicate 1, sample 2 (no PLE)
   replicate 2, sample 2 (with PLE) replicate 1, sample 2 (with PLE) replicate 2, etc.,
15 concluding with N20 standard replicate 3, and N20 standard replicate 4.
            Another procedure for determining the relative amounts of N20 released from
   compounds of the disclosure is as follows. GC is performed on a Varian CP-3800
   instrument equipped with a 1041 manual injector, electron capture detector, and a 25 m 5A
   molecular sieve capillary column. Grade 5.0 nitrogen is used as both the carrier (8 mL/min)
20 and the make-up (22 mL/min) gas. The injector oven and the detector oven are kept at
   200'C and 300'C, respectively. All nitrous oxide analyses are performed with the column
                                                   61

   oven held at a constant temperature of 150'C. All gas injections are made using a 100 pL
   gas-tight syringe with a sample-lock. Samples are prepared in 15 mL amber headspace vials
   with volumes pre-measured for sample uniformity (actual vial volume ranges from 15.19 to
   15.20 mL). Vials are charged with 5 mL of PBS containing diethylenetriamine pentaacetic
 5 anhydride (DTPA), purged with argon, and sealed with a rubber septum. The vials are
   equilibrated for at least 10 minutes at 37'C in a dry block heater. A 10 mM stock solution of
   AS is prepared in 10 mM sodium hydroxide, and solutions of the nitroxyl donors are
   prepared in either acetonitrile or methanol and used immediately after preparation. From
   these stock solutions, 50 pL is introduced into individual thermally-equilibrated headspace
10 vials using a 100 pL gas-tight syringe with a sample-lock to provide final substrate
   concentrations of 0.1 mM. Substrates are then incubated for 90 minutes or 360 minutes.
   The headspace (60 pL) is then sampled and injected five successive times into the GC
   apparatus using the gas-tight syringe with a sample lock. This procedure is repeated for two
   or more vials per donor.
15         5.2    Example 2: In Vitro Stability of Nitroxyl Donors in Plasma
           Certain compounds from Tables 1 and 2 and CXL-1020 were tested for their stability
   in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and plasma. The assay system comprised (i) PBS, or
   plasma from rat, dog or human (at least 3 donors, male, pooled) at pH 7.4, and (ii) for tests
   conducted in plasma, an anticoagulant (sodium heparin or sodium citrate). Each test
20 compound (5 pM) was incubated in PBS or plasma at 37'C on a THERMOMIXER* with
   shaking. Three samples (n=3) were taken at each of seven sampling time points: 0, 10, 30, 60,
   90, 180 and 360 minutes. The samples were immediately combined with 3 volumes (i.e., 3
   times the volume of PBS or plasma) of acetonitrile containing 1% formic acid and an internal
   standard to terminate the reaction. AB SCIEX API 3000 LC-MS/MS analysis of the test
25 compounds was performed without a standard curve. Half-lives      (T1/2) of the test compounds
   were determined from graphs of the percent remaining values using the peak area response
   ratio. The half-lives determined are provided in Table 4. For compounds tested multiple
   times, the value provided in the Table represents an average of the replicate assays.
                                                  62

                       Table 4. Half-lives (T ,) of Nitroxyl Donors
                                               Tv/         T/        Tv       Tv
Compound             Compound               (minutes)   (minutes) (minutes) (minutes)
                                              PBS          Rat      Dog      Human
                   N-Hydroxy-2
CXL-1020  methanesulfonylbenzene- 1-            2                               2
                    sulfonamide
    1    N-Hydroxy-5-methylfuran-2-            68          40        25        65
                    sulfonamide
                   N-Hydroxy-3
   2      methanesulfonylbenzene-1-            50          20        33        37
                    sulfonamide
   3       N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-1,2-             98           37       38        71
             oxazole-4-sulfonamide
   4      N-Hydroxy- 1-benzofuran-7            149
                    sulfonamide
           4-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N
   5       (propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-           136         104       28        24
                    carboxamide
             N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-2
   7        (trifluoromethyl)furan-3-         224                    56
                    sulfonamide
                   N-Hydroxy-5
   8     methanesulfonylthiophene-3-           42                    27
                    sulfonamide
         1-Acetyl-5-bromo-N-hydroxy
   9       2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-             2         >360
                    sulfonamide
             2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5
   10     (hydroxymethyl)benzene- 1-            5
                    sulfonamide
         1-Acetyl-5-chloro-N-hydroxy
   11      2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-             5          <5
                    sulfonamide
                  4,5-Dichloro-N
   12          hydroxythiophene-2-             20
                    sulfonamide
   13      N-Hydroxy-6-methoxy- 1-             42
                                         63

                                              Tv/       Tv/       Tv/      Tv/
Compound             Compound              (minutes) (minutes) (minutes) (minutes)
                                             PBS        Rat      Dog      Human
            benzofuran-2-sulfonamide
   14         2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-4-           75         13
          methylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide
   15            N-Hydroxy-2,1,3-             63
         benzothiadiazole-5-sulfonamide
                   N-Hydroxy-4
   16      methanesulfonylthiophene-2-        20
                    sulfonamide
   17         5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-2-            59       >360
         methoxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide
   18        4-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,5-          56       >360
         dimethylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide
                  N,N-Diethyl-5
   19    (hydroxysulfamoyl)thiophene-2-       44
                    carboxamide
   20         5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-           25          7
          methylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide
           N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4
   21          carbonyl)thiophene-2-          39         36
                    sulfonamide
            5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N
   22       (propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-         33        23
                    carboxamide
                   N-Hydroxy-5
   23      methanesulfonylthiophene-2-        66
                    sulfonamide
   24            N-Hydroxy-2,1,3-             37         14
         benzothiadiazole-4-sulfonamide
   25    N-Hydroxy-2-methoxybenzene-          86
                   1-sulfonamide
   26          N-Hydroxypyridine-3-           53        29                  45
                    sulfonamide
   27     N-Hydroxy-3,5-dimethyl-1,2-        225         75                 99
              oxazole-4-sulfonamide
           N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4
   28          carbonyl)thiophene-3-          136
                    sulfonamide
             5-Chloro-N-hydroxy- 1,3
   30        dimethyl-1H-pyrazole-4-         385
                    sulfonamide
   31       N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-iH            745
              pyrazole-4-sulfonamide
   32          N-Hydroxypyridine-2-           61         32
                                        64

                                             Tv/      Tv/        Tv/      Tv/
Compound             Compound             (minutes) (minutes) (minutes) (minutes)
                                            PBS       Rat       Dog      Human
                    sulfonamide
          N-Hydroxy-4-(morpholine-4
   35          carbonyl)thiophene-2-         58         19
                    sulfonamide
   39         4-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-          30        29
          methylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide
   47         5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-4-           11       <5
          nitrothiophene-2-sulfonamide
   49             N-Hydroxy-2,5-             87         13
         dimethylbenzene-1-sulfonamide
              4-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N
   51           hydroxythiophene-2-           15        7
                    sulfonamide
   56         2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-5-          34         8
          methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide
   83    N-Hydroxyfuran-2-sulfonamide        37        43        38        16
   84    N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-        125       65        55        60
                   2-sulfonamide
   85       N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-1H-           59                  72
              pyrazole-3-sulfonamide
   86    5-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-        38                   12       18
                   2-sulfonamide
   87           3-Chloro-4-fluoro-N-         101       49        24
         hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide
   88    1-N,3-N-Dihydroxybenzene-1,3-       38                   16
                   disulfonamide
   89    3-Bromo-N-hydroxybenzene-1-         76       38.4       34
                    sulfonamide
   90         5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-         25.1       6.8       21
          methylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide
   91     N-Hydroxy-3,5-dimethyl-1,2,-      211       176       54,4
              oxazole-4-sulfonamide
   92              N-Hydroxy-3-              58        35         19       40
          (trifluoromethoxy)benzene-1
                                       65

                                                          Tv/         Tv/         Tv/         Tv/
    Compound                    Compound               (minutes)   (minutes)   (minutes)   (minutes)
                                                         PBS          Rat        Dog         Human
                               sulfonamide
                             N-Hydroxy-3
        92          (trifluoromethoxy)benzene- 1-        57.9        35.1         18.5
                               sulfonamide
                             N-Hydroxy-4
        93           methanesulfonylbenzene-1-            68           38                      35
                               sulfonamide
        95                  3,4-Dichloro-N-              >360        >360
                   hydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide
        95                  3,4-Dichloro-N-              >360        >360
                   hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide
            For measuring half-lives of a compound of formula (99), a stock solution of pig liver
   esterase (PLE) is added to the PBS or plasma prior to addition of said compound.
            5.3     Example 3: Hemodynamic Efficacy of Nitroxyl Donors in Normal and
                                    Heart Failure Canines (Tachycardia-Pacing Model)
 5                          5.3.1   Materials and Methods
            The cardiovascular effects of nitroxyl donors were examined by means of pressure
   volume (PV) curve (loops) analysis in conscious, sling-restrained beagle dogs. Animals were
   allowed free access to drinking water and a commercial canine diet under standard laboratory
   conditions. Fluorescent lighting was provided via an automatic timer for approximately 12
10 hours per day. On occasion, the dark cycle was interrupted intermittently due to study-related
   activities. Temperature and humidity were monitored and recorded daily and maintained to
   the maximum extent possible between 64'F and 84'F and 30% to 70%, respectively. The dogs
   were acclimated for a period of at least 1 week prior to surgery. Following surgery and
   recovery the animals were acclimated to sling restraint for a period up to 4.5 hours. Animals
15 were fasted overnight prior to surgery.
            SurgicalProcedure
            Anesthesia
            An indwelling venous catheter was placed in peripheral vein (e.g., cephalic) for
                                                    66

   administration of anesthetic. General anesthesia was induced intravenously (bolus) with
   buprenorphine (about 0.0 15 mg/kg) followed by an intravenous bolus of propofol (about 6
   mg/kg). Additionally, a prophylactic antibiotic (cefazolin 20 to 50 mg/kg via i.v.) was given
   upon induction. A cuffed tracheal tube was placed and used to ventilate mechanically the
 5 lungs with 100% 02 via a volume-cycled animal ventilator (about 12 breaths/minute with a
   tidal volume of about 12.5 mL/kg) in order to sustain PaCO2 values within the physiological
   range. Anesthesia was maintained with inhaled isoflurane (1% to 3%).
            CardiovascularInstrumentation
           Once a stable (surgical) plane of anesthesia had been established, a left-thoracotomy
10 was performed (under strict aseptic conditions) and each animal was chronically instrumented
   with sono-micrometry crystals providing left-ventricular (LV) dimensions/volume.
   Additionally, a fluid-filled catheter and a solid-state monometer were placed in the left
   ventricle for pressure monitoring. A fluid-filled catheters was placed in the right ventricle
   (RV) and the aorta (Ao) for pressure monitoring/test article administration. A hydraulic (In
15 Vivo Metrics) occluder was placed/secured around the inferior vena cava (IVC), in order to
   allow its controlled constriction for the generation of LV pressure-volume curves during
   heterometric auto-regulation. The catheters/wires were aseptically tunneled and externalized
   between the scapulae. Over the course of the study, fluid-filled catheters were regularly (at
   least once weekly) flushed with a locking-solution in order to prevent both clotting and
20 bacterial growth (2-3 mL of Taurolidine-Citrate solution, TCS-04; Access Technologies).
           PacemakerImplantation
           Following the cardiovascular instrumentation, the right jugular vein was carefully
   exposed and cannulated with a bipolar pacing lead/catheter (CAPSUREFIX* Novus;
   Medtronic). Under fluoroscopic guidance, this pacing lead was advanced normograde into the
25 right ventricle and actively affixed (screwed in) to the apical endocardium. The proximal end
   of the lead was secured to the pacing device (Kappa 900; Medtronic). Subsequently, the
   pacemaker was placed/secured in a subcutaneous pocket in the neck.
           Considering that the heart was exposed via a thoracotomy, a bipolar pacing wire was
   secured in the right ventricular mid-myocardium. This pacing lead was tunneled/externalized
                                                    67

   between the scapulae, and used in conjunction with an external impulse generator/pacemaker.
   The implanted endocardial pacemaker was used as a back-up to the external/epicardial
   pacemaker.
            Recovery
 5          Prior to closure of the chest from the thoracotomy, a chest tube was placed for drainage
   of any fluid and/or gas that accumulated from the surgical procedure. The tube was aspirated
   twice daily until the amount of fluid removed was less than 35 mL per aspiration in an
   approximately 24 hour period. The chest tube was then removed.
            All animals were administered a prophylactic antibiotic (cefazolin 20 to 50 mg/kg via
10 i.v.) and pain medication (meloxicam at about 0.2 mg/kg via i.v.). If necessary, an additional
   analgesic was also administered which included a fentanyl patch (25 to 50 mcg/hour). All
   surgical incisions were closed in layers; the underlying musculature was closed with
   absorbable sutures and the skin was closed with staples.
            Following surgery, the animals were allowed to recover for at least 14 days.
15 Cephalexin (20 to 50 mg/kg) was administered orally BID for at least 7 days and meloxicam
   (0.1 mg/kg) was administered SID orally or subcutaneously for at least 2 days after surgery.
   Throughout the recovery phase, the animals were observed daily for routine signs of recovery
   and the wound sites were observed for any signs of potential infections. Animals experiencing
   pain, distress and/or infections were brought to the attention of the attending veterinarian and
20 the study director. The skin incision staples were not removed for at least 7 days after surgery.
            Induction of HeartFailure
            Following a recovery from surgery and/or sufficient washout period from dosing with a
   nitroxyl donor, animals were subjected to a 3-week overdrive pacing (210 ppm) protocol
   aimed to trigger left-ventricular dysfunction/remodeling consistent with the heart failure
25 syndrome. In short, via the implanted pacemaker/right-ventricular lead, the ventricle(s) was
   asynchronously and continuously paced at 210 beats per minute (bpm). Left-ventricular
   remodeling (and heart failure induction) were confirmed by both echocardiographic (e.g.,
   ejection fraction EF decrease from about 60% to a target of about 35%, left ventricular LV
                                                     68

   dilatation) and neuro-humoral (e.g., N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT proBNP)
   elevation to greater than 1800 pM/L from a baseline of about 300 pM/L) changes after
   approximately 3 weeks of pacing. Echocardiographs and blood samples were collected in the
   absence of pacing (for at least 15 min).
 5                  5.3.2  Results
            Hemodynamic Efficacy Assessments
            The animals (normal or heart failure) were studied during treatment with both vehicle
   (control) and a nitroxyl donor (either CXL-1020 or a compound of formula (1), (2) (83), (84)
   or (85)). At each dosing period, conscious sling-restrained animals were continuously
10 monitored for up to two to three hours. Following hemodynamic stabilization, infusion of the
   vehicle was started. Shortly thereafter, left-ventricular pre-load was acutely reduced by means
   of brief vena cava occlusions (via transient inflation of the vessel occluder) in order to
   generate a family of pressure-volume curves/loops; up to three occlusions were performed,
   allowing for hemodynamic recovery between tests. Infusion of the vehicle was continued and
15 after 30 min another (baseline) set of hemodynamic data was collected. Following collection
   of baseline hemodynamic data, infusion of the nitroxyl donor compound being tested was
   initiated and type hemodynamic/functional parameters were obtained/performed at up to four
   (4) time points selected from the following: at 30, 60, 90, 120, and 180 minutes after the onset
   of vehicle/test compound infusion. For the placebo or time-control treatment group, each
20 animal was administered an infusion of an appropriate placebo for up to 180 minutes. In all
   cases, the test compound was delivered at a constant intravenous infusion rate of 1 mL/kg/hr
   and was compared at a molar equivalent or approximate two-thirds of a molar equivalent dose
   rate.
            The resulting left-ventricular pressure and volume data were analyzed in order to
25 generate relationships representing the contractile and energetic state of the myocardium.
   Systolic arterial pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial pressure (DAP), and mean arterial pressure
   (MAP) were collected. Left-ventricular mechanical and/or geometrical indices were obtained
   from the pressure (ESP, EDP, dP/dt max/min, time-constant of relaxation-tau [based on mono
   exponential decay with non-zero asymptote]) and volume (end-systolic volume (ESV), end
                                                    69

  diastolic volume (EDV), stroke volume (SV)) signal. In addition, the following measurements
  were type from left-ventricular pressure-volume data (PV loops) generated during brief
  periods of preload reduction: pressure volume area (PVA) and stroke work (SW), end-systolic
  (ESPVR) and end-diastolic (EDPVR) pressure volume relationships, and end systolic pressure
5 and stroke volume relationship (arterial elastance (Ea)). Representative data obtained from
  studies in normal dogs and heart failure dogs are shown in Table 5 and Table 6.
  Representative data for heart failure dogs are also shown in FIG. 1. An SVR (systemic
  vascular resistance) decrease correlates with vasodilation.
                                                  70

         Table 5. Hemodynamic Parameters for Nitroxyl Donors in Normal Canines
                                        (% Change from Baseline)
                                                          Compound
                    Control        CXL-1020           (1)            (2)          (83)            (84)
   Dose Rate           0               100            50             100           65              77
(prmol/kg/min)
   Number of           3                 6             8              4             4               4
    Animals
       HR         -2.211.51        6.714.72        -42        -6.175.58    2.892.94       4.312.98
      ESP          -1.80.58      -17.793.09       -182       -15.222.39   -21.993.32    -16.852.33
      EDV          2.620.42      -20.517.63        -62       -17.411.58   -16.881.69    -10.992.33
      Tau         11.141.15       -6.584.53        -61        -6.407.11   -10.101.56     -9.606.06
       SW         -2.801.26      -13.965.51       -114       -17.562.66   -19.186.70    -13.981.14
    ESPVR         -3.201.15       28.258.69        191        25.875.04   29.338.36      50.718.14
     PRSW         -0.780.38       12.602.96        121        12.881.12    19.793.39     17.702.35
Abbreviations:
HR: Heart rate. Increased HR, either due to reflex response to low blood pressure or due to a primary
drug effect on the heart, is bad.
ESP: End systolic pressure - similar to MAP below.
EDP or LVEDP: End diastolic pressure (left ventricular). Correlates with pulmonary pressures. A
decrease indicates a reduction of pulmonary congestion (a key objective of acute heart failure therapy).
Tau: An index of lusitropy, or relaxation of the heart during diastole. Decrease is positive and
indicates improved diastolic performance.
SW: Stroke work. Measure of how much work the heart exerts to create a given amount of forward
flow.
ESPVR: End systolic pressure volume relationship. A measure of inotropy/contractility (a key
objective of acute heart failure therapy). Increases indicate improved cardiac performance and
efficiency.
                                                    71

  PRSW: Preload recruitable stroke work - similar to ESPVR above.
  SV: Stroke volume. The amount of blood ejected from the left ventricle with each beat of the heart.
  An inotrope should increase this, given identical loading conditions.
  MAP OR MBP: Mean arterial pressure or mean blood pressure. Small drops are positive and evidence
  of vasodilation.
  EDV or LVEDV: End diastolic volume (left ventricular). Index of the degree of filling in diastole. A
  decrease indicates a reduction in volume overload.
          Table 6. Hemodynamic Parameters for Nitroxyl Donors in Heart Failure Canines
                      (% Change from Baseline)
         Compound              Control      CXL-1020           (1)           (2)            (83)         (84)
  Dose Rate (ptmol/kg/min)        0             100            75            100             65           77
     Number of Animals            3              6              6             4               4            4
            ESP               3.892.11    -14.783.24       -171      -13.833.30    -18.522.59  -13.722.83
            HR               -5.085.83     -0.232.25        -62       -1.362.06     0.051.25     3.722.45
            EDV               0.860.86    -12.033.72        -92       -3.261.05     -4.910.57  -13.434.63
            SW                1.831.87    -12.014.24        105       -9.412.84     -9.631.70   -5.961.58
            Tau               4.054.72    -17.271.39       -164      -12.512.72    -18.323.06   15.611.58
          ESPVR              -3.140.87    45.4216.48       291        22.845.69     38.068.79   51.015.85
           PRSW              -0.880.68    21.973.79        221        17.911.47     14.902.27   25.032.52
                            Abbreviations: HR, heart rate; ESP, end systolic pressure; EDV, end diastolic
                            volume; Tau, time constant for relaxation; SW, stroke work; ESPVR, end systolic
                            pressure volume relationship; PRSW, preload recruitable stroke work.
5         The results, e.g., in FIG. 1, demonstrate that compounds of formulas (1), (2), (83), (84)
  and (85) have comparable hemodynamic activity to CXL-1020 in both normal and failing
  canine models.
                                                       72

            5.4     Toxicology Studies with Nitroxyl Donors
                    5.4.1    Example 4: In Vivo Trials with CXL-1020
            During in vivo trials of the nitroxyl donor CXL-1020 (N-hydroxy-2
   methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide), a 14-day study was conducted to evaluate tolerance
 5 in dogs treated with continuous infusions of CXL-1020 at dose rates of up to 90 ig/kg/min.
   This first study found that CXL- 1020 was tolerated when administered at a dose rate of
   60 ptg/kg/min. Unexpectedly, however, clinical pathology changes consistent with an
   inflammation process, as reflected in changes in clinical pathology markers of inflammation,
   were observed at the 60 tg/kg/min dose rate. To further investigate this undesirable side
10 effect, a follow-up 14-day study in dogs was initiated. The follow-up study needed to be
   terminated after only 4 days due to the appearance of other undesirable side-effects: the
   unexpected occurrence of significant swelling and inflammation in the dogs' hind limbs where
   infusion catheters had been surgically implanted, which occasionally interfered with normal
   limb function; skin discoloration in the inguinal region; decreased activity; inappetance; and in
15 the highest-dosage group, skin cold to the touch.
            To determine the cause of the inflammation and hind limb swelling, a series of 72-hour
   continuous infusion investigative studies were conducted over the following 6 months. The
   results of those studies showed that CXL-1020, when administered in a pH 4 formulation of a
   1:1 molar ratio of CXL-1020:CAPTISOL*, diluted into a solution of 5% dextrose in water,
20 caused clinical pathology changes consistent with an inflammatory process at dose rates
   greater than or equal to 0.03 pg/kg/min in dogs. Vascular inflammation was observed around
   the site of insertion of the catheter into the femoral vein (15 cm upstream from the catheter
   tip), at the catheter tip, and downstream from the catheter tip. The first site of inflammation,
   the catheter insertion site, caused the dog hind limb swelling and inflammation observed in the
25 early-terminated follow-up study. Increasing infusate pH from 4 to 6 decreased inflammation,
   improving the inflammatory profile by approximately 3-fold (see FIG. 4). However,
   significant undesirable side effects were still demonstrated when CXL- 1020 was administered
   at dose rates greater than or equal to 3 Rg/kg/min in the dogs.
            To avoid the catheter insertion site-associated side effects and to assess whether the
30 vascular inflammation was due to the design of the implanted catheter, a 24-hour continuous
                                                     73

   infusion study was conducted in dogs using a percutaneous catheter placed in a peripheral
   (cephalic) vein. After 6 hours of infusion, significant edema was observed in the upper
   forelimb, downstream from the catheter tip. After 24 hours of infusion, clinical pathology
   changes similar to those observed in previous studies using an implanted central catheter were
 5 detected. Also detected was microscopic pathology demonstrating a severe thrombophlebitis
   at the catheter tip and progressing with a gradient of lessening severity downstream from the
   catheter tip.
           To determine whether a local phlebitis would occur in humans upon longer duration
   dosing, a longer duration study was conducted in healthy volunteers. The longer duration
10 study included a dose escalation study in which cohorts of 10 volunteers were to be
   sequentially administered a 24-hour continuous infusion of CXL-1020 at the dose rates of 10,
   20, and 30 tg/kg/min with a safety assessment between each cohort. Each cohort consisted of
   2 placebo and 8 active treatments with a sentinel pair of 1 active and 1 placebo followed by the
   main group of 1 placebo and 7 active treatments. The infusion was via a percutaneous catheter
15 inserted into a forearm vein. The catheter was switched to the contralateral arm after 12 hours
   of infusion. The dose rate of 10 pg/kg/nin for 24-hours was found to be well tolerated. In the
   second cohort, administered a dose of 20 g/kg/min for 24-hours, there were no adverse
   findings in the 2 placebo-treated volunteers but there were mild findings (either clinical signs
   and/or changes in clinical pathology) in all 8 subjects consistent with infusion site phlebitis.
20 Based on these results, the longer duration safety study was halted.
           Exploratory studies were continued to determine the cause of the undesirable side
   effects of CXL-1020 at the higher, but still clinically desirable, doses. Studies conducted with
   the byproduct of CXL- 1020, the moiety that remains after nitroxyl donation, was negative,
   indicating that the CXL-1020's side effects were attributable to either the parent compound,
25 CXL-1020, or to the HNO produced therefrom. Studies were conducted with alternative
   Nitroxyl donors that were structurally unrelated to CXL- 1020 but had similar half-lives for
   nitroxyl donation (half-lives of about 2 minutes). In all instances, local vascular side effects at
   the catheter tip were observed. These results suggested that the inflammation was caused by
   nitroxyl that was rapidly released from the short half-life nitroxyl donors.
                                                   74

                   5.4.2  Example 5: Longer Half-Life N-Hydroxysulfonamide Type
                                         Nitroxyl Donors Have an Improved Toxicological
                                         Profile Relative to CXL-1020
            Studies were conducted in male and female beagle dogs. Animals were allowed free
 5 access to drinking water and a commercial canine diet under standard laboratory conditions.
   Animals were fasted prior to blood sample collections when indicated by the study protocol.
   Fluorescent lighting was provided via an automatic timer for approximately 12 hours per day.
   On occasion, the dark cycle was interrupted intermittently due to study-related activities.
   Temperature and humidity were monitored and recorded daily and maintained to the maximum
10 extent possible between 64'F to 84'F and 30% to 70%, respectively. The dogs were
   acclimated for a period of at least 1 week. During this period, the animals were weighed
   weekly and observed with respect to general health and any signs of disease. The animals
   were acclimated to wearing a jacket for at least three days prior to dose administration.
   Additionally, the animals were also acclimated to wearing an Elizabethan collar (e-collar)
15 during the jacket acclimation.
           SurgicalProcedureand Dosing Procedure
           Animals were catheterized the day prior to dose administration. A percutaneous
   catheter was placed (using aseptic technique and sterile bandaging) in the cephalic vein distal
   to the elbow. The animals were free-moving in their cages during continuous infusion dose
20 administration. To facilitate continuous infusion dose administration, the peripheral catheter
   was attached to an extension set routed underneath a canine jacket and then attached to a tether
   infusion system. To prevent the animals from accessing/removing the peripherally placed
   percutaneous catheter, the catheterization site was bandaged using Vet Wrap and an e-collar
   was placed on the animals for the duration of the treatment (i.e., the catheterized period).
25 During the pretreatment period, the venous catheter was infused continuously at a rate of
   approximately 2-4 mL/hr with 0.9% sodium chloride for injection, USP (saline) to maintain
   catheter patency. Prior to dosing, the infusion system was pre-filled (slow bolus infusion) with
   the respective dosing solution to ensure that dosing began as soon as the infusion pump was
   started. The infusion line was connected to a reservoir containing the control or test
30 compound and the infusion was started. Test compositions were infused continuously, at a
   predetermined constant infusion rate (1 or 2 mL/kg/hr), for 24 hours and were compared at
                                                   75

   molar equivalent dose rates.
            ClinicalObservations, ClinicalPathology, and Microscopic Pathology
            A detailed clinical examination of each animal was performed twice daily and body
   temperature measurements and blood samples for clinical pathology were collected from all
 5 animals pre-dose and 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours and 72 hours post start of composition
   infusion. At the termination of the study, all animals were euthanized at their scheduled
   necropsy and complete necropsy examinations were performed. Selected tissues were
   collected, fixed and stored for potential future microscopic examination. The cephalic vein
   containing the infusion catheter was dissected intact along with the brachial vein and examined
10 along its entire length. The location of the catheter tip was marked on the unfixed specimen.
   After fixation, the specimen was trimmed and processed to slide to provide transverse
   histologic sections representing the catheter tip and surrounding tissues both proximal and
   distal to the catheter tip (i.e., 1 cm distal to the catheter tip, at the catheter tip, and 1, 5, 10, 15,
   and 20 cm proximal to the catheter tip). Relative to the catheter tip, "proximal" was defined as
15 closer to the heart and "distal" was defined as further from the heart.
            Safety Assessment
            Clinical pathology changes consistent with an inflammatory syndrome were observed
   at some dose rates of compounds of formulas (1), (2) (83), (84), (85), (86) and CXL-1020.
   Each compound was formulated with CAPTISOL* (7% w/v) in sterile water at a pH of 4. The
20 most sensitive biomarkers of the inflammation were: (1) white cell count (WBC, obtained as
   (number of white blood cells)/pL by multiplying the values in the rightmost portion of FIG. 2
   by 103), (2) fibrinogen concentration (given in mg/dL in the rightmost portion of FIG. 2), and
   (3) C-Reactive Protein (CRP) concentration (given in mg/L in the rightmost portion of FIG.
   2). The severity of the changes was dependent on the identity of the compound and the dose
25 rate at which the compound was administered (FIG. 2). In FIG. 2, a score ranging from 0
   (low severity) to 2 (high severity) was assigned to each of these biomarkers of inflammation
   according to the rightmost portion in that figure. A cumulative score was calculated from the
   sum of these marker scores. The NOAELs, determined based on these clinical pathology
   markers and expressed in molar equivalent dose rates (ptg/kg/nin) to CXL-1020, are provided
                                                       76

   in Table 7.
            Table 7. No Observed Adverse Effect Levels (NOAEL) of Nitroxyl Donors
                                                                                       NOAEL
                                    Compound                                         (4tg/kg/nin)
                                                                                       (actual)
    N-Hydroxy-2-methanesulfonylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide (CXL- 1020)                       < 0.03
    N-Hydroxy-5-methylfuran-2-sulfonamide (1)                                            > 20
    N-Hydroxy-3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide (2)                                   3
    N-Hydroxyfuran-2-sulfonamide (83)                                                      3
    N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-2-sulfonamide (84)                                        10
    N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-iH-pyrazole-3-sulfonamide (85)                                      3
    5-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide (86)                                         3
            For CXL-1020, significant elevations in WBC, fibrinogen and CRP were observed,
 5 even at concentrations as low as 0.03 pg/kg/min. The longer half-life compounds of formulas
   of formulas (1), (2) (83), (84), (85) and (86) all have a NOAEL at doses significantly higher
   than that of CXL-1020. The compound of formula (1) has the most favorable toxicological
   profile, showing no adverse effects at doses at least as high as 20 ptg/kg/min. This represents a
   greater than 660-fold improvement of the compound of formula (1) relative to CXL-1020.
10          Collectively, these findings suggest that CXL-1020 infusion causes an inflammatory
   syndrome, which is substantially reduced with the longer half-life nitroxyl donors of the
   disclosure.
            The findings suggested that the vascular toxicity associated with CXL- 1020 at the
   catheter tip, downstream of the catheter tip and in certain circumstances, upstream of the
15 catheter tip, were due to local inflammation caused by nitroxyl release. Moreover, it was
   postulated that inflammation can be significantly mitigated at these sites using longer half-life
   nitroxyl donors. Confirmation of this was obtained through evaluating the nitroxyl donors
   through detailed histopathology of the vasculature at the site of insertion of into the femoral
                                                    77

   vein (15 cm distal to the catheter tip), along the catheter track to the catheter tip, and past the
   tip downstream 20 cm. Microscopic pathology findings of edema, hemorrhage, vascular
   inflammation and perivascular inflammation were determined at particular dose rates of the
   nitroxyl donors.
 5         FIG. 3 depicts a "heat-map" showing a composite score of the microscopic pathology
   findings in which the severity of vascular inflammation, hemorrhage, thrombus and vascular
   degeneration/regeneration was scored in sections of the vasculature as described above.
   Findings of (1) edema, (2) vascular and perivascular inflammation, and (3) hemorrhage were
   scored (each assigned a value selected from: 0 = within normal limits; 1 = minimal; 2 = mild;
10 3 =  moderate; 4 = severe) in sections of the vessel beginning 1 cm distal (upstream) from the
   catheter tip progressing 20 cm proximal (downstream) from the catheter tip. A composite
   score was calculated from the sum of these findings scores. In FIG. 3, the cumulative
   histology composite score ranges from 0-2 (low severity) to 11-12 (high severity). The
   severity of the microscopic changes and the distance from the catheter tip in which they were
15 detected was observed to be dependent on the identity of the nitroxyl donor and the dose rate
   at which the nitroxyl donor was administered. The NOAEL values determined based on these
   microscopic pathology markers for a series of nitroxyl donors, expressed in molar equivalent
   dose rates (pg/kg/min) to CXL-1020, are provided in Table 8.
                                                    78

            Table 8. No Observed Adverse Effect Levels (NOAEL) of Nitroxyl Donors
                                                                                        NOAEL
                                                                                      (pg/kg/min)
                                   Compound
                                                                                  (molar equivalent
                                                                                    to CXL-1020)
    N-Hydroxy-2-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide (CXL-1020)                           <3
    N-Hydroxy-5-methylfuran-2-sulfonamide (1)                                            2 180
    N-Hydroxy-3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide (2)                                 2 180
    N-Hydroxyfuran-2-sulfonamide (83)                                                       90
    N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-2-sulfonamide (84)                                          60
    N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-iH-pyrazole-3-sulfonamide (85)                                    > 180
    5-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide (86)                                       2 180
           The findings presented in Table 8 that the longer half-life nitroxyl donors (e.g.,
   compounds of formulas (83), (84), (85) and (86)) have a substantially improved toxicological
 5 profile relative to CXL-1020. The side effect profile at any dose decreased in severity as a
   function of distance from the catheter tip, and the severity of vascular side effects decreased
   with decreasing dose. These findings confirmed a large safety margin for compounds of
   formulas compounds of formulas (83), (84), (85) and (86), which can translate into a
   substantially improved therapeutic index in humans, and suitability for intravenous
10 administration at therapeutically effective doses and dosage rates.
           5.5      Example 6: Increasing pH Improves Toxicological Profile
           Three nitroxyl donors (CXL-1020, compound (2), and compound (86)) were
   formulated at a pH of 4 and at a pH of 6 (in a potassium acetate buffer) and the toxicological
   profiles of the compositions were assessed. For samples at a pH of 4, the compositions were
15 prepared by admixing a 1:1 molar ratio of the nitroxyl donor:CAPTISOL*, lyophilizing the
   admixture, then diluting the lyophilized admixture into D5W. For samples at a pH of 6, the
   compositions were prepared by admixing a 1:1 molar ratio of the nitroxyl donor:CAPTISOL*,
                                                   79

   lyophilizing the admixture, then diluting the lyophilized admixture into D5W with 5 mM
   potassium phosphate. Compounds were infused at a rate of 3 pg/kg/min. As shown in FIG. 4,
   increasing the infusate pH from approximately 4 to approximately 6 improved the toxicology
   of the three compounds.
 5         5.6     Concentrate Stability Assessment
                   5.6.1  Example 7: Compound of Formula (1)
           The stability of liquid concentrates of the compound of formula (1) and CAPTISOL*
   was evaluated. Three concentrations of the compound of formula (1) were assessed:
   21.2 mg/mL, 50 mg/mL and 100 mg/mL. Samples were prepared to the three target
10 concentrations in four aqueous vehicles comprising different percentages of CAPTISOL*, as
   summarized in Table 9. The appropriate amounts of solid and vehicle were combined, and
   upon complete dissolution, the pH of each sample was adjusted to 4.0 by adding 1 N NaOH.
   The samples were prepared on a 1.5-mL scale. Aliquots were stored at 2 0 C-8 0 C and 25'C.
           Table 9. Samples Prepared for Assessment of the Compound of Formula (1)
15                                       Concentrate Stability
                                               Compound of
                               Sample #         Formula (1)      % CAPTISOL*
                                               Concentration           (w/v)
                                                 (mg/mL)
                                   Cl                                     0
                                                    21.2
                                   C2                                    30
                                   C3                                     0
                                   C4                                    10
                                                     50
                                   C5                                   20
                                   C6                                    30
                                   C7                                     0
                                   C8                                    10
                                                     100
                                   C9                                   20
                                  C1O                                    30
                                                    80

           Upon preparation and after 1, 3, and 7 days of storage, samples were removed from
   their respective temperature conditions and their visual appearances noted. Samples were
   analyzed by HPLC (XBridge Phenyl Column (Waters); UV absorbance detector at 272 nm;
   mobile phase a step gradient of aqueous acetonitrile containing 0.1% (v/v) formic acid), and
 5 the pH of each sample was measured. The results are summarized in Table 10 and Table 11.
   The recovery values are normalized to the concentrations observed right after preparation of
   the concentrate (t = 0). Complete recovery (within the accuracy of the method) was achieved
   in all samples stored at 20 C-8 0 C over the 7 days but not in all samples stored at 25'C.
           Correspondingly, the decrease in pH and increase in intensity of yellow color were
10 less pronounced in the refrigerated samples than in the samples stored at a temperature of
   25'C. Complete recovery was observed after 7 days in the 21.2 and 50 mg/mL samples
   prepared in 30% CAPTISOL* and after 3 days in the 100 mg/mL sample prepared in the
   same vehicle. Recovery of greater than 90% was also observed after three days in the 50
   mg/mL sample prepared in 20% CAPTISOL*. The stability was greatest at lower
15 concentrations, higher percentages of CAPTISOL*, and lower temperature.
                                                    81

                     Table 10. Visual Appearance of Concentrate Stability Samples
                  %        Compound of     Storage                                  Visual Appearance
   Sample   CAPTISOL*       Formula (1)  Temperature
      #         (w/v)      Concentration     (C)           t =0            t =  d       t    3d           t =7 d
                              (mg/mL)
                                             2-8                             A             A                A
     C1            0            21.2           -             A
                                              25                             A             B                 C
                                             2-8                             A             A                A
     C2           30            21.2           -             A
                                              25                             A             A                A
                                             2-8                              B            B                 B
     C3            0             50            -B
                                              25                              B            C                 D
                                              2-8                             B            B                 B
     C4           10             50            -B
                                              25                              B            C                 D
                                             2-8                             B             B                 B
     C5           20             50            -             B
                                              25                              B            B                 C
                                              2-8                             B            B                 B
     C6           30             50            -B
                                              25                              B            B                 B
                                              2-8                             B            B                 B
     C7            0            100            -B
                                              25                              C            D                 D
                                             2-8                             B             B                 B
     C8           10            100            -             B
                                              25                              C            D                 D
                                             2-8                             B             B                 B
     C9           20            100            -             B
                                              25                             C             D                 D
                                             2-8                              B            B                 B
    C10           30            100            -B
                                              25                              C            C                 C
         A = clear, colorless
         B = clear, very pale yellow
         C = clear, pale yellow
 5       D = clear, yellow
                                                                                      Samples
10                   Table 11. Results of Analysis of Concentrate Stability
                 0        Concentration                  Recovery from 10, %                      pH
   Sample  CAPTISOL*      Compound of     STrage
      #        (w/v)       Formula (1)     (C)       td        t=3d       t=7d    t=0     t-ld       t=3d      t=7d
                             (mg/mL)
                                            2-8       101%      100%       99%               3.41      3.03      2.81
     C1           0            21.2                                                4.03
                                            25        103%      82%        38o               3.50      1.73      1.29
                                            2-8       99%       101%       98%               3.93      3.82      3.72
     C2          30            21.2                                                4.02
                                            25        100%      101%       98%               3.65      3.44      3.23
                                                        82

                 %         Concentration Storage     Recovery from tO, %                    pH
   Sample  CAPTISOL*       Compound of   Temp.
      #        (w/v)        Formula (1)    (1C)  t -lId    t=-3 d     t=-7 d   t=-0  t -lId    t=-3 d t=-7 d
                             (mg/mL)
                                           2-8    100%      99%        99%             3.38      3.25   3.00
     C3          0              50                                              4.02
                                            25    100%      79%        50%             2.93      1.38   1.13
                                           2-8    98%       96%        97%             3.35      3.29   3.22
     C4          10             50                                              4.00
                                            25    99%        82%       55%             3.03      1.66   1.29
                                           2-8    99%       97%        97%             3.14      3.13   3.04
     C5         20              50                                              4.00
                                            25    100%      92%        69%             2.87      2.05   1.42
                                           2-8    100%      100%       98%             3.61      3.61   3.40
     C6         30              50                                              3.98
                                            25    100%      101%       98%             3.21      2.95   2.84
                                           2-8    100%      97%        98%             2.96      2.86   2.75
     C7          0              100                                             3.96
                                            25    98%        70%       68%             2.13      1.14   1.07
                                           2-8    101%      100%       99%             2.51      2.41   2.18
     C8          10             100                                             4.02
                                            25    91%        78%       71%             1.67      1.21   1.12
                                           2-8    99%       99%        99%             3.30      3.20   3.03
     C9         20              100                                             3.96
                                            25    100%      84%        70%             2.57      1.42   1.14
                                           2-8    102%      102%       102%            3.39      3.27   3.11
    C1O         30              100                                             3.99
                                            25    103%1     101%1      80%   1         2.90      2.20   1.31
                     5.6.2    Example 8: Compound of Formula (2)
          The storage stability of a liquid concentrate of the Compound of formula (2) (30
   mg/mL) in the vehicle 30% CAPTISOL* (w/v) at pH 4.0, was assessed at 4'C and 25'C over
 5 7 days, with time points after 1, 3 and 7 days. At each time point samples were assessed for
   visual appearance, pH, and concentration and purity by HPLC (XBridge Phenyl Column
   (Waters); UV absorbance detector at 272 nm; mobile phase a step gradient of aqueous
   acetonitrile containing 0.l1% (v/v) formic acid).
          The selected vehicle, CAPTISOL* (30% w/v) in water with pH adjusted to 4.0, was
10 prepared by accurately weighing 30 grams of CAPTISOL* into a 150 mL beaker and
   dissolved with 45 mL of water. The pH was adjusted to pH 4.0 by addition of 0.1N HCl.
   Subsequently, the vehicle was transferred to a volumetric flask and brought to 100 mL final
   volume by addition of water. After incubation at a temperature of about 25'C for 30
   minutes, the pH of the vehicle was re-adjusted to pH 4.0 by addition of 0. IN HCl. The
15 vehicle formed a clear, colorless solution.
                                                    83

           A concentrated solution of the compound of formula (2) was prepared as follows. A
   stir bar and 30 mL of vehicle were added to a 150 mL beaker. Approximately 1.8 g of the
   compound of formula (2) was dispensed and transferred to the beaker under low to medium
   stirring. After 45 minutes of stirring at a temperature of about 25'C (protected from light),
 5 the concentrate formed a clear, colorless solution with some small, white clumps of the
   compound of formula (2) floating in solution. The remaining clumps were gently broken-up
   using a spatula. Following an additional 45 minutes of stirring, the concentrate formed a
   clear, colorless solution without any visible solids. The concentrate was then filtered (0.2
   pim) through a 0.22 pm PVDF syringe filter.
10         For t = 0 h testing, aliquots were distributed into vials and analyzed by HPLC
   (XBridge Phenyl Column (Waters); UV absorbance detector at 272 nm; mobile phase a step
   gradient of aqueous acetonitrile containing 0.1% (v/v) formic acid) and the sample pH was
   determined. Twelve aliquots of 1 mL of the concentrate were distributed into
   microcentrifuge tubes for storage at 4'C and 25'C. After approximately 24, 72 and 168
15 hours of storage, two aliquots were removed from each storage condition and assessed for
   visual appearance, pH, and concentration and purity by HPLC. All samples were clear,
   colorless solutions. The pH of the samples stored at 4'C and 25'C decreased from 3.7 to 3.6
   and 3.3, respectively, over the 7 days. Both vehicles sustained the compound of formula (2)
   at a concentration of 30 mg/mL over 7 days, as summarized in Table 12. In Table 12, the
20 term "c/c" refers to clear and colorless. No detectable levels of the known degradant
   (compound of formula (101)) were observed.
                                                     84

   Table 12. Summary of Observed Properties of a Concentrate Solution of the Compound
                               of Formula (2) During Storage Over 7 Days
            Storage                                                        Time Point
           Condition                   Parameter           Sample    0 h   24 h   72 h    168 h
                                                              1     30.3    30.6  29.6     29.7
                          Concentration, mg/mL               2             30.2   29.4    29.9
                                                              1     3.71    3.70  3.66     3.58
                          pH                                 2              3.70  3.66     3.61
              4'C
                                                              1      c/c    c/c    c/c      c/c
                          Appearance                         2              c/c    c/c      c/c
                          Observed Degradant Compound of      1      No     No     No       No
                          Formula (101), mg/mL               2              No     No       No
                                                              1     30.3    30.2  29.4     29.5
                          Concentration, mg/mL               2             30.2   29.8    29.4
                                                              1     3.71    3.47  3.34     3.32
                          pH                                 2              3.48  3.34     3.30
             25'C
                                                              1      c/c    c/c    c/c      c/c
                          Appearance                         2              c/c    c/c      c/c
                          Observed Degradant, Compound of     1      No     No     No       No
                          Formula (101), mg/mL               2              No     No       No
 5        5.7        Stability of Intravenous Dosing Solutions
                    5.7.1    Example 9: Compound of Formula (1) - Dosing Solution Stored
                                             at 25'C
          The stability of dosing solutions of the compound of formula (1) prepared from a
   CAPTISOL* concentrate diluted into commercially-available IV diluents was assessed at
10 25'C over 48 hours, with analysis points at 0, 8, 12, 16, 24, and 48 hours after dilution. Due
   to the analysis points required, two studies were executed with separate sets of dosing
   solutions. The first (group A) encompassed all time points except that at 16 hours. The
   second (group B) entailed analysis at 0 and 16 hours only. The concentrates used to prepare
   the two sets of dosing solutions were prepared from two separate vials of the same lot of
15 lyophilized drug product (24 mg/mL Compound of formula (1) / 30% CAPTISOL*).
           ConcentratePreparation
          One vial of lyophilized drug product (24 mg/mL Compound of formula (1) / 30%
   CAPTISOL*, pH 4) was reconstituted with 10 mL of water for injection quality water (WFI)
   to prepare each concentrate (for dosing solution groups A and B). The pH values of the
                                                        85

   resultant solutions were measured, and were determined to be approximately 3.9 for both
   vials. No pH adjustment was performed. The concentrates were diluted and analyzed by
   HPLC (XBridge Phenyl Column (Waters); UV absorbance detector at 272 nm; mobile phase
   a step gradient of aqueous acetonitrile containing 0.1% (v/v) formic acid), and both were
 5 determined to contain 20-21 mg/mL of the compound of formula (1), rather than the nominal
   value of 24 mg/mL, ostensibly due to contribution of the dissolved API and CAPTISOL* to
   the total solution volume.
           Diluent Preparation
           Commercially-available potassium acetate and potassium phosphate solutions were
10 selected for evaluation. Potassium acetate was obtained commercially, and a USP potassium
   phosphate solution was prepared according to the Hospira product insert for the commercial
   product. Each solution was diluted to 10 mM in 5% dextrose (D5W) and 2.5% dextrose
   (D2.5W). Commercially-available D5W was diluted 2-fold with WFI quality water to
   produce the D2.5W solution. The pH of each concentrated and diluted solution was
15 measured; the results are presented in Table 13.
                     Table 13. Results of pH Measurement of Selected Diluents
                            Diluent           Concentration             pH
                                            10 mM in D2.5W              6.2
                            Acetate          10 mM in D5W               6.0
                                               Initial (2 M)            6.7
                                            10 mM in D2.5W              6.8
                           Phosphate         10 mM in D5W               6.7
                                               Initial (3 M)            6.5
           Dosing Solution Preparation
20         The compound of formula (1) concentrate was diluted volumetrically on a 5 mL scale
   into the 10 mM diluent solutions to achieve concentrations of 8, 1, and 0.1 mg/mL of the
   compound of formula (1), as summarized in Table 14. Each sample was prepared in
                                                  86

   duplicate. The dextrose content in the 10% CAPTISOL* solution was reduced to ensure that
   the dosing solutions were substantially isotonic. Each solution was stored at 25'C.
               Table 14. Preparation of Dosing Solutions for Stability Evaluation
       Compound of                                              Dilution     CAPTISOL*
        Formula (1)                    Diluent                   factor        (0   w/v)
         (mg/mL)
           8.0         10 mM acetate or phosphate in D2.5W          3             10%
           1.0                                                     24            1.3%
           0.1        10 mM acetate or phosphate in D5W           240           0.1%
 5        Sample Analysis
          Samples were analyzed upon preparation and after 8, 12, 16, 24, and 48 hours of
   storage at 25'C. The visual appearance of each sample was noted, the pH was measured,
   and each sample was analyzed by HPLC for concentration and presence of the major
   degradant, the compound of formula (100).
10        Results
          The results of the stability evaluation are presented in Table 15, Table 16, and Table
   17. In Table 17, the presence of a peak corresponding to the degradant (the compound of
   formula (100)) in a sample is denoted by an "X".
          The results were generally consistent for each duplicate within a pair and between
15 corresponding dosing solutions prepared in groups A and B. A difference in recovery was
   observed between duplicates at the 24 and 48 hour time points for the samples prepared to
   contain 0.1 mg/mL of the compound of formula (1) in phosphate.
          Complete recovery (within the accuracy of the HPLC method) and absence of a
   detectable degradant (compound of formula (100)) peak was maintained over 48 hours for
20 the samples prepared to 8 mg/mL of the compound of formula (1) in acetate- and phosphate
   based diluents. These samples actually contained approximately 7 mg/mL of the compound
   of formula (1), consistent with the concentration of 20-21 mg/mL compound of formula (1)
                                                   87

   in the concentrate. In both diluents, stability was superior in the samples prepared to 8
   mg/mL compound of formula (1) than in the samples prepared to lower concentrations.
   Without being bound by theory, the better stability of these samples compared to those
   prepared to lower concentrations of the compound of formula (1) might be attributed to the
 5 higher CAPTISOL* concentration (10% in the diluted solutions).
          All samples remained clear and colorless over the 48 hours of storage. The pH of all
   samples decreased over time. The known degradant (compound of formula (100)) was
   observed upon preparation (at tO) in all samples prepared to contain 0.1 mg/mL of the
   compound of formula (1) and at all subsequent time points in all samples prepared to contain
10 0.1 mg/mL and 1 mg/mL of the compound of formula (1).
          In general, stability decreased with decreasing concentration of the compound of
   formula (1). Without being bound by theory, the decreased stability was likely due to the
   lower percent CAPTISOL* in the dosing solutions. The initial extent of degradation (through
   16 hours) was similar in the samples prepared to contain 0.1 mg/mL of the compound of
15 formula (1) in the acetate- and phosphate-based diluents. However, the stability of the
   samples prepared to contain 1 mg/mL demonstrated significantly better stability in acetate
   than in phosphate.
                                                    88

    Table 15. Results of Dosing Solution Stability Evaluation at 25*C, Percent Recovery
                                                                      Compound of
                                                   Compound of         Formula (1)                        Recovery from tO
  Dosin
  Solution      Duplicate           Diluent         Formula (1)          mg/mL
                                                       mg/mL           to         to      8h       12 h        16 h     24 h   48 h
                                                                   (group A) (group       (A)       (A)         (B)     (A)     (A)
                     a          10 mM acetate                           6.94        7.06 101%     102%        101%     102%   101%
                    18.0--                                                                  -         ---
                     b             in D2.5W                             6.95        7.06 101%     102%        101%     102%   103%
                     a          10 mM acetate                           0.86        0.85 97%       97%        97%      94%     92%
     2                                                1.0--                                 -         ---
                     b              in D5W                              0.87        0.84 98%       98%        98%      96%     95%
                     a          10 mM acetate                           0.10        0.09 81%       78%         66%     67%     55%
     3                                 DW0.1---
                     b              inD5W                               0.10        0.09 80%       75%         68%     63%     51%
                     a        10 mM phosphate                           6.98        6.79 98%       99%        102%     99%    100%
     4                -8.0---
                     b             in D2.5W                             7.00        6.93 99%       94%        100%     100%   100%
                     a        10 mM phosphate                           0.87        0.85 89%       86%         86%     78%     71%
     5                -.               D W1.0---
                     b              in D5W                              0.88        0.85 90%       83%         82%     79%     72%
                     a        10 mM phosphate                           0.10        0.10 83%       78%         72%     62%     41%
     6                                                0.1---
                     b              in D5W                              0.10        0.10 79%       72%         68%     50%     32%
5                Table 16. Results of Dosing Solution Stability Evaluation at 25*C, pH
                                                                                                  pH
  Dosing                                       Compound of                                        pH
  Solution     Duplicate          Diluent       Formula (1)        to            to        8 h       12 h       16 h    24 h   48 h
                                                  mg/mL        (group A)     (group B)     (A)       (A)         (B)     (A)    (A)
                     a        10 mM acetate       8.0              5.6            5.5         5.4      5.4        5.4     5.4    5.3
                     b           in D2.5W                          5.6            5.5         5.5      5.4        5.4     5.3    5.3
                                                  1.0              5.7            5.7         5.6      5.7        5.5     5.5    5.3
     2               a        10 mM acetate
                     b            in D5W                           5.9            5.7         5.7      5.8        5.5     5.5    5.4
                                                                   6.1            5.9         5.9      5.9        5.4     5.7    5.7
     3               a        10 mM acetate       0.1
                     b            inD5W                            5.8            5.9         5.9      5.9        5.3     5.7    5.5
                     a             10 mM                           6.3            6.1         5.9      5.9        5.6     5.5    5.0
     4               b          phosphate         8.0              6.3            6.2         5.9      5.8        5.6     5.5    4.7
        ______________           in D2.5W6.62                                                 5        58          6      55     4
                     a             10 mM                           6.5            6.6         6.3      6.4        6.2     6.1    5.8
     5                          phosphate         1.0
                     b            in D5W                           6.6            6.5         6.3      6.4        6.1     6.3    6.0
                     a             10 mM                           6.8            6.7         6.6      6.6        6.3     6.5    6.4
     6                          phosphate         0.1
                     b            in D5W                           6.8            6.8         6.5      6.5        6.2     6.5    6.4
                                                                   89

          Table 17. Results of Dosing Solution Stability Evaluation at 25*C - Measuring
                                Appearance of Compound of Formula (100)
                                     Compound of                    Compound of Formula (100)
     Dosing   Duplicate     Diluent   Formula (1)      t0        t0     8h    12h      16h    24h 48h
                                        mg/mL      (group A) (group B)  (A)    (A)      (B)   (A) (A)
                  a         10 mM
                 b          acetate    8.0
                        1 in D2.5W
                  a         10mM                                         X      X        X     X   X
       2         b          acetate    1.0
                 b         iacD                                          X      X        X     X   X
                  a         10mM                       X         X       X      X        X     X   X
       3                    acetate    0.1
                 b         inD5W                       X         X       X      X        X     X   X
                  a         10 mM
       4                  phosphate    8.0
                 b        in D2.5W
                  a         10 mM                                        X      X        X     X   X
       5                  phosphate    1.0
                 b         inD5W                                         X      X        X     X   X
                  a         10mM                       X         X       X      X        X     X   X
       6         b        phosphate    0.1             X         X       X      X        X     X   X
                           in D5WX                               X       X      X        X     X   x
 5                  5.7.2     Example 10: Compound of Formula (1) - Dosing Solution Stored at
                                             20 C-8 0 C Followed by Storage at 25 0 C
            The stability of dosing solutions of the compound of formula (1) prepared from a
   CAPTISOL* concentrate diluted into commercially available IV diluents was prepared as
   described in Example 9. The solutions were assessed at 20 C-8 0 C over 24 hours followed by
10 storage at 25 0 C over 48 hours. As shown in Table 18, recoveries of the compound of formula
   (1) were generally higher than for the corresponding samples stored at 25 0 C for all dosing
   solutions (see Table 16 from previous example), suggesting improved stability for dosing
   solutions prepared and stored at 20 C-8 0 C prior to storage at a temperature of 25 0 C.
                                                        90

         Table 18. Results of Dosing Solution Stability Evaluation at 20 C-8 0 C and 25*C,
                                                 Percent Recovery
                                            Compound of
                                             Formula (1)                     Recovery from tO
                            Compound of        mg/mL
    Sample       Diluent     Formula (1)    to       to      24 h  24 h  32 h    36 h     40 h 48 h 72 h
       #                       mg/mL     (group (group B)    (A)   (B)   (A)      (A)      (B)  (A)  (A)
                                                                          8h     12h      16h  24h  48h
                                          2-8'C    2-8'C   2-8'C  2-8'C   at       at       at   at   at
                                                                        25'C     25'C    25'C  25'C 25'C
            10 mM acetate
       1       in D2.5W       8.0           7.13     6.91   99%   103%  101%     99%     103%  97%  99%
            10 mM acetate
       2        in D5W        1.0           0.89     0.89   99%   100%  98%      98%      93%  95%  92%
            10 mM acetate
       3        in D5W        0.1           0.10     0.10   97%   97%   92%      89%      67%  82%  73%
                 10 mM
       4     phosphate in     8.0           7.18     7.08  100%   102%  99%      99%     100%  97%  97%
                 D2.5W
                 10 mM
       5      phosphate in    1.0           0.89     0.88   99%   101%  95%      93%      90%  87%  81%
                  D5W
                 10 mM
       6      phosphate in    0.1           0.11     0.10   97%   97%   89%      86%      76%  76%  63%
                  D5W
 5                    5.7.3  Example 11: Compound of Formula (2) - Dosing Solution Stored
                                               at 25'C
           A series of dosing solutions of the compound of formula (2) for IV administration was
   assessed. The selected concentrate of compound of formula (2), prepared at 30 mg/mL in a
   vehicle of 30% CAPTISOL* at pH 4.0, was evaluated at low, mid, and high concentrations
10 (0.1, 1 and 5 mg/mL, respectively) upon dilution into various dosing solutions. For dilution of
   the compound of formula (2) to 0.1 and 1 mg/mL, three dosing solutions were evaluated; 1)
   D5W, 2) D5W with 5 mM K-phosphate (pH = 6), and 3) D5W with 20 mM K-phosphate (pH
   = 6). To maintain iso-osmolality for dilutions of the compound of formula (2) to 5 mg/mL, the
   concentration of dextrose in the dosing solutions was reduced to 2.5% (w/v). Thus, the dosing
15 solutions evaluated were; (1) D2.5W, (2) D2.5W with 5 mM K-phosphate (pH = 6), and (3)
   D2.5W with 20 mM K-phosphate (pH = 6).
                                                          91

           The potential dosing solutions were assessed for visual appearance, pH, osmolality,
   and concentration and purity by HPLC (XBridge Phenyl Column (Waters); UV absorbance
   detector at 272 nm; mobile phase a step gradient of aqueous acetonitrile containing 0.1% (v/v)
   formic acid) after approximately 0, 16, 24, and 48 hours of storage at 25'C. All samples were
 5 clear, colorless solutions -with the sole exception of 5 mg/mL of the compound of formula (2)
   in D2.5W with 5 mM phosphate which had a clear, light yellow appearance after 48 hours at
   25'C. All solutions were iso-osmotic (290 +/- 50 mOsm/kg) - with the sole exception of 1
   mg/mL of the compound of formula (2) in D5W with 20 mM phosphate which had an
   osmolality of approximately 350 mOsm/kg. Furthermore, with the exception of 5 mg/mL of
10 the compound of formula (2) in D2.5W with 5 mM phosphate, all other dosing solutions
   sustained the compound of formula (2)at the target concentrations of 0.1, 1 and 5 mg/mL over
   48 hours. In addition, the known degradant, the compound of formula (101), formed by
   release of the active HNO group, was observed after 16 hours at 25'C in small quantities by
   HPLC in the dosing solutions containing phosphate buffer. The observed amount of the
15 compound of formula (101) was on the order of the limit of detection of the method.
           The stability of 5 mg/mL of the compound of formula (2) dosing solutions was further
   evaluated as a function of pH and buffer. A concentrated solution of the compound of formula
   (2), prepared at 30 mg/mL in a vehicle of 30% CAPTISOL* at pH 4.0, was diluted to 5
   mg/mL into four potential dosing solutions. The four dosing solutions were evaluated: 1)
20 D2.5W, 5 mM K-phosphate (pH = 6.0), 2) D2.5W with 5 mM K-citrate (pH = 6.0), 3) D2.5W,
   5 mM K-citrate (pH = 5.0), and 4) D2.5W, 5 mM K-acetate (pH = 5.0). All dosing solutions
   of the compound of formula (2) were iso-osmotic (290 +/- 50 mOsm/kg). After approximately
   24 and 48 hours of storage at 25'C, the dosing solutions were assessed for visual appearance,
   pH, and concentration and purity by HPLC. The non-phosphate dosing solutions were clear,
25 colorless and sustained the compound of formula (2) at the target concentration of 5 mg/mL
   over 48 hours; while consistent with the dosing solution screen, the 5 mg/mL compound of
   formula (2) in D2.5W with 5 mM phosphate (pH 6.0) dosing solution was clear, light yellow
   in appearance with only 60% recovery of the compound of formula (2) after 48 hours.
   Furthermore, the known degradant, the compound of formula (101), was observed in small
30 quantities by HPLC in all samples except 5 mg/mL of the compound of formula (2) in D2.5W,
   5 mM citrate (pH 5.0).
                                                    92

            After 7 days of storage at 25'C the non-phosphate dosing solutions were still clear
   and colorless in appearance. The smallest increase in acidity over the 7 days was measured
   for the 5 mg/mL of the compound of formula (2) in D2.5W, 5 mM citrate pH 6.0 dosing
   solution, while the D2.5W, 5 mM citrate pH 5.0 dosing solution had the smallest change in
 5 pH over the initial 24-48 h. Furthermore, after 14 days of storage at 25'C the samples with
   dosing solution containing 5 mM citrate pH 6.0 were still clear, colorless solutions, while
   the dosing solutions containing either 5 mM citrate or 5 mM acetate at pH 5.0 were clear,
   yellow solutions. The results are summarized in Table 19.
10   Table 19. Recovery of the Compound of Formula (2) from 5 mg/mL Dosing Solutions
                                                                         Time Point
                    Dosing Solution             Sample        0h            24 h           48 h
                                                   1         101%          100%           60.7%
      (1). D2.5W, 5 mM phosphate, pH 6.0          2          100%          100%           62.8%
                                                   1         101%          98.6%          96.7%
      (2). D2.5W, 5 mM citrate, pH 6.0            2          101%          98.8%          96.5%
                                                   1         101%          100%           99.1%
      (3). D2.5W, 5 mM citrate, pH 5.0            2          100%          102%           99.3%
                                                   1         95.6%         95.4%          95.4%
      (4). D2.5W, 5 mM acetate, pH 5.0            2          96.0%         96.8%          94.8%
            5.8      Example 12: Evaluation of CAPTISOL*/Nitroxyl Donor Ratios
            The compound of formula (1) was chosen as a model nitroxyl donor. A stability
15 assessment was performed with concentrate solutions containing molar ratios of
   CAPTISOL* (MW 2163 g/mol) to the compound of formula (1) (MW 177.18 g/mol)
   selected based on projected toxicology studies. The concentrates evaluated are summarized
   in Table 20. Concentrate samples were prepared by combining the appropriate amounts of
   solid and vehicle, and upon complete dissolution, the pH of each sample was adjusted to 4.0
20 by adding 1 N NaOH. The samples were prepared on a 1.8-mL scale. Aliquots of each
   solution were stored at 25'C.
                                                     93

                     Table 20. Summary of Concentrate Samples Evaluated
                                          Compound of                        Molar Ratio,
           Sample #   % CAPTISOL* (w/v)   Formula (1),   Target pH    CAPTISOL*:Compound of
                                             mg/mL                            Formula (1)
              C11              10%             40               4.0           0.20
              C12              20%             40               4.0           0.41
              C13              30%             40               4.0           0.61
          Each concentrate solution was additionally diluted into IV diluents to the highest and
 5 lowest concentrations expected to be administered during toxicology studies (8 mg/mL and
   0.02 mg/mL of the compound of formula (1), respectively). The dosing solutions evaluated
   are summarized in Table 21. The vehicles were selected to produce administrable
   formulations approximately isoosmotic with human blood (about 290 mOsm/kg water). The
   dilutions were performed volumetrically, on a 5-mL scale for the higher concentration
10 samples and on a 25-mL scale for the lower concentration samples. Aliquots of each
   solution were stored at 25'C.
                        Table 21. Summary of Dosing Solutions Evaluated
                                                       Compound of     Dilution      Final %
          Sample #    Concentrate #      Vehicle       Formula (1),    Dilton      CAPTISOL*
                                                         mg/mL                     (about w/v)
             D7            Cll            D5W               8              5            2%
             D8            C12            D5W               8              5            4%
             D9            C13            D2.5W             8              5            6%
            D1O            Cll            D5W              0.02         2000          .005%
            Dll            C12            D5W              0.02         2000          .010%
            D12            C13            D5W              0.02         2000          .015%
15        Upon preparation (tO) and after 1 day (24 hours) and 2 days (48 hours) of storage,
   samples were removed from storage and their visual appearances noted. All concentrate
   samples remained clear and pale yellow over the 48 hours. Dosing solutions D7-D9 were
   clear and very pale at each time point and dosing solutions D10-D12 remained clear and
   colorless. At each time point, samples were analyzed by HPLC (XBridge Phenyl Column
20 (Waters); UV absorbance detector at 272 nm; mobile phase a step gradient of aqueous
   acetonitrile containing 0.1% (v/v) formic acid). The results of the HPLC analysis of the
                                                  94

    concentrates are summarized in Table 22. The results of the HPLC analysis of the dosing
    solutions are summarized in Table 23. Complete recovery (within the accuracy of the
    method) was achieved over 48 hours in all concentrates and dosing solutions. The major
    degradation product of the compound of formula (1) (i.e., the compound of formula (100))
 5  was observed at low concentrations in the dosing solutions prepared to 0.02 mg/mL. The
    degradant concentration did not increase over time and did not affect recovery of the
    compound of formula (1).
                   Table 22. Results of HPLC Analysis of Concentrate Samples
      Sample #    % CAPTISOL*           Compound of formula (1), mg/mL             Recovery from tO, %
      Sampl#          (w/v)           t= 0     f     t=ld          t=2d           t=ld            t=2d
         Cll            10             39.4            39.9          38.2          101%            97%
         C12           20              40.9            39.9          40.6           97%            99%
                                       40.6            40.2          40.1           99%            99%
10       C13           30
                     Table 23. Results of HPLC Analysis of Dosing Solutions
                             Concentration    Compound of Formula (1), mg/mL          Recovery from tO, %
                 Concentrate of Compound
     Sample#                  ofFormula        t=0          t=l d         t=2d        t=   d       t=2d
                                  (1)
                                mg/mL
        D7          Cll            8.00         7.96         8.07           7.99       101%         100%
        D8          C12            8.00         8.06         8.06           7.85       100%         97%
        D9          C13            8.00         8.20         8.17           8.06       100%         98%
        D1O         Cll            0.02         0.018        0.019          0.019      106%         1050
        DlI         C12            0.02         0.020        0.020          0.020      100%         100%
        D12         C13            0.02         0.019        0.021          0.020      108%         105%
15          5.9    Synthesis of Compounds
            The compounds disclosed herein can be made according to the methods disclosed
   below or by procedures known in the art. Starting materials for the reactions can be
   commercially available or can be prepared by known procedures or obvious modifications
   thereof. For example, some of the starting materials are available from commercial suppliers
20 such as Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). Others can be prepared by procedures or obvious
                                                       95

   modifications thereof disclosed in standard reference texts such as March'sAdvanced Organic
   Chemistry (John Wiley and Sons) and Larock's Comprehensive Organic Transformations
   (VCH Publishers).
   Example 13: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-5-methylfuran-2-sulfonamide (1)
 5          To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.92 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 13.8 mmol) in
   THF (6 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 5-methylfuran-2-sulfonyl chloride (1
   g, 5.5 mmol) as a solution in THF (6 mL) dropwise so as to maintain the temperature below
   10'C. The reaction was stirred for 5 minutes, after which time TLC (1:1 hexane:ethyl acetate
   (H:EA)) showed substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction
10 was diluted twice with 50 mL dichloromethane (DCM) and the organic portion was separated
   and washed with water (10 mL). The organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was chromatographed with a silica gel
   column eluting with heptanes:EtOAc followed by trituration with heptane to provide the title
   compound as a yellow solid (0.59 g, 61% yield). LC-MS      tR = 0.91 min; 1H NMR (DMSO,
15 500 MHz) 6 ppm 9.82 (1H, d, J=3.1Hz), 9.64 (1H, d, J=3.2Hz), 7.10 (1H, d, J=3.4Hz), 6.36
   (1H, d, J=3.4Hz), 2.36 (3H, s).
   Example 14: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide               (2)
            3-Methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
20          The intermediate 3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride was synthesized
   according to the methods disclosed in Park et al., J Med. Chem. 51(21):6902-6915 (2008).
   Specifically, methyl sulfonyl benzene (110 g, 0.7 mol) was heated for 18 hours at 90'C in
   chlorosulfonic acid (450 mL, 6.7 mol) after which time the reaction mixture was allowed to
   cool to a temperature of about 21 C before slowly being poured onto crushed ice. The
25 resulting slurry was twice extracted into EtOAc (2 L for each extraction). The organic
   portions were combined and washed with brine (50 mL) before being dried over sodium
   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the intermediate sulfonyl
   chloride as an off white solid (125 g, 75% yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 ppm 8.61 (1
   h, t, J=1.7Hz), 8.35-8.31 (2H, m), 7.90 (1H, t, J=7.9Hz), 3.15 (3H, s).
                                                   96

            N-Hydroxy-3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (16 mL of a 50% aqueous solution, 245
   mmol) in THF (150 mL) and water (25 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added
   3-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (25 g, 98 mmol) while maintaining a reaction
 5 temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until
   substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed (about 5 min), after
   which time the reaction was diluted with DCM (250 mL), the organic portion was separated
   and washed twice with 50 mL of water. The aqueous extracts were combined and rewashed
   twice with DCM (250 mL for each wash). All of the organic portions were combined, dried
10 over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title
   compound as a beige solid. Trituration was carried out using heptanes:EtOAc (1:1; v:v) to
   provide the title compound as a beige solid (14 g, 56% yield). LC-MS      tR = 0.90 min; High
   Resolution Mass Spectroscopy (HRMS): theoretical (C7H9NO5S2)          = 249.9844, measured  =
   249.9833; 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.85 (2H, q, J=3.3Hz), 8.31 (1H, t,
15 J=1.6Hz), 8.28 (1H, dt, J=7.8, 1.3Hz), 8.14-8.19 (1H, m), 7.93 (1H, t, J=7.9Hz), 3.32 (3H, s).
   Example 15: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-1,2-oxazole-4-sulfonamide              (3)
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.45 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 13.7 mmol) in
   THF (6 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 5-methyl-1,2-oxazole-4-sulfonyl
   chloride (1.0 g, 5.5 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below 10 C. The
20 reaction was stirred for 10 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete consumption of
   the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (50 mL) and the organic portion
   was separated and washed with water (10 mL). The organic portion was dried over sodium
   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was triturated with
   diethyl ether to provide the title compound as a off white solid (0.45 g, 46% yield). LC-MS   tR
25 = 0.66 min; HRMS: theoretical (C4H6N204S)      =  176.997, measured   =  176.9972; 1H NMR (500
   MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.83 (1H, s), 9.68 (1H, br. s.), 8.77 (1H, s), 2.64 (3H, s).
   Example 16: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-1-benzofuran-7-sulfonamide (4)
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.76 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 11.5 mmol) in
   THF (12 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 1-benzofuran-7-sulfonyl chloride (1
                                                  97

   g, 4.6 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below 10 C. The reaction was
   stirred for 10 minutes, after which time TLC (heptane:EtOAc) showed substantially complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (25 mL) and the
   organic portion was separated and washed with water (10 mL). The organic portion was dried
 5 over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Trituration with
   heptane provided the title compound as an off white solid (0.63 g, 64% yield). LC-MS    tR
   1.32; 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.75 (d, J=3.OHz, 1H), 9.66 (1H, d, J=3.lHz), 8.18 (1H,
   d, J=2.2Hz), 8.01 (1H, d, J=6.8Hz), 7.72 (1H, d, J=7.7Hz), 7.45 (1H, t, J=7.7Hz), 7.14 (1H, d,
   J=2.2Hz).
10 Example 17: Preparation of 4-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene
                    2-carboxamide (5)
            N-(Propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
            A solution of propan-2-amine (9.7 mL, 112.6 mmol) in DCM (150 mL) was cooled at
   00 C with stirring under nitrogen. Thiophene-2-carbonyl chloride (11.0 mL, 102.3 mmol) was
15 added dropwise and then ethyl diisopropylamine (19.5 mL, 112.6 mmol) was added. The
   reaction mixture was left to warm to a temperature of about 21 C and stirring was continued
   for 18 hours after which time the reaction mixture was further diluted with DCM (100 mL)
   and washed with IM HCl solution (2 x 50 mL), water (1 x 50 mL), saturated NaHCO3 solution
   (1 x 25 mL) and brine (2 x 25 mL) before the organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate,
20 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene
   2-carboxamide as a white solid (18.1 g, 99.2% yield). LC-MS     tR = 1.43 min; 1H NMR (500
   MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 7.54-7.46 (1H, m), 7.43 (1H, d, J=5.OHz), 7.04 (1H, t, J=4.3Hz),
   6.00 (1H, br s), 4.31-4.16 (1H, m, J=6.6Hz), 1.24 (6H, d, J=6.7Hz).
            5-[(Propan-2-yl)carbamoyl]thiophene-3-sulfonylchloride
25          A solution of N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide (17.3 g, 102.3 mmol) in
   chlorosulfonic acid (68.1 mL, 1023.2 mmol) was heated at 100 0 C for 2 hours, after which time
   the solution was allowed to cool to a temperature of about 21 C and was carefully poured onto
   ice (500 mL). The aqueous solution was extracted into DCM (2 x 250 mL) and the combined
   organic portions were dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced
30 pressure to provide the desired compound as a mixture with 5-[(propan
                                                  98

   2-yl)carbamoyl]thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride which was separated with a silica gel column
   eluting with heptanes:EtOAc to provide the product as a white solid (9.9 g, 36.1% yield). LC
   MS   tR = 1.85 min; 'H NMR (250 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 8.33 (1H, d, J=1.4Hz), 7.82 (1H,
   d, J=1.4Hz), 6.24 (1H, d, J=6.5Hz), 4.27 (1H, qd, J=6.6, 14.4Hz), 1.30 (6H, d, J=6.7Hz).
 5          4-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (6.1 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 95.3 mmol) in
   THF (30 mL) and water (10 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 5-[(propan-2
   yl)carbamoyl]thiophene-3-sulfonyl chloride (9.9 g, 36.9 mmol) as a solution in THF (30 mL)
   dropwise so as to maintain the temperature below 10 C. The reaction was stirred for 10
10 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The
   reaction was diluted with DCM (100 mL) and the organic portion was separated and washed
   with water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was re-extracted with DCM (2 x 50 mL) and EtOAc
   (50 mL). All the organic portions were combined, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. Trituration with heptanes:EtOAc provided the title
15 compound as a white solid (6.4 g, 65.4% yield). LC-MS      tR = 1.22 min; HRMS: theoretical
   (C8H12N204S2) =     263.0160, measured  = 263.0164; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm
   9.69 (1H, d, J=3.2Hz), 9.59 (1H, d, J=3.2Hz), 8.61 (1H, d, J=7.6Hz), 8.34 (1H, d, J=1.4Hz),
   8.10 (1H, d, J=1.1Hz), 3.92-4.16 (1H, m), 1.15 (6H, d, J=6.6Hz).
   Example 18: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-1-benzofuran-3-sulfonamide (6)
20          1-Benzofuran-3-sulfonyl chloride
            1-Benzofuran-3-sulfonyl chloride was synthesized according to the methods disclosed
   in Park et al., Bioorg.Med. Chem. Letters 18(14):3844-3847 (2008). Benzofuran (4.2 g, 35.6
   mmol) was added to a solution of sulfuryl chloride (4.9 mL, 60.4 mmol) in DMF (13 mL) at
   00 C and the reaction was heated to 85'C for 3 hours. After the reaction was substantially
25 complete, as determined by TLC (heptanes:EtOAc), the reaction was cooled to a temperature
   of about 21'C and poured onto ice. The product was extracted into EtOAc (2 x 50 mL) and
   dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was
   chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with heptanes:EtOAc to provide the sulfonyl
   chloride as a yellow oil (0.27 g, 3.5% yield). LC-MS   tR = 2.06 min; 1H NMR (500 MHz,
                                                  99

   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.93 (IH, s), 7.68-7.81 (1H, m), 7.54 (1H, dd, J=8.1, 0.9Hz), 7.17-7.38 (2H,
   in).
            N-Hydroxy-1-benzofuran-3-sulfonamide
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.1 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 3.0 mmol) in THF
 5 (1.25 mL) and water (0.25 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 1-benzofuran-3-sulfonyl chloride
   (0.26 g, 1.2 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below 10 C. The reaction
   was stirred for 10 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete consumption of the
   sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (10 mL) and the organic portion was
   separated and washed with water (5 mL). The organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate,
10 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was chromatographed with a
   silica gel column eluting with heptanes:EtOAc followed by trituration with heptanes:DCM to
   provide the title compound as a yellow solid (0.03 g, 12% yield). LC-MS     tR = 1.45; 'H NMR
   (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.75 (2H, s), 8.68 (IH, s), 7.86 (1H, d, J=7.7Hz), 7.76 (1H, d,
   J=8.2Hz), 7.36-7.57 (2H, m).
15 Example 19: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-5-methyl-2-(trifluoromethyl)furan
                    3-sulfonamide (7)
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.66 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 10.1 mmol) in
   THF (6 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 5-methyl-2-(trifluoromethyl)furan
   3-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 4.0 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below 100 C.
20 The reaction was stirred for 5 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (25 mL) and the
   organic portion was separated and washed with water (10 mL). The organic portion was dried
   over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was
   triturated with heptane to provide the title compound as an off white solid (0.7 g, 71% yield).
25 LC-MS     tR = 1.64 min; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.81 (1H, d, J=3.3Hz), 9.68
   (1H, d, J=3.2Hz), 7.37 (1H, s), 2.60 (3H, s).
                                                   100

   Example 20: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-3-sulfonamide               (8)
            5-Methanesulfonylthiophene-3-sulfonyl chloride and 5-methanesulfonylthiophene
            2-sulfonyl chloride
            A solution of 2-methanesulfonylthiophene (1.0 g, 6.2 mmol) in chlorosulfonic acid (2.9
 5 mL, 43.2 mmol) was heated at 90'C for 1 hour, after which time the solution was allowed to
   cool to a temperature of about 21'C and was carefully poured onto ice (20 mL). The aqueous
   solution was extracted into DCM (2 x 25 mL). The organic portions were combined, dried
   over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the sulfonyl
   chloride as a mixture with 5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride. The mixture was
10 chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with heptanes:EtOAc only partially
   separated the two isomers and the sulfonyl chloride was taken on to the next step (0.5 g, 310%
   yield as a 85:15 mixture with the other isomer). LC-MS   tR = 1.67 min; 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.99 (1H, d, J=1.6Hz), 7.69 (1H, d, J=1.6Hz), 3.36 (3H, s).
            N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-3-sulfonamide
15          To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.3 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 4.8 mmol) in THF
   (6 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to 00 C was added a mixture of 5-methanesulfonylthiophene
   3-sulfonyl chloride and 5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (85:15 by LC-MS)
   (0.5 g, 1.9 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below 10 C. The reaction was
   stirred for 5 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete consumption of the sulfonyl
20 chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (10 mL) and the organic portion was separated
   and washed with water (5 mL). The organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was chromatographed by reverse phase
   neutral preparative HPLC to provide the title compound as a white solid (0.07 g, 14% yield).
   LC-MS     tR = 0.94; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.85 (1H, d, J=2.8Hz), 9.78 (1H, d,
25 J=2.8Hz), 8.65 (1H, d, J=1.6Hz), 7.98 (1H, d, J=1.4Hz), 3.46 (3H, s).
   Example 21: 1-Acetyl-5-bromo-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide              (9)
            1-(5-Bromo-2,3-dihydro-JH-indol-1-yl)ethan-1-one
            To a solution of 5-bromo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole (1.5 g, 7.5 mmol) in acetic acid (12
   mL) was added acetyl chloride (3.57 g, 45.4 mmol). The reaction was heated to 90'C until
                                                  101

   consumption of the starting material was substantially complete (c.a. 1 h) and the solvents
   removed under reduced pressure. The organic portion was diluted in ethyl acetate and washed
   with sodium bicarbonate solution. The combined organics were dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a brown
 5 solid (1.76 g, 99.99% yield).   1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.96 (1H, d, 8.7Hz), 7.40
   (1H, d, 0.8Hz), 7.30 (1H, dd, 8.5, 2.0Hz), 4.09 (2H, t, 8.6Hz), 3.14 (2H, t, 8.5Hz), 2.14 (3H, s).
            1-Acetyl-5-bromo-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonylchloride
            1-(5-Bromo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indol- 1-yl)ethan- 1-one (1.2 g, 5.0 mmol) and
   chlorosulfonic acid (3.5 g, 30 mmol) were heated in a sealed tube to 80'C for 18 hours. The
10 reaction was quenched by pouring onto ice and the resulting solid was filtered and dried under
   reduced pressure then chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 40%
   heptane:ethyl acetate to provide the title compound as an off white solid (0.95 g, 56% yield).
   1H  NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 8.60 (1H, s), 7.37 (lH, s), 4.09 (2H, t, 8.6Hz), 3.11
   (2H, t, 8.5Hz), 2.14 (3H, s).
15          1-Acetyl-5-bromo-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonamide
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (1.6 mL, 3.7 mmol, 50% aqueous), in THF
   (2.5 mL) and water (0.5 mL) at -10 0 C was added 1-acetyl-5-bromo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6
   sulfonyl chloride (0.5 g, 1.48 mmol) portion wise maintaining and internal temperature of
   5'C. Stirring was continued at low temperature until complete consumption of the sulfonyl
20 chloride was observed by LC-MS. Diethyl ether was added and the reaction was washed with
   a 10% citric acid solution. The organics were dried over Na2SO4, filtered and concentrated
   under reduced pressure to provide 1-acetyl-5-bromo-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6
   sulfonamide as an off white solid (0.32 g, 66% yield).   1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm
   9.44-9.76 (2H, m), 8.72 (1H, s), 7.68 (1H, s), 4.16 (2H, t, 8.6Hz), 3.22 (2H, t, 8.8Hz), 2.17
25 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-   = 332.9545; observed [M-H]-   = 332.9553.
   Example 22: 2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-(hydroxymethyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide (10)
            2-Chloro-5-(hydroxymethyl)aniline
            To a solution of 1-chloro-4-(hydroxymethyl)-2-nitrobenzene (4.5 g, 24 mmol) in EtOH
30 (23 mL) and water (4.5 mL) was added iron (3.45 g, 84 mmol) and HCl (9 drops). The
   reaction was heated to 85'C for 4 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was filtered through
                                                  102

   CELITE, washed with EtOAc and concentrated under reduced pressure and used directly in
   the next step (3.5 g, 95% yield).  1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 7.09 (1H, d, 8.lHz), 6.76
   (1H, d, 2.0Hz), 6.47 (1H, dd, 8.1, 1.9Hz), 5.10 (1H, t, 5.7Hz), 4.34 (2H, d, 5.8Hz).
            2-Chloro-5-(hydroxymethyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
 5          To a solution of 2-chloro-5-(hydroxymethyl)aniline (0.5 g, 3.1 mmol) in acetic acid
   (3.2 mL) and HCl (0.8 mL) cooled to 00 C was added sodium nitrite (0.24 g, 3.5 mmol) portion
   wise maintaining an internal temperature <5'C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at
   00 C for 1 hour. Simultaneously, CuCl2-H20 (0.5 g, 3.1 mmol) was suspended in AcOH:water
   (3.2 mL:1.6 mL) at 00 C and stirred at 00 C until all CuCl2 was in solution. S02 gas was
10 condensed into a flask at -78'C via the aid of a cold finger and the diazo compound and CuCl2
   solution added and the reaction warmed to 00 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to a
   temperature of about 25'C over 2 hours. The reaction was quenched by addition to ice and
   extracted into DCM (2 x 10 mL). The organics were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a yellow oil. The
15 sulfonyl chloride was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with DCM to provide
   the sulfonyl chloride as a yellow oil (0.2 g, 26% yield).  1H NMR (250 MHz, chloroform-d) 6
   8.14 (1H, d, 1.2Hz), 7.41-7.83 (2H, m), 4.79 (2H, s).
            2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-(hydroxymethyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.45 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 15.5 mmol) in
20 tetrahydrofuran (5 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to -50 C was added 2-chloro-5
   (hydroxymethyl)benzene -1-sulfonyl chloride (1.25 g, 5.1 mmol) as a solution in
   tetrahydrofuran (2.5 mL) dropwise so as to maintain the temperature below 00 C. The reaction
   was stirred until TLC indicated substantially complete consumption of starting material
   (approximately 30 minutes). The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (50 mL) and the
25 organic portion was washed with water (1 mL) before being separated and dried over sodium
   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Trituration with n-pentane provided
   the N-hydroxy-5-methylfuran-2-sulfonamide as an off-white solid (0.37 g, 30% yield).     1H
   NMR (300 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.74 (2H, q, 3.0Hz), 7.98 (1H, d, 1.4Hz), 7.60 (2H, dt, 8.2, 5.0Hz),
   5.51 (1H, s), 4.57 (2H, s).
30
                                                   103

   Example 23: 1-Acetyl-5-chloro-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide                 (11)
            1-(5-Chloro-2,3-dihydro-JH-indol-1-yl)ethan-1-one
            To a solution of 5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole (6.0 g, 39 mmol) in acetic acid (60
   mL) was added acetyl chloride (18.4 g, 23 mmol). The reaction was heated to 80'C until
 5 consumption of the starting material was substantially complete (c.a. 1 h) and the solvents
   removed under reduced pressure. The organic portion was diluted into ethyl acetate (200 mL)
   and washed with sodium bicarbonate solution (2 x 100 mL). The combined organics were
   dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide 1-(5
   chloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-indol-1-yl)ethan-1-one as a brown solid (7.1 g, 93% yield).        1H  NMR
10 (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.00 (1H, d, 8.6Hz), 7.28 (1H, s), 7.18 (12H, dd, 8.6, 2.0Hz), 4.10 (2H, t,
   8.6Hz), 3.13 (2H, t, 8.6Hz), 2.14 (3H, s).
            1-Acetyl-5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonylchloride
            1-(5-chloro-2,3-dihydro- 1H-indol- 1-yl)ethan- 1-one (7g, 36 mmol) and chlorosulfonic
   acid (16.68g, 143 mmol) were heated to 70'C for 18 hours. The reaction was quenched by
15 addition to ice and the resulting solid obtained was extracted into ethyl acetate (250 mL). The
   resulting solution was washed with water (2 x 100 mL) and the organic portion was dried over
   sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the acetyl-5
   chloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6- sulfonyl chloride. The product was chromatographed with a
   silica gel column eluting with  4 0 -5 0 % ethyl acetate:hexane to provide 1-acetyl-5-chloro-2,3
20 dihydro-1H-indole-6- sulfonyl chloride as a off white solid (7.2 g, 68.4% yield).     1H  NMR
   (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.56 (1H, s), 7.19 (1H, s), 4.09 (2H, t, 8.6Hz), 3.10 (2H, t, 8.5Hz), 2.14
   (3H, s).
            1-Acetyl-5-chloro-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonamide
            To a solution of hydroxylamine (1.8 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 61.1 mmol) in
25 tetrahydrofuran (40 mL) and water (5 mL) cooled to -5'C was added 1-acetyl-5-chloro-2,3
   dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonyl chloride (4.0 g, 13.6 mmol) as a solution in tetrahydrofuran (10
   mL) dropwise so as to maintain the temperature below 0 0 C. The reaction was stirred for 30
   minutes, and TLC indicated substantially complete consumption of starting material. The
   reaction was diluted with water (5 mL) and the resulting solid collected under vacuum and
30 washed further with water (2 x 10 mL) before drying under vacuum to provide 1-acetyl-5
   chloro-N-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide as a white solid (3.0 g, 76% yield).
                                                     104

   'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.65 (IH, s), 9.55 (lH, s), 8.72 (iH, s), 7.68 (iH, s), 4.15 (2H,
   t, 8.6Hz), 3.22 (2H, t, 8.5Hz), 2.17 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-  = 289.005; observed [M-H]-   =
   289.0059.
   Example 24: 4,5-Dichloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide             (12)
 5         To a solution of hydroxylamine (0.655 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 10.0 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (6 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to -5'C was added 4,5-dichlorothiophene-2
   sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 4.0 mmol) as a solution in tetrahydrofuran (1 mL) dropwise so as to
   maintain the temperature below 00 C. The reaction was stirred until TLC indicated
   substantially complete consumption of starting material (approximately 10 minutes). The
10 reaction was diluted with diethyl ether (20 mL) and the organic portion was washed with citric
   acid solution (2 x 1 mL) before being separated and dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. Trituration with diethyl ether:heptane provided 4,5
   dichloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide as a-white solid (0.35 g, 38% yield).       1H  NMR
   (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 10.06 (1H, d 2.9Hz), 10.00 (1H, d, 2.7Hz), 7.73 (IH, s); predicted
15 [M-H]-  =  245.8853; observed [M-H]-   = 245.8845.
   Example 25: N-Hydroxy-6-methoxy-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonamide               (13)
           2-(2-Formyl-5-methoxyphenoxy)acetic acid
           An aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide (20 mL, 5.2 g, 131 mmol) was added to a
20 mixture of 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzaldehyde (10 g, 65 mmol), chloroacetic acid (6.2 g, 65
   mmol) and water (80 mL). The mixture was stirred slowly before heating under reflux for 16
   hours after which time the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to a temperature of about
   25'C where upon the reaction mixture was acidified with concentrated HCl to pH 3. The
   resulting acidic solution was extracted into ethyl acetate (3 x 50 mL) before being dried over
25 sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a
   brown oil which was used directly in the next step (11.5 g, 83% yield). LC-MS     tR =  0.75 min,
   [M+H]*   =  211.29
           6-Methoxy-1-benzofuran
           Sodium acetate (21.0 g, 254 mmol) was added to a mixture of 2-(2-formyl-5
30 methoxyphenoxy)acetic acid (11.4 g, 54 mmol) in acetic anhydride (75 mL) and acetic acid
                                                   105

   (75 mL) and the reaction was heated to 140 0 C for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed
   to cool at a temperature of about 25 0 C before addition of water (100 mL) and the resulting
   aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 20 mL). The combined organic phases
   were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution (3 x 30 mL), dried over sodium
 5 sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the compound as a brown oil. The
   oil was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 0.5% ethyl acetate in hexane to
   provide pale yellow oil (1.6 g, 20%) which was confirmed by 'H NMR. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl3) 6 7.53 (1H, t, 3.3Hz) 7.45 (lH, d, 8.5Hz), 7.04 (iH, d, 2.0Hz), 6.88 (IH, dd, 8.5,
   2.3Hz), 6.70 (1H, dd, 2.2, 0.9Hz), 3.86 (3H, s).
10          6-Methoxy-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonyl chloride
           To a solution of 6-methoxy-1-benzofuran (1.6 g, 10.8 mmol) in THF (20 mL) at -78 0 C
   was added n-BuLi (2.5 M solution in hexanes, 4.8 mL, 11.8 mmol) drop wise and stirring was
   continued at this temperature for 1 hour. Sulfur dioxide gas was bubbled into the reaction
   mixture maintaining the temperature of -50 0 C for 1 hour and stirring was continued at this
15 temperature for a further 1 hour. To this solution was added N-chlorosuccinamide (2.2 g, 16
   mmol) and the reaction mixture was warmed from at -20 0 C to a temperature of about 25 0 C
   over 18 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with water (25 mL) and the organics
   extracted into ethyl acetate (2 x 20 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
   under reduced pressure. The sulfonyl chloride was chromatographed with a silica gel column
20 eluting with 2% ethyl acetate in hexane to provide a green solid (0.8 g, 30% yield). 'H NMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 7.61 (1H, d, 8.8Hz), 7.59 (IH, d, 0.9Hz), 7.09 (1H, d, 2.1Hz), 7.05 (IH,
   dd, 8.8, 2.2Hz), 3.91 (s, 3H).
           N-Hydroxy-6-methoxy-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonamide
   To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (1.6 mL of a 50% solution, 33.0 mmol) in THF (18
25 mL) was added 6-methoxy-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonyl chloride solution (2.3 g, 9.3 mmol) in
   THF (6 mL) drop wise at 0 0 C. The reaction was stirred for 30 minutes, and TLC indicated
   substantially complete consumption of the starting material. The reaction mixture was diluted
   with diethyl ether (50 mL) and washed with water (2 x 15 mL), dried over sodium sulfate and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the compound which was tritiated using 5%
30 DCM pentane yielding the desired product as an off white solid (0.9 g, 40% yield).    1H  NMR
   (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.13 (1H, d, 2.2Hz), 9.80 (1H, d, 1.9Hz), 7.69 (1H, d, 8.7Hz), 7.63 (lH,
                                                   106

   d, 0.9Hz), 7.32 (1H, d, 2.0Hz), 7.03 (1H, dd, 8.7, 2.2Hz), 3.85 (3H, s).
   Example 26: 2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-4-methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide              (14)
           To a solution of hydroxylamine (1.5 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 23.9 mmol) in
 5 tetrahydrofuran (12 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to -10 C was added 2-fluoro-4
   methylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (2.0 g, 9.6 mmol) portion wise so as to maintain the
   temperature below 00 C. The reaction was stirred for 5 minutes, after which time LC-MS
   indicated complete consumption of starting material. The reaction was diluted with diethyl
   ether (30 mL) and the organic portion was washed with 10% citric acid solution (10 mL)
10 before being separated and dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure. Trituration with heptanes:diethyl ether provided the N-hydroxy-sulfonamide
   as an off-white solid (1.06 g, 58% yield).  1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.67 (2H, s), 7.69
   (1H, t, 7.8Hz), 7.29 (1H, d, 11.5Hz), 7.23 (1H, d, 8.0Hz), 2.40 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]- =
   204.0131; observed [M-H]-    = 204.0175.
15
   Example 27: N-Hydroxy-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-5-sulfonamide           (15)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.7 mL of a 50% solution, 10.65 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (6 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly added 2,1,3
   benzothiadiazole-5-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 4.3 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of
20 less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete consumption
   of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 5 min.), after which time the reaction
   was diluted with ethyl acetate (20 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with
   water (2 x 5 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure
   to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an orange solid, further washing with sodium
25 bicarbonate solution (10 mL) was required to remove sulfinic acid impurities. Trituration was
   carried out using heptanes:DCM (9:1, v:v) to provide the title compound as a orange solid
   (0.53 g, 54% yield).   1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.94 (1H, d, 3.2Hz), 9.84 (1H, d,
   3.2Hz), 8.62-8.53 (1H, m), 8.42-8.32 (1H, m), 8.04 (1H, dd, 9.2, 1.7Hz).
                                                  107

   Example 28: N-Hydroxy-4-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide                (16)
            3-(Methylsulfanyl) thiophene
            To a solution of 3-bromothiophene (3.3 g, 0.02 mol) in heptane (30 mL) at -40'C was
   added a solution of n-butyllithium (8.5 mL of a 2.5M solution in hexanes) dropwise.
 5 Tetrahydrofuran (3 mL) was added to the flask and the 3-lithiothiophene precipitated as a
   white solid and the reaction mixture was warmed to a temperature of about 25'C. Methyl
   disulfide (1.97 mL, 0.02 mol) was added dropwise to the resulting solution and the reaction
   mixture was stirred for 1 hour at a temperature of about 25'C. Water (10 mL) was added to
   the flask, the organic layer separated, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
10 under reduced pressure to provide 3-(methylsulfanyl)thiophene as a colorless oil (2.6 g, 98%
   yield).  1H NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 7.34 (1H, dd, J=5.0, 3.0Hz), 7.01 (1H, dd,
   J=5.0, 1.3Hz), 6.99 (1H, dd, J=3.0, 1.3Hz), 2.49 (3H, s).
            3-Methanesulfonylthiophene
            To a solution of 3-(methylsulfanyl)thiophene (2.6 g, 19.96 mmol) in acetic acid (20
15 mL) was added hydrogen peroxide (4.53 mL of a 30% aqueous solution, 39.93 mmol). The
   reaction was heated to reflux for 3 hours and allowed to cool to a temperature of about 25'C
   for 18 hours before the acetic acid was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting
   organics were dissolved in ethyl acetate (30 mL) and the whole was washed with saturated
   sodium bicarbonate solution (2 x 10 mL). The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate,
20 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide a yellow oil which solidified on
   standing and was used directly in the next step (2.2 g, 67.9% yield).    1H NMR (500 MHz,
   chloroform-d) 6 ppm 8.11 (1H, dd, J=3.1, 1.2Hz), 7.49 (1H, dd, J=5.1, 3.1Hz), 7.43 (1H, dd,
   J=5.2, 1.3Hz), 3.11 (3H, s).
            4-Methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride
25          Chlorosulfonic acid (8.11 mL, 0.12 mol) was added to 3-methanesulfonylthiophene
   (2.2 g, 13.56 mmol) and the suspension was heated to 90'C for 1 hour. The solution was
   allowed to cool to a temperature of about 25'C and poured onto ice (100 mL). The sulfonyl
   chloride was extracted into dichloromethane (3 x 50 mL) dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
   and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a fawn solid (3.16 g,
                                                   108

   89% yield).   1HNMR
                           (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 8.50 (1H, d,J=1.6Hz), 8.17 (1H, d,
   J=1.6Hz), 3.19 (3H, s).
           N-Hydroxy-4-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (2.03 mL of a 50% aqueous solution, 30.68
 5 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (12 mL) and water (3 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 4
   methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (3.2 g, 12.27 mmol) maintaining a reaction
   temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until
   substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC (about 15
   min.), after which time the reaction was diluted with diethyl ether (25 mL) and the organic
10 portion was separated, washed with water (2 x 10 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an off white
   solid. Trituration was carried out using diethyl ether to provide the title compound as an off
   white solid (1.34 g, 42.4% yield). LC-MS tR = 0.91 min, [M-H]-      = 256; 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.02 (1H, d, J=3.OHz), 9.96 (1H, d, J=3.2Hz), 8.73 (1H, d, J=1.6Hz), 7.98
15 (1H, d, J=1.6Hz), 3.33 (3H, s).
   Example 29: 5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-2-methoxybenzene-1-sulfonamide                 (17)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (2.89 mL of a 50% solution, 43.78 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (30 mL) and water (5 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly added 5-bromo-2
20 methoxybenzene-1- sulfonyl chloride (5 g, 17.51 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of
   less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete consumption
   of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 5 min), after which time the reaction
   was diluted with dichloromethane (50 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with
   water (2 x 10 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure
25 to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an off white solid. Trituration was carried out using
   heptanes:DCM (1:1, v:v) to provide the title compound as an off white solid (2.94 g, 60%
   yield). LC-MS    tR = 1.66 min, [M-H]- = 281; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.68 (s, 1H),
   9.39-9.17 (m, 1H), 7.85 (dd, J=8.9, 2.6Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J=2.5Hz, 1H), 7.24 (d, J=8.9Hz, 1H),
   3.90 (s, 3H).
                                                  109

   Example 30: 4-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,5-dimethylbenzene-1-sulfonamide              (18)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (3.45 mL of a 50% solution, 52.28 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (30 mL) and water (5 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 4-chloro-2,5
   dimethylbenzene -1-sulfonyl chloride (5 g, 20.91 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of
 5 less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete consumption
   of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 5 min), after which time the reaction
   was diluted with dichloromethane (50 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with
   water (2 x 10 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure
   to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an off white solid. Trituration was carried out using
10 heptanes:DCM (1:1, v:v) to provide the title compound as a white solid (3.26 g, 66% yield).
   LC-MS    tR =  1.86 min, [M-H]- = 234; 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.59 (s, 2H), 7.78 (s,
   1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 2.55 (s, 3H), 2.36 (s, 3H).
   Example 31: NN-Diethyl-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)thiophene-2-carboxamide               (19)
           N,N-Diethylthiophene-2-carboxamide
15         To a solution of diethylamine (4.9 g, 68.2 mmol) in DCM (100 mL) was sequentially
   added triethylamine (6.9 g, 68.2 mmol) and thiophene-2-carbonyl chloride (10 g, 68.2 mmol)
   and the resulting solution was stirred for 8 hours at a temperature of about 25'C. The reaction
   mixture was diluted with DCM (50 mL) and washed with water (2 x 50 mL) and the organic
   phase was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to
20 provide the product as a brown liquid (11.0 g, 87% yield).   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 7.42
   (1H, dd, 5.0, 1.1Hz), 7.32 (1H, dd, 3.7, 1.1Hz), 7.04 (1H, dd, 5.0, 3.6Hz), 3.54 (4H, q, 7.1Hz),
   1.26 (6H, t, 7.1Hz).
           5-(Diethylcarbamoyl)thiophene-2-sulfonylchloride
           To an ice cold solution of NN-diethylthiophene-2-carboxamide (15.0 g, 81.8 mmol)
25 was added chlorosulfonic acid (38.2 g, 327 mmol) drop wise, and the resulting solution was
   stirred at 00 C for 30 minutes before being heated to 80' C for 12 hours. The reaction mixture
   was quenched by addition to ice and the resulting acidic solution was extracted into DCM (20
   mL), dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the
   sulfonyl chloride as a mixture of isomers. The desired compound was obtained by
30 chromatographing with a silica gel column eluting with 18% EtOAc:hexane (1.9 g, 8% yield).
                                                   110

   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 7.79 (1H, d, 4.1Hz), 7.28 (IH, t, 3.6Hz), 3.53 (4H, q, 7.1Hz),
   1.28 (6H, t, 7.1Hz).
           N,N-Diethyl-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
           A solution of 5-(diethylcarbamoyl)thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (1.8 g, 6.3 mmol) in
 5 THF (20 mL) was added to a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.5 g, 15.8 mmol) in water
   (5 mL) and THF (20 mL), maintaining a temperature of -10 C to -5'C. The resulting reaction
   was stirred at this temperature for 40 minutes after which time the reaction was seen to be
   substantially complete by TLC. The reaction was poured into ethyl acetate (50 mL) and
   washed with water (20 mL). The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
10 concentrated under reduced pressure to give the title compound as an off white solid (1.9 g).
   The desired N-hydroxysulfonamide was isolated by trituration with DCM:n-pentane (2:8; v:v)
   to provide a white solid (1.0 g, 56% yield). 'H NMR (360 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.90 (1H, d,
   3.2Hz) 9.85 (1H, d, 3.2Hz) 7.59 (1H, d, 4.1Hz) 7.45 (1H, d, 4.1Hz) 3.45 (4H, q, 6.8Hz) 1.16
   (6H, t, 6.4Hz); predicted [M-H]-  =  277.0317; observed [M-H]-  = 277.0316.
15
   Example 32: 5-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide              (20)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (1.5 mL of a 50% solution, 23.9 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (10 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added a solution of 5
   fluoro-2-methylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (2.0 g, 9.6 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (2 mL)
20 maintaining a reaction temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this
   temperature until complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS
   (about 10 min), after which time the reaction was diluted with diethyl ether (30 mL) and the
   organic portion was separated and washed with IM citric acid solution (10 mL), dried over
   magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N
25 hydroxysulfonamide as an off white solid (0.64 g, 32.1% yield). 'H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO
   d6) 6 ppm 9.77 (iH, m), 9.72 (111, m), 7.59 (1H, dd, 8.7, 2.0Hz), 7.49 (IH, m), 7.46 (1H, m),
   2.58 (1H, d, 0.8Hz); predicted [M-H]-   = 204.0131; observed [M-H]-   = 204.0129.
                                                  111

   Example 33: N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide               (21)
           4-[(Thiophen-2-yl)carbonyl]morpholine
           To a solution of morpholine (3.3 mL, 37 mmol) and diisopropylethylamine (6.5 mL, 37
   mmol) in dichloromethane (50 mL) cooled to 00 C was added thiophene-2-carbonyl chloride (5
 5 g, 34 mmol) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at a temperature of about
   25'C before quenching by the addition of IN HCl solution (20 mL). The organic portion was
   washed with water (10 mL) and dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the title compound (7.01 g, 65% yield). 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.76 (1H, dd, 5.0, 1.1Hz), 7.42 (lH, dd, 3.7, 1.2Hz), 7.12 (1H, dd, 4.9,
10 3.7Hz), 3.53-3.71 (8H, m).
           5-[(Morpholin-4-yl)carbonyl]thiophene-2-sulfonylchloride
           Chlorosulfonic acid (45.57 mL, 684.4 mmol) was added to 4-[(thiophen-2
   yl)carbonyl]morpholine (13.5 g, 68.44 mmol) and the suspension was heated to 100 0 C for 2
   hours. The solution was allowed to cool to a temperature of about 25'C and poured onto ice
15 (500 mL). The sulfonyl chloride was extracted into dichloromethane (3 x 100 mL) dried over
   sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound
   as a mixture of isomers (16.5 g) which were separated by silica gel column eluting with 0-50%
   ethyl acetate:heptanes gradient (4.15 g, 20.5% yield). 'H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm
   7.19 (1H, d, J=3.7Hz), 7.07 (1H, d, J=3.8Hz), 3.62 (8H, s). The other isomer (5-(morpholine
20 4-carbonyl)thiophene-3-sulfonyl chloride) was isolated for use in the synthesis of the
   corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (1.4 g, 6.5% yield).    1H  NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d)
   6 ppm 8.35 (1H, d, J=1.4Hz), 7.63 (1H, d, J=1.3Hz), 3.78 (8H, s).
           N-Hydroxy-5-[(morpholin-4-yl) carbonyl]thiophene-2-sulfonamide
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (1.12 mL of a 50% solution, 16.91 mmol) in
25 tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly added a solution of 5
   [(morpholin-4-yl)carbonyl]thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (2 g, 6.76 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran
   (10 mL) maintaining a reaction temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at
   this temperature until complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS
   (about 10 min), after which time the reaction was diluted with diethyl ether (30 mL) and the
                                                 112

   organic portion was separated and washed with water (10 mL), dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an
   off white solid. Trituration was carried out using heptane to provide the title compound as a
   white solid (0.24 g, 12.4% yield). LC-MS tR = 1.11 min, [M+H]      =  293; 'H NMR (500 MHz,
 5 DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.90 (1H, s), 9.85 (1H, s), 7.60 (1H, d, J=3.9Hz), 7.48 (1H, d, J=3.9Hz),
   3.63 (8H, s).
   Example 34: 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide              (22)
            N-(Propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
            To a solution of isopropylamine (3.2 mL, 37 mmol) and diisopropylethylamine (5.3
10 mL, 37 mmol) in dichloromethane (50 mL) cooled to 00 C was added thiophene-2-carbonyl
   chloride (5 g, 34 mmol) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hours at a
   temperature of about 25'C before quenching by the addition of IN HCl solution. The organic
   portion was washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the title compound (5.78 g, 99% yield).
15          5-[(Propan-2-yl)carbamoyl]thiophene-2-sulfonylchloride
            Chlorosulfonic acid (23 mL, 337 mmol) was added to N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene-2
   carboxamide (5.7 g, 33.7 mmol) and the suspension was heated to 100 0 C for 90 minutes. The
   solution was allowed to cool to a temperature of about 25'C and poured onto ice (300 mL).
   The sulfonyl chloride was extracted into dichloromethane (3 x 100 mL) dried over sodium
20 sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a
   mixture of isomers which were separated by silica gel column eluting with 0 -3 0 % ethyl
   acetate:heptanes gradient (1.6 g, 17.7% yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.97
   (1H, d, 6.7Hz), 7.30 (1H, d, 3.8Hz), 6.83 (1H, d, 3.8Hz), 3.71-3.82 (1H, m), 0.90 (6H, d,
   6.7Hz). The other isomer (5-[(propan-2-yl)carbamoyl]thiophene-3-sulfonyl chloride) was
25 isolated from this synthesis and used to make the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (2.3 g,
   25.5% yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 8.36 (1H, d, 7.8Hz), 7.91 (1H, d,
   1.2Hz), 7.64 (1H, d, 1.2Hz), 4.01 (1H, sept., 6.8Hz), 1.13 (6H, d, 6.6Hz).
            5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(propan-2-yl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.99 mL of a 50% solution, 15 mmol) in
                                                  113

   tetrahydrofuran (10 mL) and water (1.6 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 5-[(propan-2
   yl)carbamoyl]thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (1.6 g, 5.98 mmol) portionwise maintaining a
   reaction temperature of less than 100 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until
   complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 10 min), after
 5 which time the reaction was diluted with diethyl ether (30 mL) and the organic portion was
   separated and washed with water (10 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
   under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a white solid (0.7 g, 44%
   yield). 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.86 (IH, br. s.), 9.80 (lH, s), 8.57 (1H, d,
   7.8Hz), 7.81 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.63 (1H, d, 4.1Hz), 3.95-4.21 (1H, m), 1.16 (6H, d, 6.6Hz);
10 predicted [M-H]-   = 263.0160; observed [M-H]-   = 263.0161.
   Example 35: N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide             (23)
           5-Methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride
           Chlorosulfonic acid (14.4 mL, 215 mmol) was added to 2-methanesulfonylthiophene
   (5.0 g, 30.8 mmol) and the reaction was heated to 90'C for 1 hour. The resulting colored
15 solution was poured onto ice and the organic portion extracted into DCM (2 x 30 mL), dried
   over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the desired
   sulfonyl chloride as a mixture with the undesired 2,4 isomer and the mixture was used directly
   in the synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (4.6 g, 26% yield). LC-MS      tR =
   1.92 min; [M-Cl+OH+H]*       = 240.80; 'H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) d 7.57 (1H, d, 3.8Hz),
20 7.18 (1H, d, 3.8Hz), 3.31 (3H, s).
           N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (1.6 mL of a 50% aqueous solution, 24 mmol)
   in THF (10 mL) and water (2 mL) at -10 C was added 5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl
   chloride (1.3 g, 4.8 mmol) portion wise maintaining and internal temperature of -5'C. Stirring
25 was continued at low temperature until complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was
   observed by LC-MS. DCM (20 mL) was added and the reaction was washed with water (5
   mL). The organics were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced
   pressure to provide the desired N-hydroxysulfonamide as a mixture with the undesired 2,4
   isomer as an off white solid. Separation of the two isomers was achieved by acidic reverse
                                                  114

   phase preparative HPLC yielding the desired 2,5-isomer (0.5 g, 41% yield). 'H NMR (500
   MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 10.09 (2H, s), 7.91 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.75 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 3.48 (s, 3H).
   Example 36: N-Hydroxy-2,1,3-benzothiadiazole-4-sulfonamide             (24)
 5         To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.7 mL of a 50% solution, 10.65 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (6 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 2,1,3
   benzothiadiazole-4-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 4.3 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of
   less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete consumption
   of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 5 min), after which time the reaction
10 was diluted with dichloromethane (20 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with
   water (2 x 5 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure
   to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a yellow solid which was triturated with heptane and
   dried under reduced pressure (0.59 g, 59.9% yield). LC-MS     tR =  1.26 min, [M-H]- = 230; 1H
   NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.73 (s, 2H), 8.45 (dd, J=8.8, 0.9Hz, 1H), 8.28 (dd, J=7.0,
15 0.9Hz, 1H), 7.92 (dd, J=8.8, 7.1Hz, 1H); predicted [M-H]-   = 229.9694; observed [M-H]-=
   229.9687.
   Example 37: N-Hydroxy-2-methoxybenzene-1-sulfonamide              (25)
           To a solution of hydroxylamine HCl (1.31 g, 18.9 mmol) in water (1.6 mL) cooled to
   00 C was added a solution of potassium carbonate (2.62 g, 18.9 mmol) in water (2.4 mL)
20 dropwise maintaining an internal reaction temperature between 5oC and 15'C. The reaction
   mixture was stirred for 15 minutes, whereupon tetrahydrofuran (8 mL) and methanol (2.0 mL)
   were added. 2-methoxybenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1.96 g, 9.48 mmol) was added
   portionwise maintaining a temperature below 15'C and the reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C
   until substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC. The
25 resulting suspension was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove any volatiles and the
   aqueous suspension was extracted with diethyl ether (2 x 50 mL). The organic portion was
   dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the
   N-hydroxy sulfonamide as a white solid (0.4 g, 21% yield).    1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6
   ppm 9.53 (1H, d, J=3.4Hz), 8.99 (1H, d, J=3.4Hz), 7.76 (1H, dd, J=7.8, 1.7Hz), 7.62-7.67
                                                  115

   (1H, m), 7.23 (1H, d, J=8.3Hz), 7.11 (1H, t, J=7.6Hz), 3.89 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-  =
   202.0174; observed [M-H]-     = 202.0155.
   Example 38: N-Hydroxypyridine-3-sulfonamide (26)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (11.07 mL of a 50% solution, 167.5 mmol) in
 5 tetrahydrofuran (40 mL) cooled to -15'C was slowly added a suspension of pyridine-3
   sulfonyl chloride (11.9 g, 67 mmol) in THF (30 mL) and the temperature was remained below
   2 0 C-3 C throughout the addition and stirring was continued for an additional 10 minutes, after
   which time LC-MS showed complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. Dichloromethane
   (50 mL) and water (25 mL) were added and the mixture was shaken, the two layers were
10 separated and the aqueous layer was further extracted with dichloromethane (1x 50 mL). The
   combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give a solid
   which was insoluble in dichloromethane and was triturated with dichloromethane:heptane (1:1
   v:v) to give the title compound as a white solid (3.47 g, 29.7% yield).  1H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.85 (1H, d, J=2.8Hz), 9.80 (1H, s), 8.95 (1H, d, J=2.2Hz), 8.87 (1H, dd,
15 J=4.8, 1.5Hz), 8.20 (1H, dt, J=8.0, 1.9Hz), 7.69 (1H, dd, J=8.0, 4.9Hz), predicted [M+H]*=
   175.0177; observed [M+H]* = 175.0172.
   Example 39: N-Hydroxy-3,5-dimethyl-1,2-oxazole-4-sulfonamide            (27)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (22.79 mL of a 50% solution, 0.35 mol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (160 mL) and water (27 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly added dimethyl-1,2
20 oxazole-4-sulfonyl chloride (27 g, 138.02 mmol) portionwise maintaining a reaction
   temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 10 min), after which
   time the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (250 mL) and the organic portion was
   separated, washed with water (2 x 30 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
25 under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a white solid. Trituration was
   carried out using heptanes to provide the title compound as a white solid (16.16 g, 60.9%
   yield). LC-MS    tR =  1.08 min, [M+H]*= 193; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.79 (d,
   J=2.8Hz, 1H), 9.64 (d, J=2.8Hz, 1H), 2.60 (s, 3H), 2.35 (s, 3H).
                                                   116

   Example 40: N-Hydroxy-5-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)thiophene-3-sulfonamide                 (28)
            5-(Morpholine-4-carbonyl)thiophene-3-sulfonylchloride
            To 4-(thiophene-2-carbonyl)morpholine (15 g, 76.04 mmol) was added chlorosulfonic
   acid (35.44 g, 304.18 mmol) dropwise at -5 to 0' C under a nitrogen atmosphere. The
 5 temperature was maintained at 0 0 C for 30 min before stirring at a temperature of about 25'C
   for 1 hour. No reaction was observed and the temperature was increased to 800 C for another
   12 hours. The resulting slurry was poured onto ice water (500 mL) and extracted into
   dichloromethane (30 mL) before being dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to give the compound as a mixture of isomers. The sulfonyl chloride was
10 chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc:hexane (30% EtOAc) to
   provide the title compound as a colorless oil (3.0 g, 13.34% yield). LC-MS     tR = 1.18 min,
   [M+H]*    = 293; 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 8.35 (d, J=1.3Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J=1.4Hz, 1H),
   4.12 (d, J=7.1Hz, 1H), 3.78 (s, 8H), 2.09 (s, 1H), 2.05 (s, 1H), 1.26 (t, J=7.1Hz, 1H).
   Example 41: 1-N-Hydroxy-2-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene-1,2-disulfonamide               (29)
15          2-Fluoro-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene-1-sulfonamide
            A solution of 2-fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride (3.6 mL, 27.4 mmol) in DCM (50 mL)
   was cooled at 00 C and propan-2-amine (3.5 mL, 41.2 mmol) was added followed by pyridine
   (3.3 mL, 41.2 mmol). The reaction was left to warm to a temperature of about 25'C and
   stirring was continued for 1 hour. The reaction was quenched by the addition of IM sodium
20 hydroxide solution (10 mL) and the resulting organic portion was washed with water (10 mL),
   IM aqueous HCl (10 mL) and brine (10 mL) before being dried over magnesium sulfate,
   filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give an oil that solidified
   upon standing (4.95 g, 83% yield).    1H N MR (250 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 7.91 (1H, td, 7.6,
   1.8Hz), 7.64-7.48 (1H, m), 7.26 (2H, m), 4.65 (1H, d, 6.5Hz), 3.63-3.40 (1H, m, 6.7Hz), 1.10
25 (6H, d, 6.5Hz).
            2-(Benzylsulfanyl)-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene-1-sulfonamide
            To a solution of phenylmethanethiol (648 pL, 5.52 mmol) in DMSO (8 mL) was added
   NaOH (0.28 g, 6.9 mmol) and the reaction was left to stir for 20 minutes (until NaOH pellet
   dissolved). 2-Fluoro-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene-1-sulfonamide (645 pL, 4.6 mmol) was added
30 and the reaction mixture was heated at 75'C for 18 hours. The reaction was allowed to cool to
                                                  117

   a temperature of about 25'C and water (1 mL) was added. The reaction was subsequently
   acidified with concentrated HCl before extraction of the organic portion into ethyl acetate (2 x
   10 mL). The combined organics were washed with water (5 mL) and brine (5 mL) before
   being dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give
 5 an oil which was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with a 7 - 5 0 % ethyl
   acetate:heptanes gradient to provide the desired compound as a yellow oil which solidified on
   standing and was subsequently triturated with heptanes to provide an off white solid (1.1 g
   71% yield). 1H NMR (250 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 8.14-8.00 (1H, m), 7.45-7.23 (8H, m), 5.35
   (1H, d, 7.2Hz), 4.24 (2H, s), 3.37 (1H, sept., 6.6Hz), 0.98 (6H, d, 6.5Hz)
10          2-[(Propan-2-yl)sulfamoyl]benzene-1-sulfonylchloride
            A solution of 2-(benzylsulfanyl)-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene-1-sulfonamide (1.5 g, 4.67
   mmol) in acetonitrile (46 mL), acetic acid (1.8 mL) and water (1.2 mL) was cooled at
   0 0 C(extemal) and 1,3-dichloro-5,5-dimethylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (1.84 g, 9.33 mmol) was
   added in one portion and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour at 00 C. The reaction was diluted
15 with DCM (50 mL) and the organic portion was washed with aqueous saturated sodium
   bicarbonate solution (10 mL) and brine (20 mL) before being dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide a colorless oil which was
   chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with a 5-40% heptane:EtOAc gradient to
   provide the title compound as a white solid (0.8 g, 52% yield).   1H NMR (250 MHz,
20 chloroform-d) 6 8.36 (21H, dt, 7.9, 1.5Hz), 7.95-7.77 (2H, m), 5.50 (1H, d, 7.3Hz), 3.66-3.42
   (1H, m), 1.06 (6H, d, 6.6Hz).
            1-N-Hydroxy-2-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene-1, 2-disulfonamide
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.8 mL of a 50% solution, 11.7 mmol) was
   added THF (6 mL) and water (1.5 mL) and the solution was cooled to -100 C. To this cold
25 solution was added drop wise a solution of 2-[(propan-2-yl)sulfamoyl]benzene-1-sulfonyl
   chloride (1.4 g, 4.7 mmol) in THF (3 mL) while the temperature remained below 2-3'C
   throughout the addition. The reaction mixture was stirred at 00 C for 10 minutes whereupon
   LC-MS showed complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with
   DCM (10 mL) and was washed with water (2 mL). The aqueous layer was further extracted
30 into DCM (10 mL) and the organic layers were combined and dried over magnesium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give an oil. This oil was dissolved in a
                                                   118

   minimum amount of DCM and then heptane was added at which time a white solid
   precipitated. The precipitated solid was collected by filtration, washed with heptane and dried
   under reduced pressure to provide 1-N-hydroxy-2-N-(propan-2-yl)benzene- 1,2-disulfonamide
   as a white solid (0.6 g, 42% yield). 'H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 10.06 (IH, d, 3.4Hz),
 5 9.09 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 8.25-8.08 (2H, m), 8.01-7.78 (2H, m), 7.02 (1H, d, 7.5Hz), 3.41 (1H, dd,
   13.5, 6.8Hz), 0.98 (6H, d, 6.5Hz).
   Example 42: 5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazole-4-sulfonamide              (30)
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (1.4 mL of a 50% solution, 0.02 mol) in
10 tetrahydrofuran (12 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 5-chloro-1,3
   dimethyl-1H-pyrazole-4-sulfonyl chloride (2 g, 8.7 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature
   of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until substantially
   complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC (about 5 min), after
   which time the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (20 mL) and the organic portion
15 was separated, washed with water (2 x 5 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. The solid was isolated by trituration from
   heptanes:diethyl ether (1:1 v:v) to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a white solid (1.16 g,
   58% yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.56 (lH, d, 2.1Hz), 9.39 (1H, d, 2.3Hz),
   3.77 (3H, s), 2.30 (3H, s), predicted [M-H]-  = 223.9897; observed [M-H]-  =  223.9893.
20 Example 43: N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-4-sulfonamide              (31)
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.91 mL of a 50% solution, 13.84 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (3 mL) and water (1 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly added 1-methyl-1H
   pyrazole-4-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 5.54 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of less than
   10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until substantially complete
25 consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC (about 5 min), after which time the
   reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (10 mL) followed by (200 mL due to low
   solubility) and the organic portion was separated, washed with water (2 x 5 mL), dried over
   sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N
   hydroxysulfonamide as a white solid (641 mg, 65% yield). LC-MS tR = 0.38 min, [M+H]*=
                                                   119

   179; 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.52 (s, 1H), 9.26 (s, IH), 8.26 (s, 1H), 7.72 (s, 1H),
   3.89 (s, 3H).
   Example 44: N-Hydroxypyridine-2-sulfonamide (32)
           A solution of potassium carbonate (6.2 g, 45.0 mmol) in water (4.8 mL) was added
 5 drop wise to a solution of hydroxylamine hydrochloride (3.11 g, 45.0 mmol) in water (7.2 mL)
   at 00 C maintaining an internal reaction temperature between 5'C and 15 C. Tetrahydrofuran
   (24 mL) and methanol (6 mL) were added, followed by pyridine-2-sulfonyl chloride (4.0 g,
   21.5 mmol) portion wise maintaining a temperature below 15'C and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at a temperature of about 25 C until substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl
10 chloride was observed by TLC. The resulting suspension was concentrated to remove any
   volatiles and the aqueous suspension was diluted with diethyl ether (50 mL) and the reaction
   was washed with water (10 mL). The organics were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. Recrystallization of the desired compound was achieved
   from diethyl ether provide the expected product as a white solid (1.2 g, 31% yield).   1H NMR
15 (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.98 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 9.60 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 8.78 (1H, ddd, 4.6, 1.7,
   1.0Hz), 8.10 (1H, dd, 7.6, 1.7Hz), 8.01 (1H, dt, 7.8, 1.0Hz), 7.71 (1H, ddd, 7.6, 4.6, 1.2Hz);
   predicted [M-H]-   = 173.0021; observed [M-H]-   = 173.0001.
   Example 45: 3-Bromo-N-hydroxypyridine-2-sulfonamide (33)
20         3-Bromo-2-mercaptopyridine
           To a solution of 2-chloro-3-bromopyridine (0.5 g, 2.5 mmol) in ethanol (5 mL) and
   water (1 mL) in a pressure tube was added sodium hydrogen sulfide (0.73 g, 13 mmol). The
   reaction was heated to 140'C for 18 hours after which time no starting material remained. The
   product was taken up in ethyl acetate (10 mL) and was washed with a solution of 10%
25 potassium carbonate solution (5 mL). The resulting aqueous extract was acidified to pH 5
   with 6N hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 25 mL). The organic phase
   was died over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure (0.41 g, 84%
   yield).  1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 8.05 (lH, dd, 7.5, 1.6Hz), 7.75 (1H, d, 5.1Hz),
   6.66 (1H, dd, 7.6, 6.1Hz).
                                                  120

            3-Bromopyridine-2-sulfonyl chloride
            To a solution of 2-mercapto-3-bromo-pyridine (5.3 g, 27.5 mmol) in concentrated
   hydrochloric acid (20 mL) cooled to 00 C was added chlorine gas at a constant rate until
   substantially complete saturation was achieved. Upon reaction completion the sulfonyl
 5 chloride was added to ice water and the resulting aqueous phase extracted with
   dichloromethane (3 x 100 mL). The combined organics were dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The sulfonyl chloride was used directly in
   the synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide.
            3-Bromo-N-hydroxypyridine-2-sulfonamide
10          A solution of potassium carbonate (3.21 g, 23.3 mmol) in water (3.6 mL) was added
   drop wise to a solution of hydroxylamine hydrochloride (1.61 g, 23.3 mmol) in water (2.4 mL)
   at 00 C maintaining an internal reaction temperature between 5'C and 15 C. Tetrahydrofuran
   (12 mL) and methanol (3 mL) were added, followed by 3-bromopyridine-2-sulfonyl chloride
   (3.0 g, 11.65 mmol) portion wise maintaining a temperature below 15'C and the reaction
15 mixture was stirred at a temperature of about 25 C until substantially complete consumption of
   the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC. The resulting suspension was concentrated to
   remove any volatiles and the aqueous suspension was diluted with diethyl ether (50 mL) and
   the reaction was washed with water (10 mL). The aqueous portion was re-extracted with
   diethyl ether (2 x 15 mL) and the combined organics were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
20 and concentrated under reduced pressure. The N-hydroxysulfonamide was chromatographed
   with a silica gel column eluting with a heptanes:ethyl acetate gradient to provide the expected
   product as a white solid (0.4 g, 5% yield). 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.34 (1H,
   d, 2.9Hz), 9.62 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 8.71 (1H, dd, 4.5, 1.3Hz), 8.37 (1H, dd, 8.2, 1.3Hz), 7.62 (1H,
   dd, 8.1, 4.4Hz); predicted [M-H]-  =  250.9126; observed [M-H]-  = 250.9135.
25
   Example 46: 4-N-Hydroxythiophene-2,4-disulfonamide (34)
            4-N-Hydroxythiophene-2,4-disulfonamide was synthesized from 5
   sulfamoylthiophene-3-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 3.8 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.25 g, 26 5 yield). 'H NMR (250 MHz,
30 DMSO-d6) 6 10.05 (s, 2H), 9.99 (s, 1H), 9.80 (s, 1H), 8.60 (IH, d, J 1.5Hz), 7.83 (1H, d,
   1.5Hz).
                                                  121

   Example 47: N-Hydroxy-4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide               (35)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.3 mL of a 50% solution, 4.2 mmol) was
   added THF (3 mL) and water (0.5 mL) and the solution was cooled to -100 C. To this cold
   solution was added 4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (0.5 g, 1.7 mmol)
 5 portion wise while the temperature remained below 2-3'C throughout the addition. The
   reaction mixture was stirred at 00 C for 10 minutes whereupon LC-MS showed complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (10 mL) and was
   washed with water (2 mL). The aqueous layer was further extracted into DCM (10 mL) and
   the organic layers were combined and dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
10 under reduced pressure. The compound was triturated with diethyl ether to provide the desired
   compound as a white solid (0.2 g, 40% yield). 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.88
   (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 9.80 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 8.22 (1H, s), 7.67 (1H, s), 3.44-3.71 (8H, m); predicted
   [M-H]-  =  291.0109; observed [M-H]-     = 291.0110.
15 Example 48: N-Hydroxy-5-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2-oxazol-3-yl]thiophene
                    2-sulfonamide (36)
           N-Hydroxy-5-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2-oxazol-3-yl]thiophene-2-sulfonamide       was
   synthesized from 5-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2-oxazol-3-yl]thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (1 g,
20 3.2 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N
   hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated from diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as
   a white solid (0.7 g, 71% yield).   1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.98 (1H, s), 9.95
   (1H, br. s.), 8.17 (1H, s), 7.93 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.78 (1H, d, 3.8Hz); predicted [M-H]- =
   312.9565; observed [M-H]-      = 312.9564.
25
   Example 49: 6-Chloro-N-hydroxy-7H,7aH-imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]thiazole
                    5-sulfonamide (37)
           6-Chloro-N-hydroxy-7H,7aH-imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]thiazole-5-sulfonamide        was
30 synthesized from 6-chloro-7H,7aH-imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]thiazole-5-sulfonyl chloride (0.1 g, 0.4
   mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides
   and was triturated from diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.03 g,
                                                    122

   30% yield), 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.02 (1H, br. s.), 9.84 (lIH, s), 7.88 (1H,
   d, 4.6Hz), 7.61 (1H, d, 4.4Hz).
   Example 50: N-Hydroxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide               (38)
 5         N-Hydroxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide was synthesized from 5-(1,2
   oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (5.0 g, 20 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with heptanes to
   provide the desired compound as a white solid (2.6 g, 53% yield).      1H  NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.96 (1H, s), 9.92 (1H, br. s.), 8.74 (lH, s), 7.79 (1H, d, 3.8Hz), 7.7
10         3 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.13 (1H, s); predicted [M-H]-    = 244.9691; observed [M-H]-=
   244.9702.
   Example 51: 4-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide                 (39)
           4-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-2-methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide was synthesized from 4-fluoro
15 2-methylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 4.8 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with heptanes to
   provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.65 g, 65% yield).       1H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) d 9.60 (1H, s), 9.59 (1H, s), 7.89 (1H, dd, 8.7, 6.0Hz), 7.28-7.33 (1H, m), 7.26 (1H,
   t, 8.5Hz), 2.60 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-  =  204.0131; observed [M-H]-     = 204.0138.
20
   Example 52: N-Hydroxy-5-(1,3-oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide               (40)
           N-Hydroxy-5-(1,3-oxazol-5-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 5-(1,3
   oxazol-5-yl)-2-thiophenesulfonyl chloride according to the herein-described methods for the
   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.02 g, 1%).       1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm
25 9.91 (1H, s), 9.82 (1H, br. s.), 8.51 (1H, s), 7.77 (1H, s), 7.66 (1H, d, 3.7Hz), 7.56 (1H, d,
   3.5Hz).
   Example 53: N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylthiophene-3-sulfonamide               (41)
           N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylthiophene-3-sulfonamide was prepared from 2,5-dimethyl-3
30 thiophenesulfonyl chloride (2.0 g, 9.5 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for
                                                     123

   the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with heptanes to provide the
   desired compound as a yellow solid (0.5 g, 25%). 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.53
   (1H, d, 3.1Hz), 9.39 (1H, d, 3.1Hz), 6.89 (1H, s), 2.57 (3H, s), 2.38 (3H, s); predicted [M+H]*
   = 208.0102; observed [M+H]*     = 208.0374.
 5
   Example 54: Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-4-methylthiophene-2-carboxylate               (42)
            Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-4-methylthiophene-2-carboxylate was prepared from
   methyl 5-(chlorosulfonyl)-4-methyl-2-thiophenecarboxylate (2.0 g, 7.9 mmol) according to the
   herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with
10 diethyl ether:heptanes to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.96g, 49%). 'H
   NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 9.91 (1H, s), 9.89 (1H, br. s.), 7.74 (1H, s), 3.85 (3H, s), 2.44
   (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-  = 249.9844; observed [M-H]-    = 249.9832.
   Example 55: 5-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide              (43)
15          5-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide was synthesized from 5
   (benzenesulfonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (2.5 g, 7.7 mmol) according to the herein
   described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with
   a silica gel column eluting with a heptanes:ethyl acetate gradient followed by trituration with
   heptanes to provide the desired compound as a white solid (1.0 g, 40% yield). 'H NMR (500
20 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.12 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 10.05 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 8.06 (2H, d, 8.2Hz), 7.94
   (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.77 (1H, d, 7.3Hz), 7.64-7.73 (3H, m); predicted [M-H]-   =  317.9565;
   observed [M-H]-   = 317.9550.
   Example 56: N-Hydroxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-3-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide            (44)
25          N-Hydroxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-3-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonamide was synthesized from 5-(1,2
   oxazol-3-yl)thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (0.25 g, 1.0 mmol) according to the herein
   described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides to provide the desired
   compound as a white solid (0.18 g, 71% yield).    1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) d ppm 9.95
   (1H, d, 2.4Hz), 9.91 (1H, d, 2.7Hz), 8.75 (1H, s), 7.79 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.73 (1H, d, 3.8Hz),
30 7.14 (1H, s); predicted [M-H]-  = 244.9691; observed [M-H]-    = 244.9693.
                                                  124

   Example 57: 5-Bromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide (45)
           5-Bromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 5-bromothiophene
   sulfonyl chloride (2.0 g, 7.6 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the
   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated from diethyl ether to provide the
 5 desired compound as a white solid (1.2 g, 60%). 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.88
   (1H, s), 9.80 (1H, br. s.), 7.49 (1H, d, 4.0Hz), 7.40 (1H, d, 3.9Hz); predicted [M-H]-=
   255.8738; observed [M-H]-      = 255.8727.
   Example 58: 3,5-Dibromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide (46)
10         3,5-Dibromothiophene-2-sulfonylchloride
           To a solution of 2,4-dibromothiophene (2.0 g, 8.2 mmol) in DCM (10 mL) cooled to
   00 C was added chlorosulfonic acid (2.9 g, 24 mmol) drop wise. Stirring was continued for an
   additional 3 hours after which time the reaction was added to ice and the organic portion
   extracted into DCM (3 x 50 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
15 reduced pressure to provide the desired sulfonyl chloride which was used directly in the
   synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (1.8 g, 63% yield); 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.15 (1H, s).
           3,5-Dibromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide
   3,5-Dibromo-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 3,5-dibromothiophene-2
20 sulfonyl chloride (1.8 g, 5.2 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the
   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with a silica gel column
   eluting with heptanes:ethyl acetate (1:1 v:v) followed by trituration from diethyl ether:heptane
   to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.7 g, 40% yield).     1H  NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.02 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 9.93 (IH, d, 2.9Hz), 7.59 (1H, s); predicted [M-H]-      =
25 333.7843; observed [M-H]-      = 333.7949.
   Example 59: 5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-4-nitrothiophene-2-sulfonamide               (47)
           5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-4-nitrothiophene-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 5-chloro-4
   nitrothiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (2.0 g, 7.6 mmol) according to the herein-described
30 methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with a silica
   gel column eluting with heptanes:ethyl acetate (1:7 v:v) to provide the desired compound as an
                                                    125

   orange solid (0.95 g, 48% yield).   1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.19 (1H, d, 3.6Hz),
   8.05 (1H, s); predicted [M-H]-  = 256.9094; observed [M-H]-   = 256.9087.
   Example 60: 3-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide (48)
 5         3 Chloro-thiophene-2-sulfonylchloride
           To a solution of 3-chlorothiophene (20 g, 0.17 mol) in DCM (40 mL) cooled to 00 C
   was added chlorosulfonic acid (34 mL, 0.51 mol) and stirring was continued for 2 hours; after
   which time the reaction mixture was poured onto ice and the resulting solution was extracted
   into DCM (3 x 50 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced
10 pressure to provide the desired compound which was used directly in the next step (3.5 g,
   20%).   1H NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 7.75 (1H, d, 5.3Hz), 7.15 (1H, d, 5.3Hz).
           3-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide
           3-Chloro-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 3-chlorothiophene-2
   sulfonyl chloride (3.0 g, 13.8 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the
15 synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and re-crystallization from 5% ethyl acetate:heptanes to
   provide the desired compound as a white solid (1.39 g, 46% yield).   1H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.95 (1H, s.), 9.90 (iH, br. s.), 8.16 (1H, d, 5.4Hz), 7.35 (1H, d, 5.2Hz);
   predicted [M-H]-   = 211.9243; observed [M-H]-    = 211.9241.
20 Example 61: N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylbenzene-1-sulfonamide            (49)
           N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylbenzene-1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2,5
   dimethylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 4.9 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides to provide the desired compound as a
   white solid (0.6 g, 60% yield).  1H  NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.48-9.54 (2H, m), 7.66
25 (1H, d, 1.2Hz), 7.34-7.40 (1H, m), 7.25-7.31 (1H, m), 2.54 (3H, s), 2.34 (3H, s); predicted [M
   H]- = 200.0381; observed [M-H]-    =  200.0382.
   Example 62: 5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole-4-sulfonamide           (50)
           5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole-4-sulfonamide was prepared from 5-chloro
30 2,1,3-benzoxadiazole-4-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 3.9 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with a silica
                                                   126

   gel column eluting with heptanes:ethyl acetate (1:1 v:v) to provide the desired compound as an
   off white solid (0.04 g, 5% yield).    1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.19 (1H, d,
   2.9Hz), 9.95 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 8.45 (1H, d, 9.4Hz), 7.82 (1H, d, 9.4Hz).
 5 Example 63: 4-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide               (51)
            4-(Benzenesulfonyl)-N-hydroxythiophene-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 4
   (benzenesulfonyl)thiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 3.1 mmol) according to the herein
   described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with
   a silica gel column eluting with 30% ethyl acetate:heptanes to provide the desired compound
10 as an off white solid (0.51 g, 51% yield).    1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.05 (iH,
   br. s), 9.44 (1H, s), 8.84 (1H, s), 8.09 (1H, m,),8.00 (1H, m,), 7.87 (1H, m,), 7.71 (3H, m,);
   predicted [M-H]-   =  317.9565; observed [M-H]-     = 317.9602.
   Example 64: N-Hydroxy-3,4-dimethoxybenzene-1-sulfonamide                (52)
15          N-Hydroxy-3,4-dimethoxybenzene-1-sulfonamide was synthesized from 3,4
   dimethoxybenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (2 g, 8.46 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with diethyl
   ether:heptanes (0.3 g, 15% yield).     1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.48 (1H, d, 3.5Hz),
   9.40 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 7.42 (1H, dd, 8.4Hz, 2.lHz),7.33 (1H, d, 2.0Hz), 7.16 (1H, d, 8.5Hz),
20 3.85 (1H, s), 3.81(1H, s,); predicted [M-H]-    = 232.028; observed [M-H]-   = 232.0285.
   Example 65: N-Hydroxy-2,3,5,6-tetramethylbenzene-1-sulfonamide               (53)
            N-Hydroxy-2,3,5,6-tetramethylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2,3,5,6
   tetramethylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (2 g, 8.6 mmol) according to the herein-described
25 methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides to provide the desired compound as a
   white solid (0.7 g, 34% yield).    1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.52 (1H, br. s), 9.36
   (1H, s), 7.30 (1H, s), 2.50 (6H, s), 2.27 (6H, s); predicted [M-H]-  = 228.0694; observed [M-H]
    = 228.074.
                                                     127

   Example 66: N-Hydroxy-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide               (54)
            N-Hydroxy-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide was prepared from 3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride according to the herein-described methods for
   the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with diethyl ether:heptane to
 5 provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.48 g, 24% yield).     1H NMR (250 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.99 (2H, s), 8.58 (IH, s), 8.37 (2H, s); predicted [M-H]-       = 307.9816;
   observed [M-H]-   =  307.9823.
   Example 67: Methyl 4-chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoate            (55)
10          Methyl 4-chloro-3-(chlorosulfonyl)benzoate
   To 4-chloro-3-(chlorosulfonyl)benzoyl chloride (2 g, 7.3 mmol) was added MeOH (20 mL)
   with stirring. After 10 minutes the reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and used
   directly in the synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (1.9 g, 96% yield).     1H
   NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 8.79 (IH, d, J2.OHz), 8.30 (1H, dd, 8.3, 2.0Hz), 7.74 (1H,
15 d, 8.3Hz), 3.99 (3H, s).
            Methyl 4-chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoate
   Methyl 4-chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoate was synthesized from methyl 4-chloro-3
   (chlorosulfonyl)benzoate (0.7 g, 2.6 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the
   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.3 g, 45% yield).     1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6
20 ppm 10.05 (1H, br. s.), 9.90 (1H, s), 8.50 (1H, d, 2.1Hz), 8.18 (1H, dd, 8.4, 2.1Hz), 7.85 (1H,
   d, 8.2Hz), 3.90 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-  = 263.9733; observed [M-H]-    =  263.973.
   Example 68: 2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-5-methylbenzene-1-sulfonamide               (56)
            2-Fluoro-N-hydroxy-5 -methylbenzene- 1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2-fluoro-5
25 methylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 4.8 mmol) according to the herein-described methods
   for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.19 g, 20% yield).     1H  NMR (500 MHz, DMSO
   d6) 6 ppm 9.71 (2H, s), 7.61 (1H, dd, 6.6, 1.7Hz), 7.54 (IH, dt, 8.2, 2.3Hz), 7.33 (1H, dd, 10.0,
   8.6Hz), 2.36 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]-   = 204.0131; observed [M-H]-    = 204.0121.
                                                   128

   Example 69: 4-Chloro-N-(3-chloropropyl)-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-benzamide               (57)
            2-Chloro-5-[(3-chloropropyl)carbamoyl]benzene-1-sulfonylchloride
            To a solution of 4-chloro-3-(chlorosulfonyl)benzoyl chloride (1.5 g, 5.51 mmol) in
   chlorobenzene (20 mL) was added azetidine hydrochloride (0.54 g, 5.79 mmol) and the
 5 reaction was heated to 130'C for 18 hours after which time LC-MS showed no starting
   material remaining. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and
   triturated using diethyl ether to provide the desired product as an off white solid which was
   used directly in the synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (1 g, 55% yield).
            4-Chloro-N-(3-chloropropyl)-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-benzamide
10          4-Chloro-N-(3-chloropropyl)-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-benzamide was prepared from 2
   chloro-5-[(3-chloropropyl)carbamoyl]benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 3.4 mmol) according
   to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated
   with diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.13 g, 14% yield).    1H
   NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.88 (1H, d, 2.7Hz), 9.81 (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 8.86 (1H, t,
15 5.4Hz), 8.45 (1H, d, 2.0Hz), 8.11 (1H, dd, 8.4, 2.0Hz), 7.81 (1H, d, 8.4Hz), 3.70 (2H, t,
   6.5Hz), 3.40 (2H, q, 6.5Hz), 1.91-2.06 (2H, m).
   Example 70: 2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5- [4-(hydroxyimino)piperidine-1-carbonyl] benzene
                    1-sulfonamide (58)
20
            2-Chloro-5-(4-oxopiperidine-1-carbonyl)benzene-1-sulfonylchloride
   To a solution of 4-chloro-3-(chlorosulfonyl)benzoyl chloride (1.0 g, 3.7 mmol) in
   chlorobenzene (15 mL) was added 4-piperidinone hydrochloride (0.59 g, 3.9 mmol) and the
   reaction was heated to 130'C for 18 hours after which time LC-MS showed no starting
25 material remaining. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and taken
   up in DCM (50 mL), washed with water (2 x 10 mL) before being dried over magnesium
   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product which was
   triturated with diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as a off white solid (0.27 g, 22%
   yield).  1H  NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.96 (1H, d, 1.6Hz), 7.51-7.40 (2H, m), 3.74
30 3.56 (4H, m) 2.55-2.27 (4H, m).
                                                   129

           2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-[4-(hydroxyimino)piperidine-1-carbonyl]benzene-1
   sulfonamide
           2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-[4-(hydroxyimino)piperidine- 1-carbonyl]benzene- 1
   sulfonamide was synthesized from 2-chloro-5 -(4-oxopiperidine- 1-carbonyl)benzene- 1-sulfonyl
 5 chloride (0.27 g, 0.82 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N
   hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with heptanes:diethyl ether to provide the desired
   compound as a white solid (0.05 g, 16% yield).     1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.98
   (1H, m), 9.86 (1H, m), 7.95 (1H, m), 7.71 (2H, m), 3.59 (2H, m), 3.29 (2H, m), 3.16 (2H, m),
   2.95 (2H, m).
10
   Example 71: 4-Chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(2-methoxyethyl)
                   N-methylbenzamide (59)
           2-Chloro-5-[(2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)carbamoyl]benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
15         To a solution of 4-chloro-3-(chlorosulfonyl)benzoyl chloride (2.0 g, 3.7 mmol) in
   chlorobenzene (25 mL) was added 2-(methoxyethyl)methylamine hydrochloride (0.48 g, 3.9
   mmol) and the reaction was heated to 130'C for 18 hours after which time LC-MS showed no
   starting material remaining. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure
   and used directly in the synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (2 g, 75%
20 yield).
           4-Chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(2-methoxyethyl)-N-methylbenzamide
           4-Chloro-3-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-N-(2-methoxyethyl)-N-methylbenzamide was
   synthesized from 2-chloro-5-[(2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)carbamoyl]benzene-1-sulfonyl
   chloride (2 g, 6.1 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N
25 hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with diethyl ether followed by silica gel column
   eluting with ethyl acetate:heptanes (1:1 v:v) to provide the desired compound as an off white
   solid (0.17 g, 9% yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.98 (1H, m), 9.86 (1H, m),
   7.95 (1H, m), 7.71 (2H, m), 3.59 (2H, m), 3.29 (2H, m), 3.16 (2H, m), 2.95 (3H, m).
30 Example 72: 2-Hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoic            acid (60)
           2-Hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)benzoic acid was prepared from 5-(chlorosulfonyl)-2
   hydroxybenzoic acid (1 g, 4.2 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the
                                                   130

   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was isolated as a white solid (0.4 g, 41% yield).     1H
   NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.75 (IH, br. s.), 10.66 (1H, s), 9.39 (1H, d, 2.1Hz), 9.04
   (1H, dd, 8.8, 2.2Hz), 8.31 (1H, d, 5.0Hz); predicted [M-H]-    = 231.9916; observed [M-H]-  =
   231.9907.
 5
   Example 73: N-Hydroxy-4-methyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazine-7-sulfonamide                (61)
            N-Hydroxy-4-methyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazine-7-sulfonamide was prepared
   from 4-methyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazine-7-sulfonyl chloride (0.9 g, 3.8 mmol)
   according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and
10 was triturated with heptanes:ethyl acetate to provide the desired product as an off white solid
   (0.35 g, 38% yield).   1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.40 (IH, br. s.), 9.32 (lH, s),
   7.00-7.12 (2H, m), 6.83 (1H, d, 8.9Hz), 4.20-4.36 (2H, m), 3.24-3.35 (2H, m), 2.87 (3H, s);
   predicted [M+H]*    = 245.0595; observed [M+H]* = 245.0589.
15 Example 74: 2-Chloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide              (62)
            2-Chloro-4-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
            To a solution of 2-chloro-4-hydroxyaniline (5.0 g, 35 mmol) in acetic acid (30 mL) and
   HCl (7 mL) cooled to 00 C was added sodium nitrite (2.65 g, 38.5 mmol) portion wise
   maintaining an internal temperature <50 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 00 C for
20 1 hour. Simultaneously, CuCl2-H20 (5.98 g, 34.8 mmol) was suspended in AcOH:water (20
   mL:10 mL) at 00 C and stirred at 00 C until all CuCl2 was in solution. S02 gas was condensed
   into a flask at -78'C via the aid of a cold finger and the diazo compound and CuCl2 solution
   added and the reaction warmed to 00 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to a temperature of
   about 25'C over 18 hours and was quenched by addition to ice and extracted into diethyl ether
25 (3 x 100 mL). The organics were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a yellow oil which was used directly in the
   next step.
            2-Chloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide
            2-Chloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2-chloro-4
30 hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride according to the herein-described methods for the
   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with a silica gel column
                                                   131

   eluting with 1% MeOH:DCM to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.3 g, 15%
   yield).  1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.93 (1H, s), 9.58 (1H, d, 3.0Hz), 9.42 (1H, d,
   3.0Hz), 7.80 (1H, d, 8.7Hz), 6.97 (1H, d, 2.4Hz), 6.89 (1H, dd, 8.7, 2.4Hz) predicted [M-H]-   =
   221.9628; observed [M-H]-     = 221.9621.
 5
   Example 75: 3,5-Dichloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide            (63)
           3,5-Dichloro-N,4-dihydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide was prepared from 3,5-dichloro-4
   hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 3.8 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides to provide the desired compound as a
10 white solid (0.05 g, 5% yield).   1H  NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.60 (liH, br. s.), 9.43
   (1H, s), 7.64 (2H, s).
   Example 76: 4-Chloro-2-hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-NN-dimethylbenzamide                  (64)
           2-Chloro-5-(dimethylcarbamoyl)-4-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
15         To a solution of 5-(chlorosulfonyl)-2-hydroxybenzoic acid (1 g, 4.2 mmol) in toluene
   (20 mL) was added thionyl chloride (0.62 mL, 8.4 mmol) and the reaction was heated to reflux
   for 1 hour or until no further starting material was evident by TLC. The reaction was
   concentrated under reduced pressure and used directly in the synthesis of the amide (1 g, 82%
   yield). To a solution of 4-chloro-5-(chlorosulfonyl)-2-hydroxybenzoyl chloride (1 g, 3.5
20 mmol) in chlorobenzene (25 mL) was added dimethylamine hydrochloride (0.31 g, 3.9 mmol)
   and the reaction was heated to 130'C for 18 hours after which time LC-MS showed no starting
   material remaining. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and used
   directly in the synthesis of the corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (2.9 g, quantitative
   yield); LC-MS    tR = 1.75 min, [M+H]*   = 264.
25         4-Chloro-2-hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-NN-dimethylbenzamide
           4-Chloro-2-hydroxy-5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-N,N-dimethylbenzamide was prepared
   from 2-Chloro-5-(dimethylcarbamoyl)-4-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonyl        chloride (2.9 g, 9.7
   mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides
   and was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 10% MeOH in DCM followed
30 by trituration from DCM to provide the desired compound as an off white solid (0.38 g, 13%
   yield).  1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 11.42 (1H, br. s.), 9.67 (1H, d, 2.7Hz), 9.60
                                                    132

   (1H, d, 2.9Hz), 7.68 (1H, s), 7.06 (1H, s), 2.96 (3H, br. s.), 2.81 (3H, br. s.); predicted [M-H]
   = 292.9999; observed [M-H]-      = 293.0003.
   Example 77: 5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide                  (65)
 5         5-Chloro-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole
           To a solution of 5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole (3.0 g, 19.5 mmol) in DMF (60 mL)
   was added dimethylcarbonate (5.27 g, 58.6 mmol) and potassium carbonate (1.35 g, 9.75
   mmol). The reaction was heated to reflux for 18 hours, after which time no starting material
   was evident by LC-MS. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to a temperature of about
10 25'C and the product isolated by extraction into diethyl ether (250 mL). The organic portion
   was washed with water (2 x 100 mL) and the organics dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered
   and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a white solid (2.4 g,
   71% yield).   1H  NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.67 (1H, br. s.), 7.27 (iH, s), 7.20 (1H, d,
   8.7Hz), 3.97 (2H, t, 8.7Hz), 3.74 (3H, br. s.), 3.09 (2H, t, 8.7Hz).
15         5-Chloro-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonylchloride
           5-Chloro-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole (0.6 g, 3.6 mmol) and chlorosulfonic acid
   (1.7 g, 14.3 mmol) were heated in a sealed tube to 70'C for 18 hours. The reaction was
   quenched by pouring onto ice and the resulting solid was dried under reduced pressure then
   chromatographed with silica gel column eluting with 20% heptane:ethyl acetate to provide the
20 title compound as a white solid (0.37 g, 38% yield).     1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm
   8.23 (1H, br. s.), 7.19 (1H, s), 3.97 (2H, t, 8.7Hz), 3.75 (3H, s), 3.07 (2H, t, 8.6Hz).
           5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonamide
           5-Chloro-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide was prepared
   from 5-chloro-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonyl chloride (0.35 g, 1.3 mmol)
25 according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.19
   g, 55% yield). 1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.54-9.72 (2H, m), 8.33 (1H, br. s.),
   7.51 (1H, s), 4.03 (2H, t, 8.8Hz), 3.76 (3H, s), 3.18 (2H, t, 8.5Hz).
   Example 78: 2-Chloro-N,5-dihydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide               (66)
30         2-Chloro-N,5-dihydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2-chloro-5-hydroxy
   benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (2.32 g, 10 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for
                                                    133

   the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with a neutral reverse
   phase preparative HPLC to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.05 g, 3% yield).
   'H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.74 (2H, s), 7.31-7.53 (2H, m), 7.04 (1H, d, 8.7,
   2.9Hz).
 5
   Example 79: 5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide                (67)
           5-Bromo-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole
           5 -Bromo- 1-methyl-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-indole was synthesized using the method described
   for the synthesis of 5-chloro-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole (1.1 g, 54% yield).    1HNMR
10 (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.60 (IH, br. s.), 7.40 (1H, d, 0.9Hz), 7.28-7.37 (1H, m), 3.96
   (2H, t, 8.7Hz), 3.74 (3H, s), 3.10 (2H, t, 8.7Hz).
           5-Bromo-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonylchloride
           5 -Bromo- 1-methyl-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-indole-6-sulfonyl chloride was synthesized using
   the method described for the synthesis of 5 -chloro- 1-methyl-2,3 -dihydro- 1H-indole-6-sulfonyl
15 chloride (0.29 g, 34% yield).   1HNMR     (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 8.30 (IH, br. s.), 7.37
   (1H, s), 3.96 (2H, t, 8.7Hz), 3.74 (3H, br. s.), 3.07 (2H, t, 8.7Hz).
           5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-JH-indole-6-sulfonamide
           5-Bromo-N-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-6-sulfonamide was prepared
   from bromo- 1-methyl-2,3-dihydro- 1H-indole-6-sulfonyl chloride(0.29 g, 0.94 mmol)
20 according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.24
   g, 82% yield).   1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.54-9.74 (2H, m), 8.38 (1H, br. s.),
   7.68 (1H, s), 4.02 (2H, t, 8.7Hz), 3.76 (3H, s), 3.18 (2H, t, 8.6Hz).
   Example 80: 2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-(methoxymethyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide                (68)
25         1-Chloro-4-(methoxymethyl)-2-nitrobenzene
           1-Chloro-4-(methoxymethyl)-2-nitrobenzene was synthesized according to the method
   detailed in Buenzli et al., J Amer. Chem. Soc. 120:12274-12288 (1998). To a solution of
   KOH (5.98 g, 106 mmol) in DMSO (50 mL) was added 4-chloro-3-nitrobenzyl alcohol (5.0 g,
   26.6 mmol) and methyl iodide (4 mL, 64 mmol). Stirring was continued for 1 hour after
30 which time water (60 mL) was added and the reaction was extracted into DCM (3 x 50 mL),
   washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced
                                                    134

   pressure (4.7 g, 88% yield).    1H NMR (250 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 7.86 (IH, d, 1.4Hz),
   7.40-7.61 (2H, m), 4.49 (2H, s), 3.44 (3H, s).
            2-Chloro-5-(methoxymethyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
            To a solution of 1-chloro-4-(methoxymethyl)-2-nitrobenzene (2.7 g, 13.4 mmol) in
 5 EtOH (14 mL) and water (2 mL) was added iron (1.94 g, 34.8 mmol) and HCl (5 drops). The
   reaction was heated to 80'C for 1 hour. The cooled reaction mixture was filtered through
   CELITE, washed with EtOAc (50 mL) and concentrated under reduced pressure and used
   directly in the next step. To a solution of 2-chloro-5-(methoxymethyl)aniline (4.19 g, 24.5
   mmol) in acetic acid (25 mL) and HCl (6 mL) cooled to 00 C was added sodium nitrite (1.85 g,
10 26.9 mmol) portion wise maintaining an internal temperature <5'C. The reaction mixture was
   allowed to stir at 00 C for 1 hour. Simultaneously, CuCl2-H20 (4.16 g, 24.5 mmol) was
   suspended in AcOH:water (25 mL:10 mL) at 0 0 C and stirred at 00 C until all CuCl2 was in
   solution. S02 gas was condensed into a flask at -78'C via the aid of a cold finger and the
   diazo compound and CuCl2 solution added and the reaction warmed to 0 0 C. The reaction was
15 allowed to warm to a temperature of about 25'C over 2 hours. The reaction was quenched by
   addition to ice and extracted into DCM (3 x 50 mL). The organics were dried over sodium
   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a
   yellow oil (5.1 g, 81% yield).    1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.82 (lH, d, 2.0Hz),
   7.30-7.48 (2H, m), 4.38 (2H, s), 3.27 (3H, s).
20          2-Chloro-N-hydroxy-5-(methoxymethyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide
            1-Chloro-4-(methoxymethyl)-2-nitrobenzene was prepared from 2-chloro-5
   (methoxymethyl) benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1 g, 3.9 mmol) according to herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides (0.55 g, 56% yield).       1H NMR (250
   MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.69-9.89 (2H, m), 7.93 (1H, d, 1.7Hz), 7.68 (1H, d, 8.1Hz), 7.60
25 (1H, dd, 8.2, 2.0Hz), 4.49 (2H, s), 3.33 (3H, s); predicted [M-H]- = 249.9941; observed [M-H]
   = 249.9945.
   Example 81: Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-2-carboxylate (69)
            Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-2-carboxylate was prepared from methyl 5
30 (chlorosulfonyl)furan-2-carboxylate (1.0 g, 4.5 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with a silica
                                                   135

   gel column eluting with heptanes:ethyl acetate (4:1 v:v) followed by trituration from heptane
   to provide the desired compound as a yellow solid (0.46 g, 47% yield).      1H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.28 (1H, d, 2.8Hz), 9.89 (IH, d, 2.8Hz), 7.48 (1H, d, 3.8Hz), 7.36 (IH, d,
   3.6Hz), 3.87 (3H, s).
 5
   Example 82: N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylfuran-3-sulfonamide              (70)
           N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethylfuran-3-sulfonamide was prepared from 2,5-dimethylfuran-3
   sulfonyl chloride (0.5 g, 2.6 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the
   synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with DCM:heptane to provide the
10 desired compound as a white solid (0.34 g, 69% yield).     1H NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz) 6 ppm
   6.65 (1H, d, 3.7Hz), 6.20 (1H, s), 6.13 (1H, s), 2.54 (3H, s), 2.28 (3H, s).
   Example 83: N-Hydroxy-8-oxatricyclo[7.4.0.0]trideca-1(9),2(7),3,5,10,12-hexaene
                   4-sulfonamide (71)
15
           N-Hydroxy-8-oxatricyclo[7.4.0.0]trideca-1(9),2(7),3,5,10,12-hexaene-4-sulfonamide
   was synthesized from 8-oxatricyclo[7.4.0.02, 7 ]trideca- 1(9),2,4,6,10,12-hexaene-4-sulfonyl
   chloride (1.0 g, 3.75 mmol) according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N
   hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as
20 a white solid (0.46 g, 48% yield).  1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.66 (1H, d, 3.3Hz),
   9.62 (1H, d, 3.3Hz), 8.67 (1H, d, 1.7Hz), 8.35 (1H, d, 7.7Hz), 7.93-8.02 (2H, m), 7.80 (1H, d,
   8.4Hz), 7.58-7.65 (1H, m), 7.49 (1H, t, 7.5Hz).
   Example 84: 2-(Ethanesulfonyl)-N-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide              (72)
25         1-Chloro-2-(ethylsulfanyl)benzene
           To a solution of sodium methoxide (5.6 g, 103.7 mmol) in MeOH (100 mL) was added
   2-chlorobenzene-1-thiol (10.0 g, 69.1 mmol) in MeOH (50 mL). The reaction was cooled to
   00 C and a solution of iodoethane (5.8 mL, 72.6 mmol) in MeOH (50 mL) was added dropwise.
   The reaction was stirred for 18 hours at a temperature of about 25'C where upon LC-MS
30 showed no starting material present. The solvent was removed and the reaction quenched by
   the addition of water (100 mL). The organics were extracted into DCM (3 x 200 mL),
   combined, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to
                                                  136

   provide the desired compound as a clear oil (11.5 g, 96% yield).  1H  NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz)
   6 ppm 7.36 (1H, dd, 7.9, 1.2Hz), 7.28-7.19 (2H, m), 7.13-7.07 (1H, m), 2.97 (2H, q, 7.4Hz),
   1.37 (3H, t, 7.4Hz).
           1-Chloro-2-(ethanesulfonyl)benzene
 5         A solution of 1-chloro-2-(ethylsulfanyl)benzene (11.5 g, 66.6 mmol) in DCM (230
   mL) was added over 1 hour to a 0-5'C solution of 10% sulfuric acid (345 mL) with
   simultaneous addition of potassium permanganate solid (35.8 g, 0.23 mol) in portions. The
   resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to a temperature of about 25'C and stirring
   was continued for 1 hour, after which time LC-MS showed the reaction to be complete.
10 Sodium bisulfite (65 g) was added to the reaction mixture slowly until all color had
   disappeared from the reaction and a clear, colorless solution was observed and the organic
   phase separated. The aqueous phase was re-extracted into DCM (3 x 100 mL) and the
   combined organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a clear, colorless oil which was used
15 directly in the next step (14.0 g, 99.99% yield). 1H NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 8.13 (1H,
   dd, 8.0, 1.1Hz), 7.62-7.54 (2H, m), 7.48 (1H, ddd, 8.6, 6.6, 2.1Hz), 3.44 (2H, q, 7.5Hz), 1.27
   (3H, t, 7.5Hz).
            1-(Benzylsulfanyl)-2-(ethanesulfonyl)benzene
           To a solution of 1-chloro-2-(ethanesulfonyl)benzene (14.0 g, 68.4 mmol) in DMSO (70
20 mL) was added (benzylsulfanyl)methanimidamide HCl (14.56 g, 71.8 mmol) was added and
   the reaction mixture was cooled to 10 C. NaOH (6.84 g, 171.0 mmol) was added to the
   reaction mixture and the reaction was heated to 75'C for 18 hours and allowed to cool to a
   temperature of about 25'C where stirring was continued for an additional 72 hours. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of water (50 mL) and the resulting aqueous solution
25 extracted into DCM (4 x 100 mL). The combined organics were washed with brine solution
   (50 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   provide the product as a yellow oil which was chromatographed with a silica gel column
   eluting with 50-100% DCM acetate:heptanes gradient to provide the desired compound as a
   yellow oil (3.25 g, 16% yield).    1H NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 8.06-8.00 (1H, m), 7.54
30 7.45 (2H, m), 7.35 (1H, ddd, 8.5, 6.8, 1.9Hz), 7.32-7.21 (5H, m), 4.23 (2H, s), 3.37 (2H, d,
   7.4Hz), 1.11 (3H, t, 7.4Hz).
                                                   137

            2-(Ethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
            Chlorine gas was bubbled through a solution of 1-(benzylsulfanyl)-2
   (ethanesulfonyl)benzene (3.25 g, 11.1 mmol) in acetic acid (110 mL) and water (10 mL)
   maintaining an internal temperature of< 10 C for 1 hour. Upon complete addition of the
 5 chlorine gas the sulfonyl chloride was extracted into DCM (100 mL) and was washed with
   water (100 mL) and 2.5% w:v NaOH solution (50 mL). The organic portion was dried over
   sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was
   triturated with heptanes to provide the desired compound as a white solid (2.7 g, 89% yield).
   'H NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 8.44 (1H, dd, 7.8, 1.3Hz), 8.40 (1H, dd, 7.7, 1.4Hz), 7.97
10 (2H, dtd, 22.4, 7.6, 1.3Hz), 3.61 (2H, q, 7.5Hz), 1.36 (3H, t, 7.5Hz).
            2-(Ethanesulfonyl)-N-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide
            2-(Ethanesulfonyl)-N-hydroxybenzene- 1-sulfonamide was synthesized from 2
   (ethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 3.7 mmol) according to the herein
   described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with
15 heptanes to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.8 g, 83% yield). 'H NMR
   (DMSO, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 10.12 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 8.96 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 8.26-8.19 (2H, m), 8.08
   7.99 (2H, m), 3.65 (2H, q, 7.4Hz), 1.17 (3H, t, 7.4Hz).
   Example 85: N-Hydroxy-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide            (73)
20          1-Chloro-2-(propan-2-ylsulfanyl)benzene
            To a solution of sodium methoxide (5.6 g, 103.7 mmol) in MeOH (100 mL) was added
   2-chlorobenzene-1-thiol (10.0 g, 69.1 mmol) in MeOH (50 mL). The reaction was cooled to
   0 0 C and a solution of 2-iodopropane (7.26 mL, 72.6 mmol) in MeOH (50 mL) was added
   dropwise. The reaction was stirred for 18 hours at a temperature of about 25'C where upon
25 LC-MS showed starting material still present. An additional portion of 2-iodopropane (3 mL,
   30 mmol) and sodium methoxide (3 g, 29 mmol) was added and stirring continued for a further
   18 hours until complete consumption of the starting material was observed by LC-MS. The
   solvent was removed and the reaction quenched by the addition of water (100 mL). The
   organics were extracted into DCM (3 x 200 mL), combined, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
30 and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a clear oil (12.8
                                                  138

   g, 99% yield).   1H NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 7.39 (2H, d, 7.9Hz), 7.21 (1H, td, 7.6,
   1.4Hz), 7.14 (1H, td, 7.7, 1.6Hz), 3.50 (1H, hept, 6.7Hz), 1.34 (6H, d, 6.7Hz).
           1-Chloro-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene
           A solution of 1-chloro-2-(propan-2-ylsulfanyl)benzene (12.8 g, 68.3 mmol) in DCM
 5 (230 mL) was added over 1 hour to a 0-5'C solution of 10% sulfuric acid (380 mL) with
   simultaneous addition of potassium permanganate solid (36.7 g, 0.23 mol) in portions. The
   resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to a temperature of about 25'C and stirring
   was continued for 1 hour after which time, LC-MS showed the reaction to be complete.
   Sodium bisulfite (60 g) was added to the reaction mixture slowly until all color had
10 disappeared from the reaction and a clear, colorless solution was observed and the organic
   phase separated. The aqueous phase was re-extracted into DCM (3 x 100 mL) and the
   combined organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a clear, colorless oil (13.7 g, 92% yield).
   1H  NMR (CDCl3, 250 MHz) 6 ppm 8.17-8.06 (1H, m), 7.62-7.52 (2H, m), 7.46 (1H, ddd, 8.7,
15 5.5, 3.2Hz), 3.80 (1H, hept, 6.9Hz), 1.32 (6H, dd, 6.9, 0.9Hz).
           1-(Benzylsulfanyl)-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene
           To a solution of 1-chloro-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene (13.7 g, 62.6 mmol) in
   DMSO (70 mL) was added (benzylsulfanyl)methanimidamide HCl (13.3 g, 65.8 mmol) was
   added and the reaction mixture was cooled to 10 C. NaOH (6.3 g, 156.6 mmol) was added to
20 the reaction mixture and the reaction was heated to 75'C for 18 hours. The reaction was
   quenched by the addition of water (50 mL) and the resulting aqueous solution extracted into
   DCM (4 x 100 mL). The combined organics were washed with brine solution (50 mL), dried
   over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as
   a yellow oil which was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 50-100% DCM
25 acetate:heptanes gradient to provide the desired compound as a yellow oil (4.7 g, 20% yield).
   1H  NMR (CDCl3, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 8.03-7.98 (1H, m), 7.50-7.45 (2H, m), 7.36-7.21 (6H, m),
   4.23 (2H, s), 3.82 (1H, dt, 13.7, 6.9Hz), 1.19 (6H, d, 6.9Hz).
           2-(Propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonylchloride
           Chlorine gas was bubbled through a solution of 1-(benzylsulfanyl)-2-(propane-2
30 sulfonyl)benzene (4.1 g, 13.4 mmol) in acetic acid (140 mL) and water (12 mL) maintaining
   an internal temperature of< 10 C for 1 hour. Upon complete addition of the chlorine gas the
                                                   139

   sulfonyl chloride was extracted into DCM (100 mL) and was washed with water (100 mL) and
   2.5% w:v NaOH solution (50 mL). The organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was triturated with heptanes to
   provide the desired compound as a white solid (2.9 g, 77% yield). 'H NMR (CDCl3, 500
 5 MHz) 6 ppm 8.42 (1H, dd, 7.8, 1.4Hz), 8.34 (IH, dd, 7.6, 1.6Hz), 7.93 (2H, dtd, 20.1, 7.5,
   1.4Hz), 4.05 (1H, hept, 6.8Hz), 1.35 (6H, d, 6.9Hz).
           N-Hydroxy-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide
           N-Hydroxy-2-(propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene- 1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2
   (propane-2-sulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (1.0 g, 3.5 mmol) according to the herein
10 described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with
   heptanes to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.84 g, 85% yield). 'H NMR
   (DMSO, 500 MHz) 6 ppm 10.11 (IH, d, 3.5Hz), 8.93 (lH, d, 3.5Hz), 8.26-8.22 (1H, m), 8.22
   8.17 (1H, m), 8.06-7.99 (2H, m), 4.09 (1H, hept, 6.9Hz), 1.22 (6H, d, 6.8Hz).
15 Example 86: 4-Acetyl-N-hydroxy-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazine-6-sulfonamide              (74)
           4-Acetyl-N-hydroxy-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazine-6-sulfonamide was prepared
   from 4-acetyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazine-6-sulfonyl chloride (0.72 g, 2.6 mmol)
   according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and
   was triturated with diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.70 g, 59%
20 yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.50 (1H, br. s.), 9.43 (1H, br. s.), 7.47 (1H, d,
   8.4Hz), 7.09 (1H, d, 8.5Hz), 4.36 (2H, t, 4.3Hz), 3.89 (2H, t, 4.4Hz), 2.27 (3H, s).
   Example 87: Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)-1-methyl-1H-pyrrole-2-carboxylate             (75)
           Methyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)- 1-methyl-i H-pyrrole-2-carboxylate was prepared from
25 methyl 5-(chlorosulfonyl)-1-methyl-1H-pyrrole-2-carboxylate (0.46 g, 1.9 mmol) according to
   the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated
   with diethyl ether to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.09 g, 19% yield). 1H
   NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.47 (1H, d, 3.3Hz), 9.21 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 7.70 (1H, d,
   1.6Hz), 7.06 (1H, d, 1.9Hz), 3.91 (3H, s), 3.78 (3H, s).
                                                   140

   Example 88: N-[5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]acetamide          (76)
            N-[5-(Hydroxysulfamoyl)-1,3-thiazol-2-yl]acetamide was prepared from 2
   (acetylamino)-1,3-thiazole-5-sulfonyl chloride (0.28 g, 1.3 mmol) according to the herein
   described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with diethyl
 5 ether to provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.12 g, 42% yield). 'H NMR (500
   MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.80 (IH, d, 3.2Hz), 9.65 (lH, d, 3.3Hz), 7.94 (IH, s), 2.20 (3H, s).
   Example 89: N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)furan
                    3-sulfonamide (77)
10
            4-(2,5-Dimethylfuran-3-carbonyl)morpholine
            To a solution of diisopropylethylamine (3.8 mL, 21.5 mmol) and morpholine (1.79 g,
   20.5 mmol) in DCM (30 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 2,5 dimethyl-furan-3-carbonyl chloride
   (3.1 g, 19.6 mmol) and the resulting solution was warmed to a temperature of about 25'C for 6
15 hours. The reaction was quenched by the addition of IN HCl (20 mL) and the organic portion
   was extracted into DCM (50 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a brown oil (4.41 g, quantitative yield).
   'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 6.09 (1H, s), 3.40-3.63 (8H, m), 2.25 (3H, s), 2.21 (3H,
   s).
20          2,5-Dimethyl-4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)furan-3-sulfonylchloride
            4-(2,5-Dimethylfuran-3-carbonyl)morpholine (2.0 g, 9.6 mmol) was added to
   chlorosulfonic acid (6.4 mL, 95 mmol) and the reaction heated to 90'C for 1 hour after which
   time LC-MS showed complete consumption of the starting material. The brown solution was
   poured onto ice and the organic portion extracted into DCM (2 x 50 mL), dried over sodium
25 sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a
   brown solid which was used directly in the synthesis of the corresponding N
   hydroxysulfonamide (2.29 g, 78% yield). 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 3.03-3.85
   (8H, m), 2.31 (3H, s), 2.07 (3H, s).
            N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)furan-3-sulfonamide
30          N-Hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)furan-3-sulfonamide was prepared
   from 2,5-dimethyl-4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)furan-3-sulfonyl chloride (2.3 g, 7.4 mmol)
   according to the herein-described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and
                                                  141

   was triturated with DCM to provide the desired compound as an off white solid (1.3 g, 56%
   yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.71 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 8.64 (lH, d, 3.6Hz), 3.62
   3.78 (2H, m), 3.42 -3.62 (4H, m), 3.36-3.42 (2H, m), 2.47 (3H, s), 2.22 (3H, s).
 5 Example 90: Ethyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-3-carboxylate (78)
            Ethyl 5-(hydroxysulfamoyl)furan-3-carboxylate was prepared from ethyl 5
   (chlorosulfonyl)furan-3-carboxylate (0.3 g, 1.4 mmol) according to the herein-described
   methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with heptane to
   provide the desired compound as an off white solid (0.2 g, 60% yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz,
10 DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.14 (1H, br. s.), 9.88 (11H, s), 8.76 (1H, d, 0.8Hz), 7.38 (1H, d, 0.8Hz),
   4.28 (2H, q, 7.1Hz), 1.21-1.35 (3H, t, 7.1Hz).
   Example 91: 5-Chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamido oxane-4-carboxylate (79)
            [(tert-Butoxy)carbonyl]aminooxane-4-carboxylate
15          To a solution of tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-carboxylic acid (5.0 g, 38.42 mmol) in DCM
   (200 mL) was added EDCI (5.96 g, 38.42 mmol). The reaction was stirred at a temperature of
   about 25'C for 10 minutes and BOC hydroxylamine (5.12 g, 38.42 mmol) was added and
   stirring was continued for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM (50 mL) and
   washed with water (2 x 20 mL) and brine (1 x 20 mL), dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered
20 and concentrated to give [(tert-butoxy)carbonyl]amino oxane-4-carboxylate as a light orange
   oil (6.93 g, 74% yield). 1H NMR (250 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 8.00 (IH, br. s.), 3.98 (2H,
   td, 3.7, 11.7Hz), 3.60-3.32 (2H, m), 2.86-2.64 (1H, m), 1.79 (4H, s), 1.48 (9H, s).
            N-[(tert-Butoxy)carbonyl]5-chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamidooxane-4-carboxylate
            To a solution of [(tert-butoxy)carbonyl]amino oxane-4-carboxylate (2 g, 8.15 mmol) in
25 DCM (100 mL) was added 5-chlorothiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (1.09 mL, 8.15 mmol) and
   triethylamine (1.7 mL, 12.23 mmol), followed by the addition of DMAP (149 mg, 1.22 mmol).
   The reaction mixture was stirred at a temperature of about 25'C for 1 hour and then water was
   added (10 mL). The mixture was shaken, the 2 layers were separated and the organic layer
   was washed with aqueous 0.1M HCl (1 x 10 mL), water (1 x 10 mL) and brine (1 x 10 mL),
30 dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give an oil.
   The product was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with heptane:EtOAc 30%
                                                   142

   40% to give N-[(tert-butoxy)carbonyl]5-chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamido oxane-4-carboxylate
   (0.92 g, 27% yield).   1H NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 7.65 (1H, d, 4.3Hz), 7.00 (1H,
   d, 4.1Hz), 4.01 (2H, td, 3.6, 11.7Hz), 3.55-3.46 (2H, m), 2.84 (1H, tt, 5.1, 9.8Hz), 2.00-1.87
   (4H, m), 1.49 (9H, s).
 5          5-Chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamidooxane-4-carboxylate
            To a solution of N-[(tert-butoxy)carbonyl]5-chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamido oxane-4
   carboxylate (0.86 g, 2.0 mmol) in DCM (8 mL) was added trifluoroacetic acid (2.24 mL, 30.3
   mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at a temperature of about 25'C for 1 hour. The
   solvents were evaporated to give a yellow oil which was chromatographed with a silica gel
10 column eluting with heptanes:EtOAc 20%-50% to give 5-chlorothiophene-2-sulfonamido
   oxane-4-carboxylate as a white solid (0.53 g, 80% yield).          1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6
   ppm 11.52 (1H, br. s.), 7.68 (1H, d, 4.1Hz), 7.39 (1H, d, 4.1Hz), 3.80 (2H, td, 3.5, 11.3Hz),
   3.41-3.30 (2H, m), 2.78 (1H, tt, 4.1, 11.1Hz), 1.73 (2H, dd, 2.1, 12.8Hz), 1.62-1.49 (2H, m).
15 Example 92: N-Hydroxy-2-(oxan-4-ylmethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide                       (80)
            4-[(2-Fluorobenzenesulfonyl)methyl]oxane
            To a solution of 4-(iodomethyl)oxane (1.0 g, 4.4 mmol) and 2-fluorobenzene-1-thiol
   (0.57 g, 4.4 mmol) in DMF (10 mL) was added potassium carbonate (0.79 g, 5.7 mmol) and
   the reaction mixture was stirred at a temperature of about 25'C for 18 hours. The reaction was
20 quenched by the addition of water (20 mL) and the organic portion extracted into DCM (50
   mL). The organics were washed with water (10 mL) before being dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was chromatographed with a
   silica gel column eluting with   1 0 0 - 7 0 % heptanes:ethyl  acetate to provide the desired
   compound as a clear, colorless oil (0.9 g, 92% yield).        1H NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6
25 ppm 7.37 (1H, td, 7.6, 1.7Hz), 7.18-7.25 (1H, m), 6.99-7.17 (2H, m), 3.85-4.04 (2H, m), 3.35
   (2H, td, 11.8, 2.0Hz), 2.84 (2H, d, 6.9Hz), 1.77-1.87 (2H, m), 1.65-1.77 (1H, m), 1.36 (2H, qd,
   12.3, 4.4Hz).
            4- {[2-(Benzylsulfanyl)benzenesulfonyl]methyl}oxane
            To a solution of 4-[(2-fluorobenzenesulfonyl)methyl]oxane (1.0 g, 3.9 mmol) in
30 DMSO (20 mL) was added benzyl carbamimidothioate hydrochloride (0.84 g, 4.2 mmol) and
   the mixture was cooled during the addition of NaOH (0.4 g, 9.8 mmol) so the internal
                                                       143

   temperature was kept below 15'C-20'C. The reaction mixture was heated at 75'C for 2 hours
   after which time LC-MS shows complete consumption of the starting material. The reaction
   was allowed to cool to a temperature of about 25'C and quenched by the addition of IN HCl
   solution (5 mL). The formed emulsion was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 50 mL) and the
 5 resulting organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced
   pressure. The oil was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 20-40%
   heptanes:ethyl acetate to provide the desired compound as a yellow oil (1.2 g, 87% yield).  1H
   NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 7.78-7.95 (2H, m), 7.67 (1H, td, 7.7, 1.5Hz), 7.14-7.49
   (6H, m), 4.40 (2H, s), 3.71 (2H, dt, 9.7, 1.9Hz), 3.30 (2H, d, 6.4Hz), 3.17 (2H, td, 11.6,
10 2.1Hz), 1.79-1.97 (1H, m), 1.48 (2H, dd, 13.0, 1.9Hz), 1.06-1.30 (2H, m).
            2-(Oxan-4-ylmethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride
            Chlorine gas was bubbled through a solution of 4-{[2
   (benzylsulfanyl)benzenesulfonyl] methyl}oxane (1 g, 2.8 mmol) in acetic acid (35 mL) and
   water (3 mL) maintaining an internal temperature of < 10 C for 1 hour. Upon complete
15 addition of the chlorine gas the sulfonyl chloride was extracted into DCM (150 mL) and was
   washed with water (150 mL) and 2.5% w:v NaOH solution (50 mL). The organic portion was
   dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure and
   chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 80% ethyl acetate:heptane to provide
   the desired compound as an oil which was used directly in the synthesis of the corresponding
20 N-hydroxysulfonamide (0.9 g, 96% yield).     1H  NMR (500 MHz, chloroform-d) 6 ppm 8.40
   (2H, ddd, 7.6, 5.9, 1.4Hz), 7.88-8.05 (2H, m), 3.87-4.03 (2H, m), 3.38-3.51 (3H, m), 2.99 (1H,
   br. s.), 2.41-2.64 (1H, m), 1.80-1.91 (2H, m), 1.43-1.63 (2H, m).
            N-Hydroxy-2-(oxan-4-ylmethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide
   N-Hydroxy-2-(oxan-4-ylmethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonamide was prepared from 2-(oxan
25 4-ylmethanesulfonyl)benzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (0.72 g, 2.1 mmol) according to the herein
   described methods for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was chromatographed with
   a silica gel column eluting with heptanes:ethyl acetate (1:1 v:v) to provide the desired
   compound as a white solid (0.37 g, 52% yield).     1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 10.11
   (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 8.98 (1H, d, 3.5Hz), 8.23-8.28 (1H, m), 8.17-8.22 (1H, m), 7.99-8.04 (2H, m),
30 3.74-3.81 (2H, m), 3.62 (2H, d, 6.5Hz), 3.29 (2H, td, 11.6, 2.0Hz), 2.11-2.23 (1H, m), 1.66
   (2H, dd, 13.1, 1.9Hz), 1.28-1.40 (2H, m).
                                                   144

   Example 93: N-Hydroxy-3-methyl-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonamide             (81)
           Ethyl 2-(2-acetylphenoxy)acetate
           To a solution of 1-(2-hydroxyphenyl)ethan-1-one (7.5 g, 0.06 mol) in dimethyl
 5 formamide (75 mL) was added potassium carbonate (22.8 g, 0.17 mol) at a temperature of
   about 25'C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes before the addition of ethyl
   bromoacetate (9.2 mL, 0.08 mol) and stirring was continued for a further 5 hours at a
   temperature of about 25'C. After completion of reaction, observed by TLC, the reaction was
   diluted with ethyl acetate (150 mL) and water (150 mL), the organic portion was separated,
10 and the aqueous portion was further extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 150 mL). The combined
   organic layers were washed with water (2 x 150 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the O-alkylated product as an colorless oil.
   The product was chromatographed with a silica gel column eluting with 5 -8% ethyl
   acetate:hexane to give ethyl 2-(2-acetylphenoxy)acetate as an off white solid (10.5 g, 86%
15 yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 ppm 7.78-7.74 (1H, m), 7.47-7.41 (1H, m), 7.08-7.02
   (1H, m), 6.85-6.80 (1H, m), 4.72 (2H, s), 4.28 (2H, q, 7.1Hz), 2.72 (3H, s), 1.30 (3H, t,
   7.1Hz).
           2-(2-Acetylphenoxy)acetic acid
           To a solution of ethyl 2-(2-acetylphenoxy) acetate (8 g, 0.04 mol) in ethanol:water (80
20 mL:8 mL) was added lithium hydroxide hydrate (1:1:1) (4.5 g, 0.11 mol) at 0 0 C. The reaction
   mixture was stirred at a temperature of about 25'C for 18 hours and after completion of
   reaction (observed by TLC), the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure.
   The product was taken into water (350 mL) and extracted with diethyl ether (2 x 150 mL).
   The aqueous extract was then acidified using IN HCl (pH of about 2-3) at 00 C and extracted
25 into dichloromethane (4 x 300 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with water
   (150 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   provide the acid product as an off white solid. Trituration with pentane provided the product
   compound as an off white solid (6.7 g, 95.8% yield).   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 ppm
   13.16 (1H, s), 7.60-7.55 (1H, m), 7.54-7.49 (1H, m), 7.12-7.07 (1H, m), 7.07-7.02 (1H, m),
30 4.85 (2H, s), 2.62 (3H, s).
                                                  145

           3-Methyl-1-benzofuran
           To a solution of 2-(2-acetylphenoxy)acetic acid (8 g, 0.041 mol) in acetic anhydride
   (48 mL) was added sodium acetate (20.3 g, 0.25 mol) at a temperature of about 25'C. The
   reaction mixture was stirred at reflux (140'C) for 18 hours. Upon reaction completion
 5 (checked by TLC), the reaction mixture was poured onto ice-cold water (400 mL) and
   extracted into ethyl acetate (3 x 400 mL). The combined organic layer was washed with water
   (400 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   provide cyclized product as a red oil which was chromatographed with a silica gel column
   eluting with hexane to provide the cyclized compound as a colorless liquid (2.6 g, 48% yield).
10 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 ppm 7.55-7.51 (iH, m), 7.48-7.44 (iH, m), 7.42-7.39 (iH, m),
   7.32-7.27 (iH, m), 7.27-7.22 (iH, m), 2.26 (3H, d, 1.3Hz).
           3-Methyl-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonyl chloride
           To a solution of 3-methyl-1-benzofuran (2.6 g, 17.7 mmol) in diethyl ether (50 mL)
   cooled to -78'C was added n-BuLi (8.7 mL of a 2.5M solution in hexanes, 21.64 mmol)
15 dropwise. The reaction was stirred for 1 hour before S02 gas was bubbled through the
   reaction and stirring continued at -50'C for an additional 1 hour. The reaction was allowed to
   warm to -20'C and NCS (3.42 g, 25.58 mmol) was added portion wise and stirring was
   continued for 18 hours at a temperature of about 25'C. After substantially complete
   consumption of the starting material was observed by TLC, water (40 mL) was added and the
20 organic portion was extracted into ethyl acetate (3 x 20 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was chromatographed with a silica gel
   column eluting with 0.5% ethyl acetate in hexane to provide the desired compound as a yellow
   solid (2.5 g, 55% yield). 'H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl3) 6 ppm 7.72 (1H, dd, 7.9, 0.9Hz), 7.64
   7.58 (2H, m), 7.43 (iH, dd, 8.1, 4.2Hz), 2.65 (3H, s).
25         N-Hydroxy-3-methyl-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonamide
           N-Hydroxy-3-methyl-1-benzofuran-2-sulfonamide was prepared from 3-methyl-1
   benzofuran-2-sulfonyl chloride (1.5 g, 6.5 mmol) according to the herein-described methods
   for the synthesis of N-hydroxysulfonamides and was triturated with 5% DCM:pentane to
   provide the desired compound as a white solid (0.74 g, 50% yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz,
30 DMSO) 6 ppm 10.11 (lH, d, 3.0Hz), 9.79 (lH, d, 3.0Hz), 7.81 (1H, ddd, 7.9, 1.1, 0.7Hz),
                                                  146

   7.70-7.66 (1H, m), 7.55 (1H, ddd, 8.4, 7.2, 1.3Hz), 7.41 (1H, td, 7.6, 0.9Hz), 2.50 (3H, s).
   Example 94: N-Hydroxy-5-(piperidine-1-carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonamide             (82)
           5-(Piperidine-1-carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonylchloride
           Sulfur trioxide pyridine complex (2.66 g, 16.74 mmol) and 1,2 dichloroethane (20 mL)
 5 were heated with (furan-2-carbonyl) piperidine (2 g, 11.16 mmol) in a sealed tube at 140'C for
   22 hours, after which time the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to a temperature of about
   25'C and the mixture concentrated under reduced pressure to provide a slurry. The residue
   was treated with a solution of sodium carbonate (1.7 g, 16.74 mmol) in water (20 mL) and the
   resulting mixture was evaporated to dryness. The solid was stirred with dichloromethane (20
10 mL) before refluxing in ethanol (1OmL) for 30 min and the filtrate was concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide 1.2 g of the sodium salt. The sodium salt was dissolved in
   methanol (10 mL) and the resulting solution was treated with charcoal and filtered through
   CELITE. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to provide 5-(piperidine-1
   carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonic acid as the sodium salt (950 mg). The sodium salt was mixed with
15 dichloromethane (10 mL) at 0' C and slowly added to phosphorous oxychloride (2 mL).
   Phosphorus pentachloride (2.32 g, 16.74 mmol) was then added portion wise to the reaction
   mixture at 0' C and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to a temperature of about 25'C
   and stirred for a further 2 hours at that temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with
   dichloromethane (30 mL) and water (20 mL), and the organic portion was separated and dried
20 over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide 5-(piperidine
   1-carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonyl chloride (0.6 g, 19% yield).
           N-Hydroxy-5-(piperidine-1-carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonamide
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (0.3 mL of a 50% aqueous solution, 4.95
   mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (7 mL) and water (3 mL) cooled to -5OC was slowly added a solution
25 of 5-(piperidine-1-carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonyl chloride (550 mg, 1.98 mmol) in THF (3 mL),
   maintaining a reaction temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this
   temperature until substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by
   TLC (about 30 min), after which time the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (20 mL)
   and the organic portion was separated, washed with water (2 x 10 mL), dried over sodium
                                                    147

   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxy-5
   (piperidine-1-carbonyl)furan-2-sulfonamide as an yellow solid. Trituration was carried out
   using DCM:pentane (1:1 v:v) followed by dichloromethane (2 x 1 mL) to provide the title
   compound as an off white solid (0.3 g, 55% yield). 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 ppm 10.13
 5 (s, 1H), 9.84 (s, 1H), 7.31 (d, 1H), 7.09 (d, 1H), 3.58 (s, 4H), 1.74-1.45 (m, 6H)
   Example 95: N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide                (83)
            5-Methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride
            2-Methanesulfonylthiophene (5 g, 30.82 mmol) was added to chlorosulfonic acid
   (14.37 mL, 215.74 mmol) and the resulting solution was heated to 90'C for 1 h after which
10 time the solution was cooled to a temperature of about 25'C before being poured onto ice (250
   mL). The resulting suspension was extracted into dichloromethane (3 x 100 mL) and the
   combined organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the desired compound as a fawn solid which existed as a mixture
   with the corresponding 1,4 isomer and was used as such directly in the synthesis the
15 corresponding N-hydroxysulfonamide (4.6 g, 39% yield as a 1:1 mixture with the 2,4 isomer).
   1H  NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 7.59 (d, J=3.8Hz, 1H), 7.20 (d, J=3.8Hz, 1H), 3.33 (s, 3H).
            N-Hydroxy-5-methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonamide
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (158 mL of a 50% solution, 23.97 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (15 mL) and water (2.5 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly a 1:1 mixture of 5
20 methanesulfonylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride and 5-methanesulfonylthiophene-3-sulfonyl
   chloride (2.5 g, 9.58 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of less than 10 C. The
   reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete consumption of the sulfonyl
   chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 5 min), after which time the reaction was diluted with
   dichloromethane (20 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with water (2 x 5
25 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide
   the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a 1:1 mixture with the corresponding 2,4 isomer as a by-product.
   The compound was then chromatographed by acidic HPLC which fully separated the 2
   isomers (0.58 g, 46% yield). 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) of title compound: 6 10.09 (s,
   2H), 7.91 (d, J=4.OHz, 1H), 7.75 (d, J=4.OHz, 1H), 3.48 (s, 3H).     1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO
                                                   148

   d6) of 2,4 isomer: 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.84 (s, 1H), 9.77 (s, IH), 8.65 (d,
   J=1.6Hz, 1H), 7.99 (d, J=1.6Hz, 1H), 3.46 (s, 4H).
   Example 96: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-2-sulfonamide (84)
            5-Methylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride
 5          5-Methylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride was synthesized according to the methods
   disclosed in Sone et al., Bull. Chem. Soc. Japan 58:1063-1064 (1985). Freshly distilled
   sulfuryl chloride (74.9 mL, 0.93 mol) was added drop wise with stirring to ice cold DMF (71.5
   mL, 0.93 mol) maintaining a temperature below 25'C. The hygroscopic solid complex which
   formed after 10 minutes was held at the same temperature for an additional 30 minutes. 2
10 methyl thiophene (70 g, 0.71 mol) was added to the complex and the mixture was heated at
   98'C for 1 hour. The viscous brown mixture was cooled, poured into ice-water and extracted
   into diethyl ether (2 x IL). The organic layer was washed successively with water (500 mL),
   5% NaHCO3 solution (200 mL) and water (500 mL) before being dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the sulfonyl chloride as a dark
15 brown liquid. The sulfonyl chloride was chromatographed by CC eluting with 0-30%
   EtOAc:heptane (110 g, 78% yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 ppm 7.69 (IH, d,
   J=3.9Hz), 6.88-6.83 (1H, m), 2.60 (3H, d, J=0.8Hz).
            N-Hydroxy-5-methylthiophene-2-sulfonamide
            To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (8.4 mL of a 50% aqueous solution, 50.9
20 mmol) in THF (60 mL) and water (10 mL) cooled to -50 C was slowly added
   5-methylthiophene-2-sulfonyl chloride (10 g, 50.9 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature
   of less than 10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by LC-MS (about 5 min), after which time
   the reaction was diluted with DCM (100 mL) and the organic portion was separated and
25 washed with water (2 x 25 mL). The aqueous extracts were combined and rewashed with
   DCM (2 x 75 mL). All of the organic portions were combined, dried over sodium sulfate,
   filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a
   beige solid. Trituration with heptanes provided the title compound as a beige solid (6.1 g,
   61.8% yield). LC-MS tR = 1.1 min; HRMS: theoretical (C5H7NO3S2)        = 191.9789, measured =
                                                  149

   191.9781; 1HNMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.71 (1H, d,J=3.3Hz), 9.58 (1H, d,
   J=3.5Hz), 7.46 (1H, d, J=3.8Hz), 6.95 (1H, dd, J=3.7, 1.0Hz), 2.53 (3H, s).
   Example 97: N-Hydroxy-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-sulfonamide             (85)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (7.32 mL of a 50% solution, 110.73 mmol) in
 5 tetrahydrofuran (48 mL) and water (8 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 1-methyl-1H
   pyrazole-3-sulfonyl chloride (8 g, 44.29 mmol) maintaining a reaction temperature of less than
   10 C. The reaction was maintained at this temperature until substantially complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC (about 5 min), after which time the
   reaction was diluted with dichloromethane (50 mL) and the organic portion was separated,
10 washed with water (2 x 10 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an off white solid. Trituration was
   carried out using heptanes:DCM (1:1, v:v) to provide the title compound as an off white solid
   (4.3 g, 55% yield). LC-MS    tR = 0.41 min, [M+H]* = 179. 1H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6
   ppm 9.62 (d, J=3.2Hz, 1H), 9.51 (d, J=3.2Hz, 1H), 7.89 (d, J=2.3Hz, 1H), 6.68 (d, J=2.3Hz,
15 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H).
   Example 98: Preparation of 3-Chloro-4-fluoro-N-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide             (87)
           To a solution of hydroxylamine (1.3 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 21.8 mmol) in
   THF (12 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 3-chloro-4-fluorobenzene-1-sulfonyl
   chloride (2 g, 8.7 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below 10 C. The
20 reaction was stirred for 20 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete consumption of
   the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with diethyl ether (2 x 50 mL) and the organic
   portion was separated and washed with 5% citric acid solution (10 mL) and water (10 mL).
   The organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced
   pressure. The product was triturated with diethyl ether:heptane to provide the title compound
25 as a white solid (1.14 g, 58% yield). LC-MS    tR = 1.54 min; HRMS: theoretical
   (C6H5ClFNO3S)     = 223.9584, measured   = 223.963; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm
   9.79 (1H, d, 3.2Hz), 9.73 (1H, d, 3.2,Hz), 7.98 (1H, dd, 6.87Hz, 2.29,Hz), 7.85 (1H, m).
                                                   150

   Example 99: 1-N,3-N-dihydroxybenzene-1,3-disulfonamide             (88)
           To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (2.4 mL of a 50% solution, 36.35 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (12 mL) and water (2 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added benzene-1,3
   disulfonyl dichloride (2 g, 7.27 mmol), maintaining a reaction temperature of less than 100 C.
 5 The reaction was maintained at this temperature until substantially complete consumption of
   the sulfonyl chloride was observed by TLC (about 5 min), after which time the reaction was
   diluted with ethyl acetate (25 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with water (2
   x 10 mL), and ammonium chloride (25 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxysulfonamide as a white solid.
10 Trituration was carried out using heptane to provide the title compound as a white solid (0.567
   g, 29% yield). Concentration to 1/3 volume of the filtrate provided a second batch of the N
   hydroxysulfonamide (0.327 g, 17% yield) LC-MS        tR = 0.87 min; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO
   d6) 6 9.88 (s, 2H), 9.82 (s, 2H), 8.28 (t, J=1.7Hz, 1H), 8.14 (dd, J=7.9, 1.8Hz, 2H), 7.91 (t,
   J=7.9Hz, 1H).
15 Example 100: 3-Bromo-N-hydroxybenzene-1-sulfonamide              (89)
           To a solution of hydroxylamine HCl (1.62 g, 23.48 mmol) in water (2.4 mL) cooled to
   00 C was added a solution of potassium carbonate (3.24 g, 23.48 mmol) in water (3.6 mL)
   dropwise maintaining an internal reaction temperature between 5C and 15'C. The reaction
   mixture was stirred for 15 minutes, whereupon tetrahydrofuran (12 mL) and methanol (3.0
20 mL) were added. 3-Bromobenzene sulfonyl chloride (3.0 g, 11.74 mmol) was added
   portionwise maintaining a temperature below 15'C and the reaction mixture was then stirred at
   a temperature of about 25'C until substantially complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride
   was observed by TLC. The resulting suspension was concentrated under reduced pressure to
   remove any volatiles and the aqueous suspension was extracted with diethyl ether (2 x 50 mL).
25 The organic portion was dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to provide the N-hydroxy sulfonamide as a white solid (1.8 g, 61% yield).     1H
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.75 (1H, d, J=8.1Hz), 9.77 (1H, s), 7.92 (1H, d,
   J=8.1Hz), 7.95 (1H, t, J=1.7Hz), 7.84 (1H, d, J=7.8Hz), 7.60 (1H, t, J=7.9Hz); predicted [M
   H]- = 249.9174; observed [M-H]-     = 249.9163.
                                                    151

   Example 101: Preparation of N-Hydroxy-3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzene
                      1-sulfonamide (92)
           To a solution of hydroxylamine (6.4 mL of a 50% aqueous solution; 95.9 mmol) in
   THF (60 mL) and water (10 mL) cooled to 00 C was added 3-(trifluoromethoxy)benzene
 5  1-sulfonyl chloride (10 g, 38.4 mmol) portionwise so as to maintain the temperature below
   100 C. The reaction was stirred for 20 minutes, after which time LC-MS showed complete
   consumption of the sulfonyl chloride. The reaction was diluted with DCM (2 x 50 mL) and
   the organic portion was separated and washed with ammonium chloride solution (10 mL) and
   water (10 mL). The organic portion was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
10 under reduced pressure. The product was triturated with heptane to provide the title compound
   as a white solid (6.77 g, 66.6% yield). LC-MS      tR = 1.67 min; HRMS: theoretical
   (C7H6F3NO4S)     =  255.9891, measured   = 255.9903; 'H NMR (250 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.82
   (2H, s), 7.89 (1H, dt, J=7.3, 1.7Hz), 7.84-7.70 (3H, m).
   Example 102: N-Hydroxy-4-methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonamide                (93)
15         To a solution of aqueous hydroxylamine (6.48 mL of a 50% solution, 98.15 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (60 mL) and water (10 mL) cooled to -5'C was slowly added 4
   methanesulfonylbenzene-1-sulfonyl chloride (10 g, 39.26 mmol) as a suspension in
   tetrahydrofuran (20 mL) maintaining a reaction temperature of less than 10 C. The reaction
   was maintained at this temperature until complete consumption of the sulfonyl chloride was
20 observed by LC-MS (about 10 min), after which time the reaction was diluted with
   dichloromethane (150 mL) and the organic portion was separated, washed with water (2 x 25
   mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide
   the N-hydroxysulfonamide as an off white solid. Trituration was carried out using
   heptanes:DCM (9:1 v:v) to provide the title compound as an off white solid (5.46 g, 55.4%
25 yield). LC-MS     tR = 0.89 min, [M-H]-  = 250; 1H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 ppm 9.89 (1H,
   d, J=2.4Hz), 9.85 (1H, d, J=2.4Hz), 8.19 (2H, d, J=8.4Hz), 8.08 (2H, d, J=8.4Hz), 3.32 (3H,
   s).
           It will be apparent to those in the art that specific embodiments of the disclosed subject
                                                     152

   matter may be directed to one or more of the above- and below-indicated embodiments
            While the invention has been disclosed in some detail by way of illustration and
   example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it is apparent to those in the art that various
   changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true
 5 spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore, the description and examples should not be
   construed as limiting the scope of the invention.
            All references, publications, patents, and patent applications disclosed herein are
   hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
            In the specification and the claims the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a
10 broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of
   a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer
   or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the term
   "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
            The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as an
15 acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                     153

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.       A method of treating heart failure, comprising administering to a human patient a
nitroxyl donor composition, said composition comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor that has a half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma
at a pH of 7.4 by the procedure described in Example 2 and a cyclodextrin.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has a
half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes when measured in human plasma at a
pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has a
half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75 minutes when measured in human plasma at a
pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor has a
half-life of less than 95 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under
conditions specified in Example 2.
5.       The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the cyclodextrin is a sulfo-n-butyl ether
derivative of p-cyclodextrin having six or seven sulfo-n-butyl ether groups per cyclodextrin
molecule.
6.       The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the cyclodextrin is CAPTISOL*.
7.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the molar ratio between the N
hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
from about 0.02:1 to about 2:1.
8.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the molar ratio between the N
hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
from about 0.05:1 to about 1.5:1.
9.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the molar ratio between the N
hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor and the cyclodextrin present in the composition is
from about 0.5:1 to about 1:1.
                                                 154

10.      The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the composition is suitable for
parenteral administration.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the composition is suitable for intravenous
administration.
12.      The method of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the composition is formulated at a pH of
from about 4 to about 6.
13.      The method of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the composition is formulated at a pH of
from about 5 to about 6.
14.      The method of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the composition is formulated at a pH of
from about 5.5 to about 6.
15.      The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the heart failure is acute
decompensated heart failure.
16.      The method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1):
                                    H3 C-A )e        SO2 NHOH
                                                 (1)
17.      The method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                           SO 2 NHOH
                                                   SO 2 CH 3
                                                 (2)
18.      A method of treating heart failure, comprising administering to a human patient a
nitroxyl donor composition comprising a N-hydroxysulfonamide type nitroxyl donor that has
a half-life of greater than 10 minutes when measured in human plasma at a pH of 7.4 by the
                                                155

procedure described in Example 2, wherein said composition is administered parenterally at a
pH of from about 5 to about 6.5.
19.      The method of claim 18, wherein the composition is administered intravenously.
20.      The method of claim 18 or claim 19, wherein the composition is administered at a pH
of from about 5.5 to about 6.
21.      The method of claim 18 or claim 19, wherein the composition is administered at a pH
of about 6.
22.      The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 12 minutes to about 85 minutes when measured in
human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
23.      The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor has a half-life of from about 25 minutes to about 75 minutes when measured in
human plasma at a pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
24.      The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor has a half-life of less than 95 minutes when measured in human plasma at a
pH of 7.4 under conditions specified in Example 2.
25.      The method of any one of claims 18-24, wherein the composition further comprises a
stabilizing agent.
26.      The method of claim 25, wherein the stabilizing agent is a cyclodextrin.
27.      The method of claim 26, wherein the cyclodextrin is a p-cyclodextrin.
28.      The method of any one of claims 18-27, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (1):
                                     H3 C-T  e   -SO  2 NHOH
                                                (1)
29.      The method of any one of claims 18-27, wherein the N-hydroxysulfonamide type
nitroxyl donor is a compound of the formula (2):
                                               156

SO 2 NHOH
        SO 2CH 3
     (2)
     157

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
