This invention relates to a surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions using a minimum invasive
endoscopicc) method. The invention provides the possibility of the surgical treatment of intestinal
obstructions along the entire length of the intestine by means of stenting. The technical result
achieved by the first and second subjects of the invention is providing the total surgical treatment of
intestinal obstructions in the narrow and large intestine by installing a stent at an intestine
obstruction location in a manner allowing further moving the stent during its positioning or removal
and avoiding damage to the intestine as a result of the surgical manipulations. Said technical
objective is achieved with the first subject of the invention, i.e. the method, as follows. The method
of surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in narrow and large intestine comprises the
movement of the endoscope across the entire length of the narrow and large intestine and
delivering the dilatation balloon and stent system to the obstructed section of the intestine. After
the dilatation balloon and stent system is delivered to the obstructed section of the intestine, the
dilatation balloon is installed at the intestine obstruction location, and the normal intestine section
is restored by inflating the dilatation balloon. Then the volume of the dilatation balloon is reduced,
the balloon is retracted to the endoscope, and the stent is installed at the intestine obstruction
location. The movement of the dilatation balloon and stent is controlled using a hydraulic piston
mechanism. Said technical objective is achieved with the second subject of the invention, i.e. the
device, as follows. The endoscope for the total surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in
narrow and large intestine comprises a hydraulic endoscope movement drive and an endoscope
case installed in the outer tube. Said endoscope case comprises channels for the supply of gas and
liquid into the intestine cavity, an optical channel, a light channel and two manipulation channels.
The stent is installed at the distal end of one of said manipulation channels at the central portion of
the manipulation shaft which is rigidly mounted on the stent extension piston and has stopping
balloons at both ends. The distal end of the other manipulation channel comprises the dilatation
balloon mounted on a hollowed manipulation shaft which in turn is rigidly mounted on the dilatation
balloon extension piston. The proximal ends of said manipulation channels comprise hydraulic piston
mechanisms acting on said dilatation balloon extension piston and on said stent extension piston.
Said dilatation balloon and said stent stopping balloons are connected via said gas supply channels
to said hydraulic piston mechanisms installed at the proximal ends of said manipulation channels.

                                           1
    Method of Surgical Treatment of Intestinal Obstructions in Narrow and
                Large Intestine and Device for its Implementation
        Field of the Invention. This invention relates to medicine, more specifi
cally, to the surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions using the minimum inva
sive (endoscopic) method. The invention provides the possibility of the surgical
treatment of intestinal obstructions along the entire length of the intestine by means
of stunting.
        Prior Art. The surgical treatment of narrow intestine diseases is limited by
the possibility of access to the target zone and is therefore carried out within a lim
ited space of the intestine. General surgeries are carried out for the examination of
the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract (up to 1.5 m in depth), the access being
limited by the duodenum. Conventional colonoscopy also allows treating intestinal
obstructions up to 2 m in depth of the large intestine. The rest portion of the nar
row intestine the total length of which with the esophagus is up to 10 m remains
inaccessible for noninvasive stenting. Capsule endoscopy is often used for the ex
amination of the entire gastrointestinal tract, but it does not allow surgery.
        The only solution for narrow intestine obstruction patients are abdominal
operations which include extensive laparotomy and hence the related risks and
complications.
        Known are an examination and diagnostic method for gastrointestinal tract,
more specifically, narrow intestine, and an ultra-long (10 m) endoscope for the im
plementation of said method (US 7481764 B2, publ. 21.01.2009). Said known me
thod and device provide an efficient tool for the total navigation of the gastrointes
tinal tract along its entire length.
        Disadvantages of said known method and device are that they do not allow
narrow intestine surgery by means of minimum invasive access.

                                            2
        The closest counterpart of the method and device disclosed herein are the
method of surgical treatment of empty tubular bodies including blood vessels, ar
teries and veins, and a device for the implementation of said method (RU 2388433
C2, publ. 10.05.2010). In accordance with this technical solution, the obstructed
section of an empty tubular body is expanded with an expandable medical implant
for providing support of the tubular body cavity. This implant relates to a specific
type of medical components called stents. Stents are delivered to the obstructed
area of a vessel by means of special systems including dilatation balloons.
        Disadvantages of said known method and device are that they do not allow
delivering and installing a stent via an endoscope to any area along the length of
the narrow intestine. The only solution for narrow intestine obstruction patients,
 many of who are above 60, are abdominal operations which include extensive lapa
 rotomy and hence the related risks and complications.
        The prior attempts of providing endoscopes allowing total diagnostics and
 treatment of narrow intestine have not been clinically successful. For many years
 an unresolved problem has been to overcome friction across the entire length of the
 narrow intestine due to its extensive tortuosity and up to 10 m length.
         Disclosure of the Invention. The object of this invention is to provide for
 total surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions of narrow and large intestine by
 installing a stent at an intestine obstruction location in a manner allowing further
 moving the stent during its positioning or removal and avoiding damage to the in
 testine as a result of the surgical manipulations.
         Said technical objective is achieved with the first subject of the invention,
 i.e. the method, as follows.
         The method of surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in narrow and
 large intestine comprises the movement of the endoscope across the entire length
 of the narrow and large intestine and delivering the dilatation balloon and stent
 system to the obstructed section of the intestine. After the dilatation balloon and
 stent system is delivered to the obstructed section of the intestine, the dilatation
 balloon is installed at the intestine obstruction location, and the normal intestine

                                              3
 section is restored by inflating the dilatation balloon. Then the volume of the dila
tation balloon is reduced, the balloon is retracted to the endoscope, and the stent is
installed at the intestine obstruction location. The movement of the dilatation bal
loon and stent is controlled using a hydraulic piston mechanism.
        Furthermore, the endoscope can be moved across the entire length of the
narrow and large intestine via the oral cavity or the anal orifice.
        Said technical objective is achieved with the second subject of the invention,
i.e. the device, as follows.
        The endoscope for the total surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in
narrow and large intestine comprises a hydraulic endoscope movement drive and
an endoscope case installed in the outer tube. Said endoscope case comprises
channels for the supply of gas and liquid into the intestine cavity, an optical chan
nel, a light channel and two manipulation channels.
        The stent is installed at the distal end of one of said manipulation channels at
the central portion of the manipulation shaft which is rigidly mounted on the stent
extension piston and has stopping balloons at both ends.
        The distal end of the other manipulation channel comprises the dilatation
balloon mounted on a hollowed manipulation shaft which in turn is rigidly
mounted on the dilatation balloon extension piston. The proximal ends of said ma
nipulation channels comprise hydraulic piston mechanisms acting on said dilata
tion balloon extension piston and on said stent extension piston. Said dilatation
balloon and said stent stopping balloons are connected via said gas supply channels
to said hydraulic piston mechanisms installed at the proximal ends of said manipu
lation channels.
        Said dilatation balloon and said stent are mounted on hollowed manipulation
shafts in a detachable manner.
        The distal ends of said manipulation channels further comprise springs that
enhance the back stroke of said dilatation balloon extension piston and said stent
extension piston.

                                           4
        Said stent is secured in its expanded and compressed positions by means of
threads made of biologically soluble materials.
        Said threads are secured to the stent with a securing means made from fast
soluble non-toxic biodegradable glue.
        Embodiments of the Invention. This invention will be exemplified with a
drawing where Fig. I shows the general view of the endoscope, Fig. 2 shows the
frontal view of the distal end of the endoscope (Section A in Fig. 1), Fig. 3 and 4
show longitudinal sections of the manipulation channels and Fig. 5 shows the de
sign and mounting of the stent.
        The endoscope comprises (Figs. 1 - 5) an outer tube 1, an endoscope case 2,
a distal endoscope end rotation mechanism 3, an optical channel 4, a hydraulic
drive tube 5, a port 6, a dilatation balloon manipulation channel 7, a stent manipu
lation channel 8, a hydraulic piston mechanism 9 that produces pressure in the
channel 7, a hydraulic piston mechanism 10 that produces pressure in the channel
8, a channel 11 for gas supply to the end balloons 20 and 21, a channel 12 for gas
supply to the dilatation balloon 18, a pneumatic piston mechanism 13, a pneumatic
piston mechanism 14, a channel 15 for liquid supply to the intestine, a light guide
 16, a channel 17 for gas supply to the intestine, a dilatation balloon 18, a stent 19, a
rear end balloon 20, a front end balloon 21, a manipulation shaft 22 of the dilata
tion balloon 18, a manipulation shaft 23 of the stent 19, a piston 24 for the exten
sion of the dilatation balloon 18, a piston 25 for the extension of the stent 19, a
spring 26 for the back stroke of the piston 24, a rear limiter 27 of the back stroke of
the piston 24, a front limiter 28 of the back stroke of the piston 24, a spring 29 for
the back stroke of the piston 25, a threads 30 for holding the stent 19, a rear limiter
31 of the back stroke of the piston 25 and a front limiter 32 of the back stroke of
the piston 25.
        The method according to this invention is implemented using said device as
follows.
        During the surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in narrow and large
intestine the outer tube 1 is moved across the entire length of the narrow and large

                                             5
intestine by the action of the hydraulic drive comprised in the tube 5. The total
movement of the endoscope and the delivery of the dilatation balloon and stent
system to the obstruction section of the intestine are carried out through the oral
cavity or through the anal orifice. The endoscope is 3.5 - 10 m in length.
       After the dilatation balloon and stent system is delivered to the obstruction
section of the intestine, the normal intestine section in the obstruction location is
restored. To this end, positive pressure is applied to the manipulation channel 7 by
means of the hydraulic piston mechanism 9 mounted on the proximal end of the
endoscope, said pressure being transmitted to the piston 24. The piston 24 extends
the dilatation balloon 18 mounted on the manipulation shaft 22 to the obstruction
location.
       After the dilatation balloon 18 is delivered to the obstruction location, gas is
delivered to its volume via the channel 12 from the pneumatic piston mechanism
13 to inflate the dilatation balloon 18 thus widening the obstructed portion and re
storing the normal section of the intestine.
        Then the dilatation balloon 18 is deflated by applying negative pressure to
its volume via the channel 12 from the pneumatic piston mechanism 13 and re
tracted back into the manipulation channel 7,
       The back movement of the balloon 18 can be enhanced by the spring 26
mounted in the distal end of the endoscope to facilitate the retraction of the balloon
18 into the manipulation channel 7.
       Then the stent is delivered to the widened obstructed portion of the intestine.
Initially, positive pressure is applied to the manipulation channel 8 by means of the
hydraulic piston mechanism 10 mounted on the proximal end of the endoscope,
said pressure being transmitted to the piston 25. The piston 24 extends the stent 25
mounted on the manipulation shaft 23 to the obstruction location.
       The stent 19 is secured in the desired longitudinal position by means of the
front and rear end balloons 20 and 21 mounted on the manipulation shaft 23.
       The manipulation shaft 23 can be made of polymer materials having suffi
cient elasticity, e.g. polymer.

                                            6
        The end balloons 20 and 21 are deployed and the stent 19 is secured in the
desired longitudinal position by supplying gas from the pneumatic piston mecha
nism 14 via the channel 11 to the end balloons 20 and 21.
        The stent 19 is secured in the compressed position by means of threads 30.
        The stent 19 secured in the compressed position with the threads 30 and in
the desired longitudinal position with the end balloons 20 and 21 is extended from
the distal end of the endoscope by delivering positive pressure from the pneumatic
piston mechanism 10 to the piston 25 by the distance equal to the piston stroke, i.e.
8 - 15 cm. The end balloons 20 and 21 also avoid damage to the intestine when the
stent 19 is moved.
        After the stent 19 is installed at the obstruction location, the glue dissolves
(within 5 min after being extended from the endoscope). After the glue has dis
solved, the threads 30 lose their ability to secure the stent 19 in the compressed po
sition. As a result the stent expands in the obstruction location automatically, for
example, due to the shape memory effect or its intrinsic elasticity which is typical
of stents made, for example, of polymer materials, and restores the patency of the
 intestine.
        After the stent 19 has expanded, the threads are pressed by the stent 19 to the
 intestine wall and secured in said position. The biodegrading composition of the
 threads reduces the time of foreign object presence in the intestine. The time of
 thread dissolution depends on the structure of its material and possible presence of
 a medicinal coating.
        The end balloons 20 and 21 are deflated by applying negative pressure from
 the pneumatic piston mechanism 14 following which the shaft 23 is retracted from
 the obstruction location to the channel 8.
        The back movement of the shaft 23 can be enhanced by the spring 29
 mounted in the distal end of the endoscope to facilitate the retraction of the stent 19
 into the manipulation channel 8.
        The pneumatic piston mechanisms 13 and 14 may contain gas of various
 density, and the hydraulic piston mechanisms 9 and 10 may contain liquid of vari-

                                           7
ous specific weight depending on endoscope length. Longer endoscopes require
higher density (specific weight) of liquid.

                                           8
What is claimed is a
1. Method of surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in narrow and large intes
tine comprising the movement of the endoscope across the entire length of the nar
row and large intestine and delivering the dilatation balloon and stent system to the
obstructed section of the intestine, installing the dilatation balloon at the intestine
obstruction location, restoring the normal intestine section by inflating the dilata
tion balloon, reducing the volume of the dilatation balloon, retracting the balloon
to the endoscope and installing the stent at the intestine obstruction location,
wherein the movement of the dilatation balloon and stent is controlled using a hy
draulic piston mechanism.
2. Method of Claim 1 wherein the endoscope is moved across the entire length of
the narrow and large intestine via the oral cavity or the anal orifice.
3. Endoscope for the total surgical treatment of intestinal obstructions in narrow
and large intestine comprising a hydraulic endoscope movement drive and an en
doscope case installed in the outer tube, said endoscope case comprising channels
for the supply of gas and liquid into the intestine cavity, an optical channel, a light
channel and two manipulation channels, the stent being installed at the distal end
of one of said manipulation channels at the central portion of the manipulation
shaft which is rigidly mounted on the stent extension piston and has stopping bal
loons at both ends, and the distal end of the other manipulation channel comprising
the dilatation balloon mounted on a hollowed manipulation shaft which in turn is
rigidly mounted on the dilatation balloon extension piston, wherein the proximal
ends of said manipulation channels comprise hydraulic piston mechanisms acting
on said dilatation balloon extension piston and on said stent extension piston, and
said dilatation balloon and said stent stopping balloons are connected via said gas
supply channels to said hydraulic piston mechanisms installed at the proximal ends
of said manipulation channels.
4. Endoscope of Claim 3 wherein said dilatation balloon and said stent are
mounted on hollowed manipulation shafts in a detachable manner.

                                          9
5. Endoscope of Claim 3 wherein the distal ends of said manipulation channels fur
ther comprise springs that enhance the back stroke of said dilatation balloon exten
sion piston and said stent extension piston.
6. Endoscope of Claim 3 wherein said stent is secured in its expanded and com
pressed positions by means of threads made of biologically soluble materials.
7. Endoscope of Claim 3 wherein said threads are secured to the stent with a secur
ing means made from fast soluble non-toxic biodegradable glue.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
