                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A container assembly for use with a high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC)
instrument is disclosed, in which the container assembly, when coupled to a source of
pressurized gas, provides fluid medium to the HPLC instrument at positive pressure. The
container assembly has an external exterior container shell, an internal fluid container for
holding fluid medium, an interstitial volume between the external exterior container shell and
the internal fluid container, a port for fluidly connecting the volume to a pressurized gas
source, and a port for fluidly connecting the internal fluid container to the HPLC instrument.
As a pressurized gas in the interstitial volume increases, fluid medium flows out of the port
connected to the internal fluid bag and container assembly at a positive pressure. A system
incorporating the container assembly, and method of use of the same, are also disclosed.

               BOTTLE PRESSURIZATION DELIVERY SYSTEM
[0001]     The present    application   is a divisional application from Australian       Patent
Application No. 2014236334, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       A reference herein to a matter which is given as prior art is not to be taken as an
admission that the document or matter was known or that the information it contains was part
of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
[0003]    The present invention resides in the field of high-pressure, or high-performance,
liquid chromatography (HPLC) assays, particularly for the delivery of reagents, diluents,
solvents, and other fluids an HPLC instrument and apparatus system. More specifically, the
present invention is directed to a fluid handling system for the delivery of solvent fluids with
positive pressure to an HPLC instrument.
[0004]    HPLC is a chromatographic technique used to separate a mixture of compounds in
analytical chemistry and biochemistry with the purpose of identifying, quantifying or purifying
the individual components of the mixture. Generally, HPLC relies on pumps to pass a
pressurized liquid and a sample mixture through a column filled with a sorbent, leading to the
separation of the sample components. The active component of the column, the sorbent, is
typically a granular material made of solid particles. The components of the sample mixture are
separated from each other due to their different degrees of interaction with the sorbent
particles. The pressurized liquid is typically a mixture of solvents (e.g. water, acetonitrile,
methanol) and is referred to as "mobile phase". In addition to the composition and temperature
of the mobile phase, the fluid pressure of the mobile phase plays a major role in the separation
process by influencing the interactions taking place between sample components and sorbent.
These interactions are physical in nature, such as hydrophobic (dispersive), dipole-dipole and
ionic, most often a combination thereof.
                                                 1

[0005]    HPLC instruments and techniques have become increasingly sophisticated and
complex, allowing for the analysis of multiple portions of a sample, utilizing a variety of
different solvent fluids or analyzing a variety of samples with the same or different solvents.
Such systems require fluid distribution systems capable of allocating precise amounts of
solvents at specific pressures, for extended durations of time, and the ability to switch from one
solvent to another.
[0006]    HPLC systems known in the field often require that the solvent fluids to be used by
the instruments be elevated, so as to take advantage of gravity, drawing down the solvent fluids
into the instrument, and thus priming the fluid lines of the HPLC instrument.
[0007]    In view of the above, there remains a need to provide solvents to HPLC
instrumentation without the disadvantages noted above and known in the field.
                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]    Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a pressurized system for the
delivery of fluid mediums, such as solvent fluids, into an HPLC instrument, and to modules
within an HPLC instrument such as a pump set, a separation module, or a dilution module. An
array of bottles (also referred to as "reagent boxes" or "container assemblies") each contain an
enclosed bag or pouch, within which solutions of solvents, reagents, buffers, diluents, and/or
other fluid mediums are contained. The interstitial volume of space between the bag the inside
of the bottles is then pressurized with a gas, such as air. The increased gas pressure exerts force
on the exterior of the bag, encouraging the egress of fluid medium, such as solvent fluid, from
the enclosed bag through fluid connectors. The fluid connectors lead into the HPLC instrument
and thus the present disclosure provides solvent fluids to an HPLC instrument and system at a
positive pressure, relative to ambient conditions.
[0009]     Some embodiments of the present disclosure include shut-off valves on the fluid
connectors of the bottles prevent fluid egress when the bottle is outside of or not properly
coupled to an HPLC instrument. Shut-off connectors are also used on the HPLC instrument in
order to prevent the aspiration of air by pumps if a bottle is not connected. Each bottle position
on the HPLC instrument has an individual valve for pressurization and depressurization, which
is fed from a centralized reservoir and releases to ambient atmosphere. In the case of a bag
                                                  2

failure causing the volume of space in the bottle to fill with pressurized fluid, the valves vent
away from the electronics within the HPLC instrument, into drip trays. The bottles may be
made of metal, plastic, reinforced materials, or another appropriate rigid or semi-rigid
materials, in order to generally maintain the form of the bottles when under pressure. In
aspects, the structural walls of such bottle can restorably flex, expanding to a degree when
under pressure and returning to a base, unexpanded state when not under pressure. A bottle
may reside within an additional external housing, to assist in maintaining the form of and
reinforce the bottles when under pressure.
[0010]     Further embodiments of the present disclosure allow for providing fluid at a positive
pressure to an instrument without the need for additional elevation in order to prime the
system. The positive pressure also facilitates the use of a forward pressure degassing system,
which requires no pump. The combination of positive pressure in the reagent consumable,
coupled with the debubblers in the bulk fluids module of the present system, enables the
consumables to be connected to the system easily without injecting bubbles of air into the
fluidic system.
[0011]     Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a container assembly for
holding an fluid medium, the container assembly comprising: an external container having a
first port and a second port, the external container defining a volume fluidly connected to the
first port; and an internal container contained within the external container and being fluidly
sealed from the volume, the internal container holding an fluid medium and being fluidly
connected to the second port by way of a valve.
[0012]     Further embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a method of handling fluid
medium within an instrument, comprising: holding an internal container within an external
container, the external container defining a volume fluidly sealed from the internal container;
holding an fluid medium within the internal container; coupling a first port to the external
container to a pressurization system of the instrument compressing the internal container by
filling the volume with pressurized gas through the first port; coupling a second port to the
internal container to a system of an instrument; and delivering the fluid medium from within
the internal container at a positive pressure to the instrument through the second port.
                                                   3

[0013]      Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a system for the handling of a
fluid medium in an instrument, comprising: a gas intake and pressurization apparatus; a
plurality of container assemblies, with each container assembly comprising an external
container having a first port and a second port, each external container defining a first volume
fluidly connected to the first port, and an internal container defining a second volume
contained within the external container and being fluidly sealed from the first volume, with
each first volume being fluidly connected to the gas intake and pressurization apparatus, the
internal container being fluidly connected to the second port by way of a valve, and with each
second volume holding a fluid medium; and an instrument fluidly connected to each container
assembly second volume, such that fluid medium from each container assembly can enter the
instrument.
[0014]      Further embodiments of present disclosure comprise a bulk fluidics module for a
high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) instrument, comprising: a gas pressurization
system; a reagent consumable region, having a plurality of gas interface ports and a plurality of
fluid interface ports; a pressurized gas channel, configured to connect and allow for passage of
gas from the gas pressurization system to the plurality of gas interface ports; a consumable
decompression region, configured to receive pressurized fluids through the plurality of fluid
interface ports and to regulate pressure of received pressurized fluids; and a fluid distribution
region, configured to receive fluids from the consumable decompression region and to direct
received fluids out of the bulk fluidics module.
[0015]    It is to be noted that while the present disclosure is generally directed to HPLC
instrumentation and chemistries, the pressurized system for the delivery of fluid medium can
be used for any appropriately designed chemistry or biochemistry instrument that requires the
pressurized delivery of reagents, buffers, diluents, solvents, or other fluid mediums.
[0016]    Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or
more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereto.
                                                  4

                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]    Illustrative aspects are described in detail below with reference to the following
drawing figures.
[0002]    FIG. 1 is an architectural schematic of the reagent box, according to some
embodiments.
[0019]    FIG. 2 is an exploded-view illustration of the reagent box and its component parts,
according to some embodiments.
[0020]    FIG. 3 depicts a design flowchart illustrating the interaction and connections between
aspects of the bulk fluidics module, according to some embodiments.
[0021]    FIG. 4 is a detail schematic illustration of the consumable pressurization system,
according to some embodiments.
[0022]    FIG. 5A is a cross-sections schematic illustration of a container assembly, according
to some embodiments.
[0023]    FIG. 5B is a schematic illustration of the reagent consumable region, leak detection
region, reagent decompression region, fluid combiner region, buffer conditioner, and diluent
conditioner, and the fluid flow through these regions, within the bulk fluidics module,
according to some embodiments.
[0024]    FIG. 6 is a schematic illustration of the waste handling assembly of the bulk fluidics
module, according to some embodiments.
[0025]    FIG. 7A is an illustration of an HPLC instrument with container assemblies,
according to some embodiments.
[0026]    FIG. 7B is an illustration of a container assembly, according to some embodiments.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0027]    The present disclosure is directed to a pressurized system for the delivery of fluid
mediums into an HPLC instrument and system, wherein a bottle, or reagent box, is used to
store and supply solvents. The reagent box is designed for simple and efficient loading and
                                                 5

locking into an HPLC instrument, minimizing the time and work required to replenish reagents
on an HPLC instrument. The reagent box may also improve the shelf life of the solvents stored
within the reagent box.
[0028]     As used herein, the term "fluid medium" can refer to any one of a reagent solution, a
buffer solution, a solvent, a diluent, a sample fluid (such as blood, urine, or other biological
fluids), and/or other fluids. Such fluid mediums can be those that are used, or known in the art
to be used, as part of a mobile phase in HPLC instrumentation. In alternative embodiments,
fluid mediums, and the pressurized delivery of fluid mediums, can be applied toward general
life science or diagnostic research fluidic instrumentation, such as instrumentation for ion
exchange chromatography, protein purification, solid phase extraction, liquid-liquid extraction,
distillation, fractional distillation, fluid separation, magnetic separation, stripping, membrane
or mesh filtration, flocculation, elutriation, leaching, or other such instrumentation. In some
aspects, the fluid medium can be an HPLC solvent, i.e. a fluid specific for use with HPLC
instrumentation. In further aspects, the fluid medium can be fluids used in separation
techniques, filtration techniques, extraction techniques, purification techniques, distillation
techniques, flocculation techniques, elution techniques, leaching techniques, or the like.
Exemplary fluid mediums include, but are not limited to, water, acetic acid, acetone,
acetonitrile, carbon disulphide, carbon tetrachloride, chlorobenzene, chloroform, cyclohexane,
cyclopentane,     dichloromethane,       1,2-dichloroethane, diethyl  ether,   dimethylformamide,
dimethylsulfoxide, dioxan, ethanol, ethyl acetate, fluoroalkanes, heptane, hexane, methanol,
methyl ethyl ketone, m-xylene, n-butyl acetate, n-butyl ether, nitromethane, n-methyl
pyrollidone, pentane, petroleum ether, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, pyridine, tetrahydrofuran,
toluene, triethylamine, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, and combinations, mixtures, and variations
thereof.
[0029]     The use of the reagent box further allows for easy identification of the reagent fluid
contained within the bottle. This can be accomplished by color-coding the reagent box itself. In
addition or alternatively, the reagent box can be barcoded, QR-coded, or otherwise labeled
with identifying data. Further, the identity of an individual reagent box can be stored in a
computerized database linked to a fluid instrument system, such as a HPLC system, so as to
keep track of how much fluid medium has been dispensed from any given reagent box.
Information regarding the content and/or volume of fluid medium remaining in a bottle can be
                                                    6

disclosed to a user of an instrument by use of indicator lights. In aspects, such indicator lights
can indicate that the amount of fluid medium remaining in a bottle is sufficient, that the amount
of fluid medium remaining in a bottle is of concern, and/or that there is no fluid medium
remaining in the bottle. Information regarding the content and/or volume of fluid medium
remaining in a bottle, and also information regarding the number of tests run on an instrument
with the bottles, can be stored, displayed, and/or manipulated on a computer system coupled
with the fluid instrument system. A barcode reader or a QR-code reader may also be connected
to a computer system coupled with a fluid instrument system and provide for data entry of the
information barcoded or QR-coded on a reagent box.
[0030]    In further aspects, a reagent box can include a non-transitory computer-readable
memory component that can store information regarding the volume of fluid medium held in
the reagent box. The non-transitory computer-readable memory can be updatable, such that as
fluid medium decreases in the reagent box, the amount of remaining fluid medium in the box is
updated to store information regarding the actual amount of fluid medium in the reagent box.
Accordingly, if the reagent box is transferred from one fluid instrument system to a subsequent
fluid instrument system, the subsequent fluid instrument system can obtain information
regarding the amount of fluid medium in the reagent box from the non-transitory computer
readable memory component. In some aspects, the non-transitory computer-readable memory
component can be updated using RF transmission from the fluid instrument system, for
example, using RFID. In other aspects, the non-transitory computer-readable memory
component can be electronically coupled to a fluid instrument system, and thereby updated,
when the reagent box is mechanically coupled to the fluid instrument system.
[0031]    The present disclosure also provides for the ability to change the buffer and reagents
as the HPLC instrument is operating, i.e. on-the-fly, simply by swapping out reagent boxes.
This can allow for a longer operation time of a fluidic instrument consuming fluid mediums,
since reagent, solvent, diluent, and buffer fluids can be replenished as needed. When a reagent
box is swapped out, air may fill the space between the fluid connections on the reagent box and
the HPLC instrument. However, a debubbler, such as a porous membrane allows gas to pass
through but not liquid, positioned on the HPLC side of the fluid connection can be used to
prevent air bubbles or pockets from entering the fluidic system.
                                                 7

[0032]     Many embodiments also provide for the advantage that the container assemblies can
be loaded onto an HPLC instrument horizontally, in a cantilever orientation. This allows for an
HPLC instrument configuration and design which does not require fluid mediums or other
fluids to be at an elevated position on an instrument. Such embodiments can provide for the
delivery of fluid mediums at a positive pressure, thus removing the need to use gravity to
drawn down fluid medium fluids into the fluid lines of an instrument, e.g. in order to prime the
lines of an instrument.
[0033]     While the bottles holding fluids are referred to herein as "reagent" boxes, it is to be
understood that the fluid contents of a reagent box can include reagents, diluents, buffers,
water, solvents, or any other appropriate fluid medium.
[0034]     FIG. 1 is an architectural schematic of the reagent box and its component parts 100.
The reagent box shell 110 of the reagent box can be made of metal, plastic, polymer, metal
reinforced polymer, or other appropriate materials that can both protect the contents in the
interior of the reagent box and withstand stresses related to handling and storage. Accordingly,
in aspects, the reagent box can be rigid or semi-rigid, particularly when considered relative to a
fluid bag 102. In some aspects, the reagent box can be referred to as an external container. The
fluid bag 102 can be made of a flexible material that holds a fluid medium, and of a size that
fits within the interior of the reagent box shell 110. In aspects, the flexible material can be an
elastic, an inelastic, or a semi-elastic polymer material. In further aspects, the fluid bag 102 can
be referred to as an internal container. The interstitial volume 104 (alternatively referred to as
a first volume), being the space in between the interior surface of the reagent box shell 110 and
the exterior surface of the fluid bag 102, can be filled with a gas. A gas, such as air, can be
pumped into interstitial volume 104 through a gas interface port 108. As gas fills interstitial
volume 104 of a sealed reagent box, the pressure from the gas entering the volume of the
reagent box can push fluid medium inside the fluid bag 102 out through any egress that exists
in the reagent box, primarily through the fluid interface port 106. In some aspects, the volume
of the fluid bag 102 can be referred to as second volume. A reagent box shell 110 can be sealed
with a reagent box cap 114 that fits over the open end region 112 of the reagent box shell 110.
The reagent box cap 114 further includes a fluid interface connector 116 which can couple to
the fluid interface port 106, and a gas interface connector 118 which can couple to the gas
interface port 108. The gas interface connector 118 when connected to the gas interface port
                                                  8

108 forms a pathway that allows for gas to be pumped into the interstitial volume 104 of the
reagent box shell 110. The fluid interface connector 116 when connected to the fluid interface
port 106 forms a pathway that allows for fluid to exit the fluid bag 102, which in operation is
designed to be in response to the increased gas pressure of the interstitial volume 104 pushing
on the exterior surface of the fluid bag 102. An interface plate 120 surrounds and secures a
cross-section of the fluid interface connector 116 and gas interface connector 118 to the fluid
bag 102.
[0035]     FIG. 2 is an exploded-view illustration of the reagent box 200. The reagent box shell
202, as noted above, can be made of materials that can both protect the contents in the interior
of the reagent box and hold up to external stresses of handling and storage. Further, the reagent
box shell 202 can be molded, contoured, or constructed in order to fit and interface with an
HPLC instrument, or other fluidic instrument, as well as in order to be easily handled by a user.
The fluid bag 204, which can be made of any appropriate flexible material capable of holding
fluid, can be shaped and/or contoured to fit within the reagent box shell 202. The fluid bag 204
can be made of materials that are biologically inert and chemically inert, capable of
withstanding the range of solvents, acids, bases, and other liquids that can have corrosive
characteristics.   Further, the fluid bag 204 can be shaped, tapered, and/or contoured to
efficiently allow solvents to egress the fluid bag 204 through the fluid interface port 208
(alternatively referred to as a nozzle) when the exterior surface of the fluid bag 204 is under
pressure. The shaping or tapering of the fluid bag 204 can mitigate against solvents being
pushed to the sides, corners, or back of the fluid bag 204 when under pressure, by channeling
or directing the held fluid medium toward the exit of the fluid bag 204 at the fluid interface
port 208. The fluid medium accordingly exits the fluid bag 204 at a positive pressure. This can
help to maximize the use of any fluid medium, reagent, buffer, diluent, or other solvent in a
fluid bag 204 and minimize the waste of any unused solvents. As shown, the fluid bag 204 is
bordered by flat edging that causes the fluid bag 204 to substantively flatten under pressure.
[0036]     The reagent box cap 206 can be made of the same material or a different material as
the reagent box shell 202. The reagent box cap 206, when mechanically coupled with the
reagent box shell 202, provides for a sealed (i.e. airtight) interstitial volume such that the gas in
the volume between the interior surface of the reagent box shell 202 and the exterior surface of
the fluid bag 204 will increase in pressure as more gas is pumped into volume. The seal
                                                 9

between the coupled reagent box shell 202 and reagent box cap 206 should not break as gas
pressure in the interstitial volume increases. The reagent box cap 206 further includes a gas
interface port 214 for providing gas to the interstitial volume. A gas interface port O-ring 216
can be used to help secure the gas interface port 214 to a mechanical structure, such as a pipe
or tube, used to channel gas into the reagent box. A fluid interface port O-ring 210 can be used
to help secure the fluid interface port 208 as it mechanically couples with the reagent box cap
206, the reagent cap fluid port 220, and fluid interface connector 218. An interface connector
latch 212 can be used to further secure the connection between the fluid interface connector
218 as it is seated within the reagent cap fluid port 220 and/or the fluid interface port 208. The
fluid interface port 208 can be threaded or otherwise molded to mechanically couple with the
reagent cap fluid port 220, or to guide and control the flow of fluids that egress from the fluid
bag 204.
[0037]    In alternative embodiments, the reagent box or container assembly may not be built
from a severable reagent box cap and reagent box shell. The reagent box can be constructed
from parts that are permanently sealed together using methods known in the art. Alternatively,
ports may be formed in a single body shell using methods known in the art, through which a
fluid bag may be inserted and into which interface connections can be installed.
[0038]    The reagent box shell 202 can further include a label region 222 on which a barcode,
QR-code, or other identifying marking can be printed or affixed. A label region 222 can be on
any part of the external surface of the reagent box shell 202, as appropriate for handling and
identifying the reagent box individually or coupled with an HPLC instrument.
[0039]    FIG. 3 is a design flowchart illustrating the interaction and connections between all
aspects of the bulk fluidics module 300. Air (or in alternative embodiments, a gas from a
controlled gas supply) is drawn into the bulk fluidics module 300 through the consumable
pressurization system 301. The consumable pressurization system 301 pressurizes the air and is
sent to the reagent consumable region 302 through pressurized gas channel 315, which can be a
hollow piping, tubing, or the like. Air pressure sensors within the consumable pressurization
region 301 monitor the air pressure, sending that information to the control electronics 306.
Based on that pressure data, the control electronics 306 send instructions to controllers within
the consumable pressurization region 301 to regulate the air pressure therein. Within the
                                                 10

reagent consumable region 302 there are a plurality of reagent boxes, 302a, 302b, and 302d,
which can contain fluids such as solvents, reagents, buffer, or diluent. The pressurized air
delivered to the reagent consumable region 302 through the pressurized gas channel 315 is
more specifically delivered into the gas receiving structure of each reagent box. As pressurized
gas is pumped into the interstitial volume of a reagent box, fluid medium is pushed (at a
positive pressure) out of the fluid bag inside the reagent box, out through the leak detection
region 310 and into the consumable decompression region 311. The fluid medium from each
reagent box is pushed through a fluid channel dedicated that fluid medium. For example, as
illustrated in FIG. 3, fluid channel 312 is dedicated to fluid medium from reagent box 302a,
fluid channel 313 is dedicated to fluid medium from reagent box 302b, and fluid channel 314 is
dedicated to fluid medium from reagent box 302d. In embodiments, there may be more than
one reagent box connected to a fluid channel, such that multiple reagent boxes with the same
fluid, i.e. the same reagent, the same buffer, etc., can be provided to a single fluid channel
system.
[0040]     The leak detection region 310 is designed to detect leaks from the reagent
consumable region 302. Leaks detected from the reagent consumable region 302 will be sensed
by sensors in the leak detection region 310, where the sensors can be thermal-based sensors,
voltage-based sensors, current-based sensors, or the like. Upon detection of a leak, the control
electronics 306 can operate to trigger a warning indicator for a user, reduce or shut off
pressurization of the reagent boxes, close valves, or execute other actions to minimize and/or
stop further leakage.
[0041]     The consumable decompression region 311 includes valves that take in the fluid
medium expelled from the related reagent boxes, and regulates the pressure of each fluid
medium before further delivering said fluid mediums to the next stages of an HPLC
instrument. From the consumable decompression region 311, the fluid medium from reagent
boxes which are reagents and buffers, such as 302a and 302b, are further directed to a buffer
conditioner 304, and then further directed out of the bulk fluidics module 300, such as to a
separation module of the HPLC instrument. Similarly, the fluid medium from reagent boxes
which are diluents 302d are further directed from the consumable decompression region 311 to
a diluent conditioner 305, and then further directed out of the bulk fluidics module 300, such as
to a dilution module of the HPLC instrument.
                                                11

[0042]    Following processing in the separation module and dilution module of the HPLC
instrument, waste fluids from the HPLC instrument (i.e. solvents run through a sorbent
column) are returned to the bulk fluidics module 300, specifically to the waste combiner
subassembly 307. The waste fluids, once combined, can be further shunted to a waste container
308 as a separate section of the HPLC instrument and/or a waste pipe 309 leading out of the
HPLC instrument entirely.
[0043]    FIG. 4 is a detailed schematic illustration of the consumable pressurization system
400.    In many embodiments, air from the atmosphere is drawn into the consumable
pressurization system 400, and the HPLC instrument generally, through an air intake 402. In
other embodiments, the gas drawn into the consumable pressurization system 400 may be from
a controlled source of a specific gas, such as an inert gas. The air drawn into the consumable
pressurization system 400 then passes through an air filter 404 which filters out particulate
matter, preventing such matter from entering the consumable pressurization system 400. The
filtered air then passes through the air pump 406 and through a check valve 408 (i.e. a one
way, non-return valve) into an air reservoir 410. A first air pressure sensor 412, which in
aspects can be a pressure gauge for 0.0-2.0 bar, and in other aspects may be a pressure gauge
for 0.0-4.0 bar, measures the air pressure in the air reservoir 410 and communicates that
information to the control electronics 306, to which the air pressure sensor 412 is electrically
connected.
[0044]    From the air reservoir 410, the air drawn into the consumable pressurization system
400 is directed into a pressure regulator 414. The pressure regulator 414 is controlled by a
pressure regulator controller 415, which is in turn electrically connected to the control
electronics 306. The pressure regulator 414 compresses the air to a specified pressure and the
pressurized air is measured by a second air pressure sensor 416, which in aspects can be a
pressure gauge for 0.0-1.0 bar, and which in other aspects can be a pressure gauge for 0.0-4.0
bar, which is also electrically connected to the control electronics 306. A pressure switch 418,
which closes an electrical circuit upon reaching a certain pressure, is also in contact with the
pressurized. Upon reaching a pressure within a specific range, the pressure switch 418 can
operate to, for example, open a pressure release valve, cause an indicator to communicate a
signal, allow pressurized gas into the pressurized gas channel 315, and/or trigger other
operations in the bulk fluidics module 300, or in the HPLC instrument generally.            The
                                                12

pressurized air is then directed from the consumable pressurization system 400 to the attached
reagent boxes.
[0045]     FIG. 5A is a schematic illustration of a container assembly 500, which is also
referred to as a reagent box. In embodiments, a pair of reagent boxes can be used for each fluid
medium to be run through the HPLC instrument. Accordingly, FIG. 5A identifies constituent
parts of the illustrated reagent box with two numbers which relate to a first and second reagent
box, respectively, of a pair of reagent boxes containing the same solvent. Similarly, each
element can be further defined with a suffix to identify whether a reagent, buffer, diluent, or
other solvent is present in the reagent box, to allow for more precise tracking of fluid and
connections in the present application.
[0046]     In FIG. 5A the reagent box shell 501/502 surrounds and defines an interstitial volume
503/504 that contains at least a fluid bag 505/506 (e.g. a reagent fluid bag 505a/506a or a
diluent fluid bag 505d/506d) which can hold a fluid medium, such as an HPLC solvent.
Pressurized gas 550 (such as air) is pumped from the consumable pressurization system 400
though a gas delivery connector or interface on the instrument (not shown) and enters the
interstitial volume 503/504 through the gas interface port 513/514 in the reagent box cap
511/512. As noted in embodiments above, the reagent box cap 511/512 operates as a lid that
seals the reagent box shell 501/502 and only allows for the passage of gas through the gas
interface port 513/514 and the passage of fluid through the fluid interface port 515/516. In such
embodiments, the lid can be detachable and re-attachable to the reagent box shell 501/502. As
pressurized gas fills the interstitial volume 503/504, the pressure on the exterior surface of the
fluid bag 505/506 increases, reducing the volume of the interior of the fluid bag 505/506. The
coupled reagent box shell 501/502 sealed with the reagent box cap 511/512 must be able to
withstand the force exerted by the pressurized gas, retaining their seal. As the volume of the
fluid bag 505/506 decreases, any fluid medium inside the fluid bag 505/506 accordingly exits
the fluid bag 505/506 if possible, pushed out through the fluid interface port 515/516 at a
positive pressure, which is also within the reagent box cap 511/512, as fluid stream 552/553
into and through a fluid receiving connector (not shown) on the instrument. The fluid interface
port 515/516 may also include a shut-off valve, such that when the fluid interface port 515/516
is not coupled to an appropriate receiving connector, fluid medium inside the fluid bag 505/506
is prevented from egressing out of the fluid bag 505/506. If fluid medium from the fluid bag
                                                 13

505/506 exits into the interstitial volume 503/504, the shut-off valve can also operate to
prevent leakage of the fluid medium out of the container assembly 500.
[0047]     In aspects, the pressurized gas 550 in the interstitial volume 503/504 can be
pressurized to a pressure of about 0.5 bar, which can cause egress of fluid medium from the
fluid bag 505/506 at a corresponding positive pressure. In various other aspects, the pressurized
gas 550 in the interstitial volume 503/504 can be pressurized to a pressure of about 1.0 bar,
about 1.5 bar, about 2.0 bar, about 2.5 bar, about 3.0 bar, about 3.5 bar, or less than about 4.0
bar. In other aspects, the pressurized gas 550 in the interstitial volume 503/504 can be
pressurized to a pressure in the range of about 0.5 bar to 4.0 bar. In such aspects, the coupled
reagent box shell 501/502 sealed with the reagent box cap 511/512 must be able to withstand
the force exerted by the pressurized gas 550, retaining their seal. In aspects, the container
assembly 500 can be a semi-rigid container, such that the walls of the container assembly 500
can bend or flex in response to the force exerted by the pressurized gas 550.
[0048]     The container assembly 500 further contains a consumable tag identifier 509/510,
which can be a non-transitory computer-readable memory, located within the reagent box shell
501/502, which is electrically connected to the control electronics 306 and identifies the
contents of the particular reagent box connected to the HPLC instrument. The consumable tag
identifier 509/510 may also include other information about the reagent box and the fluid
medium contained within, such as the age of reagents or production information regarding the
reagent box and/or its contents. In some embodiments, the reagent box can further include a
consumable sensor 507/508, located outside of the reagent shell box 501/502, which is
electrically connected to the control electronics 306 and senses the amount of consumable
solvent remaining within the fluid bag 505/506. In other aspects, the consumable tag identifier
509/510 can store information regarding the amount of fluid medium remaining in the fluid
bag 505/506, which can be further updated by the HPLC instrument. In such aspects, the
HPLC instrument can calculate the amount of fluid medium remaining in the fluid bag 505/506
based on the amount of fluid medium sensed by the HPLC instrument entering the bulk fluidics
module 300. The HPLC instrument can be informationally coupled to the consumable tag
identifier 509/510, through RFID or other wireless connection, or through an electronic
coupling, and update the information regarding the amount of fluid medium remaining in the
fluid bag 505/506 as stored in the consumable tag identifier 509/510.
                                                14

[0049]    The information from either or both of the consumable tag identifier 509/510 and the
consumable sensor 507/508 is relayed to the control electronics 306, and is used by the control
electronics 306 to regulate gas and fluid flow through the bulk fluidics module 300. When the
consumable sensor 507/508 or consumable tag identifier 509/510 communicates the amount of
consumable fluid medium remaining within the fluid bag 505/506 to the control electronics
306, the control electronics 306 can further cause indicator lights (not shown) on the
instrument to signal the status of the volume of fluid medium in the container assembly 500. In
some embodiments, the control electronics 306 can indicate that the amount of fluid medium
remaining is sufficient by triggering a green indicator light to illuminate, that the amount of
fluid medium remaining is of concern by triggering a yellow indicator light to illuminate,
and/or that there is no fluid medium remaining in the bottle by triggering a red indicator light
source to illuminate. In aspects, any color indicator light can be used to indicate the various
statuses of fluid medium in a container assembly.
[0050]    FIG. 5B is a schematic illustration of the reagent consumable region 520, leak
detection region 522, reagent decompression region 528, fluid combiner region 538, buffer
conditioner 542, and diluent conditioner 544, and the fluid flow through these regions, within
the bulk fluidics module 300. The reagent consumable region 520 has a plurality of container
assemblies 500, as illustrated in FIG. 5A, which can contain liquids such as reagents, buffers,
and diluents. As described in relation to FIG. 5A, when pressurized gas 550 from the
consumable pressurization system 400 enters the interstitial volume 503/504 of a reagent box,
a fluid stream 552/553 egresses from the reagent box. In the illustration of FIG. 5B, fluid
stream 552a represents a flow of reagent fluid that egresses from a first reagent box containing
that reagent. Fluid stream 553a represents a flow of reagent fluid that egresses from a second
reagent box containing the same or a different reagent as the first reagent box containing
reagent. It is appreciated that in alternative embodiments, a single reagent box containing a
particular reagent, or a plurality of more than two reagent boxes can be used to deliver a
particular reagent or reagents into an HPLC system. Fluid stream 552b represents a flow of
buffer fluid that egresses from a first reagent box containing that buffer. Fluid stream 553b
represents a flow of reagent fluid that egresses from a second reagent box containing the same
or a different buffer as the first reagent box containing buffer. It is appreciated that in
alternative embodiments, a single reagent box containing a particular buffer, or a plurality of
                                                15

more than two reagent boxes can be used to deliver a particular buffer or buffers into an HPLC
system. Fluid stream 552d represents a flow of diluent fluid that egresses from a first reagent
box containing that diluent. Fluid stream 553d represents a flow of diluent fluid that egresses
from a second reagent box containing the same or a different diluent as the first reagent box
containing diluent. It is appreciated that in alternative embodiments, a single reagent box
containing a particular diluent, or a plurality of more than two reagent boxes can be used to
deliver a particular diluent or diluents into an HPLC system.
[0051]    The fluid streams from the reagent boxes each flow into and through the leak
detection region 522, wherein each type of fluid, reagent, buffer, and diluent, pass into and
through a respective leak detection tray and leak detector. Specifically, reagent fluid streams
552a and 553a each pass through a region containing leak detection tray 524a, wherein any
leakage of reagent fluid will be detected by leak detector 526a. Similarly, buffer fluid streams
552b and 553b each pass through a region containing leak detection tray 524b, wherein any
leakage of buffer fluid will be detected by leak detector 526b. In the same manner, diluent
fluid streams 552d and 553d each pass through a region containing leak detection tray 524d,
wherein any leakage of diluent fluid will be detected by leak detector 526d. Each of leak
detectors 526a, 526b, and 526d are electrically connected to the control electronics 306 and/or
a control system external to the bulk fluidics module. When a leak is detected, an error
message can be sent to the control electronics, notifying the user of the HPLC instrument of the
leak, continuing operation of the HPLC instrument under sub-optimal conditions, and/or
ceasing operation of the HPLC instrument. In embodiments, the leak detection region includes
shut-off valves (not shown) for each connection to a bottle such that if a leak is detected, the
valves prevent further fluid from the bottle identified as leaking from entering the HPLC
instrument. In other embodiments, there may be more than one leak detection tray and leak
detector for each type of fluid run through the bulk fluidics module.
[0052]    The fluid streams continue through the leak detection region 522 and can pass
through the consumable         decompression region      528. The valves     in the consumable
decompression region 528 serve to decompress the pressure of the reagent boxes once fluids
have been expelled from the reagent boxes which, due to being forced out of a fluid bag
505/506 by pressurized gas 550, may be deformed such that the walls of the external container
are pressed and stuck in the region of the fluid interface due to the remaining high pressure gas
                                                  16

in the interstitial volume of the reagent boxes. A plurality of decompression valves in the
consumable decompression region 528 can be in fluid communication with the interstitial
volumes 503/504 of the reagent boxes and operate to release pressurized gas from those
container assemblies 500. In particular, in the embodiment illustrated by FIG. 5B, consumable
decompression valve 530a, which is controlled by consumable decompression controller 534a,
and is electrically connected to the control electronics 306, connects to a corresponding gas
interface port of a container assembly 500 from which reagent fluid stream 552a flows.
Similarly,   consumable    decompression     valve  532a,   which   is   controlled   by reagent
decompression controller 536a, and is electrically connected to the control electronics 306,
connects to a corresponding gas interface port of a container assembly 500 from which reagent
fluid stream 553a flows. Next, consumable decompression valve 530b, which is controlled by
consumable decompression controller 534b, and is electrically connected to the control
electronics 306, connects to a corresponding gas interface port of a container assembly 500
from which buffer fluid stream 552b flows. Similarly, consumable decompression valve 532a,
which is controlled by consumable decompression controller 536a, and is electrically
connected to the control electronics 306, connects to a corresponding gas interface port of a
container assembly 500 from which buffer stream 553b flows. Finally, consumable
decompression valve 530d, which is controlled by consumable decompression controller 534d,
is electrically connected to the control electronics 306, connects to a corresponding gas
interface port of a container assembly 500 from which diluent stream 552d flows. Similarly,
consumable decompression valve 532d, which is controlled by consumable decompression
controller 536d, and is electrically connected to the control electronics 306, connects to a
corresponding gas interface port of a container assembly 500 from which diluent stream 553d
flows. Each of the consumable decompression controllers related to the various reagent, fluid,
and diluent fluid sources are specifically connected to valve control circuitry within the control
electronics 306.
[0053]    The fluid streams subsequently enter the fluid combiner region 538 wherein each of
the reagent, buffer, and/or diluent fluid streams are combined with like fluids. Specifically,
reagent fluid streams 552a and 553a both enter reagent combiner valve 540a, which mixes and
combines the reagents from each fluid stream into a uniform fluid, and outputs the combined
fluid as a single combined reagent stream 554. Similarly, buffer fluid streams 552b and 553b
                                                17

both enter fluid combiner valve 540b, which mixes and combines the buffers from each fluid
stream into a uniform fluid, and outputs the combined fluid as a single combined buffer stream
556. In the same manner, diluent fluid streams 552d and 553d both enter diluent combiner
valve 540a, which mixes and combines the diluent from each fluid stream into a uniform fluid,
and outputs the combined fluid as a single combined diluent stream 554. Each of the reagent,
fluid, and diluent combiner valves 540a, 540b, and 540d, are specifically connected to valve
control circuitry within the control electronics 306.
[0054]    Combined reagent stream 554 and combined buffer stream 556 are both directed from
the fluid combiner region 538 into buffer conditioner 542. Both the combined reagent stream
554 and the combined buffer stream 556 are then directed from the buffer conditioner 542 to
the separation module of the HPLC instrument, wherein the streams may be divided and/or
recombined during the HPLC process.
[0055]    Combined diluent stream 558 is directed from the fluid combiner region 538 into
diluent conditioner 544. The combined diluent stream 558 is then directed from the diluent
conditioner 544 to the diluent module of the HPLC instrument, wherein the stream may be
divided and/or recombined during the HPLC process.
[0056]     In an alternative embodiment, the roles of an interstitial volume and fluid bag in a
reagent box can effectively be swapped. In such embodiments, an interstitial volume can be
filled with the fluid medium to provide to an instrument, and an internal container, such as gas
bag, can be collapsed and empty when the interstitial volume is filled with a fluid medium. The
gas bag can be connected to a consumable pressurization system outside of the reagent box
through a gas interface port and filled with a gas, such as pressurized air. The interstitial
volume can be fluidity connected to a fluid interface port, which can provide a flow path for
the fluid medium in the interstitial volume to enter into an instrument. As pressurized gas fills
the gas bag, the volume of the interstitial volume is reduced, thereby pushing fluid medium in
the interstitial volume out through the egress of the fluid interface port. In aspects of such
embodiments, the gas interface port with the gas bag can be arranged on a side of the reagent
box distal from the fluid interface port. In some aspects, filling the gas bag from the back of the
reagent box forward can cause the fluid medium to advance toward the fluid interface port. In
                                                 18

further aspects, the interior structure of the reagent box shell can be shaped to channel or direct
fluid medium toward a fluid interface port.
[0057]    FIG. 6 is a schematic illustration of the waste handling assembly 600 of the bulk
fluidics module 300. Following operational use in the HPLC instrument, waste fluids are
returned to the bulk fluidics module, and specifically to the waste combiner, valve, and port
subassembly 602. The waste combiner, valve, and port subassembly 602 is centered around a
waste combiner and valve region 614, which is composed of a waste fluid reservoir 615 and a
waste combiner valve 616. Waste diluent fluid 610 is sent to the waste fluid reservoir 615
from the HPLC dilution module. Similarly, waste reagent and buffer fluids 612 are sent to the
waste fluid reservoir 615 from the HPLC separation module. The waste fluid container 615 has
an air intake 608 to provide atmospheric air pressure so that the combined waste fluid 613
smoothly will move through the waste combiner, valve, and port subassembly 602. The waste
combiner, valve, and port subassembly 602 further includes a waste backup sensor 618 and a
back pressure regulator 620. The waste backup sensor 618, which is connected to the waste
data handling circuitry of control electronics 306, detects when the combined waste fluid 613
has filled the waste fluid reservoir 615 to a maximum tolerated volume. The back pressure
regulator 620 which is connected to a detection module of the HPLC instrument external to the
bulk fluidics module 300, controls the amount of waste fluids 610 and 612 being provided to
the waste combiner, valve, and port subassembly 602. The combined waste fluid 613 is
directed from the waste fluid reservoir 615 into the waste combiner valve 616 and is further
directed to either the waste container region 604 and/or the waste pipe region 606.
[0058]    Combined waste fluid 613 is directed from the waste combiner valve 616 to either a
waste container port 624a or a waste pipe port 628a. Combined waste fluid that is directed to
waste container port 624a passes through said port, and through the waste container receiver
624b, into waste container 630. A waste container sensor is made up from a first waste
container sensor component 622a within the waste combiner, valve, and port subassembly 602,
a second waste container sensor component 622b external to but in contact with the waste
container, and a third waste container sensor component 622c inside the waste container. The
first waste container sensor component 622a is electrically connected to the waste data
handling circuitry of control electronics 306, and detects when the amount fluid in the waste
container 630 reaches a maximum tolerated volume. Combined waste fluid that is directed to
                                                  19

waste pipe port 628a passes through said port, and through the waste pipe receiver 628b, into
waste pipe 632 which leads outside the HPLC instrument, ideally to a proper waste disposal
system. A waste pipe sensor is made up from a first waste pipe sensor component 626a within
the waste combiner, valve, and port subassembly 602 and a second waste pipe sensor
component 626b which is in contact with the waste pipe. The first waste pipe sensor
component 626a is electrically connected to the waste data handling circuitry of control
electronics 306, and monitors the flow of waste exiting the bulk fluidics module 300.
[0059]     FIGS. 7A and 7B are illustrations of embodiments of the present disclosure. FIG. 7A
illustrates an HPLC instrument 700 with docking stations 702 for container assemblies 704
containing fluid mediums. The HPLC instrument 700 has indicator lights 706 which can signal
to a user the status of the fluid medium held within the related container assembly 704 secured
within the adjacent docking station 702. For example, an indicator light 706 can provide an
estimate of how much fluid medium volume is remaining in the related container assembly 704
based on the color of the indicator light. The HPLC instrument 700 can also have a user
interface 708 for monitoring and interacting with the instrument. FIG. 7A further illustrates
how a container assembly 704 may be horizontally mounted onto and coupled with an HPLC
instrument 700. It is appreciated that in embodiments, solvents can be delivered according to
operational pressures and requirements to the HPLC instrument 700 from a container assembly
704 in the illustrated horizontal or cantilevered orientation. In a horizontal or cantilever
orientation, delivery of fluid medium to an instrument does not rely on gravity, thus allowing
for the construction of fluidic instruments that do not require mounting fluid containers
proximate to the top of the instrument. A barcode reader or QR-code reader (not shown) may
be connected to the HPLC instrument 700 and be coupled with a computer system in
communication with the HPLC instrument 700 for data input.
[0060]     FIG. 7B is a cross-sectional illustration of a container assembly 704 that may couple
with the HPLC instrument 700. The container assembly is made from an external container 710
which defines a first volume 712 and further holds an internal container 714. The internal
container 714 defines a second volume 716, a volume that can hold solvent, and is fluidly
sealed from the external container 710 and the first volume 712. An interface region 718
includes ports that fluidly connect the first volume 712 and the second volume 716 of the
container assembly 704 to the appropriate systems of the HPLC instrument 700. The user
                                                  20

handling region 720 is configured for a user to efficiently handle the container assembly 704.
In aspects, the external container 710 can have a generally rectangular profile.
[0061]      In some aspects, computerized components that can operate to control the HPLC
instrument can include a processing device which can be communicatively coupled to the
memory device via a bus. The non-volatile memory device may include any type of memory
device that retains stored information when powered off. Non-limiting examples of the
memory device include electrically erasable programmable read-only memory ("ROM"), flash
memory, or any other type of non-volatile memory. In some aspects, at least some of the
memory device can include a non-transitory medium / memory device from which the
processing device can read instructions. A non-transitory computer-readable medium can
include electronic, optical, magnetic, or other storage devices capable of providing the
processing device with computer-readable instructions or other program code. Non-limiting
examples of a non-transitory computer-readable medium include (but are not limited to)
magnetic disk(s), memory chip(s), ROM, random-access memory ("RAM"), an ASIC, a
configured processor, optical storage, and/or any other medium from which a computer
processor can read instructions. The instructions may include processor-specific instructions
generated by a compiler and/or an interpreter from code written in any suitable computer
programming language, including, for example, C, C++, C#, Java, Python, Perl, JavaScript,
etc.
[0062]     The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive, and as it will become
apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure, that the present invention may
be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the essential characteristics
thereof. For example, any of the aspects described above may be combined into one or several
different configurations, each having a subset of aspects. These other embodiments are
intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The scope of the
invention should, therefore, be determined not with reference to the above description, but
instead should be determined with reference to the following and pending claims along with
their full scope of equivalents.
                                                21

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
         1.     A system for the handling of a fluid medium in an instrument, comprising:
        a gas intake and pressurization apparatus;
        a plurality of container assemblies, with each container assembly comprising an
external container having a first port and a second port, each external container defining a first
volume fluidly connected to the first port, and an internal container defining a second volume
contained within the external container and being fluidly sealed from the first volume, with
each first volume being fluidly connected to the gas intake and pressurization apparatus, the
internal container being fluidly connected to the second port by way of a valve, and with each
second volume holding a fluid medium; and
        an instrument fluidly connected to each container assembly second volume, such that
fluid medium from each container assembly can enter the instrument.
        2.      A system according to claim 1, wherein the gas intake and pressurization
apparatus draws atmospheric air into the pressurization system.
        3.      A system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the gas is pressurized to about 0.5
to about 4.0 bar.
        4.      A system according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the instrument further
comprises a plurality of sensors that monitor the amount of fluid medium held within the
plurality of container assemblies.
        5.      A system according to any one of claims I to 4, wherein the instrument further
comprises sensors that monitor for leaks from the container assemblies.
        6.      A system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the instrument further
comprises depressurization valves operative to decrease a gas pressure in the first volume.
        7.      A system according to any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a non
transitory-computer-readable memory coupled to each of the plurality of container assemblies,
wherein each non-transitory-computer-readable memory stores updatable information
regarding the fluid medium held in the corresponding container assembly.
                                                22

        8.       A system according to any one of claims 1 to 7, further wherein a status
indicating a volume of fluid within a fluid container is communicated to a user by use of
indicator lights on the instrument.
        9.       A bulk fluidics module for a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)
instrument, comprising:
        a gas pressurization system;
        a reagent consumable region, having a plurality of gas interface ports and a plurality of
fluid interface ports;
        a pressurized gas channel, configured to connect and allow for passage of gas from the
gas pressurization system to the plurality of gas interface ports;
        a consumable decompression region, configured to receive pressurized fluids through
the plurality of fluid interface ports and to regulate pressure of received pressurized fluids; and
        a fluid distribution region, configured to receive fluids from the consumable
decompression region and to direct received fluids out of the bulk fluidics module.
         10.     A bulk fluidics module according to claim 9, further comprising control
electronics operatively connected with the gas pressurization system, the consumable
decompression region, and the fluid distribution region, and is configured to receive fluid
volume information from one or more container assemblies coupled to the reagent consumable
region.
         11.     A bulk fluidics module according to claim 10, further comprising a leak
detection region, operatively coupled to the control electronics, arranged between the plurality
of fluid interface ports and the consumable decompression region, the leak detection region
comprising one or more sensors and configured to trigger a warning indicator, a reduction in
gas flow to the plurality of gas interface ports, closing of valves in fluid communication with
the plurality of fluid interface ports, or a combination thereof.
         12.     A bulk fluidics module according to claim 11, wherein the one or more sensors
comprise thermal sensors, voltage sensors, electrical current sensors, or a combination thereof.
                                                  23

        13.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 12, further
comprising a buffer conditioner configured to receive a buffer fluid from the fluid distribution
region and to further direct the buffer fluid to a separation module of the HPLC instrument.
        14.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 13, further
comprising a buffer conditioner configured to receive a reagent fluid from the fluid distribution
region and to further direct the reagent fluid to a separation module of the HPLC instrument.
        15.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 14, further
comprising a diluent conditioner configured to receive a dilution fluid from the fluid
distribution region and to further direct the dilution fluid to a dilution module of the HPLC
instrument.
        16.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 15, further
comprising a waste container subassembly configured to receive fluids from a dilution module,
a separation module, a detection module, or a combination thereof.
        17.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 16, wherein the
reagent consumable region is configured to mount a plurality of container assemblies in
cantilever.
        18.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 17, wherein the
reagent consumable region is configured to mount a plurality of container assemblies, wherein
each container assembly has a first opening configured to couple with one of the plurality of
gas interface ports and a second opening configured to couple with one of the plurality of fluid
interface ports.
        19.      A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 18, wherein within
the consumable decompression region, pressurized fluid from two of the plurality of gas
interface ports are combined into a single fluid stream, wherein the pressurized fluid from the
two of the plurality of gas interface ports are the same type of fluid.
                                                  24

         20.     A bulk fluidics module according to any one of claims 9 to 19, wherein within
the fluid distribution region, two fluids in the consumable decompression region are combined
into a single fluid stream, wherein two fluids are different types of fluids.
                                                  25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
