                                            ABSTRACT
  The present invention relates to a system and method of implementing a loyalty awards
  program. The a loyalty award Program can be implemented using tokenized user account data
  (e.g., credit card number, bank routing number, etc.) in lieu of original the account data. Using
5 the tokenized data, the loyalty account can be identified and a loyalty award, based on
  purchase details of a transaction, can be associated with the user's account. The present
  invention does not require the loyalty system to be PCI compliant since the secure user
  account data is not handled and/or data warehoused at the loyalty system.

            METHOD OF IMPLEMENTING A LOYALTY AWARD PROGRAM
   [0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
          No. 2013251695, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                           TRADEMARKS
 5 [0002] COCA-COLA® is a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta,
          Georgia, U.S.A. Other names used herein may be registered trademarks, trademarks, or
          product names of The Coca-Cola Company or other companies.
                               TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0003] The present disclosure relates generally to implementing a loyalty awards program,
10        and particularly to processing a purchase transaction tied to a loyalty rewards program.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0004] As a way to retain customers and increase sales, several companies utilize consumer
          loyalty programs. Loyalty programs typically provide a customer a discount on their
          purchase or tie some type of points/award to their transaction. Traditional loyalty
15        programs have been implemented using some form of a loyalty card used to identify
          the customer as a member of the loyalty program. Except in the case of retailer-issued
          credit cards which generally tie marketing and loyalty programs to the customer's
          credit account, a loyalty card is typically separate from any form of payment. Data
          from the card is scanned or entered prior to the transaction. The credit card industry
20        requires companies that handle financial transactions to operate computer systems in
          accordance with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards. Because
          many loyalty processing systems do not typically incorporate a credit card transaction
          into identifying a consumer's loyalty account they have not been designed to be PCI
          compliant. As such, it can be difficult to use credit card information as part of a loyalty
25        program. This prevents basing loyalty awards on credit card purchases alone without
          the use of a loyalty card and, more specifically, basing loyalty awards on the purchase
          details associated with the credit card transaction.
   [0005] One conventional approach to associating a purchased product with users has been to
          place codes on products and allow users to enter codes online, e.g., at a loyalty
                                                    1

          program website, as a way to indicate what products have been acquired. However,
          this additional step of customer-entered codes discourages many customers from
          participating in these types of programs. Another shortcoming to product code
          programs is that only goods can be tracked, not services. There is also no way to track
 5        data ancillary to the purchase. For example, there is no way to know when and where
          the product was purchased, who purchased the product, and who consumed the
          product. In addition, placing codes on products is expensive and can be cost
          prohibitive. Currently, codes on products are not available on dispensed product such
          as fountain beverages from quick serve restaurants and other establishments.
10 [0006] Conventional loyalty programs also struggle to remain relevant to a user because the
          awards offered are not tailored to the user's preferences. Failure to meet user
          expectation can result in a user signing up and then quickly dropping out of the
          program due to lack of interest. Current loyalty systems are not easily accessible,
          require multiple steps on the consumer to participate, such as entering product codes,
15        and/or fail to set award levels and offer desirable awards to sustain user attention.
          Therefore, a need in the art exists for systems and methods that overcome one or more
          of the above-described limitations.
   [0007] Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising"
          are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as
20        specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not
          precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components.
   [0008] A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is
          not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that
          the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the
25        priority date of any of the claims.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0009] An aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method of
          implementing a loyalty awards program, the method comprising: presenting, at a user
          interface, a loyalty program enrollment form for receiving data from a user, wherein
30        the loyalty program enrollment form comprises at least one account information field
          associated with a payment gateway that is compliant with a financial transaction
                                                    2

          security standard, and wherein the loyalty enrollment form comprises at least one user
          data information field associated with a loyalty system that is not compliant with a
          financial transaction security standard; receiving, by at least one processor, user data
          from the at least one user data information field of the enrollment form; creating, by
 5        the at least one processor, a loyalty account based on the user data; receiving, by the at
          least one processor from the payment gateway, tokenized account data associated with
          the user, wherein the tokenized account data is based at least in part on account
          information from the at least one account information field; and associating, by the at
          least one processor, the tokenized account data with the loyalty account.
10 [0010] Another aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method of
          implementing a loyalty awards program. The method comprising receiving a
          tokenized account data and identifying a loyalty account associated with a user based
          on the tokenized account data. The method further comprising determining an loyalty
          award balance of the loyalty account, receiving a purchase request corresponding to an
15        attempted user purchase event, and comparing the loyalty award balance to the
          purchase request to authorize a payment of a first loyalty award amount. The method
          further comprising posting a loyalty award amount to the loyalty account.
   [0011] Another aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for
          processing a loyalty award transaction comprising receiving user account data from a
20        transaction device and providing the account data to an account processing system.
          The method further comprising tokenizing the user account data to create a tokenized
          user account data and providing the tokenized user account data to a loyalty system.
          The method further comprising providing instructions to a transaction device to
          complete a transaction, wherein the transaction is completed using at least one of the
25        tokenized user account data and a loyalty award amount.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   [0012] The subject matter which is regarded as the invention is particularly pointed out and
          distinctly claimed in the claims at the conclusion of the specification. The foregoing
          and other objects, features, and advantages of the invention are apparent from the
30        following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in
          which:
                                                   3

   [0013] Figure 1 is a block diagram depicting an operating environment implementing a loyalty
          award program in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments;
   [0014] Figure 2 is a flow chart depicting a method of implementing a loyalty award program
          in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments;
 5 [0015] Figure 3A is a flow chart depicting a method of implementing a loyalty award program
          in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments;
   [0016] Figure 3B is a flow chart depicting a method of implementing a loyalty award program
          in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
10 [0017] The present disclosure provides a system and method of implementing a loyalty
          awards program. In an exemplary embodiment, a loyalty system can be implemented
          that utilizes tokenized account data in lieu of original account data. An advantage of
          the present invention is that the loyalty account can be identified and the loyalty award
          can be based on account data transaction, such as a credit card transaction and the
15        purchase details of the transaction, while not requiring the loyalty system to be PCI
          compliant because the account data, such as credit card data, is not handled and/or data
          warehoused at the loyalty system.
   [0018] Figure 1 illustrates the main components of the operating environment 100 for a
          loyalty award system in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments. The
20        operating environment 100 can include an account processing system 102, a loyalty
          system 104, a payment gateway 110, and a plurality of point-of-loyalty systems 106A
          106N, each communicating across a global network 108. While certain embodiments
          are described in which parts of the loyalty award system are implemented in software,
          it will be appreciated that one or more acts or functions of the loyalty award system
25        may be performed by hardware, software, or a combination thereof, as may be
          embodied in one or more computing systems. For example, the account processing
          system 102, loyalty system 104, point-of-loyalty system 106, and payment gateway
          110, can be embodied as stand alone application programs or as a companion program
          to a web browser having messaging and storage capabilities.
30 [0019] In an exemplary embodiment, the account processing system 102, loyalty system 104,
                                                    4

          payment gateway 110, and point-of-loyalty system 106, and/or other data processing
          resources as may be required, can communicate over the network 108. The network
          108 includes a wired or wireless communication system or device by which network
          devices (including account processing system 102, loyalty system 104, payment
 5        gateway 110, and point-of-loyalty system 106) can exchange data. For example, the
          network 108 can include a telecommunications network, a local area network (LAN), a
          wide area network (WAN), an intranet, an Internet, or any combination thereof. In an
          exemplary embodiment, the communication between the account processing system
          102, loyalty system 104, payment gateway 110, and point-of-loyalty system 106 can be
10        encrypted to protect and secure the data communication between the systems. It will be
          appreciated that the network connections disclosed are exemplary and other means of
          establishing a communications link between the including account processing system
          102, loyalty system 104, payment gateway 110, and point-of-loyalty system 106 can be
          used.
15 [0020] The exemplary operating environment 100 includes a loyalty system 104 for
          implementing the loyalty award accounts associated with users of the environment
          100. An exemplary loyalty award program operated using loyalty system 104 can
          include COCA-COLA'S MY COKE REWARDS consumer loyalty program. An
          exemplary loyalty system 104 can provide a user interface for collecting and
20        displaying data relevant to user's loyalty award accounts. In an exemplary
          embodiment, the loyalty system 104 is configured to create, collect, manage, and
          modify information associated with user loyalty award accounts. Information
          associated with a loyalty award account can include, for example, user-specific
          identification information, tokenized account information, user purchase information,
25        historical user information, a loyalty award amount, and other information necessary
          for implementing the loyalty award system.
   [0021] In an exemplary embodiment, the user identification information stored to the loyalty
          system 104 can include a user's personal information, such as, name, address, age,
          gender, demographic information, email address, telephone number, system
30        preferences, use of a mobile application associated with the loyalty award system,
          social media profile, instant messaging profile, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, the
          tokenized account information stored to the loyalty system 104 can include a tokenized
          version of an identifier associated with the user's account data. In an exemplary
                                                   5

          embodiment, the user purchase information stored to the loyalty system 104 can
          include a user's purchase history information, user product preferences, user award
          accumulation based on product purchases, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, the
          historical user information stored to the loyalty system 104 can include, for example,
 5        the user's award history. In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty award amount
          stored to the loyalty system 104 can be an award designation amount comparable to
          some monetized value, purchase history (quantity, location, purchase in response to
          promotion, etc.), or other interaction with the loyalty system 104. For example, the
          loyalty award amount can consist of "points" awarded to the user in response to the
10        purchase of a particular product, or points earned through completing various tasks
          associated with the loyalty award system, e.g., "liking" or "tagging" the loyalty award
          program on a social media site. The loyalty award amount can be a fixed award or a
          dynamic award based on the goods or service the user obtained, the frequency of
          purchase, establishments visited, and/or other factors relevant to implementing the
15        loyalty reward system.
   [0022] In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty system 104 is configured to register users,
          create/update user loyalty award accounts, and/or update profile information associated
          with a user's account. A user can input, capture, view, download, upload, edit, and
          otherwise access and manipulate the information included in their loyalty award
20        account using the loyalty system 104. In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty system
          104 can host a website that enables the user to register and interact with the loyalty
          system 104. For example, users can enroll in the loyalty awards program and create a
          registered loyalty award account by completing a web-based form provided by the
          loyalty system 104. The web-based form can request the information necessary to
25        create the loyalty award account. For example, the web-based form can include fields
          for the user to provide user-specific identification information, tokenized account
          information, user purchase information, historical user information, a loyalty award
          amount, and other information necessary for the administration of the loyalty award
          program.
30 [0023] In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty system 104 can request account data from the
          user. For example, the web-based form can include a field asking the user to enter their
          account data, such as a credit card number, payment card, or other payment account,
          they wish to associate with the loyalty account being created. As used throughout this
                                                   6

          disclosure, account data can include, for example, credit card data, personal payment
          information, bank account routing information, personal identification data, digital
          wallet (RFID) payment account information, stored value card such as a store gift card,
          employee badges, hotel room key cards, loyalty program award cards, frequent
 5        flier/hotel/guest/other and/or other frequent user cards, and/or other account data, as
          may be required and/or desired to process a consumer transaction.
   [0024] In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty system 104 is PCI complaint and storage/use
          of the account data at the loyalty system 104 is acceptable based on PCI security
          standards. In another exemplary embodiment, the loyalty system 104 is not PCI
10        compliant and storage of user account data at the loyalty system 104 is not permitted
          under PCI security standards. In such an embodiment, the account data is tokenized at
          the payment gateway 110 communicated with the account processing system 102. For
          example, in the embodiment involving a web-based form including an account data
          field, the account data field, though presented to the user as part of the loyalty system's
15        104 enrollment form, is actually controlled and provided by the payment gateway 110.
          In an exemplary embodiment, when a user selects to include account information with
          their registered loyalty account a pop-up window can open and shift control of the
          form from the loyalty system 104 to the payment gateway 110. Because the payment
          gateway 110 is controlling and receiving the account information (e.g., user's credit
20        card number), the loyalty system 104 does not receive the user's account information
          and does not need to be a PCI compliant system. Upon receiving the account
          information, the payment gateway 110 may tokenize, hash, or otherwise encrypt the
          account information as disclosed below. The payment gateway 110 can then pass the
          tokenized account information to the loyalty system 104 and pass control of the web
25        based form/website back to the loyalty system 104.
   [0025] The loyalty system 104 can compare the tokenized account data to a database of
          including a plurality of tokenized account data to identify the corresponding loyalty
          account associated with the user's tokenized account data. In an exemplary
          embodiment, the loyalty system 104 can then associate the tokenized account
30        information with the registered loyalty account. Once the loyalty account associated
          with the tokenized account data has been identified, a loyalty award can be posted to
          the loyalty account. Because the loyalty system 104 has not handled the account data
          and has only received tokenized account data, the loyalty system 104 is not required to
                                                   7

          be a PCI compliant system.
   [0026] An exemplary operating environment 100 includes an account processing system 102.
          The account processing system 102 can include, for example, a transaction processing
          bureau, such as a credit card processor and/or other account processing system. An
 5        exemplary account processing system 102 can be a financial transaction processor
          and/or a bank including, for example, BANK OF AMERICA, HEARTLAND,
          VISANET, and/or other account processing systems, for processing a payment based
          on the user's account information received at the point-of-loyalty system 106. In an
          exemplary embodiment, the account data accepted at the point-of-loyalty system 106
10        for the purchase of goods or services is tokenized at the payment gateway 110 and
          communicated to the account processing system 102 for processing. The account
          processing system 102, using the account data, authorizes a user purchase transaction
          at the point-of-loyalty system 106. In some embodiments the account processing
          system 102 may use the tokenized account data in authorizing a user purchase
15        transaction. In this regard, the payment for the purchased goods or services can be
          effectuated.
   [0027] An exemplary operating environment 100 includes a payment gateway 110. In an
          exemplary embodiment, the payment gateway 110 is PCI complaint. The payment
          gateway 110 can receive account information from the account processing system 102
20        and/or the point-of-loyalty system 106 and tokenize, hash, or otherwise encrypt the
          account information in a repeatable manner to generate tokenized account information.
          In an exemplary embodiment, the payment gateway 110 can be a transaction switch or
          gateway including, for example, SI, TNS, ACI, FIRSTDATA, ELAVON, and/or other
          gateway for tokenizing user account information such as credit card information.
25 [0028] In an exemplary embodiment, mutually exclusive from the loyalty system 104, the
          payment gateway 110 tokenizes the account data and provides the tokenized account
          data to the loyalty system 104, point-of-loyalty system 106, and/or the account
          processing system 102. Because the loyalty system 104 and the point-of-loyalty system
          106 receive only the tokenized account information, they are not required to be PCI
30        compliant. Tokenization can be generally defined as the systematic replacing of a
          portion of a string of data by such corresponding "token." That is, tokenization replaces
          the primary consumer account information (e.g., a credit card number) with a surrogate
                                                   8

          number. In an exemplary embodiment, the tokenization process can be completely
          destructive, which provides no possibility for the original card number to be
          reconstructed from the token. This process is commonly referred to hashing or creating
          a hash value. In the exemplary tokenization process, the string (account data) is
 5        replaced with a hashed encrypted token generated from the string (account data). In an
          exemplary embodiment, a one-way hash technique is used preventing later decryption.
          In an alternate embodiment, the tokenization may not be destructive to the original
          card number, providing a mechanism to obtain the original card number given the
          token. Those skilled in the area of payment processing may identify other forms of
10        tokenization that would apply. As an alternative to tokenizing the account data, the
          account data (e.g., credit card number) may be encrypted. In an exemplary
          embodiment, the account data can be encrypted through one-way hashing algorithm.
   [0029] The exemplary operating environment 100 includes a plurality of point-of-loyalty
          systems 106A- 106N, wherein 'N' refers to some unknown number of a plurality of
15        point- of-loyalty systems. An exemplary point-of-loyalty system 106 can be embodied
          as a credit card terminal, RFID payment terminal, or other terminal-type embodiments
          for completing a consumer transaction. Such terminal-type embodiments can be placed
          at cash registers and/or consumer payment locations throughout a retail establishment.
          In an exemplary embodiment, a point-of-loyalty system 106 can be placed at a vending
20        machine, such as a COCA-COLA vending machine. Such terminal-type embodiments
          can alternatively be based in software or firmware and integrated into existing point
          of-sale systems. For example, a point-of-loyalty system 106 can be a quick serve
          restaurant, theater, store, other retail establishment, online website, and/or other points
          of sale. Examples of quick serve restaurants include MCDONALD'S, BURGER
25        KING, WENDY'S, FIRE HOUSE SUBS, etc. Examples of theatres include, for
          example, AMC, REGAL, live performance theaters, etc. Examples of stores or other
          retail establishments include, for example, WALMART, TARGET, KROGER, etc.
          Examples of online websites can be AMAZON.COM, EBAY.COM, EXPEDIA.COM,
          DISCOVERCARD.COM, VISA.COM, MASTERCARD.COM, etc. Other quick serve
30        restaurants, theaters, retail establishments, online websites, and locations for point-of
          loyalty systems 106 as may be required and/or desired in a particular embodiment are
          also contemplated.
   [0030] In addition to communicating the tokenized account data, the point-of-loyalty system
                                                      9

          106 can also communicate purchase information to the loyalty system 104 and/or
          account processing system 102. As described above, purchase information can include
          the type, kind, and/or amount of a product or service that was purchased. Purchase
          information can also include, for example, what features of the point-of-loyalty system
 5        106 the user utilized in completing their transaction. In an exemplary embodiment, the
          purchase data can include whether the user utilized any of the interactive features of
          the point-of-loyalty system 106, what items were considered by the user, what
          specialized data (e.g., nutritional information, pricing, etc.) the user requested/observed
          at the point- of-loyalty system 106. For example, when a user purchases good or
10        services in the form of food and beverages such purchase detail is communicated with
          the tokenized account data to the loyalty system 104, that is, if a user purchases 32
          ounces of a COCA-COLA product from a quick serve restaurant point-of-loyalty
          system 106, such transaction detail as the size and type of beverage purchased, the
          location of purchase, quantity or volume of the product purchased, frequency of user
15        purchase of the same or similar item, etc., can be communicated with the tokenized
          account data as purchase data.
   [0031] In an exemplary embodiment, the purchase information can be used by the loyalty
          system 104 to determine a dynamic loyalty award such as varied points amount based
          on volume of product consumed, or varied points amount based on the type or kind of
20        product purchased, or varied promotional amount for certain products purchased
          during a promotional period, and/or other dynamic loyalty award awarded based on
          other criteria, as may be required and/or desired in a particular embodiment.
   [0032] Figure 2 is a flow chart depicting a method 2000 of implementing a loyalty award
          program, wherein a user can register a new loyalty account at the loyalty system 104,
25        in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments. To initiate the enrollment process,
          a user is presented with a loyalty account enrollment form or is able to update an
          existing user profile at the loyalty system 104. (Step 2002). In an exemplary
          embodiment, enrollment form and/or profile update can be internet accessible from the
          loyalty system 104 and presented to the user via a web-based form.
30 [0033] In an exemplary embodiment, the web page being displayed by the loyalty system 104
          can comprise an account input field. Such an account information field allows the user
          to input account information, such as a credit card number that when later used at a
                                                    10

          point-of-loyalty system 106 will indirectly serve to identify the user's loyalty account
          and thereby allow loyalty awards to be posted to and redeemed from the user's loyalty
          account.
   [0034] In an exemplary embodiment, in operation, though displayed to the user as part of the
 5        enrollment form, the account information field is not associated with the loyalty
          system 104. Rather, the account information field is associated with the payment
          gateway 110. In an exemplary embodiment, a pop-up window or new browser opens
          and shift control of the enrollment form from the loyalty system 104 to the payment
          gateway 110. As such, the user input to the account information field is not processed,
10        stored, or otherwise handled by the loyalty system 104. Such account information
          provided by the user is only known and accessible for processing to the payment
          gateway 110.
   [0035] In an exemplary embodiment, since the loyalty system 104 does not process, store, or
          otherwise handle the account information, such as credit card or other secure user
15        payment information, the loyalty system 104 is not required to be PCI compliant. In an
          alternate embodiment, the loyalty system 104 can be PCI compliant.
   [0036] In an exemplary embodiment, account information including, for example, credit card
          data, is transformed to tokenized account information, by a separate payment gateway
          110, which is PCI compliant and/or otherwise certified to process and handle financial
20        data, mutually exclusive from the loyalty system 104, which can process and handle
          the account information. Such account payment gateway 110 provides an account
          information tokenization service and communicates to the loyalty system 104 the
          tokenized account information for association with the user's loyalty account.
   [0037] The user provides account information in the account input field. (Step 2004). In an
25        exemplary embodiment, the account information can be a credit card number,
          employee badge ID, hotel room key, personal identification, and/or other account data
          used to provide payment information. Such account information is being provided for
          the purpose of utilizing a payment gateway 110 to tokenize the account data. The
          tokenized data will be associated with the loyalty account and stored in the loyalty
30        system 104. Future transactions at a plurality of points-of-loyalty systems 106A-106N
          may see the user present the same account data for payment of goods or services and
                                                  11

          using the tokenized account data, the loyalty system 104 can quickly identify the
          appropriate loyalty account.
   [0038] In an exemplary embodiment, a vendor may compile transactions into a flat file
          containing the account information and the transaction details. The flat files can be
 5        compiled at regular intervals (e.g., hourly, daily) or as determined by the vendor. These
          flat files can be stored as batches at the point-of-loyalty system 106. The batch files
          can be sent to the payment gateway 110 where the payment gateway 110 will capture
          and tokenize the account data for all of the transactions included in the batch file. In an
          alternate embodiment, the vendor can tokenize the account information and save the
10        tokenized account information and the transaction details in the batch files. Once the
          account information has been tokenized, either by the vendor or the payment gateway
          110, the batch files are sent to the loyalty system 104. Using the batch files, the loyalty
          system 104 can match the tokenized account information, and the corresponding
          transaction details, with existing loyalty award accounts. Any unmatched tokenized
15        account information may either be ignored or used to create a "light" loyalty account as
          described in more detail below. For example, a retail establishment may elect to
          process user purchase transactions during business hours and then at the end of the
          day, in one or more batches. The retail establishment can provide these batch files to
          the account processing system 102, the loyalty system 104, and the payment gateway
20        110, to effectuate payment for goods or services and the posting and/or redemption of
          loyalty awards. In an alternate exemplary embodiment, transactions can be processed
          in real-time with the posting and redemption of loyalty awards occurring
          simultaneously.
   [0039] The account data entered into the account input field is captured by the payment
25        gateway 110. (Step 2006). In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty system 104 has no
          interaction with the entered and captured data and, as such, the loyalty system 104 does
          not need to be PCI compliant or otherwise compliant to handle financial information
          and/or account data such as credit card data. Though the account input field may
          appear to the user and/or be displayed as part of the loyalty account enrollment form or
30        as part of a user profile update on the loyalty system 104, the account input field is
          configured, controlled, and processed by the payment gateway 110 and is mutually
          exclusive from the loyalty system 104, which is configured to gather and process other
          enrollment information not related to the account information.
                                                    12

   [0040] In an exemplary embodiment, the account information is transformed into tokenized
          account data by the payment gateway 110. (Step 2008). Such tokenization can be
          effectuated by way of a one-way encryption algorithm such as a MD5 hash algorithm
          or other algorithm, as known in the relevant art. Using a one-way encryption
 5        algorithm, predictably each time the same account information is presented and
          tokenized the resultant tokenization account data is the same. However, starting with
          the tokenized information data there is no known algorithm that will decrypt or
          reconstruct the tokenized account information back into the original account
          information. As such, the tokenized account information can be stored and utilized by
10        the non-compliant PCI loyalty system 104 without worry that account information,
          such as credit card data, will be lost, stolen, or misused.
   [0041] After the account information is transformed into tokenized account data by way of the
          payment gateway's 110 account data tokenization service, the tokenized account data is
          communicated back to the loyalty system 104. At the loyalty system 104, the tokenized
15        account data is associated with the loyalty account which the user created during
          enrollment into the loyalty program or during an update to their user profile. (Step
          2010). In an exemplary embodiment, the loyalty account stores the tokenized account
          information along with other user information to complete the loyalty account
          enrollment information or user profile update.
20 [0042] In an exemplary embodiment, each time the user presents the account information at a
          point-of-loyalty system 106, the payment gateway 110 can tokenize the account data,
          such as credit card data, in the same manner that the account data was tokenized
          initially by the payment gateway 110. The payment gateway 110 can communicate the
          purchase date (i.e., transactional information), including the tokenized account data, to
25        the loyalty system 104. The loyalty system 104, having received the tokenized account
          data from the payment gateway 110, can use the tokenized account data to query its
          database of tokenized account data to identify the loyalty account associated with the
          tokenized account data. Loyalty awards can then be posted and/or redeemed from the
          identified loyalty account.
30 [0043] In an exemplary embodiment, since the payment gateway 110 tokenizes the account
          information before communication to the loyalty system 104, and the tokenization of
          the account information is done by way of an approved one-way encryption algorithm
                                                    13

          such as MD5 so that the original account information cannot later be decrypted, the
          loyalty system does not need to be PCI compliant and/or otherwise be compliant to
          handle financial data such as credit card data. This allows the loyalty system 104 to use
          the tokenized account information to identify the user's loyalty account indirectly using
 5        the tokenized data, not the original account information. As such, account information
          such as credit card data can be used in a tokenized indirect manner with a loyalty
          system and the loyalty system does not need to be PCI compliant and/or otherwise
          compliant to handle and process financial data.
   [0044] In an exemplary embodiment, the payment gateway 110 generates and/or otherwise
10        provides the tokenized data unless there is a database match. Once the tokenized
          account information has been associated with the loyalty account and stored to the
          loyalty system 104, the method 2000 with respect to a user registering a new loyalty
          account at the loyalty system 104 is complete.
   [0045] Figures 3A and 3B are flow charts depicting method 3000 of implementing a loyalty
15        award program wherein a user accesses a point-of-loyalty system 106 to purchase
          goods or services. In an exemplary embodiment, when a user is at a point-of-loyalty
          system 106 and is ready to complete a transaction they can present the same account
          information, such as a credit card, for payment that they presented while enrolling in
          the loyalty program. It is also contemplated that a user can register different account
20        information to the same loyalty awards account, i.e., the user can register different
          credit cards to the same loyalty award account. Alternatively, the user can register
          multiple loyalty award accounts using different account information, e.g., a user can
          have a different loyalty account corresponding to each of their credit card accounts.
          The account information cannot only be communicated to an account processing
25        system 102 to pay for the goods or service but the account information can be
          tokenized and communicated to the loyalty system 104 to be used to look up a user's
          loyalty account and post or redeem loyalty awards. In an exemplary embodiment, the
          user may not have previously registered their account data with the loyalty system 104.
          When the user's account data is provided at the point-of-loyalty system 106, the user
30        will be prompted to create a "light" version of their loyalty account including only their
          tokenized account information and the transaction information. The "light" loyalty
          account can be converted into a standard registered loyalty account when the user
          provides the necessary user information at the loyalty system 104, e.g., when the user
                                                   14

          completes the loyalty system's 104 web based enrollment form.
   [0046] In an exemplary embodiment, purchase information related to the goods or services
          purchased (e.g., type, kind, amount, etc.) can be communicated with the tokenized
          account data to the loyalty system 104. The purchase information can be associated
 5        with the user in the loyalty system 104, and used to dynamically determine a loyalty
          award, for marketing or promotional purposes, to support a business partners
          marketing and/or promotional goals, and/or used in other purposes relevant to
          implementing a loyalty reward system. For example, a user can purchase a large
          COCA-COLA product at a quick serve restaurant. The user can present their account
10        information in the form of a credit card for payment. Payment can be effectuated by
          way of the account processing system 102. The tokenized account information can be
          communicated with the purchase information (e.g., the fact that the user purchased a
          large COCA-COLA product at a specified quick service restaurant) to the loyalty
          system 104. The loyalty system 104 uses the tokenized account data to locate the user's
15        account and then selectively post a loyalty award to the user's account. Such a loyalty
          award could be a fixed number of points for the purchase. In an alternate embodiment,
          the loyalty award amount it could be a varied number of points based on transaction
          information including, for example, the size of the product purchased, location of the
          purchase, quantity or volume of the product purchased, the frequency of user purchases
20        of the same or different products, or any combination of these loyalty award options
          and/or other loyalty award options.
   [0047] To begin the process of purchasing goods/services at a point-of-loyalty system 106, a
          user can provide account data to a point-of-loyalty system 106 for payment for goods
          or services. (Step 3002). The provided account data can be received at the payment
25        gateway 110 (Step 3004) and tokenized to create tokenized account data. (Step 3006).
          In an exemplary embodiment, the account information can be tokenized by way of a
          one-way encryption algorithm such as MD5 hash, and/or other one-way encryption
          algorithms to insure that the account information is not compromised by inadvertent
          disclosure. The one-way encryption algorithm preserves the ability to uniquely identify
30        the user's loyalty account with encrypted data but does not utilize the original account
          information.
   [0048] The account data can be communicated from the payment gateway 110 to the account
                                                  15

          processing system 102 so that the payment can be authorized. (Step 3008). The
          authorized payment amount is not processed using the user's account data, rather the
          account processing system 102 confirms with a transaction bureau, such as a credit
          card processor, that the user's account is capable of the authorized payment amount.
 5 [0049] The payment gateway 110 provides the tokenized account data to the loyalty system
          104 to determine if there is an existing loyalty account associated with the tokenized
          data. (Step 3010). For example, the loyalty system 104 can compare the tokenized
          account data with stored tokenized account data associated with loyalty accounts
          maintained by the loyalty system 104. If no matching tokenized account data is found,
10        the loyalty system 104 notifies the payment gateway 110 and the point-of-loyalty
          system 106. When no stored tokenized account data is found in the loyalty system 104,
          the point-of-loyalty system 106 may query the user as to whether they would like to
          create a new loyalty account. (Step 3012). In some embodiments the loyalty system
          104 may first notify the payment gateway 110 that no matching loyalty accounts were
15        found, and the payment gateway 110 may in turn notify the point-of-loyalty system
          104 to query the user regarding creating a new loyalty account. If the user elects not to
          create a loyalty account, the process ends and the transaction is completed using the
          account data provided by the user. (Step 3014). If the user elects to create a loyalty
          account, the payment gateway 110 and the loyalty system 104 in turn, receive a
20        message to create a "light" loyalty account in the loyalty system 104. (Step 3016). In
          an exemplary embodiment, the message from the payment gateway 110 to the loyalty
          system 104 to create the light loyalty account also includes the tokenized account data.
          Alternatively, because the loyalty system 104 has already received the tokenized
          account information (see Step 3010), the message from the payment gateway 110 to
25        the loyalty system 104 may only include the instructions to create a new "light" loyalty
          account and not the tokenized account information. In an exemplary embodiment, the
          loyalty account is qualified as "light" because the only user-specific information
          included in the loyalty account is the tokenized account data and the purchase history
          associated with that tokenized account data.
30 [0050] Upon receiving the instructions to create a "light" loyalty account, the loyalty system
          104 creates a loyalty account including a table associating the tokenized account data
          with the transaction information and/or other metrics used to track and award a loyalty
          reward to a user. The other award metrics can include, for example, awards provided in
                                                   16

          response to the purchase of a particular quantity or type product, a purchase at a
          particular location, completing various tasks associated with the loyalty program
          (sharing the loyalty program with friends, providing a rating/review of the loyalty
          program, post regarding the loyalty program on a social media site, etc.), and/or any
 5        other factors relevant to determining an award amount. In an exemplary embodiment,
          the table can associate the tokenized account data with the number of purchases made
          since the last loyalty award had be awarded to the use or since the use had created their
          "light" loyalty account. Once the account has been created, and because the "light"
          account is a new loyalty account where no loyalty awards have been accumulated, the
10        transaction is completed using the account data provided by the user. (Step 3014).
   [0051] Referring back to Step 3010 where the payment gateway 110 provides the tokenized
          account data to the loyalty system 104, if a the loyalty system 104 determines that an
          existing loyalty account is associated with the tokenized account data, the loyalty
          system 106 next determines what type of loyalty account is associated with the
15        tokenized account data. (Step 3018). If the loyalty account is a light account, the
          loyalty system 104 then determines if the loyalty awards associated with the account
          indicate that the loyalty award should be applied in the transaction at the point-of
          loyalty 106. (Step 3020). If the loyalty awards associated with the light account
          indicate that the user does not have sufficient quantity of awards to complete the
20        transaction without providing payment, an award is not used to complete the
          transaction and the loyalty system 104 can send a message to the payment gateway 110
          not to apply a loyalty award to the transaction. (Step 3022). The payment gateway 110
          may then send a message to the point-of-loyalty system 106 to complete the
          transaction using the account data. (Step 3014).
25 [0052] If the loyalty awards associated with the light account indicate that the user has
          sufficient quantity of awards to complete the transaction without providing payment,
          the loyalty system 104 sends a message to the payment gateway 110 regarding the
          availability to complete the transaction using the loyalty award amount. (Step 3024).
          The payment gateway 110 may then communicate a message to the point-of-loyalty
30        system 106 regarding the availability to complete the transaction using the loyalty
          award amount. (Step 3026). For example, the payment gateway 110 may communicate
          the tokenized account data and an indication of the award amount (e.g., a free
          beverage) with the message to the point-of-loyalty system 106. The user may be
                                                   17

          queried to determine if they'd like to user their award amount to in lieu of payment. For
          example, the user may be queried at the point-of-loyalty system 106 whether they want
          to apply their accrued award to complete the transaction using their loyalty award. If
          the user agrees to use the loyalty award amount in lieu of the account data to effectuate
 5        payment, the point-of- loyalty system 106 may complete the transaction with the
          loyalty award. (Step 3026). In an exemplary embodiment, the point-of-loyalty system
          106 can store the tokenized account information along with the transaction information
          for auditing and reconciliation purposes. Upon applying the loyalty award to effectuate
          payment, the payment gateway 110 may also send a message to the account processing
10        system 102 to cancel the credit card authorization. (Step 3028). In some embodiments
          the user may not be queried to determine if they'd like to user their award amount to in
          lieu of payment. Rather, in such embodiments, the award amount is automatically
          applied, if available, to complete the transaction.
   [0053] Continued in Figure 3B, if the type of account is a registered loyalty account, the
15        loyalty system 104 can determine if the loyalty account has a sufficient loyalty award
          amount to complete the transaction. (Step 3030). In an exemplary embodiment, the
          loyalty account can be queried and the user's the award total can be retrieved to
          determine if the user's loyalty award total is sufficient to complete the transaction at the
          point-of- loyalty system 106. Should the award account include insufficient balance to
20        complete the transaction using the loyalty award, the loyalty system 104 can send a
          message to the payment gateway 110 that there is insufficient loyalty award amount to
          complete the transaction. (Step 3032). The payment gateway 110 may then send a
          message to the point-of-loyalty system 106 to complete the transaction using the
          account data. (Step 3034). The message to the point-of-loyalty system 106 can also
25        include instructions to display to the user their current loyalty award balance. The
          message to the point-of- loyalty system 106 may also include a user query regarding
          whether the user would like to complete the transaction using the user account data. If
          the user selects to complete the transaction using the user account data, the point-of
          loyalty system 106 can send a message to the payment gateway 110 to complete the
30        transaction using the user account data. The payment gateway 110 can then send a
          message to the account processing system 102 to complete the transaction using the
          user account data. Alternatively, if the user declines to complete the transaction using
          the account data, the point-of-loyalty system 106 can send a message to the payment
                                                   18

          gateway 110 indicating that the transaction has been cancelled. The payment gateway
          110 may, in turn, send a message to the account processing system 102 to cancel the
          credit card authorization.
   [0054] Should the award account include a sufficient balance to complete the transaction
 5        using the loyalty award, the loyalty system 104 can send a message to the payment
          gateway 110 that there is sufficient loyalty award amount to complete the transaction.
          (Step 3036). The message to the payment gateway 110 can include the tokenized
          account information and any other indication that the transaction can be completed
          using loyalty points. The message can also include a current award total or loyalty
10        point balance. The payment gateway 110 can then send a message to the point-of
          loyalty system 106 indicating that the transaction can be completed using loyalty
          points and passing along the loyalty points balance, if provided. The point-of-loyalty
          system 106 can then send query the user regarding whether the user would like to
          complete the transaction using the loyalty award. (Step 3038). This user query can
15        include the loyalty point balance, if provided.
   [0055] If the user selects to complete the transaction using their loyalty points, the point- of
          loyalty system 106 may send a message to the payment gateway 110 to complete the
          transaction using loyalty points. (Step 3040). The payment gateway 110 may also send
          a message to the loyalty system 104 to adjust the award balance in the award account
20        to according to the loyalty points purchase amount, i.e., adjust the loyalty point balance
          a sufficient amount to pay for the transaction. (Step 3042). The payment gateway 110
          may, in turn, send a message to the account processing system 102 to cancel the credit
          card authorization. The loyalty system 104 may send a confirmation message back to
          the payment gateway 110 indicating that the loyalty point balance has been reduced to
25        pay for the transaction and optionally include the new loyalty amount balance. The
          payment gateway 110 may pass along the confirmation message to the point-of-loyalty
          system 106. In an exemplary embodiment, the point-of-loyalty system 106 is a vending
          machine. A selected product may be vended upon receiving input from the user to pay
          with loyalty points. In an alternate embodiment, the product may not be vended until
30        receiving the confirmation message from the payment gateway 110 indicating that the
          loyalty point balance of the registered loyalty account has been reduced in accordance
          with the purchase amount.
                                                   19

   [0056] If the user declines to complete the transaction using their loyalty points, the user may
          be queried to complete the transaction using the user account data. If the user then
          selects to complete the transaction using their user account data, the point-of-loyalty
          system 106 can send a message to the payment gateway 110 to complete the
 5        transaction using the user account data. The payment gateway 110 can then send a
          message to the account processing system 102 to complete the transaction using the
          user account data. However, if the user declines to complete the transaction using
          either their loyalty points or their account information, the point-of-loyalty system 106
          can send a message to the payment gateway 110 indicating that the transaction has
10        been cancelled. The payment gateway 110 may, in turn, send a message to the account
          processing system 102 to cancel the credit card authorization. (Step 3044).
   [0057] In an exemplary embodiment, any time the user completes a transaction, whether using
          their user account data or a loyalty award amount, loyalty awards can be posted to the
          user's loyalty award account. In an alternate embodiment, only when the user utilizes
15        their user account data to complete a transaction are loyalty awards posted to their
          loyalty award account. The payment gateway 110, upon confirmation that the
          transaction is complete from either of the account processing system 102 or the point
          of-loyalty 106, can send a message to the loyalty system 104 to post the award amount
          to the user's loyalty award account. Such loyalty posting can be a fixed number of
20        points, a dynamic number of points, and/or other types and kinds of awards and point
          determination methods, as may be required and/or desire in a particular embodiment.
   [0058] The capabilities of the present invention can be implemented in software, firmware,
          hardware or some combination thereof. As one example, one or more aspects of the
          present invention can be included in an article of manufacture (e.g., one or more
25        computer program products) having, for instance, computer usable media. The media
          has embodied therein, for instance, computer readable program code means for
          providing and facilitating the capabilities of the present invention. The article of
          manufacture can be included as a part of a computer system or sold separately.
          Additionally, at least one program storage device readable by a machine, tangibly
30        embodying at least one program of instructions executable by the machine to perform
          the capabilities of the present invention can be provided.
   [0059] The flow diagrams depicted herein are just examples. There may be many variations to
                                                    20

  these diagrams or the steps (or operations) described therein without departing from
  the spirit of the invention. For instance, the steps may be performed in a differing
  order, or steps may be added, deleted, or modified. All of these variations are
  considered a part of the claimed invention.
5
                                           21

                                                 CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
           1.      A computer implemented method of implementing a loyalty awards program,
   the method comprising:
 5         presenting, at a user interface, a loyalty program enrollment form for receiving data
   from a user, wherein the loyalty program enrollment form comprises at least one account
   information field associated with a payment gateway that is compliant with a financial
   transaction security standard, and wherein the loyalty enrollment form comprises at least one
   user data information field associated with a loyalty system that is not compliant with a
10 financial transaction security standard;
           receiving, by at least one processor, user data from the at least one user data
   information field of the enrollment form;
           creating, by the at least one processor, a loyalty account based on the user data;
           receiving, by the at least one processor from the payment gateway, tokenized account
15 data associated with the user, wherein the tokenized account data is based at least in part on
   account information from the at least one account information field; and
           associating, by the at least one processor, the tokenized account data with the loyalty
   account.
           2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
20         receiving, by the at least one processor, transaction information corresponding to a
   purchase event completed by the user.
           3.      The method in accordance with claim 2, further comprising:
           posting, by the at least one processor, a loyalty award to the loyalty account in
   response to the transaction information.
25         4.      The method in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the tokenized
   account data is plurality of a credit card data.
           5.      The method in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising:
           receiving, by the at least one processor, a tokenized account data;
           identifying, by the at least one processor, a loyalty account associated with a user
30 based on the tokenized account data;
                                                     22

           determining, by the at least one processor, a loyalty award balance of the loyalty
   account;
           receiving, by the at least one processor, a purchase request corresponding to an
   attempted user purchase event;
 5         comparing, by the at least one processor, the loyalty award balance to the purchase
   request to authorize a payment of a first loyalty award amount; and
           posting, by the at least one processor, a loyalty award amount to the loyalty account.
           6.      The method of claim 5, further comprising
           authorizing, by the at least one processor, payment of the first loyalty award amount
10 when the loyalty award balance is greater than the purchase request; and
           deducting, by the at least one processor, a second loyalty award from the loyalty award
   balance when payment of the loyalty award amount is confirmed, the second loyalty award
   amount corresponding to the purchase request.
           7.      The method of claim 5 or 6, further comprising
15         declining, by the at least one processor, payment of the first loyalty award amount
   when the loyalty award balance is less than the purchase request;
           wherein the account data is processed to authorize a payment corresponding to the
   purchase request when the first loyalty award amount is not applied to the payment.
           8.      The method of any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein the loyalty account is
20 identified based on comparison of the tokenized account data with a plurality of other
   tokenized account data stored at the loyalty system.
           9.      The method in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising:
           receiving, by the at least one processor from the payment gateway, a second tokenized
   account data;
25         searching, by the at least one processor, a plurality of loyalty accounts at the loyalty
   system to identify a loyalty account associated with the second tokenized account data;
           creating, by the at least one processor and without initial input from a second
   unregistered user, a second loyalty account based on the second tokenized account data when
   a loyalty account associated with the second tokenized account data is not included in the
30 loyalty system;
           receiving, by the at least one processor, a second transaction information associated
                                                    23

  with a second tokenized account data; and
          posting, by the at least one processor, a loyalty award to the second loyalty account
  based on the second transaction information, wherein the second loyalty account comprises
  only the second tokenized account data and the transaction information corresponding to a
5 purchase event completed by the second unregistered user.
                                                   24

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    4/4

