      DYNAMIC DUTY-CYCLING OF PROCESSOR OF MOBILE DEVICE
           BASED ON OPERATING CONDITION OF MOBILE DEVICE
ABSTRACT
     In one embodiment, a method includes recording a first location of a mobile device;
     determining, by one or more processors of a geographic-positioning component of the
     mobile device, on a periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device;
     determining, by the processors of the geographic-positioning component, whether the
     current location is outside a geographic region defined at least in part by the first
     location; and if the current location is outside the geographic region, then
     transmitting, by the processors of the geographic-positioning component, a message
     to one or more other processors of the mobile device, the message causing one or
     more of the other processors to transition from a sleep state to an active state.

                                 3/9
301      record, by a geographical positioning
       device coupled to a mobile device, a first
               location of the mobile device
302    determine a radius based on a velocity of
                     the mobile device
                 record a second location
         303
    NO
            is the second location beyond the
              radius from the first location?
                      YES
304        transmit a message to one or more
             processors of the mobile device
          FIGURE 3

                                                I
         DYNAMIC DUTY-CYCLING OF PROCESSOR OF MOBILE DEVICE
             BASED ON OPERATING CONDITION OF MOBILE DEVICE
    RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application is related to US Patent Application Serial No. 13/416,975 entitled
 5         "Dynamic duty-cycling of processor of mobile device based on operating
           condition of mobile device" and filed on 9 March 2012 in the names of Matthew
           Nicholas Papakipos, Lev Popov, and lain Andrew Russell Proctor, International
           Application     No.   PCT/US2013/028961      entitled "Dynamic     duty-cycling  of
           processor of mobile device based on operating condition of mobile device" and
 0         filed on 5 March 2013 in the name of Facebook, Inc., Australian Patent
           Application No. 2013230230 entitled "Dynamic duty-cycling of processor of
           mobile device based on operating condition of mobile device" and filed on
           5 March 2013 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent Application
           No. 2015224489 entitled "Dynamic duty-cycling of processor of mobile device
 5         based on operating condition of mobile device" and filed on 10 September 2015 in
           the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is incorporated as
           if fully set forth herein.
    TECHNICAL FIELD
           This disclosure relates generally to geographic positioning capable devices, and,
 10        more particularly, to methods of dynamically determining processor duty cycle of
           a geographic positioning capable device based on geographic position.
    BACKGROUND
           A social networking system, such as a social networking website, enables its users
           to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking
25         system may create and store a record, often referred to as a user profile, in
           connection with the user. The user profile may include a user's demographic
           information, communication channel information, and personal interest. The
           social networking system may also create and store a record of a user's
           relationship with other users in the social networking system (e.g., social graph),
30         as well as provide services (e.g., wall-posts, photo-sharing, or instant messaging)
           to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A

                                                2
          geo-social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic
          services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User
          submitted location data or geo-location techniques (e.g., mobile phone position
          tracking) can allow a geo-social network system to connect and coordinate users
 5        with local people or events that match their interests. For example, users can
          check-in to a place using a mobile client application by providing a name of a
          place (or selecting a place from a pre-established list of places). The geo-social
          networking system, among other things, can record information about the user's
          presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the
 0        geo-social networking system.
          A geographic location of a mobile device (e.g., a cell phone, a tablet computer)
          equipped     with cellular,    Wi-Fi   and/or  GPS    (Global Positioning  System)
          capabilities can be identified with geographic positioning signals obtained by cell
          tower triangulation, Wi-Fi positioning, and/or GPS positioning. Such mobile
 5        devices may have additional functionalities incorporating geographic location data
          of the devices, for example, providing driving directions, displaying a map of a
          current location, or providing information of nearby points of interest such as
          restaurants, gas stations, etc.
    SUMMARY
 .0        A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
                   recording a first location of a mobile device;
                   determining, by one or more processors of a geographic-positioning
           component, on a periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device, wherein
           while the current location of the mobile device is determined, one or more other
25         processors of the mobile device are in a sleep state;
                   detecting, in response to determining the current location of the mobile
           device, by the one or more processors of the geographic-positioning component,
           whether the current location is outside a geographic region, the geographic region
           being defined by the first location and a radius, wherein the radius is adjusted
30         from a pre-determined value based on:
                           a detected velocity of the mobile device;
                           time of day information;

                                         3
                    a battery level of the mobile device; or
                    an error of the first location measurement or the current location
            measurement; and
            if the current location is outside the geographic region, then causing, by
 5  the one or more processors of the geographic-positioning component, a client
    application of the mobile device to send the current location to a remote server.
    A second aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more computer
    readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when
    executed by one or more processors to:
 0          record a first location of a mobile device;
            determine, on a periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device,
    wherein while the current location of the mobile device is determined, one or
    more other processors of the mobile device are in a sleep state;
            detect, in response to determining the current location of the mobile
 5  device, whether the current location is outside a geographic region, the
    geographic region being defined by the first location and a radius, wherein the
    radius is adjusted from a pre-determined value based on:
                    a detected velocity of the mobile device;
                    time of day information;
 .0                 a battery level of the mobile device; or
                    an error of the first location measurement or the current location
            measurement; and
            if the current location is outside the geographic region, then cause a client
    application of the mobile device to send the current location to a remote server.
25  A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a mobile device comprising:
            one or more processors; and
            a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by
    the processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
            record a first location of a mobile device;
30          determine, on a periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device,
    wherein while the current location of the mobile device is determined, one or
    more other processors of the mobile device are in a sleep state;

                                                 4
                    detect, in response to determining the current location of the mobile
            device, whether the current location is outside a geographic region, the
            geographic region being defined by the first location and a radius, wherein the
            radius is adjusted from a pre-determined value based on:
 5                          a detected velocity of the mobile device;
                            time of day information;
                            a battery level of the mobile device; or
                            an error of the first location measurement or the current location
                    measurement; and
 0                  if the current location is outside the geographic region, then cause a client
            application of the mobile device to send the current location to a remote server.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           FIGURE 1 illustrates an example social networking system.
           FIGURE 2 illustrates an example processing stack of a mobile device with one or
 5         more sensor devices.
           FIGURE 3 illustrates an example method of dynamically determining processor
           duty cycle based on geographic position.
           FIGURE 4 illustrates example radii for the example method of FIGURE 3.
           FIGURES 4A and 4B illustrate a user's movement.
 0         FIGURE 5 illustrates an example network environment.
           FIGURE 6 illustrates an example computer system.
           FIGURE 7 illustrates an example mobile device platform.
   DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
           A social networking system, such as a social networking website, enables its users
25         to interact with it, and with each other through, the system. Typically, to become
           a registered user of a social networking system, an entity, either human or non
           human, registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter,
           the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by
           providing, for example, a login ID or username and password. As used herein, a
30         "user" may be an individual (human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business,

                                         5
    or third party application), or a group (e.g., of individuals or entities) that interacts
    or communicates with or over such a social network environment.
    When a user registers for an account with a social networking system, the social
    networking system may create and store a record, often referred to as a "user
 5  profile", in connection with the user. The user profile may include information
    provided by the user and information gathered by various systems, including the
    social networking system, relating to activities or actions of the user.              For
    example, the user may provide his name, profile picture, contact information, birth
    date, gender, marital status, family status, employment, education background,
 0  preferences, interests, and other demographical information to be included in his
    user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system
    that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user's friends or first degree
    contacts may be included in the user's profile. Connections in social networking
    systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example, if
 5  Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another, Bob and Joe are each
    connections of the other. If, on the other hand, Bob wishes to connect to Sam to
    view Sam's posted content items, but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob, a
    one-way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob's connection, but Bob is
    not Sam's connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow
 .0 the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections (e.g., friends of
    friends). Connections may be added explicitly by a user, for example, the user
    selecting a particular other user to be a friend, or automatically created by the
    social networking system based on common characteristics of the users (e.g., users
    who are alumni of the same educational institution). The user may identify or
25  bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web
    pages may be included in the user's profile.
    The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user (such as
    contact information and interests) at the time the user registers for an account or at
    a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time.
30  For example, when the user moves, or changes a phone number, he may update
    his contact information. Additionally, the user's interests may change as time
    passes, and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A

                                         6
    user's activities on the social networking system, such as frequency of accessing
    particular information on the system, may also provide information that may be
    included in the user's profile. Again, such information may be updated from time
    to time to reflect the user's most-recent activities. Still further, other users or so
 5  called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or
    cause updates to a user's profile. For example, a contact may add the user as a
    friend (or remove the user as a friend). A contact may also write messages to the
    user's profile pages--typically known as wall-posts. A user may also input status
    messages that get posted to the user's profile page.
 0  A social network system may maintain social graph information, which can
    generally model the relationships among groups of individuals, and may include
    relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social
    network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph
    corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes
 5  represent a relationship between two users. In addition, the degree of separation
    between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to
    traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two
    users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users
    represented by the nodes in the graph.
 .0 Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to
    geographic locations or places.       Places may correspond to various physical
    locations, such as restaurants, bars, train stations, airports and the like. In one
    implementation, each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or
    other data structure maintained by the social networking system, as described in
25  U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 12/763,171, which is incorporated by reference
    herein for all purposes.     Social networking system may allow users to access
    information regarding each place using a client application (e.g., a browser)
    hosted by a wired or wireless station, such as a laptop, desktop or mobile device.
    For example, social networking system may serve web pages (or other structured
30  documents) to users that request information about a place.        In addition to user
    profile and place information, the social networking system may track or maintain
    other information about the user. For example, the social networking system may

                                         7
    support geo-social networking system functionality including one or more
    location-based services that record the user's location. For example, users may
    access the geo-social networking system using a special-purpose client application
    hosted by a mobile device of the user (or a web- or network-based application
 5  using a browser client). The client application may automatically access Global
    Positioning System (GPS) or other geo-location functions supported by the mobile
    device and report the user's current location to the geo-social networking system.
    In addition, the client application may support geo-social networking functionality
    that allows users to check-in at various locations and communicate this location to
 0  other users. A check-in to a given place may occur when a user is physically
    located at a place and, using a mobile device, access the geo-social networking
    system to register the user's presence at the place. A user may select a place from
    a list of existing places near to the user's current location or create a new place.
    The social networking system may automatically checks in a user to a place based
 5  on the user's current location and past location data, as described in U.S. Patent
    Application No. 13/042,357 filed on March 7, 2011, which is incorporated by
    reference herein for all purposes. An entry including a comment and a time stamp
    corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users.
    For example, a record of the user's check-in activity may be stored in a database.
 .0 Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check
    in activities of users at a given place and include such check-in activity in web
    pages (or other structured documents) that correspond to a given place.         The
    check-in activity may also be displayed on a user profile page and in news feeds
    provided to users of the social networking system.
25  Still further, a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a
    user may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device
    and send the location data to social networking system. In this manner, the social
    networking      system may     track the   user's   location  and provide    various
    recommendations to the user related to places that are proximal to the user's
30  current trajectory or path or that are frequented by the user.               In one
    implementation, a user may opt in to this recommendation service, which causes

                                         8
    the client application to periodically post location data of the user to the social
    networking system.
    FIGURE 1 illustrates an example social networking system. In particular
    embodiments, the social networking system may store user profile data and social
 5  graph information in user profile database 101. In particular embodiments, the
    social networking system may store geographic and location data in location
    database 104. In particular embodiments, databases 101 and 104 may be operably
    connected to the social networking system's front end. In particular embodiments,
    the front end 120 may interact with client device 122 through network cloud 121.
 0  Client device 122 is generally a computer or computing device including
    functionality for communicating (e.g., remotely) over a computer network. Client
    device 122 may be a desktop computer, laptop computer, personal digital assistant
    (PDA), in- or out-of-car navigation system, smart phone or other cellular or
    mobile phone, or mobile gaming device, among other suitable computing devices.
 5  Client device 122 may execute one or more client applications, such as a web
    browser (e.g., Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Apple
    Safari, Google Chrome, and Opera, etc.) or special-purpose client application
    (e.g., Facebook for iPhone, etc.), to access and view content over a computer
    network. Front end 120 may include web or HTTP server functionality, as well as
 .0 other functionality, to allow users to access the social networking system.
    Network cloud 121 generally represents a network or collection of networks (such
    as the Internet or a corporate intranet, or a combination of both) over which client
    devices 122 may access the social network system.
    In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store an information base
25  of places, where each place includes a name, a geographic location and meta
    information (such as the user that initially created the place, reviews, comments,
    check-in activity data, and the like). Places may be created by administrators of
    the system and/or created by users of the system.        For example, a user may
    register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and
30  provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered
    in location database 104. As discussed above, a created place may correspond to a
    hub node, which an administrator can claim for purposes of augmenting the

                                         9
    information about the place and for creating ads or other offers to be delivered to
    users. In particular embodiments, system front end 120 may construct and serve a
    web page of a place, as requested by a user. In some embodiments, a web page of
    a place may include selectable components for a user to "like" the place or check
 5  in to the place. In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store geo
    location data identifying a real-world geographic location of a user associated
    with a check-in. For example, a geographic location of an Internet connected
    computer can be identified by the computer's IP address. For example, a
    geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular, Wi-Fi and/or GPS
 0  capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation, Wi-Fi positioning, and/or
    GPS positioning. In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store a
    geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places. For
    example, a place can be a local business, a point of interest (e.g., Union Square in
    San Francisco, CA), a college, a city, or a national park. For example, a
 5  geographic location of a place (e.g., a local coffee shop) can be an address, a set of
    geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), or a reference to another place
    (e.g., "the coffee shop next to the train station"). For example, additional
    information of a place can be business hours, photos, advertisements, or user
    reviews of the place. In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store a
 .0 user's location data. For example, a user can create a place (e.g., a new restaurant
    or coffee shop) and the social networking system can store the created place in
    location database 104. For example, location database 104 may store a user's
    check-in activities. For example, location database 104 may store a user's
    geographic location provided by the user's GPS-equipped mobile device.
25  A mobile device system may comprise one or more sensor devices to provide
    additional inputs and facilitate multiple functionalities of the system. Processing
    of sensor inputs by a system with one or more sensor devices (for example,
    processing a GPS sensor signal and displaying in the device's graphical user
    interface a map of a location corresponding to the GPS sensor signal) may be
30  implemented by a combination of hardware, software, and/or firmware (or device
    drivers). FIGURE 2 illustrates an example processing stack of a mobile device
    (e.g., a smart phone) with one or more sensor devices. In the example of FIGURE

                                        10
    2, sensor subsystem 201 of the mobile device can include one or more sensor
    devices, for example, a GPS sensor for location positioning, and a motion sensor
    for determining orientation of the mobile device, etc. One or more device drivers
    in driver layer 202 hosted by one or more processors 210 of the mobile device can
 5  communicate and control the one or more sensors of sensor subsystem 201. For
    example, a device driver can receive and process a GPS signal generated by a
    GPS sensor. For example, a device driver can receive and process sensor signals
    generated by multiple sensors in sensor subsystem 201. One or more processors
    210 can host various software programs, for example, operating system 203
 0  running one or more application programs (e.g., web browser, address book, etc.)
    in applications 205 and managing sensor subsystem 201 via the one or more
    device drivers in driver layer 202. Libraries 204 can include one or more libraries
    used by one or more application programs in applications 205. For example, a
    web browser application can access a mapping library (e.g., via a function call)
 5  that generates a map containing a GPS location obtained by a device driver
    interpreting a GPS signal from a GPS sensor, and display the map in the web
    browser application's graphical user interface.
    One or more processors of a system, while not being active (i.e., not executing one
    or more programs), can enter a sleep state to reduce energy consumption by the
 .0 system. For example, a sleep state can be that all computing states of a processor
    are saved in a main memory and the processor is powered off. For example, a
    sleep state can be that a processor is not executing instructions, but all computing
    states of the processor are still maintained in the processor (e.g., stored in the
    processor's cache).
25  Ordinarily, in order for a system comprising one or more sensors to access a
    sensor (or process a sensor signal) of the system, one or more processors of the
    system need to be in an active state to access the sensor via a device driver. For
    example, for a special-purpose client application hosted on a user's mobile device
    to continuously capture locations of the user as described above, one or more
30  processors of the mobile device need to be in an active state to access a GPS
    sensor driver as often as the sampling frequency of the continuous location
    capturing (e.g., every five minutes), even when there is little location change (e.g.,

                                        11
    the user is attending a meeting for the next two hours), and the one or more
    processors could be in a sleep state instead of being in the active state. This can
    cause unnecessary periods of the active state, or duty cycles, of the one or more
    processors of the mobile device, thus cause higher energy consumption and
 5  shorter battery life of the mobile device. Particular embodiments herein describe
    methods of dynamically determining processor duty cycle of a mobile device
    while continuously accessing geographic position with the mobile device's
    geographic positioning device. Although the mobile device's position or location
    may be determined by accessing and analyzing geographic positioning signals via
 0  a sensor, it is contemplated that any suitable method for obtaining a mobile device
    or device user's geographical location may be used to dynamically determine
    processor duty cycles for the mobile device. Particular embodiments utilize a
    geographic positioning device that can be programmed to execute programs for
    controlling     a geographic   position   sensing  circuit,  translating  geographic
 5  positioning signals from the geographic position sensing circuit to geographic
    locations, performing computations (e.g., calculating a distance between two
    geographic locations obtained from the geographic position sensing circuit, or
    determining whether a condition is met), and alerting the one or more processors
    of the mobile device if a condition is met (e.g., if a distance calculated is greater
 .0 than    a pre-determined    threshold).  In some embodiments,         the geographic
    positioning device may comprise a geographic position sensing circuit that
    receives geographic positioning signals (e.g., a GPS sensor), a memory, one or
    more lower-power processors that can be programmed to execute programs to
    control the geographic position sensing circuit and perform computations, and an
25  interface circuit (e.g., 12C bus) that communicates with the one or more
    processors of the mobile device. In one embodiment, the geographic positioning
    device may be implemented as a single module or a single integrated circuit
    situated within the mobile device, comprising the geographic position sensing
    circuit, the memory, and the one or more lower-power processors, operably
30  coupled to the one or more processors of the mobile system via the interface
    circuit. In other embodiments, the geographic positioning device may comprise a
    sensor hub (such as the sensor subsystem of the mobile device illustrated in

                                        12
    FIGURE 2) comprising one or more sensor circuits that receive one or more
    sensor signals (including, for example, geographic positioning signals such as
    GPS signals), a memory, one or more lower-power processors that can be
    programmed to control the sensor circuits and perform computations (such as
 5  calculating a distance between two geographic locations described above), and an
    interface circuit that communicates with the one or more processors of the mobile
    device. In one embodiment, the sensor hub may be implemented as a single
    module or a single integrated circuit situated within the mobile device, comprising
    the one or more sensor circuits, the memory, and the one or more lower-power
 0  processors, operably coupled to the one or more processors of the mobile device
    via the interface circuit.
    FIGURE 3 illustrates an example method of dynamically determining processor
    duty cycle based on geographic position. The example method of FIGURE 3
    utilizes a radius to determine whether there is a substantial change of a user's
 5  location (e.g., if a user goes beyond the radius) based on geographic position
    obtained by the user's mobile device, and alert or wake up one or more processors
    of the mobile device to process the location change. In particular embodiments. a
    mobile device (e.g., a mobile phone, netbook, smartphone, tablet, or other portable
    device) may comprise one or more processors and a geographic positioning device
 .0 (or a sensor hub as described above). In particular embodiments, the geographic
    positioning device may record a first position (301). In particular embodiments,
    the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on a velocity of
    the mobile device (302). FIGURE 4 illustrates example radii for the example
    method of FIGURE 3. For example, if a user is walking with a velocity of 3 miles
25  per hour, the geographic positioning device may determine a radius of a quarter
    mile. For example, if a user has a higher velocity (e.g., the user is driving at 65
    miles per hour), the geographic positioning device may determine a larger radius
    (e.g., 5 miles) so that there is not too frequent detection of location changes. In
    particular embodiments, if a user is stationary (e.g., the user is watching a movie
30  at home), the geographic positioning device may assign a pre-determined value to
    the radius (e.g., 500 feet).

                                        13
    In particular embodiments, the geographic positioning device may determine a
    velocity of the mobile device based on recent location data stored locally at the
    mobile device. In some embodiments, the geographic positioning device may
    determine a default velocity (e.g., 3 miles per hour) if no recent location data is
 5  available.
    In some embodiments, the geographic positioning device may determine a radius
    based on time of day. For example, the geographic positioning device can access
    time of day information via a system call. For example, the geographic positioning
    device can determine a smaller radius (e.g., a quarter mile) if the time of day
 0  information corresponds to an evening hour (e.g., between 10 PM to 6 AM) since
    the mobile device's user is likely to have less movement. In other embodiments,
    the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on a power
    budget available for the mobile device. For example, an operating system or an
    application program hosted by the mobile device can access battery level
 5  information (e.g., via a function call) and transmit the battery level information to
    the geographic positioning device. For example, if the mobile device's battery
    level is less then a pre-determined threshold (e.g., 20% of full capacity), the
    geographic positioning device may determine a larger radius so that there is less
    frequent detection of location changes, thus reducing power consumption and
 .0 preserving remaining battery power. In yet another embodiment, the geographic
    positioning device may determine a radius based on an error associated with
    recording one or more locations. An error associated with one or more recorded
    locations may depend on one or more sources of the recording (e.g., GPS, cell
    tower triangulation, etc.), movement of the mobile device, time of the recording,
25  etc. For example, to avoid erroneous detection of location changes, the geographic
    positioning device can obtain an accuracy distance, e.g., a horizontal distance
    greater than the error associated with the one or more recorded locations, and
    determine a radius at least two times of the accuracy distance. In particular
    embodiments, the geographic positioning device may determine a radius based on
30  multiple factors, such as time of day, power budget, and/or errors associated with
    recorded locations described above. For example, the geographic positioning
    device can determine a radius based on a weighted average of radii determined by

                                       14
    each individual factor. For example, the geographic positioning device can
    determine a radius based on power budget only if the mobile device's battery level
    is very low (e.g., 10% of full capacity). In some embodiments, one or more client
    applications hosted by the one or more processors of the mobile system may
 5  determine a radius based on velocity, time of day, power budget, or errors
    associated with recorded locations.       For example, a special-purpose      client
    application for continuously capturing and storing a user's location data in a
    remote data store can determine a radius based on a velocity calculated by most
    recent location data of the user, and provide the radius to the geographic
 0  positioning device. In some embodiments, the one or more client applications may
    determine a radius based on multiple factors, such as velocity, time of day, power
    budget, and/or errors associated with recorded locations.
    In particular embodiments, the geographic positioning device may record one or
    more additional locations at a pre-determined frequency (e.g., every ten minutes),
 5  and determine if a second location of the one or more additional locations is
    beyond the radius from the first location (303). In yet other embodiments, the
    geographic positioning device may record one or more additional locations at a
    frequency that is dynamically determined based on factors related to the mobile
    device, including, for example, the user's location.     If there are no additional
 .0 locations beyond the radius from the first location, i.e., there is no substantially
    change in location, the geographic positioning device may continue to record one
    or more additional locations at the pre-determined frequency. If a second location
    of the additional locations is beyond the radius from the first location, the
    geographic positioning device may transmit a message to the one or more
25  processors of the mobile device (304). In particular embodiments, the message
    may comprise the second location. In particular embodiments, the message may
    cause at least one of one or more processors to transition from a sleep state to an
    active state. Additionally, the geographic positioning device may continue the
    example method of FIGURE 3. For example, the geographic positioning device
30  may record a new first position by using a previous second location that is beyond
    a previous radius from a previous first location (301), determine a new radius

                                         15
    (302), and determine whether there is substantially change in location based on
    the new first location and the new radius (303).
    The example method of FIGURE 3 can be further illustrated by FIGURES 4A and
    4B. FIGURES 4A and 4B illustrates a user's movement. In the example of
 5  FIGURE 4A, a user carrying a GPS-equipped mobile phone is at a park ("Hoover
    Park"). A special-purpose client application hosted by one or more processors of
    the mobile phone can continuously capture the user's locations (by accessing a
    GPS sensor of the mobile phone via a device driver) and store the locations at
    location database 104, at an interval of, for example, every ten minutes. The
 0  interval length may, in other embodiments, be varied. Ordinarily, one or more
    processors of the mobile device is active at least every ten minutes in order to
    access the GPS sensor and store the locations at location database 104. In contrast,
    with the example method of FIGURE 3, the special-purpose client application can
    instruct a sensor hub comprising a GPS sensor and other sensors, a memory, one
 5  or more lower-power processors and an interface circuit communicating with the
    one or more processors of the mobile device, to start recording a first location
    (location "1" in FIGURE 4A) and determine a radius 410 based on a velocity of
    the mobile phone, and if there is no other programs running on the one or more
    processors at the time, the one or more processors can enter a sleep state. The
 .0 sensor hub can continue to record new locations every ten minutes, and determine
    whether the new locations are beyond radius 410 from the first location. For
    example, the user may be playing with his kids at the park for the next 30 minutes
    (e.g., as recorded locations "2", "3", and "4"), and just start to leave the park
    afterwards (e.g., as recorded location "5"). Since there is no substantial change in
25  the user's location (i.e., the user is at or near the park) as determined by radius
    410, the sensor hub with the one or more lower-power processors, which may
    consume substantially lower power than the one or more processors of the mobile
    device, can continue to record new locations every ten minutes while the one or
    more processors of the mobile device are at the sleep state.           In particular
30  embodiments, the frequency of location capturing may occur at intervals
    determined dynamically based on various factors including, for example, the
    location of the mobile device. In the example of FIGURE 4A, if the sensor hub

                                         16
    determines that the user has moved to a particular location beyond radius 410, as
    illustrated by location "6" in FIGURE 4A, the sensor hub can transmit a message
    comprising the particular location to the one or more processors, causing at least
    one of the one or more processors transition from the sleep state to an active state,
 5  and execute the special-purpose client application to process the updated location
    data.    For example, the special-purpose client application may transmit the
    location to a remote host as part of a location-based query in order to receive
    information relevant to the location (e.g., points of interest near the location such
    as restaurants, parks, or advertisements relevant to the location such as an a
 0  coupon from coffee shop near the location).             The special purpose client
    application may also transmit the updated location data to a remote data store,
    such as location database 104, for storage in association with a user identifier, and
    enabling additional functions, for example, automatically checking in a user to a
    place near the location, or alerting a user's first-degree contacts who are near the
 5  location (or vice versa). In the example of FIGURE 4B, the sensor hub may
    determine a radius 420 (centered on location "6") and start recording new
    locations (locations "7", "8", "9), and determine whether there is substantially
    change in location, while the one or more processors of the mobile device may
    enter the sleep state if there is no other programs running on the one or more
 .0 processors.
    In particular embodiments, the method for dynamically determining processor
    duty cycle of a mobile device while continuously accessing geographic position
    with the mobile device's geographic positioning device need not involve the
    calculation of a location radius.      In particular embodiments, whether with or
25  without hardware or software support for radius calculation, one or more
    processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition their states (e.g., from
    a sleep state to an active state) based on certain conditions being met, as described
    herein. As an example, the one or more processors of the mobile system may be
    alerted to transition from a sleep state to an active state based on the present
30  location of the mobile device user. This location may be determined, by way of
    example and without limitation, via GPS, Wi-Fi, or cell tower signals, as well as
    by previous geographic position signal values and with the aid of any suitable

                                         17
    techniques, including, for example, dead reckoning or Kalman filtering.             As
    another example, the one or more processors of the mobile system may be alerted
    to transition their state based on the velocity of the user. The user's velocity may
    be determined, for example, by keeping track of both present and past user
 5  locations to create an estimate of the user's trajectory and speed.           In other
    embodiments, one or more processors of the mobile device may be alerted to
    transition their state based on time of day.      If, for example, the time is in the
    middle of the night when the user is likely sleeping (based, in particular
    embodiments, on prior user activity), the processors of the mobile device may be
 0  alerted to transition to a sleep state.       In other embodiments, one or more
    processors of the mobile device may be alerted to transition their state based on
    user activity. For example, if the mobile device is determined to be in a pocket or
    desk of the user, then the processors may transition to a sleep state, whereas if the
    mobile device is determined to be in the user's hand, the processors may transition
 5  to an active state. As another example, the processors may transition state based
    on input from a hand sensor on the mobile device.             If such a hand sensor
    determines that the user's hand is touching, or in proximity to, the mobile device,
    then the processors of the mobile device may transition to an alert state, for
    example. In yet other embodiments, if the user is in or near a social entity (on the
 .0 social network) of interest to the user (e.g., as determined by the user's profile on
    the social network), the processors of the mobile device may be alerted to
    transition to an awake state, and similarly, if the user is not near any (or near a
    threshold number) of social entities of interest to the user, the processors may
    transition to a sleep state. For example, if the user is near a location that is also a
25  social entity, and the user frequents this location (determined, for example, by the
    user's social network check-ins to that location), the processors of the mobile
    system may be alerted to transition to an active state.      Similarly, if the user is
    located near one or more friends or first-degree contacts of the user, the processors
    may be alerted to transition to an active state. As another example, a history of
30  the user's locations may also be used to create a trajectory, and the trajectory
    information may similarly be used to alert the processors of the mobile system
    depending on the locations or contacts of interest near to the user's trajectory.

                                        18
    Any combination of the factors described herein may be used to determine
    whether the processors of the mobile device should be alerted to transition their
    state. Additionally, the frequency with which any of the processors of the mobile
    device are alerted to transition to an awake state (e.g., every ten minutes) may be
 5  determined dynamically based, for example, on the user's location, as well as by
    any suitable factor including, for example, those mentioned herein.
    Particular embodiments utilize a geographic positioning device that can be
    programmed to execute programs for controlling a geographic position sensing
    circuit, translating geographic positioning signals from the geographic position
 0  sensing circuit to geographic locations, perfonning computations (e.g., calculating
    a distance between two geographic locations obtained from the geographic
    position sensing circuit, or determining whether a condition is met), and alerting
    the one or more processors of the mobile device if a condition is met (e.g., if a
    distance calculated is greater than a pre-determined threshold).
 5  While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network
    configurations, the following illustrates an example network environment for
    didactic, and not limiting, purposes.    FIGURE 5 illustrates an example network
    environment 500. Network environment 500 includes a network 510 coupling one
    or more servers 520 and one or more clients 530 to each other. Network
 .0 environment 500 also includes one or more data storage 540 linked to one or more
    servers 520. Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment
    500.    For example, social networking system frontend 120 may be written in
    software programs hosted by one or more servers 520. For example, event
    database    102 may be stored in one or more storage 540. In particular
25  embodiments, network 510 is an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network
    (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area
    network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, or
    another network 510 or a combination of two or more such networks 510. This
    disclosure contemplates any suitable network 510.
30  One or more links 550 couple a server 520 or a client 530 to network 510. In
    particular embodiments, one or more links 550 each includes one or more wired,
    wireless, or optical links 550. In particular embodiments, one or more links 550

                                         19
    each includes an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a MAN,
    a portion of the Internet, or another link 550 or a combination of two or more such
    links 550. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links 550 coupling servers
    520 and clients 530 to network 510.
 5  In particular embodiments, each server 520 may be a unitary server or may be a
    distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers
    520 may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web
    server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server,
    application server, exchange server, database server, or proxy server. In particular
 0  embodiments, each server 520 may include hardware, software, or embedded
    logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying
    out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server 520. For
    example, a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web
    pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically, a web server may
 5  host HTML files or other file types, or may dynamically create or constitute files
    upon a request, and communicate them to clients 530 in response to HTTP or
    other requests from clients 530. A mail server is generally capable of providing
    electronic mail services to various clients 530. A database server is generally
    capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data
 .0 stores.
    In particular    embodiments,      one or    more data    storages   540   may    be
    communicatively linked to one or more servers 520 via one or more links 550. In
    particular embodiments, data storages 540 may be used to store various types of
    information. In particular embodiments, the information stored in data storages
25  540 may be organized according to specific data structures.            In particular
    embodiment, each data storage 540 may be a relational database.           Particular
    embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers 520 or clients 530 to
    manage, e.g., retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the information stored in data
    storage 540.
30  In particular embodiments, each client 530 may be an electronic device including
    hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or
    more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions

                                        20
    implemented or supported by client 530. For example and without limitation, a
    client 530 may be a desktop computer system, a notebook computer system, a
    netbook computer system, a handheld electronic device, or a mobile telephone.
    This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients 530. A client 530 may enable a
 5  network user at client 530 to access network 530. A client 530 may enable its
    user to communicate with other users at other clients 530.
    A client 530 may have a web browser 532, such as MICROSOFT INTERNET
    EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX, and may have one
    or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO
 0  TOOLBAR. A user at client 530 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
    or other address directing the web browser 532 to a server 520, and the web
    browser 532 may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and
    communicate the HTTP request to server 520. Server 520 may accept the HTTP
    request and communicate to client 530 one or more Hyper Text Markup Language
 5  (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client 530 may render a web page
    based on the HTML files from server 520 for presentation to the user.        This
    disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by
    way of limitation, web pages may render from HTML files, Extensible Hyper
    Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or Extensible Markup Language (XML)
 .0 files, according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as,
    for example and without limitation, those written in JAVASCRIPT, JAVA,
    MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and scripts
    such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein,
    reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files
25  (which a browser may use to render the web page) and vice versa, where
    appropriate.
    FIGURE 6 illustrates an example computer system 600, which may be used with
    particular embodiments. This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of
    computer systems 600. This disclosure contemplates computer system 600 taking
30  any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer
    system 600 may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a
    single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-

                                        21
    module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a
    laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of
    computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a
    server, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer
 5  system 600 may include one or more computer systems 600; be unitary or
    distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; or reside in a cloud,
    which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.
    Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 600 may perform without
    substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more
 0  methods described or illustrated herein.       As an example and not by way of
    limitation, one or more computer systems 600 may perform in real time or in
    batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated
    herein. One or more computer systems 600 may perform at different times or at
    different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or
 5  illustrated herein, where appropriate.
    In particular embodiments, computer system 600 includes a processor 602,
    memory 604, storage 606, an input/output (I/O) interface 608, a communication
    interface 610, and a bus 612. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
    particular computer system having a particular number of particular components
 .0 in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer
    system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable
    arrangement.
    In particular embodiments, processor 602 includes hardware for executing
    instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and
25  not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor 602 may retrieve (or
    fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory 604, or
    storage 606; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an
    internal register, an internal cache, memory 604, or storage 606.       In particular
    embodiments, processor 602 may include one or more internal caches for data,
30  instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 602 including
    any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate.        As an
    example and not by way of limitation, processor 602 may include one or more

                                        22
    instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation look
    aside buffers (TLBs).     Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of
    instructions in memory 604 or storage 606, and the instruction caches may speed
    up retrieval of those instructions by processor 602. Data in the data caches may
 5  be copies of data in memory 604 or storage 606 for instructions executing at
    processor 602 to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at
    processor 602 for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor 602 or
    for writing to memory 604 or storage 606; or other suitable data. The data caches
    may speed up read or write operations by processor 602. The TLBs may speed up
 0  virtual-address  translation for processor 602.         In particular embodiments,
    processor 602 may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or
    addresses.   This disclosure contemplates processor 602 including any suitable
    number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate,
    processor 602 may include one or more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi
 5  core processor; or include one or more processors 602. Although this disclosure
    describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any
    suitable processor.
    In particular embodiments, memory 604 includes main memory for storing
    instructions for processor 602 to execute or data for processor 602 to operate on.
 .0 As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 600 may load
    instructions from storage 606 or another source (such as, for example, another
    computer system 600) to memory 604.             Processor 602 may then load the
    instructions from memory 604 to an internal register or internal cache. To execute
    the instructions, processor 602 may retrieve the instructions from the internal
25  register or internal cache and decode them.       During or after execution of the
    instructions, processor 602 may write one or more results (which may be
    intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor
    602 may then write one or more of those results to memory 604. In particular
    embodiments, processor 602 executes only instructions in one or more internal
30  registers or internal caches or in memory 604 (as opposed to storage 606 or
    elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal
    caches or in memory 604 (as opposed to storage 606 or elsewhere). One or more

                                        23
    memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may
    couple processor 602 to memory 604. Bus 612 may include one or more memory
    buses, as described below.      In particular embodiments, one or more memory
    management units (MMUs) reside between processor 602 and memory 604 and
 5  facilitate accesses to memory 604 requested by processor 602.          In particular
    embodiments, memory 604 includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM
    may be volatile memory, where appropriate Where appropriate, this RAM may be
    dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate,
    this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM.                 This disclosure
 0  contemplates any suitable RAM.           Memory 604 may include one or more
    memories 602, where appropriate.          Although this disclosure describes and
    illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
    In particular embodiments, storage 606 includes mass storage for data or
    instructions.    As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 606 may
 5  include an HDD, a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto
    optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB)             drive or a
    combination of two or more of these. Storage 606 may include removable or non
    removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage 606 may be internal or
    external to computer system 600, where appropriate. In particular embodiments,
 .0 storage 606 is non-volatile, solid-state memory.       In particular embodiments,
    storage 606 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM
    may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM
    (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM
    (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.              This
25  disclosure contemplates mass storage 606 taking any suitable physical form.
    Storage 606 may include one or more storage control units facilitating
    communication between processor 602 and storage 606, where appropriate.
    Where appropriate, storage 606 may include one or more storages 606. Although
    this disclosure describes    and illustrates particular storage, this disclosure
30  contemplates any suitable storage.
    In particular embodiments, I/O interface 608 includes hardware, software, or both
    providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system

                                         24
    600 and one or more I/O devices. Computer system 600 may include one or more
    of these I/O devices, where appropriate. One or more of these 1/0 devices may
    enable communication between a person and computer system 600.                 As an
    example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a keyboard,
 5  keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera,
    stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I/O device or
    a combination of two or more of these. An I/O device may include one or more
    sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable 1/0 devices and any suitable
    1/0 interfaces 608 for them. Where appropriate, I/O interface 608 may include
 0  one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 602 to drive one or
    more of these 1/0 devices.        1/0 interface 608 may include one or more 1/0
    interfaces 608, where appropriate.          Although this disclosure describes and
    illustrates a particular 1/0 interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O
    interface.
 5  In particular embodiments, communication interface 610 includes hardware,
    software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as,
    for example, packet-based communication) between computer system 600 and one
    or more other computer systems 600 or one or more networks. As an example and
    not by way of limitation, communication interface 610 may include a network
 .0 interface controller (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet
    or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for
    communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-Fl network.                  This
    disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
    interface 610 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system
25  600 may communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a
    local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area
    network (MAN), or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two
    or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be
    wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 600 may communicate with a
30  wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-Fl
    network (such as, for example, a 802.11 a/b/g/n WI-FI network, a 802.11 s mesh
    network), a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for

                                        25
    example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network, an
    Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) network, a Universal Mobile
    Telecommunications System (UMTS) network, a Long Term Evolution (LTE)
    network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of
 5  these. Computer system 600 may include any suitable communication interface
    610 for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface 610
    may include one or more communication interfaces 610, where appropriate.
    Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication
    interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.
 0  In particular embodiments, bus 612 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
    components of computer system 600 to each other. As an example and not by
    way of limitation, bus 612 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or
    other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a
    front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry
 5  Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count
    (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral
    Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced
    technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association
    local (VLB) bus, a Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
 .0 interface, a Inter-Integrated Circuit (12C) bus, a Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
    bus, a Secure Digital (SD) memory interface, a MultiMediaCard (MMC) memory
    interface, a Memory Stick (MS) memory interface, a Secure Digital Input Output
    (SDIO) interface, a Multi-channel Buffered Serial Port (McBSP) bus, a Universal
    Serial Bus (USB) bus, a General Purpose Memory Controller (GPMC) bus, a
25  SDRAM Controller (SDRC) bus, a General Purpose Input/Output (GPIO) bus, a
    Separate Video (S-Video) bus, a Display Serial Interface (DSI) bus, a Advanced
    Microcontroller Bus Architecture (AMBA) bus, or another suitable bus or a
    combination of two or more of these. Bus 612 may include one or more buses
    612, where appropriate.       Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
30  particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
    The client-side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of
    instructions stored on a computer-readable storage medium that, when executed,

                                       26
    cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above.
    While the client device 122 may be implemented in a variety of different
    hardware and computing systems, FIGURE 7 shows a schematic representation of
    the main components of an example computing platform of a client or mobile
 5  device, according to various particular embodiments. In particular embodiments,
    computing platform 702 may comprise controller 704, memory 706, and input
    output subsystem 710. In particular embodiments, controller 704 which may
    comprise one or more processors and/or one or more microcontrollers configured
    to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing
 0  platform.   In various embodiments, controller 704 may be implemented as a
    single-chip, multiple chips and/or other electrical components including one or
    more integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. Controller 704 may optionally
    contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions, data, or
    computer addresses.      By way of example, using instructions retrieved from
 5  memory, controller 704 may control the reception and manipulation of input and
    output data between components of computing platform 702. By way of example,
    controller 704 may include one or more processors or one or more controllers
    dedicated for certain processing tasks of computing platform 702, for example, for
    2D/3D graphics processing, image processing, or video processing.
 .0 Controller 704 together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute
    instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of
    example and not by way of limitation, the operating system may be Windows
    based, Mac-based, or Unix or Linux-based, or Symbian-based, among other
    suitable operating systems.    The operating system, other computer code and/or
25  data may be physically stored within memory 706 that is operatively coupled to
    controller 704.
    Memory 706 may encompass one or more storage media and generally provide a
    place to store computer code (e.g., software and/or firmware) and data that are
    used by computing platform 702. By way of example, memory 706 may include
30  various tangible computer-readable storage media including Read-Only Memory
    (ROM) and/or Random-Access Memory (RAM).             As is well known in the art,
    ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni-directionally to controller 704, and

                                        27
    RAM is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi-directional manner.
    Memory 706 may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of,
    by way of example, hard disk drives (HDDs), solid-state drives (SSDs), flash
    memory cards (e.g., Secured Digital or SD cards, embedded MultiMediaCard or
 5  eMMD cards), among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi-directionally to
    controller 704.   Information may also reside on one or more removable storage
    media loaded into or installed in computing platform 702 when needed. By way
    of example, any of a number of suitable memory cards (e.g., SD cards) may be
    loaded into computing platform 702 on a temporary or permanent basis.
 0  Input output subsystem 710 may comprise one or more input and output devices
    operably connected to controller 704. For example, input output subsystem may
    include keyboard, mouse, one or more buttons, thumb wheel, and/or, display (e.g.,
    liquid crystal display (LCD),       light emitting diode (LED),        Interferometric
    modulator display (IMOD), or any other suitable display technology). Generally,
 5  input devices are configured to transfer data, commands and responses from the
    outside world into computing platform 702. The display is generally configured
    to display a graphical user interface (GUI) that provides an easy to use visual
    interface between a user of the computing platform 702 and the operating system
    or application(s) running on the mobile device.        Generally, the GUI presents
 .0 programs, files and operational options with graphical images. During operation,
    the user may select and activate various graphical images displayed on the display
    in order to initiate functions and tasks associated therewith. Input output
    subsystem 710 may also include touch based devices such as touch pad and touch
    screen. A touchpad is an input device including a surface that detects touch-based
25  inputs of users. Similarly, a touch screen is a display that detects the presence and
    location of user touch inputs. Input output system 710 may also include dual touch
    or multi-touch displays or touch pads that can identify the presence, location and
    movement of more than one touch inputs, such as two or three finger touches.
    In particular embodiments, computing platform 702 may additionally comprise
30  audio subsystem 712, camera subsystem 712, wireless communication subsystem
    716, sensor subsystems 718, and/or wired communication                subsystem 720,
    operably connected to controller 704 to facilitate various functions of computing

                                       28
    platform 702. For example, Audio subsystem 712, including a speaker, a
    microphone, and a codec module configured to process audio signals, can be
    utilized to facilitate voice-enabled functions, such as voice recognition, voice
    replication, digital recording, and telephony functions. For example, camera
 5  subsystem 712, including an optical sensor (e.g., a charged coupled device (CCD),
    or a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image sensor), can be
    utilized to facilitate camera functions, such as recording photographs and video
    clips. For example, wired communication subsystem 720 can include a Universal
    Serial Bus (USB) port for file transferring, or a Ethernet port for connection to a
 0  local area network (LAN).        Additionally, computing platform 702 may be
    powered by power source 732.
    Wireless communication subsystem 716 can be designed to operate over one or
    more wireless networks, for example, a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for
    example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN, an infrared PAN), a WI-FI network (such as,
 5  for example, an 802.11a/b/g/n WI-FI network, an 802.11s mesh network), a WI
    MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global
    System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network, an Enhanced Data Rates for
    GSM Evolution (EDGE) network, a Universal Mobile Telecommunications
    System (UMTS)        network, and/or a Long Term Evolution (LTE) network).
 .0 Additionally, wireless communication        subsystem 716 may include hosting
    protocols such that computing platform 702 may be configured as a base station
    for other wireless      devices. Other input/output       devices  may    include an
    accelerometer that can be used to detect the orientation of the device.
    Sensor subsystem 718 may include one or more sensor devices to provide
25  additional input and facilitate multiple functionalities of computing platform 702.
    For example, sensor subsystems 718 may include GPS sensor for location
    positioning, altimeter for altitude positioning, motion sensor for determining
    orientation of a mobile device, light sensor for photographing function with
    camera subsystem 714, temperature sensor for measuring ambient temperature,
30  and/or biometric sensor for security application (e.g., fingerprint reader).
    In particular embodiments, various components of computing platform 702 may
    be operably connected together by one or more buses (including hardware and/or

                                       29
    software). As an example and not by way of limitation, the one or more buses may
    include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
    Industry   Standard   Architecture   (EISA)   bus,   a front-side   bus  (FSB),   a
    HYPERTRANSPORT           (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture
 5  (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory
    bus, a Micro Channel Architecture         (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component
    Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced technology
    attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB)
    bus, a Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART) interface, a Inter
 0  Integrated Circuit (12C) bus, a Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) bus, a Secure
    Degital (SD) memory interface, a MultiMediaCard (MMC) memory interface, a
    Memory Stick (MS) memory interface, a Secure Digital Input Output (SDIO)
    interface, a Multi-channel Buffered Serial Port (McBSP) bus, a Universal Serial
    Bus (USB) bus, a General Purpose Memory Controller (GPMC) bus, a SDRAM
 5  Controller (SDRC) bus, a General Purpose Input/Output (GPIO) bus, a Separate
    Video (S-Video) bus, a Display Serial Interface (DSI) bus, an Advanced
    Microcontroller Bus Architecture (AMBA) bus, or another suitable bus or a
    combination of two or more of these. Additionally, computing platform 702 may
    be powered by power source 732.
 .0 This disclosure contemplates one or more computer-readable storage media
    implementing any suitable storage.       In particular embodiments, a computer
    readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor 602 (such
    as, for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of
    memory 604, one or more portions of storage 606, or a combination of these,
25  where appropriate.     In particular embodiments, a computer-readable storage
    medium implements RAM or ROM.             In particular embodiments, a computer
    readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular
    embodiments, one or more computer-readable storage media embody software.
    Herein, reference to software may encompass one or more applications, bytecode,
30  one or more computer programs, one or more executables, one or more
    instructions, logic, machine code, one or more scripts, or source code, and vice
    versa, where appropriate.   In particular embodiments, software includes one or

                                       30
    more application programming interfaces (APIs).       This disclosure contemplates
    any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming
    language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments,
     software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments,
 5   software is expressed in a higher-level programming language, such as, for
    example, C, Perl, JavaScript, or a suitable extension thereof.         In particular
    embodiments, software is expressed in a lower-level programming language, such
    as assembly language (or machine code). In particular embodiments, software is
    expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments, software is expressed in Hyper
 0  Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), or other
    suitable markup language.
    Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise
    or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or
    both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
 5  Moreover, "and" is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or
    indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A and B" means "A and B,
    jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise
    by context.
    This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and
 .0 modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary
     skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
    and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components,
    elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may include
    any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, functions,
25  operations, or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having
    ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover, reference in the appended
    claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being
    adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to, enabled to, operable to, or
    operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus, system,
30  component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or
    unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged,
    capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                           31
    FURTHER EMBODIMENTS
    A further aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
             recording a first location of a mobile device;
             determining, by one or more processors of a geographic-positioning
 5  component of the mobile device, on a periodic basis, a current location of the
    mobile device;
             determining, by the processors of the geographic-positioning component,
    whether the current location is outside a geographic region defined at least in part
    by the first location; and
 0           if the current location is outside the geographic region, then transmitting,
    by the processors of the geographic-positioning component, a message to one or
    more other processors of the mobile device, the message causing one or more of
    the other processors to transition from a sleep state to an active state.
    In one embodiment, the method further comprises determining a radius associated
 5  with the mobile device, wherein the radius also defines at least in part the
    geographic region. In one arrangement, the radius is determined based at least in
    part on a velocity of the mobile device.        In another arrangement, the radius is
    determined based at least in part on a time of day. In a further arrangement, the
    radius is determined based at least in part on a power budget of the mobile device.
 .0 In a yet further arrangement, the radius is determined based at least in part on an
    error associated with the first or current location.
    In one embodiment, the message identifies the current location.
    In another embodiment, the first or current location is based at least in part on:
              a global positioning system (GPS) signal;
25            a Wi-Fi signal; or
              a cellular radio signal.
    A further aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more computer-readable
    non-transitory storage media within a mobile device, the media embodying logic
    that is operable when executed to:
30            record a first location of a mobile device;
              determine on a periodic basis a current location of the mobile device;

                                          32
            determine whether the current location is outside a geographic region
    defined at least in part by the first location; and
            if the current location is outside the geographic region, then transmit a
    message to one or more processors of the mobile device, the message causing one
 5  or more of the processors to transition from a sleep state to an active state.
    In one embodiment, the logic is further operable to determine a radius associated
    with the mobile device, wherein the radius also defines at least in part the
    geographic region. In one arrangement, the radius is determined based at least in
    part on a velocity of the mobile device.        In another arrangement, the radius is
 0  determined based at least in part on a time of day. In a further arrangement, the
    radius is determined based at least in part on a power budget of the mobile device.
    In a yet further arrangement, the radius is determined based at least in part on an
    error associated with the first or current location.
    In one embodiment, the message identifies the current location.
 5  In another embodiment, the first or current location is based at least in part on:
            a global positioning system (GPS) signal;
            a Wi-Fi signal; or
            a cellular radio signal.
    A further aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
 .0         determining, by one or more first processors of a mobile device, an
    operating condition of the mobile device, the operating condition comprising:
                     a current location of the mobile device relative to a first location of
            the mobile device;
                    a current velocity of the mobile device;
25                   a current time of day;
                    current activity of a user associated with the mobile device; or
                     a current proximity of the mobile device to an entity socially
            connected to the user through an on-line social network that the user and
            the entity are associated with; and
30          if the operating condition satisfies one or more operating criteria of the
    mobile device, then transmitting, by the first processors, a message to one or

                                     33
  more second processors of the mobile device, the message causing one or more of
  the second processors to transition from a sleep state to an active state.
  In one embodiment, the message identifies the current location.
  In another embodiment, the current location is based at least in part on:
5         a global positioning system (GPS) signal;
          a Wi-Fi signal; or
         a cellular radio signal.

                                                  34
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
          1.     A method comprising:
         recording a first location of a mobile device;
         determining, by one or more processors of a geographic-positioning component, on a
 periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device, wherein while the current location of
 the mobile device is determined, one or more other processors of the mobile device are in a
 sleep state;
         detecting, in response to determining the current location of the mobile device, by the
 one or more processors of the geographic-positioning component, whether the current
 location is outside a geographic region, the geographic region being defined by the first
 location and a radius, wherein the radius is adjusted from a pre-determined value based on:
                 a detected velocity of the mobile device;
                 time of day information;
                 a battery level of the mobile device; or
                 an error of the first location measurement or the current location measurement;
         and
         if the current location is outside the geographic region, then causing, by the one or
 more processors of the geographic-positioning component, a client application of the mobile
 device to send the current location to a remote server.
         2.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
         receiving, in response to sending the current location to the remote server, information
 from the remote server that is relevant to the current location.
         3.      The method of Claim 2, wherein the information comprises:
                 references to points of interest near the current location; or
                 advertisements relevant to the current location.

                                                 35
        4.       The method of any one of Claims I to 3, wherein sending the current location
to the remote server comprises sending the current location to a remote data store of the
remote server, wherein the current location is stored by the remote data store in association
with a user identifier corresponding to the mobile device.
        5.       The method of Claim 4, wherein storing the current location at the remote data
store enables automatic check-in of a user associated with the user identifier at a place near
the current location.
        6.       The method of Claim 4, wherein storing the current location at the remote data
store enables notifications to be sent to one or more contacts of a user associated with the
user identifier, wherein the one or more contacts are near the current location.
        7.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the first location or the
current location is determined at least in part on:
        a global positioning system (GPS) signal;
        a Wi-Fi signal; or
        a cellular radio signal.
        8.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the first location or the
current location is determined at least in part on user-submitted location data.
        9.       The method of Claim 8, wherein the user-submitted location data comprises
social-networking information submitted by using social-networking functionality.
        10.      One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying
software that is operable when executed by one or more processors to:
        record a first location of a mobile device;
        determine, on a periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device, wherein while
the current location of the mobile device is determined, one or more other processors of the
mobile device are in a sleep state;

                                                  36
        detect, in response to determining the current location of the mobile device, whether
the current location is outside a geographic region, the geographic region being defined by
the first location and a radius, wherein the radius is adjusted from a pre-determined value
based on:
                 a detected velocity of the mobile device;
                 time of day information;
                 a battery level of the mobile device; or
                 an error of the first location measurement or the current location measurement;
        and
        if the current location is outside the geographic region, then cause a client application
of the mobile device to send the current location to a remote server.
         11.     The media of Claim 10, further comprising:
        receiving, in response to sending the current location to the remote server, information
from the remote server that is relevant to the current location.
        12.      The media of Claim 11, wherein the information comprises:
                 references to points of interest near the current location; or
                 advertisements relevant to the current location.
        13.      The media of any one of Claims 10 to 12, wherein sending the current location
to the remote server comprises sending the current location to a remote data store of the
remote server, wherein the current location is stored by the remote data store in association
with a user identifier corresponding to the mobile device.
        14.      The media of Claim 13, wherein storing the current location at the remote data
store enables automatic check-in of a user associated with the user identifier at a place near
the current location.
        15.      The media of Claim 13, wherein storing the current location at the remote data
store enables notifications to be sent to one or more contacts of a user associated with the
user identifier, wherein the one or more contacts are near the current location.

                                                  37
        16.      The media of any one of Claims 10 to 15, wherein the first location or the
current location is determined at least in part on:
        a global positioning system (GPS) signal;
        a Wi-Fi signal; or
        a cellular radio signal.
        17.      The media of any one of Claims 10 to 15, wherein the first location or the
current location is determined at least in part on user-submitted location data.
        18.      The media of Claim 17, wherein the user-submitted location data comprises
social-networking information submitted by using social-networking functionality.
        19.      A mobile device comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
        record a first location of a mobile device;
        determine, on a periodic basis, a current location of the mobile device, wherein while
the current location of the mobile device is determined, one or more other processors of the
mobile device are in a sleep state;
        detect, in response to determining the current location of the mobile device, whether
the current location is outside a geographic region, the geographic region being defined by
the first location and a radius, wherein the radius is adjusted from a pre-determined value
based on:
                 a detected velocity of the mobile device;
                 time of day information;
                 a battery level of the mobile device; or
                 an error of the first location measurement or the current location measurement;
        and
        if the current location is outside the geographic region, then cause a client application
of the mobile device to send the current location to a remote server.

                                                38
       20.     The device of Claim 19, further comprising:
       receiving, in response to sending the current location to the remote server, information
from the remote server that is relevant to the current location.
                                     Facebook, Inc.
                             By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                   COTTERS
                                Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
