ENHANCED ADHESION OF SEED LAYER FOR SOLAR CELL
CONDUCTIVE CONTACT
ABSTRACT
A solar cell (200A) comprising a substrate (300); an N-type emitter region (320) disposed above
the substrate (300); a passivation layer disposed (324) above the N-type emitter region (320);
and a conductive contact (328) disposed on the passivation layer (324) and electrically connected
to the N-type emitter region (320), the conductive contact (328) comprising a mixture of a metal
paste portion and an adhesion layer, the adhesion layer comprising a P-type silicon portion. The
metal paste portion and the P-type silicon portion of the mixture are in electrical contact with the
N-type emitter region (320).

                                                     1
 ENHANCED ADHESION OF SEED LAYER FOR SOLAR CELL
 CONDUCTIVE CONTACT
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013363570, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0002] Embodiments of the present invention are in the field of renewable energy and, in
particular, enhanced adhesion of seed layers for solar cell conductive contacts and methods of
forming solar cell conductive contacts.
 BACKGROUND
 [0003] Photovoltaic cells, commonly known as solar cells, are well known devices for direct
conversion of solar radiation into electrical energy. Generally, solar cells are fabricated on a
semiconductor wafer or substrate using semiconductor processing techniques to form a p-n
junction near a surface of the substrate. Solar radiation impinging on the surface of, and entering
into, the substrate creates electron and hole pairs in the bulk of the substrate. The electron and
hole pairs migrate to p-doped and n-doped regions in the substrate, thereby generating a voltage
differential between the doped regions. The doped regions are connected to conductive regions
on the solar cell to direct an electrical current from the cell to an external circuit coupled thereto.
 [0004] Efficiency is an important characteristic of a solar cell as it is directly related to the
capability of the solar cell to generate power. Likewise, efficiency in producing solar cells is
directly related to the cost effectiveness of such solar cells. Accordingly, techniques for
increasing the efficiency of solar cells, or techniques for increasing the efficiency in the
manufacture of solar cells, are generally desirable.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
 [0005] It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially satisfy the above desire.

                                                  2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006] Some embodiments of the present disclosure may increase solar cell manufacture
efficiency by providing novel processes for fabricating solar cell structures. Some embodiments
of the present disclosure may increase solar cell efficiency by providing novel solar cell
structures.
[0007] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a solar cell, comprising:
        a substrate;
        an N-type emitter region disposed above the substrate;
        a passivation layer disposed above the N-type emitter region; and
        a conductive contact disposed on the passivation layer and electrically connected to the
N-type emitter region, the conductive contact comprising a mixture of a metal paste portion and
an adhesion layer, the adhesion layer comprising a P-type silicon portion, wherein the metal
paste portion and the P-type silicon portion of the mixture are in electrical contact with the N
type emitter region.
[0008] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a solar cell, comprising:
        a substrate having an N-type diffusion region at or near a surface of the substrate;
        a passivation layer disposed above the N-type diffusion region; and
        a conductive contact disposed above the passivation layer and electrically connected to
the N-type diffusion region, the conductive contact comprising a mixture of a metal paste
portion and an adhesion layer, the adhesion layer comprising a P-type silicon portion, wherein
the metal paste portion and the P-type silicon portion of the mixture are in electrical contact with
the N-type diffusion region.
[0009] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method of fabricating a solar cell, the
method comprising:
        forming a passivation layer above an N-type emitter region of a substrate;
        forming an adhesion layer above the passivation layer;
        wherein the adhesion layer comprises P-type silicon; and
        subsequent to forming the adhesion layer above the passivation layer, forming a metal
seed paste layer on the adhesion layer;

                                                   3
          annealing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer to form a metal paste
portion and a P-type silicon portion, the metal paste portion and the P-type silicon portion
forming a conductive mixture layer in contact with the N-type emitter region of the substrate,
wherein the metal paste portion and the P-type silicon portion of the conductive mixture layer
are in electrical contact with the N-type emitter region; and
          forming a conductive contact for the solar cell from the conductive mixture layer.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0011] Figures 1A-ID illustrate cross-sectional views of various operations in a method of
fabricating a contact for a solar cell, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0012] Figure 2A illustrates a cross-sectional view of a portion of a solar cell having conductive
contacts formed on emitter regions formed above a substrate, in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention.
[0013] Figure 2B illustrates a cross-sectional view of a portion of a solar cell having conductive
contacts formed on emitter regions formed in a substrate, in accordance with another
embodiment of the present invention.
[0014] Figures 3A-3C illustrate cross-sectional views of various processing operations in a
method of fabricating solar cells having conductive contacts, in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention.
[0015] Figure 4 illustrates a process of multi-pulse laser ablation for multilayer film stacks
undergoing contact opening, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0016] Figures 5A-5E illustrate cross-sectional views of various processing operations in a
method of fabricating solar cells having conductive contacts, in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention.

                                                  4
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0017] Enhanced adhesion of seed layers for solar cell conductive contacts and methods of
forming solar cell conductive contacts are described herein. In the following description,
numerous specific details are set forth, such as specific process flow operations, in order to
provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent
to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without
these specific details. In other instances, well-known fabrication techniques, such as lithography
and patterning techniques, are not described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure
embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the various
embodiments shown in the figures are illustrative representations and are not necessarily drawn
to scale.
[0018] Disclosed herein are methods of fabricating conductive contacts for solar cells. In an
embodiment, a method of fabricating a solar cell includes forming an adhesion layer above an
emitter region of a substrate. A metal seed paste layer is formed on the adhesion layer. The
metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer are annealed to form a conductive layer in contact
with the emitter region of the substrate. A conductive contact for the solar cell is formed from
the conductive layer. In another embodiment, a method of fabricating a solar cell includes
forming a metal seed paste layer on an emitter region of a substrate. The metal seed paste layer
is treated to increase adhesion of the metal seed paste layer on the emitter region of the
substrate. Subsequently, a conductive contact for the solar cell is formed from the metal seed
paste layer.
[0019] Also described herein are solar cells having conductive contacts. In an embodiment, a
solar cell includes a substrate. An emitter region is disposed above the substrate. A conductive
contact is disposed on the emitter region and includes a conductive layer in contact with the
emitter region. The conductive layer is composed of a metal paste portion mixed with an
adhesion layer portion. In another embodiment, a solar cell includes a substrate having a
diffusion region at or near a surface of the substrate. A conductive contact is disposed above the
diffusion region and includes a conductive layer in contact with the diffusion region. The
conductive layer is composed of a metal paste portion mixed with an adhesion layer portion.

                                                   5
[0020] As a general overview of an application of embodiments described herein, Figures 1A
1D illustrate cross-sectional views of various operations in a method of fabricating a contact for
a solar cell, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0021] Referring to Figure 1A, a method of fabricating a solar cell includes forming an adhesion
layer 104 above a substrate 102. In one embodiment, the adhesion layer 104 is formed on an
emitter region disposed above a substrate, as described in greater detail below in association
with Figures 2A and 3A-3C. The emitter region can be composed of, e.g., a doped
polycrystalline silicon layer. In another embodiment, however, the adhesion layer 104 is formed
on a surface of an N-type or P-type doped region of a bulk crystalline silicon substrate, as
described in greater detail below in association with Figure 2B. The bulk crystalline silicon
substrate can be, e.g., an N-type bulk crystalline silicon substrate.
[0022] In an embodiment, the adhesion layer 104 is formed from a bottom anti-reflective
coating (BARC) layer. In one such embodiment, the adhesion layer 104 is composed of a layer
of material such as, but not limited to, amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich
silicon nitride, silicon dioxide (SiO2) or silicon oxynitride (SiON). In a specific such
embodiment, an emitter region of substrate 102 is an N-type emitter region, and forming the
adhesion layer involves forming a layer of P-type silicon.
[0023] In another embodiment, not shown, prior to forming the adhesion layer 104, a
passivation layer is formed above the emitter region of the substrate 102, and the adhesion layer
104 is formed on the passivation layer. In one such embodiment, the adhesion layer is a BARC
layer composed of amorphous silicon, and the passivation layer is composed of silicon nitride.
[0024] In yet another embodiment, also not shown, prior to forming the adhesion layer 104
above, e.g., an emitter region of substrate 102, a dielectric stack is formed above the emitter
region. An opening is formed in the dielectric stack to expose a portion of the emitter region by
using multi-pulse laser ablation, as is described in greater detail below in association with Figure
4. In one such embodiment, the dielectric stack is formed by forming a dielectric layer (e.g.,
silicon oxide or silicon nitride) on the emitter region, and forming an absorptive layer on the
dielectric layer. In a specific such embodiment, the absorptive layer is composed of amorphous
silicon or silicon-rich silicon nitride.

                                                   6
[0025] Referring to Figure 1B, a metal seed paste layer 106 is formed on the adhesion layer 104.
In an embodiment, the metal seed paste layer 106 is composed of aluminium/silicon (Al/Si)
particles, binders, frit, and a solvent. In one such embodiment, the Al/Si particles are composed
of less than approximately 25% Si, with the remainder of the composition made up by Al. In
one embodiment, if included, the binders can be composed of zinc oxide (ZnO), tin oxide (SnO),
or both, and the frit can be composed of glass particles.
[0026] One or both of the adhesion layer 104 and the metal seed paste layer 106 can be formed
in a global deposition or as a patterned deposition, as depicted in Figures 1A and 1B. For
example, in an embodiment, the metal seed paste layer 106 is formed on or above the adhesion
layer 104 by printing using a technique such as, but not limited to, screen printing or ink-jet
printing.
[0027] Referring to Figure IC, the metal seed paste layer 106 and the adhesion layer 104 are
annealed 108 to form a conductive layer 110 in contact with the emitter region of the substrate
102. In an embodiment, annealing 108 the metal seed paste layer 106 and the adhesion layer
104 involves mixing the metal seed paste layer 106 and the adhesion layer 104 to form the
conductive layer 110, as depicted in Figure IC.
[0028] In an embodiment, annealing 108 the metal seed paste layer 106 and the adhesion layer
104 involves firing at a temperature below approximately 600 degrees Celsius. In another
embodiment, the adhesion layer 104 is formed from a layer of amorphous silicon (a-Si), the
metal seed paste layer 106 is formed from a layer of aluminium (Al), and the annealing 108
involves forming an Al-Si alloy. In one such embodiment, annealing 108 the Al layer and the a
Si layer involves firing at a temperature above approximately 300 degrees Celsius, but below a
eutectic temperature for an Al and Si mixture. In a specific embodiment, the adhesion layer 104
is formed on a silicon portion of an emitter region of substrate 102, and forming an Al-Si alloy
involves mitigating damage to the silicon layer of the silicon portion of the emitter region.
[0029] In an embodiment, subsequent to forming the metal seed paste layer 106 on or above the
adhesion layer 104 and prior to annealing 108 the metal seed paste layer 106, the metal seed
paste layer 106 is dried by removing a solvent from the metal seed paste layer 106. However, in
another embodiment, any solvent present in metal seed paste layer 106 is removed, e.g., by
volatilization, during the annealing 108.

                                                  7
[0030] Referring to Figure ID, a conductive contact 116 for the solar cell is formed from the
conductive layer 110. In an embodiment, a conductive back-contact is formed for an emitter
region disposed above a substrate of the solar cell, e.g., on a polysilicon region, as described in
greater detail below in association with Figures 2A and 3A-3C. In another embodiment, a
conductive back-contact is formed for an N-type or P-type doped region of the substrate 102, as
described in greater detail below in association with Figure 2B. In an exemplary embodiment,
referring again to Figure ID, forming the conductive contact 116 involves electroless plating a
nickel (Ni) layer 112 on the conductive layer 110, and electroplating a copper (Cu) layer 114 on
the Ni layer 112.
[0031] In another aspect, as mentioned briefly above, an amorphous silicon layer is used as a
bARC layer for a solar cell. For example, amorphous silicon layer can be used as a bARC layer
to provide passivation and moisture barrier to the substrate, and also enhance adhesion to a
sputtered metal or printed metal film. Currently, a SiN layer is used as a bARC layer, which
provides good moisture barrier and potentially passivation for substrate. However, adhesion
between SiN and a metal seed layer is, in some circumstances, not great, especially since
adhesion to printed metal seed is problematic at low firing temperatures.
[0032] In an embodiment, instead of using SiN, amorphous silicon layer can be used as bARC
layer. Amorphous silicon can be deposited by PECVD, and the advantages include, but are not
limited to (a) amorphous silicon layer is a good moisture barrier, which provides protection for a
solar cell, (b) an amorphous silicon layer is a good passivation layer for a silicon substrate, and
further provides electrical field passivation by heavy doping during deposition, (c) an
amorphous silicon layer enhances adhesion of sputtered metal or printed metal to a wafer by
forming a silicon-metal alloy, for example, a Si-Al alloy. Such an alloy can be used for the
backside of an IBC cell, and also backside of front contact cells with back point contacts.
[0033] In another aspect, as mentioned briefly above, aluminium is known to form a better
contact with p-type silicon than n-type silicon. Contact resistance of aluminium and n-type
silicon is approximately 10 times higher than that of aluminium and n-type silicon for similar
doping concentration. A thin p+ silicon layer can be formed on top of n+ diffusion layer, and
then aluminium contact is formed on top of P+ layer instead of directly on top of n+ diffusion
layer. The contact between aluminium and p+ silicon layer is ohmic, much better than
aluminium and n+ diffusion. The junction between a p+ silicon layer and an n+ diffusion layer

                                                  8
can further be used to form a tunneling junction when doping concentration is high, which
behaves similar to ohmic contact. As a result, total contact resistance of Al/P+ layer/N+
diffusion can be better than contact resistance of Al/N+ diffusion (no P+ layer).
[0034] In an embodiment, a thin p+ silicon layer is formed on top of an n+ diffusion layer and,
subsequently, an aluminium contact is formed on top of a p+ layer instead of directly on top of
n+ diffusion layer. The contact between aluminium and p+ silicon layer is ohmic, much better
than aluminium and n+ diffusion. The junction between p+ silicon layer and n+ diffusion layer
can form a tunneling junction when doping concentration is high, which behaves similar to
ohmic contact. As a result, total contact resistance of Al/p+ layer/n+ diffusion can be better than
contact resistance of Al/n+ diffusion (no p+ layer). In one embodiment, the Al contact layer is
formed by physical vapor deposition (PVD), printable paste or other suitable approaches. The
n+ diffusion layer on silicon substrate can be single crystal or poly silicon. The thickness of p+
layer can be 5-100 nanometers, and doping concentration is >El9cm-3. The p+ layer can be
amorphous silicon or poly silicon. For example, the p+ a-Si layer can be deposited by plasma
enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD). Embodiments may be implemented when
contact between aluminium and n+ diffusion layer is a limitation factor, e.g., if doping
concentration of n+ diffusion layer is low, or cannot be improved due to other constraints.
When aluminium is formed by screen printed paste, the contact quality may be worse than a
corresponding PVD film. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the above approach can be applied
to printed seed metallization processes. If p+ layer cannot be used in some cases, additional
heavily doped n+ layer will help improve contact between Al/n-Si as well.
[0035] In another aspect, as mentioned briefly above, an a-Si layer is used as a sacrificial layer
to mitigate silicon pitting. More specifically, to prevent pit formation on a silicon substrate, a
layer of a-Si can be deposited on silicon substrate prior aluminium deposition. In one
embodiment, the a-Si layer is preferably consumed by aluminium at elevated temperature, and
the silicon substrate underneath is protected. In one such embodiment, a-Si is easier to be
consumed by aluminium than single crystal silicon and ploy silicon. A tunneling barrier (e.g., a
10-15 Angstrom thick Si02 layer) can also be formed between a silicon substrate and the a-Si
layer. In a particular embodiment, an a-Si layer is deposited following contact opening and,
subsequently, an aluminium-based paste is printed and fired. A single layer of a-Si can also be
considered as a bARC layer for the resulting devices.

                                                   9
[0036] More generally, it is well known that inter-diffusion occurs very fast at silicon
aluminium interface at elevated temperature, by which pits forms on silicon substrate. When
these pits forms within contact opening our solar cells, wafer lifetime is degraded and thus the
resulting devices are degraded and, possibly, even shorted. Pit formation is typically eliminated
by including some silicon in the aluminium film, typically ~1%. For example, in an
embodiment, an aluminium sputtering target has 1% Si and is used to prevent pit formation
during anneal. However, in a specific embodiment, a significantly greater amount of silicon
(approximately 25%) is needed along with the aluminium particles to reduce pitting resulting
from higher firing temperatures. Thus, in one embodiment, to prevent pit formation on a silicon
substrate (single crystal or poly) at elevated temperature when aluminium layer is deposited or
aluminium paste is printed, a layer of a-Si is deposited on the silicon substrate prior to
aluminium paste deposition.
[0037] As described briefly above, in a first approach, a metal seed paste having enhanced
adhesion can be used to ultimately fabricate contacts, such as back-side contacts, for a solar cell
having emitter regions formed above a substrate of the solar cell. For example, Figure 2A
illustrates a cross-sectional view of a portion of a solar cell having conductive contacts formed
on emitter regions formed above a substrate, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0038] Referring to Figure 2A, a portion of a solar cell 200A includes a patterned insulating
layer 324 disposed above a plurality of n-type doped polysilicon regions 320, a plurality of p
type doped polysilicon regions 322, and on portions of a substrate 300 exposed by trenches 316.
Conductive contacts 328 are disposed in a plurality of contact openings disposed in the
insulating layer 324 and are coupled to the plurality of n-type doped polysilicon regions 320 and
to the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322. The materials of, and methods of
fabricating, the patterned dielectric layer, the plurality of n-type doped polysilicon regions 320,
the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322, the substrate 300, and the trenches 316
may be as described below in association with Figures 3A-3C. Furthermore, the plurality of n
type doped polysilicon regions 320 and the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322
can, in one embodiment, provide emitter regions for the solar cell 200A. Thus, in an
embodiment, the conductive contacts 328 are disposed on the emitter regions. In an
embodiment, the conductive contacts 328 are back contacts for a back-contact solar cell and are
situated on a surface of the solar cell opposing a light receiving surface (direction provided as

                                                   10
301 in Figure 2A) of the solar cell 200A. Furthermore, in one embodiment, the emitter regions
are formed on a thin or tunnel dielectric layer 302, described in greater detail in association with
Figure 3A.
[0039] Referring again to Figure 2A, each of the conductive contacts 328 includes a conductive
layer 230 in contact with the emitter regions of the solar cell 200A. In an embodiment, the
conductive layer 230 of contact 328 is composed of a metal paste portion mixed with an
adhesion layer portion. In one such embodiment, the adhesion layer portion is composed of a
bottom anti-reflective coating (BARC) portion. In a specific such embodiment, the adhesion
layer portion further includes a passivation layer portion, e.g., in a particular embodiment, the
BARC portion is composed of amorphous silicon, and the passivation layer portion is composed
of silicon nitride. In another embodiment, the adhesion layer portion is composed of a material
such as, but not limited to, amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich silicon nitride,
silicon dioxide (SiO2) or silicon oxynitride (SiON). In an embodiment, the metal paste portion
is composed of aluminium (Al) and the adhesion layer portion is composed silicon (Si), and the
resulting conductive layer is composed of an Al-Si alloy. In yet another embodiment, the
adhesion layer portion is composed of a polymer glue. In another embodiment, the emitter
regions are the N-type emitter regions, and the adhesion layer portion is composed of P-type
silicon.
[0040] In an embodiment, the metal paste portion has a total composition including
approximately 10-30% binders and frit, with the remainder the Al/Si particles. In one such
embodiment, the binders are composed of zinc oxide (ZnO), tin oxide (SnO), or both, and the
frit is composed of glass particles. It is to be understood that, when initially applied, a metal
paste portion can further include a solvent. However, the solvent can be removed upon
annealing the metal paste portion, leaving essentially the binders, frit and Al/Si particles mixed
with the adhesion layer portion and disposed on the plurality of n-type doped polysilicon regions
320 and the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322. In an embodiment, an electroless
plated nickel (Ni) layer 232 is disposed on the conductive layer 230, and an electroplated copper
(Cu) layer 234 is disposed on the Ni layer, as depicted in Figure 2A.
[0041] As also described briefly above, in a second approach, a metal seed paste having
enhanced adhesion can be used to ultimately fabricate contacts, such as back-side contacts, for a
solar cell having emitter regions formed in a substrate of the solar cell. For example, Figure 2B

                                                  11
illustrates a cross-sectional view of a portion of a solar cell having conductive contacts formed
on emitter regions formed in a substrate, in accordance with another embodiment of the present
invention.
[0042] Referring to Figure 2B, a portion of a solar cell 200B includes a patterned insulating
layer 224 disposed above a plurality of n-type doped diffusion regions 220, a plurality of p-type
doped diffusion regions 222, and on portions of a substrate 200, such as a bulk crystalline
silicon substrate. Conductive contacts 228 are disposed in a plurality of contact openings
disposed in the insulating layer 224 and are coupled to the plurality of n-type doped diffusion
regions 220 and to the plurality of p-type doped diffusion regions 222. In an embodiment, the
diffusion regions 220 and 222 are formed by doping regions of a silicon substrate with n-type
dopants and p-type dopants, respectively. Furthermore, the plurality of n-type doped diffusion
regions 220 and the plurality of p-type doped diffusion regions 222 can, in one embodiment,
provide emitter regions for the solar cell 200B. Thus, in an embodiment, the conductive
contacts 228 are disposed on the emitter regions. In an embodiment, the conductive contacts
228 are back contacts for a back-contact solar cell and are situated on a surface of the solar cell
opposing a light receiving surface, such as opposing a texturized light receiving surface 201, as
depicted in Figure 2B.
[0043] Referring again to Figure 2B, each of the conductive contacts 228 includes a conductive
layer 230 in contact with the emitter regions of the solar cell 200B. In an embodiment, the
conductive layer 230 of contact 228 is composed of a metal paste portion mixed with an
adhesion layer portion. In one such embodiment, the adhesion layer portion is composed of a
bottom anti-reflective coating (BARC) portion. In a specific such embodiment, the adhesion
layer portion further includes a passivation layer portion, e.g., in a particular embodiment, the
BARC portion is composed of amorphous silicon, and the passivation layer portion is composed
of silicon nitride. In another embodiment, the adhesion layer portion is composed of a material
such as, but not limited to, amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich silicon nitride,
silicon dioxide (SiO2) or silicon oxynitride (SiON). In an embodiment, the metal paste portion
is composed of aluminium (Al) and the adhesion layer portion is composed silicon (Si), and the
resulting conductive layer is composed of an Al-Si alloy. In yet another embodiment, the
adhesion layer portion is composed of a polymer glue. In another embodiment, the emitter
regions are the N-type emitter regions, and the adhesion layer portion is composed of P-type
silicon.

                                                   12
[0044] In an embodiment, the metal paste portion has a total composition including
approximately 10-30% binders and frit, with the remainder the Al/Si particles. In one such
embodiment, the binders are composed of zinc oxide (ZnO), tin oxide (SnO), or both, and the
frit is composed of glass particles. It is to be understood that, when initially applied, a metal
paste portion can further include a solvent. However, the solvent can be removed upon
annealing the metal paste portion, leaving essentially the binders, frit and Al/Si particles mixed
with the adhesion layer portion and disposed on the diffusion regions 220 and 222. In an
embodiment, an electroless plated nickel (Ni) layer 232 is disposed on the conductive layer 230,
and an electroplated copper (Cu) layer 234 is disposed on the Ni layer, as depicted in Figure 2B.
[0045] Although certain materials are described specifically above, some materials may be
readily substituted with others with other such embodiments remaining within the spirit and
scope of embodiments of the present invention. For example, in an embodiment, a different
material substrate, such as a group III-V material substrate, can be used instead of a silicon
substrate. In another embodiment, silver (Ag) particles or the like can be used in a seed paste
instead of, or in addition to, Al particles. In another embodiment, plated or like-deposited cobalt
(Co) or tungsten (W) can be used instead of or in addition to the plated Ni described above.
[0046] Furthermore, the formed contacts need not be formed directly on a bulk substrate, as was
described in Figure 2B. For example, in one embodiment, conductive contacts such as those
described above are formed on semiconducting regions formed above (e.g., on a back side of) a
bulk substrate, as was described for Figure 2A. As an example, Figures 3A-3C illustrate cross
sectional views of various processing operations in a method of fabricating solar cells having
conductive contacts, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0047] Referring to Figure 3A, a method of forming contacts for a back-contact solar cell
includes forming a thin dielectric layer 302 on a substrate 300.
[0048] In an embodiment, the thin dielectric layer 302 is composed of silicon dioxide and has a
thickness approximately in the range of 5-50 Angstroms. In one embodiment, the thin dielectric
layer 302 ultimately performs as a tunneling oxide layer in a functioning solar cell. In an
embodiment, substrate 300 is a bulk single-crystal substrate, such as an n-type doped single
crystalline silicon substrate. However, in an alternative embodiment, substrate 300 includes a
polycrystalline silicon layer disposed on a global solar cell substrate.

                                                  13
[0049] Referring again to Figure 3A, trenches 316 are formed between n-type doped polysilicon
regions 320 and p-type doped polysilicon regions 322. Portions of the trenches 316 can be
texturized to have textured features 318, as is also depicted in Figure 3A.
[0050] Referring again to Figure 3A, a insulating layer 324 is formed above the plurality of n
type doped polysilicon regions 320, the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322, and
the portions of substrate 300 exposed by trenches 316. In one embodiment, a lower surface of
the insulating layer 324 is formed conformal with the plurality of n-type doped polysilicon
regions 320, the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322, and the exposed portions of
substrate 300, while an upper surface of insulating layer 324 is substantially flat, as depicted in
Figure 3A.
[0051] Referring to Figure 3B, a plurality of contact openings 326 are formed in the insulating
layer 324. The plurality of contact openings 326 provide exposure to the plurality of n-type
doped polysilicon regions 320 and to the plurality of p-type doped polysilicon regions 322. In
one embodiment, the plurality of contact openings 326 is formed by laser ablation. In one
embodiment, the contact openings 326 to the n-type doped polysilicon regions 320 have
substantially the same height as the contact openings to the p-type doped polysilicon regions
322, as depicted in Figure 3B.
[0052] Referring to Figure 3C, the method of forming contacts for the back-contact solar cell
further includes forming conductive contacts 328 in the plurality of contact openings 326 and
coupled to the plurality of n-type doped polysilicon regions 320 and to the plurality of p-type
doped polysilicon regions 322. In an embodiment, the conductive contacts 328 are composed of
metal and are formed by a deposition (the deposition described in greater detail below),
lithographic, and etch approach.
[0053] Thus, in an embodiment, conductive contacts 328 are formed on or above a surface of a
bulk N-type silicon substrate 300 opposing a light receiving surface 301 of the bulk N-type
silicon substrate 300. In a specific embodiment, the conductive contacts are formed on regions
(322/320) above the surface of the substrate 300, as depicted in Figure 3C. The fabrication of
the conductive contacts can involve use of a mixture of an adhesion layer and a metal seed paste
layer that forms by subjecting a paste layer/adhesion layer stack to and annealing process.
Forming the conductive contacts can further include forming an electroless plated nickel (Ni)

                                                  14
layer on the metal seed layer. Additionally, a copper (Cu) layer can be formed by electroplating
on the Ni layer.
[0054] In an embodiment, forming the conductive layer involves first forming an adhesion layer
on or above a substrate. The adhesion layer can be formed from a bottom anti-reflective coating
(BARC) layer. In one such embodiment, the adhesion layer is composed of a layer of material
such as, but not limited to, amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich silicon nitride,
silicon dioxide (SiO2) or silicon oxynitride (SiON). In a specific such embodiment, the
adhesion layer is formed from a layer of P-type silicon. Forming the conductive layer next
involves forming a metal seed paste layer on the adhesion layer. The metal seed paste layer can
be composed of aluminium/silicon (AI/Si) particles, binders, frit, and a solvent. In one such
embodiment, the AI/Si particles are composed of less than approximately 25% Si, with the
remainder of the composition made up by Al. In one embodiment, if included, the binders can
be composed of zinc oxide (ZnO), tin oxide (SnO), or both, and the frit can be composed of
glass particles. Forming the conductive layer finally involves annealing the metal seed paste
layer and the adhesion layer to form the conductive layer in contact with the emitter region of
the substrate. Annealing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer can involve mixing
the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer. In one such embodiment, the annealing
involves firing at a temperature below approximately 600 degrees Celsius.
[0055] In another aspect, embodiments are directed to improving ohmic contact between
aluminium particles and Si at low firing temperatures. In one such embodiment, at least one of
the elements of calcium (Ca), cerium (Ce), or magnesium (Mg) is added to the aluminium
particles. By adding one or more of these species, potential to form native aluminium oxide
barriers are reduced, ensuring intimate contact between the aluminium particles and Si for lower
contact resistance. More generally, silicon from a device substrate or emitter can rapidly
dissolve into aluminium during firing unless the aluminium contains sufficient silicon. To
prevent Si pitting in substrate, a certain percentage of Si is alloyed in aluminium particle as well.
Exact Si concentration within aluminium particle depends on firing temperature, alloy
uniformity and firing dynamics. For example, 1% to 25% Si can be added to the aluminium
particles for firing temperature between 300C-600C. Additionally, or alternatively, 0%-10%
Mg and/or 0%-20% Ca and/or 0%-20% Ce can be added to the aluminium particles. In a
specific such embodiment, addition of 0.5%-2% is typically sufficient to react with native
aluminium oxide and ensure ohmic contact.

                                                  15
[0056] In an embodiment, a low-firing aluminium paste can be composed of the aluminium
particles mentioned above, as well as additional matrix materials. Matrix materials can include
glass based or oxide based compounds, which are first softened to flow at firing temperatures.
Also, such matrix materials can provide good adhesion with a substrate surface, such as silicon
nitride, silicon oxide or silicon oxy-nitride. The paste as mentioned can be applied for
metallization for solar cells including front contact and back contact solar cells, and fired at low
temperature (e.g., approximately in the range of 300-600 degrees Celsius). The paste as
designed can provide intimate ohmic contact, low damage to substrate junction/lifetime, and
good adhesion.
[0057] In another aspect, multi-pulse laser ablation is used for a multilayer film stack. For
example, in order to ablate a dielectric stack with an additional absorptive layer on top, a
different type of multi-pulse laser can be used. In one such embodiment, a less powerful first
pulse but more powerful second pulse is used. The first pulse is mostly absorbed by the top
absorptive layer and openings within the layer are formed. Then, the second pulse is absorbed
by an underlying silicon substrate at the same location, and an overlying dielectric stack is
ablated. In a specific embodiment, a third or more pulses can be used after the second pulse to
improve the quality of the openings and minimize the damage to silicon substrate.
[0058] More specifically, the above approach can be applied to solar cells when having multi
film bARC layers with absorptive layers on top, such as a-Si or Si-rich SiN layers. A pulse laser
has been successfully applied to open via holes in a dielectric film on top of an absorptive
substrate. For example, contact openings can be formed in a bARC layer with minimum
damage to an underlying substrate wafer. In a specific embodiment, a dielectric film of silicon
oxide and/or silicon nitride is formed as a bARC layer on top of the silicon substrate. A laser
wavelength can be selected such that laser power is absorbed by the surface of silicon substrate.
Subsequent evaporation of silicon from the surface ablates off the dielectric layer above. For
comparison, both single-pulse laser and multi-pulse laser have been used for such a process.
Usually, multi-pulse laser usage involves the first pulse being the most powerful pulse, followed
by pulses of attenuating power. However, such a multi-pulse approach does not work well when
an additional absorptive layer is formed on top of dielectric layer, e.g., an overlying amorphous
silicon layer or Si-rich SiNx layer. Since the top absorptive layer absorbs a significant amount
of power, both single and multiple pulse laser either have difficulty opening holes all the way to
silicon substrate, or generating too much damage to the silicon substrate.

                                                  16
[0059] In an embodiment, in order to overcome the above issues, a different type of multi-pulse
laser is used. Specifically, instead of using multi-pulse laser with the first pulse most powerful,
a less powerful first pulse but more powerful second pulse can be used. The first pulse will be
mainly absorbed by top absorptive layer and openings within this layer are formed due to
evaporation, and then the second pulse will be absorbed by silicon substrate at the same location
and dielectric stack above is ablated. Additional pulses can be used after the second pulse to
improve the quality of the openings and minimize the damage to silicon substrate. As an
example, Figure 4 illustrates a process of multi-pulse laser ablation for multilayer film stacks
undergoing contact opening, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0060] Referring to Figure 4, part (A), a material stack for forming contact opening therein
includes an absorptive layer 404 (such as a-Si or Si-rich SiNX) disposed on a dielectric layer
402 (such as Si02 or SiNX) disposed on a silicon substrate (or, alternatively, on a polysilicon
layer above a silicon substrate). Referring to part (B) of Figure 4, a less powerful first pulse is
used to ablate the top absorptive layer 404, forming an initial opening 406. Referring to part (C)
of Figure 4, a more powerful second pulse and, possibly, additional subsequent pulses are used
to ablate the dielectric layer 402 at the same location, forming complete opening 410. In an
embodiment, a conductive contact can then be formed in the complete opening 410.
[0061] In another aspect, a multi-layer bARC is used to improve metal paste adhesion at low
firing temperature. The multi-layer bARC structure can include a passivation layer (SiN) and
another adhesion layer on top of SiN on the device side for metal paste. The adhesion layer can
be a-Si, Si-rich SiN (high n), Si02, SiON, and so on, which can be deposited by PECVD
together with SiN layer. In an embodiment, an advantage of multi-layer bARC is to decouple
passivation layer and adhesion layer, and allow optimization of different layers for different
functions. The bARC layer can also be gradually changed from one composition to another
composition during deposition. Some level of surface treatment can be applied before metal
paste printing, such mono-layer treatment, heating or roughing. Embodiments of the invention
can also be applied for sputtering metal seed and front contact solar cells. Single layer a-Si
bARC can also be considered as another option, which can provide passivation for cell and
adhesion to the aluminium paste at the same time. In an embodiment, an aluminium paste
shows significant improvement of adhesion (from <IN to >1ON) on a-Si surface when fired
around 580C-600C. A continuous aluminium layer can be formed under an entire printing area
by alloying between aluminium particle and a-Si layer. Meanwhile, Si-rich SiN shows
appreciable improvement of adhesion as well, but less effective than an a-Si layer.

                                                  17
[0062] In another aspect, an approach for improving adhesion of metal paste on a silicon
substrate for solar applications involves use of a polymer glue. The polymer glue can be applied
on the back side of a wafer after firing of a metal paste seed layer, such that the polymer glue
fills up the porous structure within the paste and also makes contact with the substrate wafer or
other emitter region. In an embodiment, a polymer glue aids in holding particles together and
also holding paste on the substrate wafer after a cure process. A top layer of the polymer glue
can be removed by immersing the wafer in solvent to expose metal surface, enabling subsequent
plating on exposed printed metal lines. In one embodiment, the polymer glue layer provides a
sufficient enough barrier for moisture that use of a bARC SiN layer can be removed from cell
fabrication process.
[0063] As a comparison, for conventional Al pastes for solar cells, Al pastes are printed on
silicon surface and fired at high temperature (e.g., approximately in the range of 700-800
degrees Celsius). However, such processing of the paste can damage passivation and create Si
pitting when fired at high temperature. The use of printed aluminium paste to replace sputtering
seed can involves printing aluminium paste on an SiN passivation layer except where contact
openings exist. The paste can be fired at low firing temperatures (e.g., less than approximately
600 degrees Celsius) to mitigate damage to wafer lifetime and device structure. However, good
adhesion can be difficult to achieve under such conditions.
[0064] Instead, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a metal paste layer
(e.g., aluminium paste) is printed and fired at low temperature (e.g., approximately in the range
of 300-600 degrees Celsius) such that ohmic contact is formed between the paste and silicon
within contact openings of an emitter region. A polymer glue is then applied on the back side of
wafer. The polymer glue is used to flow into and occupy the porous structure within the paste
and also to make contact with the emitter region. The metal paste itself can also be formulated
differently to improve contact resistance and control porosity to further enable polymer flow and
fill. The process to apply polymer glue above a wafer can depend on polymer material
properties. In one embodiment, a polymer glue is applied at elevated temperature to enhance
flowing and then cured over time. A polymer can, however, instead be applied at room
temperature to occupy porous paste and then be cured at elevated temperatures. The wafer can
then be immersed in a solvent with controlled time to remove a top layer of the polymer glue
and to expose the metal surface of the paste for subsequent plating on printed metal lines.

                                                  18
[0065] As an example, Figures 5A-5E illustrate cross-sectional views of various processing
operations in a method of fabricating solar cells having conductive contacts, in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention.
[0066] Referring to Figure 5A, a solar cell 500 is fabricated to have contact openings 502 (e.g.,
in a dielectric or passivation layer) thereon. A metal paste 504 is then printed and fired to form
ohmic contact with silicon (e.g., from substrate 500), as depicted in Figure 5B. Referring to
Figure 5C, a polymer glue 506 is coated over the metal paste 504. The polymer glue can then be
cured. A top layer or portion of the polymer glue 506 is then dissolved to expose the printed
metal seed 504, as depicted in Figure 5D. Referring to Figure 5E, a metal layer 508 or layers
are then formed on the exposed printed metal seed 504.
[0067] Thus, in an embodiment, a method of fabricating a solar cell includes forming a metal
seed paste layer on an emitter region of a substrate. The metal seed paste layer is treated to
increase adhesion of the metal seed paste layer on the emitter region of the substrate.
Subsequently, a conductive contact for the solar cell is formed from the metal seed paste layer.
In one such embodiment, treating the metal seed paste layer involves forming a polymer glue
layer on the metal seed paste layer. In a specific such embodiment, the method further includes
removing an excess amount of the polymer glue layer prior to forming the conductive contact.
In one embodiment, the method further includes, prior to forming metal seed paste layer on the
emitter region, forming a dielectric stack above the emitter region, and forming an opening in
the dielectric stack to expose a portion of the emitter region. In a specific such embodiment,
forming the opening involves using a multi-pulse laser ablation process. In a particular
embodiment, forming the dielectric stack involves forming a dielectric layer on the emitter
region. The dielectric layer is composed of silicon oxide or silicon nitride. An absorptive layer
is then formed on the dielectric layer. The absorptive layer is composed of amorphous silicon or
silicon-rich silicon nitride. In an embodiment, forming the conductive contact further involves
electroless plating a nickel (Ni) layer on the metal seed paste layer, and electroplating a copper
(Cu) layer on the Ni layer.
[0068] Referring again to Figure 5A-5E, the illustrated process decouples the requirement for
ohmic contact and adhesion. Ohmic contact is determined by metal paste and firing processing,
while adhesion is provided by polymer glue and cure processing. The cure temperature can be

                                                 19
much lower than the firing temperature. The use of a polymer glue aids in holding particles
together and also holding paste on the substrate wafer.
[0069] Thus, enhanced adhesion of seed layers for solar cell conductive contacts and methods of
forming solar cell conductive contacts have been disclosed. In accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention, a method of fabricating a solar cell includes forming an adhesion layer
above an emitter region of a substrate. A metal seed paste layer is formed on the adhesion layer.
The metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer are annealed to form a conductive layer in
contact with the emitter region of the substrate. A conductive contact for the solar cell is formed
from the conductive layer. In one embodiment, annealing the metal seed paste layer and the
adhesion layer involves mixing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer to form the
conductive layer.
[0070] In an embodiment, a solar cell includes a substrate. An emitter region is disposed above
the substrate. A conductive contact is disposed on the emitter region and includes a conductive
layer in contact with the emitter region. The conductive layer includes a metal paste portion
mixed with an adhesion layer portion.
[0071] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion includes a bottom anti-reflective coating
(BARC) portion.
[0072] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion further includes a passivation layer
portion.
[0073] In one embodiment, the BARC portion includes amorphous silicon, and the passivation
layer portion includes silicon nitride.
[0074] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion includes a material selected from the
group consisting of amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich silicon nitride, silicon
dioxide (SiO2) and silicon oxynitride (SiON).
[0075] In one embodiment, the metal paste portion includes aluminium (Al) and the adhesion
layer portion includes silicon (Si), and the conductive layer includes an Al-Si alloy.
[0076] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion includes a polymer glue.

                                                 20
[0077] In one embodiment, the emitter region is an N-type emitter region, and the adhesion
layer portion comprises P-type silicon.
[0078] In one embodiment, the conductive layer has a thickness of approximately 2-10 microns,
and the conductive contact is a back contact of the solar cell including the conductive layer, an
electroless plated nickel (Ni) layer disposed on the conductive layer, and an electroplated copper
(Cu) layer disposed on the Ni layer.
[0079] In an embodiment, a solar cell includes a substrate having a diffusion region at or near a
surface of the substrate. A conductive contact is disposed above the diffusion region and
includes a conductive layer in contact with the diffusion region. The conductive layer includes a
metal paste portion mixed with an adhesion layer portion.
[0080] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion includes a bottom anti-reflective coating
(BARC) portion.
[0081] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion further includes a passivation layer
portion.
[0082] In one embodiment, the BARC portion includes amorphous silicon, and the passivation
layer portion includes silicon nitride.
[0083] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion includes a material selected from the
group consisting of amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich silicon nitride, silicon
dioxide (SiO2) and silicon oxynitride (SiON).
[0084] In one embodiment, the metal paste portion includes aluminium (Al) and the adhesion
layer portion includes silicon (Si), and the conductive layer includes an Al-Si alloy.
[0085] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer portion includes a polymer glue.
[0086] In one embodiment, the diffusion region is an N-type diffusion region, and the adhesion
layer portion includes P-type silicon.

                                                  21
[0087] In one embodiment, the conductive layer has a thickness of approximately 2-10 microns,
and the conductive contact is a back contact of the solar cell including the conductive layer, an
electroless plated nickel (Ni) layer disposed on the conductive layer, and an electroplated copper
(Cu) layer disposed on the Ni layer.
[0088] In an embodiment, a method of fabricating a solar cell involves forming an adhesion
layer above an emitter region of a substrate. The method also involves forming a metal seed
paste layer on the adhesion layer. The method also involves annealing the metal seed paste
layer and the adhesion layer to form a conductive layer in contact with the emitter region of the
substrate. The method also involves forming a conductive contact for the solar cell from the
conductive layer.
[0089] In one embodiment, annealing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer involves
mixing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer to form the conductive layer.
[0090] In one embodiment, forming the adhesion layer involves forming a bottom anti
reflective coating (BARC) layer.
[0091] In one embodiment, the method further involves, prior to forming the adhesion layer,
forming a passivation layer above the emitter region of the substrate, wherein the adhesion layer
is formed on the passivation layer.
[0092] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer is a BARC layer and includes amorphous silicon,
and the passivation layer includes silicon nitride.
[0093] In one embodiment, forming the adhesion layer involves forming a layer of material
selected from the group consisting of amorphous silicon (a-Si), doped silicon, silicon-rich
silicon nitride, silicon dioxide (SiO2) and silicon oxynitride (SiON).
[0094] In one embodiment, annealing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer involves
firing at a temperature below approximately 600 degrees Celsius.
[0095] In one embodiment, forming the adhesion layer involves forming a layer of amorphous
silicon (a-Si), forming the metal seed paste layer involves forming a layer comprising
aluminium (Al), and annealing to form the conductive layer involves forming an Al-Si alloy.

                                                  22
[0096] In one embodiment, annealing the Al layer and the a-Si layer involves firing at a
temperature above approximately 300 degrees Celsius, but below a eutectic temperature for an
Al and Si mixture.
[0097] In one embodiment, the adhesion layer is formed on a silicon portion of the emitter
region, and forming an Al-Si alloy involves mitigating damage to the silicon layer of the silicon
portion of the emitter region.
[0098] In one embodiment, the emitter region is an N-type emitter region, and forming the
adhesion layer involves forming a layer of P-type silicon.
[0099] In one embodiment, the method further involves, prior to forming the adhesion layer
above the emitter region, forming a dielectric stack above the emitter region, and forming an
opening in the dielectric stack to expose a portion of the emitter region, wherein forming the
opening comprises using multi-pulse laser ablation.
[0100] In one embodiment, forming the dielectric stack involves forming a dielectric layer on
the emitter region, the dielectric layer including silicon oxide or silicon nitride, and forming an
absorptive layer on the dielectric layer, the absorptive layer including amorphous silicon or
silicon-rich silicon nitride.
[0101] In one embodiment, forming the conductive contact further involves electroless plating a
nickel (Ni) layer on the conductive layer, and electroplating a copper (Cu) layer on the Ni layer.
[0102] In an embodiment, a method of fabricating a solar cell involves forming a metal seed
paste layer on an emitter region of a substrate. The method also involves treating the metal seed
paste layer to increase adhesion of the metal seed paste layer on the emitter region of the
substrate. The method also involves, subsequently, forming a conductive contact for the solar
cell from the metal seed paste layer.
[0103] In one embodiment, treating the metal seed paste layer involves forming a polymer glue
layer on the metal seed paste layer.
[0104] In one embodiment, the method further involves removing an excess amount of the
polymer glue layer prior to forming the conductive contact.

                                                  23
[0105] In one embodiment, the method further involves, prior to forming metal seed paste layer
on the emitter region, forming a dielectric stack above the emitter region, and forming an
opening in the dielectric stack to expose a portion of the emitter region, wherein forming the
opening involves using multi-pulse laser ablation.
[0106] In one embodiment, forming the dielectric stack involves forming a dielectric layer on
the emitter region, the dielectric layer including silicon oxide or silicon nitride. The method also
involves forming an absorptive layer on the dielectric layer, the absorptive layer including
amorphous silicon or silicon-rich silicon nitride.
[0107] In one embodiment, forming the conductive contact further involves electroless plating a
nickel (Ni) layer on the metal seed paste layer, and electroplating a copper (Cu) layer on the Ni
layer.

                                                 24
CLAIMS
1.    A solar cell, comprising:
       a substrate;
       an N-type emitter region disposed above the substrate;
       a passivation layer disposed above the N-type emitter region; and
       a conductive contact disposed on the passivation layer and electrically connected to the N
type emitter region, the conductive contact comprising a mixture of a metal paste portion and an
adhesion layer, the adhesion layer comprising a P-type silicon portion, wherein the metal paste
portion and the P-type silicon portion of the mixture are in electrical contact with the N-type
emitter region.
2.     The solar cell of claim 1, wherein the metal paste portion comprises aluminium (Al), and
the mixture comprises an Al-Si alloy.
3.     The solar cell of claim 1, wherein the mixture has a thickness of 2 to 10 microns, and
wherein the conductive contact is back contact of the solar cell comprising the mixture, an
electroless plated nickel (Ni) layer disposed on the mixture, and an electroplated copper (Cu)
layer disposed on the Ni layer.
4.    A solar cell, comprising:
       a substrate having an N-type diffusion region at or near a surface of the substrate;
       a passivation layer disposed above the N-type diffusion region; and
       a conductive contact disposed above the passivation layer and electrically connected to the
N-type diffusion region, the conductive contact comprising a mixture of a metal paste portion
and an adhesion layer, the adhesion layer comprising a P-type silicon portion, wherein the metal
paste portion and the P-type silicon portion of the mixture are in electrical contact with the N
type diffusion region.
5.     The solar cell of claim 4, wherein the metal paste portion comprises aluminium (Al), and
the mixture comprises an Al-Si alloy.
6.     The solar cell of claim 4, wherein the mixture has a thickness of 2 to 10 microns, and
wherein the conductive contact is a back contact of the solar cell comprising the mixture, an
electroless plated nickel (Ni) layer disposed on the mixture, and an electroplated copper (Cu)
layer disposed on the Ni layer.

                                                  25
7.     A method of fabricating a solar cell, the method comprising:
       forming a passivation layer above an N-type emitter region of a substrate;
       forming an adhesion layer above the passivation layer;
       wherein the adhesion layer comprises P-type silicon; and
       subsequent to forming the adhesion layer above the passivation layer, forming a metal seed
paste layer on the adhesion layer;
       annealing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer to form a metal paste portion
and a P-type silicon portion, the metal paste portion and the P-type silicon portion forming a
conductive mixture layer in contact with the N-type emitter region of the substrate, wherein the
metal paste portion and the P-type silicon portion of the conductive mixture layer are in electrical
contact with the N-type emitter region; and
       forming a conductive contact for the solar cell from the conductive mixture layer.
8.     The method of claim 7, wherein annealing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion
layer comprises mixing the metal seed paste layer and the adhesion layer to form the conductive
layer.
9.     The method of claim 7, wherein forming the metal paste portion comprises aluminium
(Al), and the mixture comprises an Al-Si alloy.
10.    The method of claim 7, wherein the conductive layer has a thickness of 2 to 10 microns,
and wherein forming the conductive contact comprises forming a back contact of the solar cell
comprising the conductive layer, an electroless plated nickel (Ni) layer formed on the conductive
layer, and a electroplated copper (Cu) layer formed on the Ni layer.
                                     SunPower Corporation
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                       1/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              HG. /A
                             /06
                                   /04
              HG. JB

                                    2/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                            /08
              HG. JC
                                              ---//4
                       116   -<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>j[{tf<U+FFFD>1qsstt<U+FFFD>}-;_..<U+FFFD>-/12
                                                    //0
              HG. JD

                                               3/7
<removed-date>                                                           ,--200A
                    234                     328
<removed-apn>
                           30/
                                           HG.ZA
                                                  -228                                      234
                                                                                             232
                                                                                             230
                                                                                   <U+FFFD>- -- }224
                    <U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>...,...,...,..,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>....,..,..,.,.<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>..,....,...,..,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>-
              220
                                                                                         200
                                           HG.ZR

                          4/7
<removed-date>                     324
                                -302
<removed-apn>
                                300
                    HG.3A
                    HG.3B
                    328
              30/
                    HG.3C

                                                <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
 POWERFUL 1 ST                       A MORE POWERFUL 2ND PULSE AND OTHER
TO ABLATE THE                             SUBSEQUENT PULSES TO ABLATE
SORPTIVE LAYER                       DIELECTRIC LAYER AT THE SAME LOCATION
                                                                                    5/7
                           406       404
                                                                             404
                                                            44'/0
                  I '1 I                              ! _\{!
                                                      I         I
                                                      I         I
                                                          ---                40.2
                                 I
                  (B)                                     (C)
                 HG. 4

                         6/7
<removed-date>
                                     -<U+FFFD>500
<removed-apn>
              HG.SA
                  504\
                                       500
              HG.SB
                               504
                                       506
                                       500
              HG.SC

                      7/7
<removed-date>
                            504
<removed-apn>
                                        506
                                        500
              DC.SD
                            508
                                  504
                                        506
                                        500
              DG.5

