                                    ABSTRACT
         A system for electronically trading a rate-negotiated, standardized
 coupon financial instrument, said system including a memory receiving a
 coupon negotiated between two parties. At least one forward curve and a
 discount curve are implied or approximated by at least one processor in
 communication with the memory to be economically equivalent to the
 negotiated coupon. An economically equivalent value for a swap with a
different coupon is determined by at least one processor. The economically
equivalent value can comprise the net present value (NPV) of the interest rate
swap written as the difference between the present values of two interest
payment legs. In the case of a vanilla swap the two legs correspond to fixed
coupon payments and floating coupon payments. In the case of a basis swap,
one leg is the floating coupon payments with a reference rate plus a fixed
coupon, and the other leg is floating coupon payments with a different
reference rate.

                      1/4
                  dixm
                 __             nsut 7
          A                 F
       / tvRlk 5,Spwti l .            upmc
         NM,,
         =*       ~~VW)t~$~
              ~~~z..Ys1     , ,            '
Fiur 1

                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act, 1990
                                         ORIGINAL
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
 APPLICANT/S:                         Eris Innovations, LLC
 INVENTORS:                           WILSON Jr., Donald R.
                                      YU, Yuhau
                                      RIDDLE Jr., Michael A.
ADDRESS FOR SERVICE:                  Peter Maxwell and Associates
                                      Level 6
                                     60 Pitt Street
                                      SYDNEY NSW 2000
INVENTION TITLE:                     AUTOMATED, COMPUTERIZED
                                     ELECTRONIC TRADING SYSTEM FOR
                                     CLEARED RATE-NEGOTIATED,
                                     STANDARDIZED-COUPON FINANCIAL
                                     INSTRUMENTS
  DIVISIONAL OF:                     AU - 2016 200 950 - 15 February 2016
                                     which is a divisional of
                                     AU - 2012 255 055 - 18 May 2012
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method
of performing it known to us:
                                              1
m:\docs\20121 124\522327.doc

                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
     10001]   The present invention relates to financial instruments, and to the electronic clearing
     and settling of such financial instruments.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     [0002)   A variety of different types of financial instruments are traded throughout the world.
    Examples include cash contracts and derivatives. A cash contract is an agreement to deliver
    the specified asset. A derivative is a financial instrument whose value is linked to the price of
    an underlying commodity, asset, rate, index, currency or the occurrence or magnitude of an
   event. Typical examples of derivatives include futures, forwards, options, and swaps.
   [0003]    Most commonly, a swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange sequences
   of cash flows for a set period of time. Usually, at the time the swap is initiated, at least one of
   these series of cash flows is benchmarked to an asset or an index that is variable, such as an
   interest rate, foreign exchange rate, equity price or commodity price. A swap may also be
  used to exchange one security for another to change the maturity (bonds), quality of issues
  (stocks or bonds) or to facilitate a change in investment objectives.
  [0004]     A nomenclature has developed to describe the characteristics of certain swaps. A
 "plain-vanilla" swap is one that only has the simplest and most common terms. A "spot"
 starting swap is one where the economics of the swap start almost immediately upon two
 parties entering into the swap. A "seasoned" swap is one that has been in existence for some
 time. A "forward-starting" swap is one where the first calculation date of the swap does not
 commence until a designated point in the future. The parties to a forward-starting swap are
 still responsible for performing their obligations, but these obligations do not start for a
period of time after the parties have agreed to enter into the swap. An "off-market" swap is
one that has a value other than zero at initiation.
iooos]      The first swap occurred between IBM and the World Bank in 1981. Although swaps
have only been trading since the early 1980's, they have exploded in popularity. In 1987, the
swaps market had a total notional value of $865.6 billion; by mid-2006, this figure exceeded
$250 trillion. That is more than 15 times the size of the U.S. public equities market.
                                                  Io

     [0006]  The most common type of swap is an interest rate swap. In a plain-vanilla, interest
     rate swap, two parties agree to exchange periodic interest payments, typically when one
     payment is at a fixed rate and the other varies according to the performance of an underlying
    reference rate. Interest rate swaps are generally quoted in yield terms, especially for par
    swaps. Conceptually, an interest rate swap can be viewed as either a portfolio of forwards, or
    as a long (short) position in a fixed-rate bond coupled with a short (long) position in a
    floating-rate bond. Commonly, for U.S. dollar denominated interest rate swaps, the rate
    quoted is the fixed rate that the market expects will offset future 3-month London InterBank
   Offered Rate (LIBOR) (or whatever underlying reference rate is specified in the swap).
   (LIBOR refers to a daily reference rate based on the interest rates at which banks borrow
   unsecured funds from other banks in the London wholesale interbank market.) Cash then
   flows on a periodic basis between the buyer and the seller depending on the difference
   between the fixed rate and the floating rate. For example, one party (Party A) agrees to pay
   another party (Party B) a predetermined, fixed rate of interest on a notional amount on
   specific dates for a specified period of time; concurrently, Party B agrees to pay Party A
  floating interest rate on that same notional amount on the same specified dates for the same
  specified time period. Interest payments may be made annually, quarterly, monthly or at any
  other interval determined by the parties.
  [0007]    Other than plain-vanilla interest rate swaps, float-for-float swaps (also known as basis
  swaps) are widely used in the market place as hedging and investment tools. A float-float
 swap involves the exchange of two floating payments with different reference rates between
 counterparties. The frequency of the two floating payments may or may not be same. For
 example, in a 3/6 LIBOR basis swap, one party (Party A) agrees to pay another party (Party
 B) floating interest rate tied to 3-month LIBOR on a predetermined notional amount every
 three months; concurrently, Party B agrees to pay Party A floating interest rate tied to 6
 month LIBOR on that same notional amount every 6 months. In a Fed Funds/LIBOR basis
 swap, one floating payment is determined by the Federal Funds Effective overnight rate over
a certain period, and the other floating payment is determined by LIBOR. The interest
payments are commonly made every quarter in a Fed Funds/LIBOR basis swap. The Federal
Funds Effective overnight rate is the interest rate at which a depository institution lends
immediately available funds to another depository institution overnight.
                                                   2

      [ooos]    Standardized derivatives have traditionally been exchange-traded and centrally
     cleared financial instruments; swaps, on the other hand, have traditionally been customized
     financial instruments that are traded in the over-the-counter (OTC) market. (The OTC market
     most commonly refers to privately negotiated trades between two parties that are not
     centrally cleared (ie. uncleared)). Each party looks solely to the other party for performance
     and is thus exposed to the credit risk of the other party (often referred to as counterparty risk).
     Unlike financial instruments that are centrally cleared, there is no independent guarantor of
    performance. Uncleared swaps are often transacted pursuant to International Swaps and
    Derivatives Association (ISDA) master documentation. The ISDA, 360 Madison Avenue,
    16th Floor, New York, New York 10017 is an association formed by the privately negotiated
    derivatives market that represents participating parties,
    [0009]    It is common for collateral to change hands as the value of an uncleared position
   changes. The party that has an unrealized loss on an open, uncleared position will post
   collateral with the party that has the unrealized gain in order to secure its liability. A common
   form of collateral is obligations of the United States Treasury (i.e. Treasury Bonds, Notes,
   and Bills). When a Treasury obligation is posted as collateral, price changes in that financial
  instrument and coupon payments accrue to the owner of the collateral, that being the party
  posting the financial instrument. Cash may also be posted as collateral, in which case the
  party receiving the cash as collateral is obligated to pay interest to the party posting the cash
  collateral at a rate set by agreement between the parties. When the trade is unwound or
  expires, the party holding the collateral returns it to the other party, and the trade is ultimately
  settled.
 [00010]     Financial instruments traded on exchanges are distinctly different from uncleared
 financial instruments. While the economics of the two may be similar, futures and options on
 futures (futures options) are traded on and pursuant to the rules of an exchange. Unlike
 uncleared financial instruments where the parties set the terms of the trade, exchange-listed
 futures and futures options are standardized. Such terms include notional amount, price
change per increment, expiration date, and how the financial instrument is settled (either cash
settlement or physical delivery) at expiration. The only attributes that matter for parties to
negotiate in futures, other than which party is the buyer and which party is the seller, is the
number of financial instruments to be traded and the price.
                                                  3

      1000111 All futures and futures options are centrally cleared, with a central counterparty
      exchanging payments and collections between counterparties on a regular basis. This is quite
     different from uncleared financial instruments discussed above. Central clearing means that
     the counterparty risk is removed. The parties to a trade cease to be counterparties to each
     other; rather, each party faces a clearinghouse and looks solely to the clearinghouse for
     clearing trades, collecting and maintaining margin, regulating delivery, and reporting trading
     data. Traditional, uncleared OTC interest rate swaps can be divided into two categories: "par
     swaps", where the initial value of the two legs (the payments that one party pays and
    receives) are equal; and "off-market swaps," where one of the legs is more valuable than the
    other leg when measured in net present value (NPV) terms.
    [00012]   In an uncleared par swap, counterparties typically do not exchange cash or securities
    at the time of the trade. As the value of the position deviates from par over the life of the
    swap, counterparties exchange collateral according to the terms of their ISDA rules. In a
    cleared par swap, counterparties are typically required to post cash or other securities to a
   clearing agent at the time of the trade, to serve as "initial margin", which is also known as
   "performance bond". The purpose of the initial margin is to ensure that if one counterpart
   defaults on the trade at a later time by failing to make required payments, the clearing agent
   can liquidate the position and have sufficient capital available (including the value of the
   liquidated swap position, and the liquidation value of original collateral posted as initial
   margin) to pay the non-defaulting counterparty the full amount due.
  [00013]    Typically, a trader who desires to enter into a par swap for a plain vanilla instrument
  contacts a dealer to find out what fixed coupon rate the dealer will offer as par for a swap
  defined by certain characteristics. These characteristics can include effective date, fixing date,
  tenor, maturity date, index, fixed leg payment intervals, floating leg payment intervals, fixed
  leg day count convention, floating leg day count convention, and holiday calendar, among
 others. The par coupon rate is expressed in terms of percentage of notional value, and defines
 the total annual payments due from fixed leg payer to the fixed leg receiver. For example, a
 par coupon rate of 3.005% on a swap with a notional value of $100 million implies that the
 fixed leg payer agrees to pay the fixed leg receiver $3,005,000 per year for the tenor of the
swap, with such annual amount being divided equally over the number of payments within
the year. The most common fixed leg payment interval is semiannual, implying a payment
amount of $1,502,500 every six months in this example.
                                                  4

      [00014]   Before a par swap trade is consummated, the counterparties must agree on the "par
      coupon", which is the fixed rate coupon that implies an NPV of zero, considering the
     characteristics of the swap and forecasted future interest rates. Swap traders employ a variety
     of publicly-available and custom tools to calculate the appropriate par coupon rate, including
     market data services (for example, Bloomberg L.P., 731 Lexington Avenue, New York, New
     York 10022 and Thomson Reuters, 3 Times Square, New York, New York 10036); analytical
     software packages (for example, the RiskVal RVFI Platform, available from RiskVal
     Financial Solutions, 120 West 31st Street, New York, New York 10001 and SuperDerivatives
    SDX Interest Rates, available from SuperDerivatives Inc., 545 Madison Avenue, 17th Floor,
    New York, New York 10022); and custom-constructed spreadsheets.
    tooisi A typical example of a tool used extensively by swap traders for calculating the par
    coupon of a given swap is the Bloomberg SWPM swap manager. On the Bloomberg SWPM
   swap manager, a swap trader can input the characteristics of a swap as described above, and
   the SWPM swap manager will examine current forecasted interest rates, calculate the fixed
   coupon rate that implies an NPV of zero (fixed leg PV minus floating leg PV equals zero),
   and outputs this value to the user as the par coupon,
   [000163    Similar to the par coupon in vanilla swaps, counterparties who trade a basis swap at
  par must agree on a "par spread". Par spread is the interest payment adding to one floating leg
  such that the present value of this leg is equal to the present value of the other floating leg at
  the time of trading.
  1oooij    Off-market swaps are swaps that, by definition, have an NPV other than zero at the
 time of the trade. This NPV must be agreed upon by the counterparties for a trade to be
 consummated. In an uncleared swap, the negotiated NPV is paid from one counterparty to the
 other at the time of the trade as an "upfront payment", generally in cash. As yet, no clear
 standard market convention has emerged for central counterparties to accommodate off
 market swaps for cleared interest rate swaps and cleared swap futures. One method,
 employed by International Derivatives Clearing Group, LLC (IDCG), 150 East 52nd Street,
 5th Floor, New York, New York 10022, is to have the counterparties exchange upfront
payments at the time of the trade, in a bilateral fashion without involving the central
counterparty. Another method, employed by CME Clearing for cleared interest rate swaps, is
to have the upfront payment be exchanged between the counterparties through the central
counterparty on the same day that the trade is marked in the favor of the counterparty making
                                                  5

     the upfront payment, effectively netting out the payment amounts, except for any presumably
     small difference between the negotiated upfront payment amount and the actual deviation
     from fair market value determined by the central counterparty. A third method, employed by
     CME Clearing for clearing Eris Exchange futures, is to embed the negotiated upfront
     payment amount into the price of the trade itself, and then pay/collect variation margin
    between the parties only insofar as the fair market value of the future deviates from that trade
    price in the future.
    [00018j  To initiate a negotiation of NPV for a given off-market swap, the counterparties must
    first agree on the swap characteristics discussed above. In addition, the counterpartics must
    also agree on the fixed rate coupon of the vanilla swap (or spread in the case of the basis
    swap), to provide sufficient data to evaluate the NPV of the swap. Once the parties agree on a
   negotiated NPV, the trade is consummated. The following table summarizes the way that
   NPV and Fixed Rate are agreed upon for vanilla Par Swaps and Off-Market Swaps:
                                     Defined Prior to   Agreed upon during
                                     Negotiation       negotiation
             Par Swap                NPV = 0           Par Coupon (Fixed Rate)
             Off-Market Swap         Fixed Rate        NPV (upfront payment)
   Since the spread in a basis swap can be treated as a special form of a coupon, the terms of
   coupon and spread will not be explicitly distinguished in the following. Coupon can refer to
  both the fixed rate coupon in a vanilla swap or spread in a basis swap.
  fooo19j For a number of reasons, the majority of trades in the interest rate swap market are
  negotiated in rate terms as par swaps, for which market participants demonstrate a clear
  preference. OTC par swaps typically do not involve an upfront exchange of cash between the
  counterparties. Most ISDA swaps do not require either counterparty to post initial margin,
  and by definition a par swap has an NPV of zero at the time of the trade, requiring neither
 counterparty to post collateral to the other upon trade inception.
 [00020]   Cleared par swap derivatives, on the other hand, require each counterparty to post
 initial margin to the central counterparty (CCP). OTC off-market swaps require an upfront
 exchange of cash between the counterparties to offset the difference expected value of the
future cash flows. Market participants properly recognize the implicit loan that is embedded
in this transaction, in that the value exchanged from one counterparty is repaid in periodic
installments to the other counterparty throughout the life of the swap, all else being equal. To
ensure that appropriate returns are earned for this lending, the majority of OTC dealers
                                                 6

     employ internal funding models within their banks, to ensure that swap traders properly
     incorporate lending and borrowing rates on upfront payments for all off-market swaps, and
     tear-up payments related to unwinds.
     [00021]  Additionally, off-market swaps sometimes require accounting treatment deemed to be
     unfavorable by swap counterparties. Certain firms use swaps only if they can construct them
    in such a way as to obtain a specific application of hedge accounting treatment under the
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards outlined in FAS 133. Obtaining this
    treatment ensures that the changes in value of the swap over the course of the swap's duration
    do not get reported through the income statement of the firm. Off-market swaps with upfront
   payments are generally disqualified from receiving this form of accounting treatment. The
   FASB establishes standards of financial accounting and reporting nongovernmental entities.
   [0022] The factors related to off-market swaps - especially upfront payments that amount to
   off-balance sheet loans that require funding and invoke unfavorable accounting treatment
  are further reasons that explain the clear preference among market participants to trade OTC
  interest rate swaps as par swaps. This is referred to herein as the upfront payment issue. The
  relative popularity of par swaps compared to off-market swaps may be largely attributable to
  the upfront payment issue, but also may be self-reinforcing over time. Given the maturity of
  the swap market and the amount of tools available to traders that focus analysis on par swaps,
  attempts to list swap-like products that do not trade as par swaps will be forced to overcome
  what will be referred to herein as the preference for par swaps issue.
 [00023]     Traditional futures are defined by expiration dates that are generally monthly or
 quarterly, and trading volume tends to be concentrated in monthly or quarterly futures that
 mature within three months to two years of a given trading date. Today, a party can buy (go
 long) 10-Eurodollar futures that expire in six months, and on any trading day in that six
 month period, can re-enter the market and trade out of the initial position by selling (go short)
 10-Eurodollar futures that carry the same expiration date. Regardless of the futures price
negotiated for each trade, the result of the two trades is that the trader will have no liability
and carry no position, or be "net flat" in futures industry parlance. The standardized nature of
futures results in concentration of liquidity within the central limit order book, as multiple
trading participants place bids and offers to trade a quarterly-expiring future at various prices.
                                                7

       000241  The characteristics of cleared, interest rate swap derivatives (either interest rates
      swaps that arc cleared or spot-starting interest rate swap futures with flexible coupons) imply
      significantly different trading and liquidity characteristics from traditional futures. A spot
      starting instrument today is a different instrument from the spot-starting instrument traded
      tomorrow. And each coupon rate that trades as par for a given day and tenor is an
      independent instrument. Traditionally, the most frequently-traded spot-starting swaps have
     so-called standard maturity dates or standard tenors, traded in increments of one-year (for
     example, 2-year, 3-year, 5-year, 7-year, 10-year).
     [000251  The granularization of instruments available for trading results in relatively low levels
     of open interest occurring for each individual instrument, which can add difficulty for a given
    trader to find willing buyers and sellers to act as counterparties at reasonable prices. This is
    referred to herein as the granularization issue.
    1000261   Each financial instrument must have a value assigned to it for purposes of daily
    valuation, and in centrally-cleared markets, the clearinghouse assigns this value. To
    determine the value of a futures position, participants use price per future, then multiply that
   value by the total number of futures held by a counterparty. To determine the value of a
   swaps position, participants use NPV of remaining cash flows.
   [ooo27    Eris Exchange, 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60606, a futures
   exchange operating as an Exempt Board of Trade under the jurisdiction of the Commodity
   Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), introduced Eris Exchange Interest Rate Swap Futures
  ("Eris IR Swap Futures") in August 2010. This financial instrument is regulated as a future,
  but contains economic and flexibility characteristics typically associated with interest rate
  swaps. For example, Eris IR Swap Futures allow counterparties to initiate par swap positions
  by negotiating the fixed coupon rate, as described above. Participants can trade spot-starting
  instruments with effective dates t+2 (two business days after the trade date), that mature on
 any valid business day up to 30 years in the future. The product is cleared by the CME
 Group's CME Clearing, 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and the daily mark
 to-market valuation process for spot-starting Eris IR Swap Futures results in cash flows that
 are substantially similar to total cash flows that a participant would derive from an
identically-structured OTC interest rate swap, assuming both contracts (the Eris IR Swap
Future and the OTC interest rate swap) are valued daily using a common set of discount
factors. This flexibility contrasts with the characteristics of the CME Group's Chicago Board
                                                  8

      of Trade 5-year and 10-year Interest Rate Swap futures ("CBOT swap futures"), which
      include a standard fixed rate of 4%, are not spot-starting, offer quarterly expirations (not
      daily), and do not replicate the economics of an equivalent swap position. By allowing
     participants to trade interest rate swap derivatives in a futures form, Eris Exchange permits
     multiple counterparties to submit anonymous bids and offers in a central limit order book
     through an electronic trading platform.
     [00028] An important distinction lies between the characteristics of trading traditional futures
    in a central limit order book through negotiation of futures price, and the characteristics of
    trading par swap in a central limit order book through negotiation of fixed rates. A market
    participant that submits a large market order into the central limit order book of a traditional
    futures product will cause a series of trades to occur at multiple price levels, as many prices
   as are necessary to fill the entire demanded quantity (assuming that the requested quantity on
   the order was larger than the available quantity at the best price level). The electronic trading
   platform will match the order according to the matching methodology, and will transmit
   information back to the market participant regarding multiple trades that occur at multiple
  price levels. Regardless of how many trades occur and how many price levels are involved,
  the market participant will have a single net position in a single financial instrument at the
  conclusion of the order matching.
  [000291   For example, consider a hypothetical scenario for a traditional futures market like
  CME e-mini S&P futures. Assume that within the central limit order book of the future that
 expires in March 2013, there are four resting orders:
        * Bid #1: 60 futures at a price of 1210
        " Offer #1: 20 futures at a price of 1212
        * Offer #2: 30 futures at a price of 1213
        " Offer #3: 15 futures at a price of 1215
 A market participant that submits a market order to buy 60 futures will become a
 counterparty to three trades:
       * Trade #1: 20 futures at a price of 1212
       " Trade #2: 30 futures at a price of 1213
       * Trade #3: 10 futures at a price of 1215
[0003oi    This example demonstrates that in order to buy 60 futures, the market participant was
required to lift offers at three distinct price levels. All three trades are for the same
                                                  9

       instrument: March 2016 CME e-mini S&P futures. The final result is that the market
       participant has a net position of Long 60 futures:
            e   Long 60 futures for the CME e-mini S&P futures that expire March 2016
      (00031]   To illustrate this point further, note that the market participant could proceed to
      liquidate her entire position by submitting a single market order to sell 60 futures, which
      would be filled in one trade against the resting bid (Bid #1):
           *   Trade #4: 60 futures at a price of 1210
     The result of this fourth trade is that the market participant is flat; she has a net position of
     zero.
     [00032]   On the other hand, a market participant that submits a similar order into a central limit
     order book of a swap derivative where counterparties negotiate the par coupon will not only
    result in multiple trades at multiple price levels, it will result in open positions in multiple
    financial instruments. When used herein, swap derivative encompasses both swaps and swap
    futures. This inherent limitation of par swap derivatives is referred to herein as the multiple
    position issue.
    [000331   As a second example, consider a hypothetical scenario for a spot-starting 10-year Eris
   IR Swap future, in which the buyer of the future agrees to be the fixed leg payer (floating leg
   receiver) on a swap derivative, and a seller agrees to be the fixed leg receiver (floating leg
   payer). Assume that within the central limit order book of today's 10-year future there are
   four resting orders, similar in structure to the first example:
         *    Bid #1: 60 futures at a fixed rate of 3.442%
         "    Offer #1: 20 futures at a fixed rate of 3.445%
        *     Offer #2: 30 futures at a fixed rate of 3.446%
        *     Offer #3: 15 futures at a price of 3.448%
  A market participant that submits a market order to buy 60 futures will become a
  counterparty to three trades:
        * Trade #1: 20 futures at a fixed rate of 3.445%
        " Trade #2: 30 futures at a fixed rate of 3.446%
        " Trade #3: 15 futures at a fixed rate of 3.448%
 [00034     Similar to the previous example, in order to buy 60 futures, the market participant was
required to lift offers at three distinct fixed rate levels. Unlike the previous example,
however, the result is that the market participants now has net positions in three distinct, non
fungible financial instruments:
                                                     10

            " Long 20 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Futures with a
               3.445% coupon
            *  Long 30 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Futures with a
               3.446% coupon
           *   Long 10 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Futures with a
               3.448% coupon
      [0003s]  Furthermore, consider a fourth trade in which the market participant sells 60 futures
     by hitting the bid at the prevailing rate of 3.442%:
           *   Trade #4: 60 futures at a fixed rate of 3.442%
     Unlike the previous example where the fourth trade in the sequence resulted in the market
     participant being flat (ie., having no net position in the market), in this case the fourth trade
     results in an additional open position:
          e   Long 20 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Future with a 3.445%
              coupon
          * Long 30 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Future   with a 3.446%
              coupon
         " Long 10 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Future    with a 3.448%
              coupon
         * Short 60 futures for the 5-year tenor, spot-starting Eris IR Swap Future   with a 3.442%
              coupon
    In order for the market participant in this example to flatten her position and exit all open
   positions, she must place orders resulting in off-setting trades for each of the four futures.
   [00036] Users of traditional futures often take advantage of so-called average pricing systems
   (APS), a feature that allows them to use volume-weighted averaging of multiple executions.
  Among the multiple benefits of using an APS is a broker firm can execute on behalf of
  multiple customers with a single order, and then allocate the executions to each customer at
  the volume weighted average price of the resulting trades, to ensure all customers receive fair
  treatment compared to other customers.
 [000371     For example, in the first example, above, assume that the market participant is a
 broker that is executing a single market order to buy 60 futures as a convenient way to go
 long on behalf of six individual customers who each seek to go long 10 futures. Exchange
 and regulatory restrictions require the broker to treat all customers equally with respect to
quality of prices for fills on similar orders, but in the case of the Trades 1-3 in the first
example, the broker will be forced to allocate trades at unequal prices among equal
customers. One solution to this problem is for the broker to utilize APS functionality that is
offered by several trading and clearing venues, including CME Clearing. In the case of the
                                                    11

      first example, the volume-weighted average price of the Trade #1, #2 and #3 is 60 futures at a
      price of 1213, thereby allowing the broker to allocate trades to customers at equivalent prices.
     [000381 In the case of the second example, however, a broker would not be able to utilize APS
     functionality, since the submission of a single order results not in multiple trades within a
     single future, but individual trades within separate futures. Clearinghouses currently offer
     APS functionality only to average prices within an individual future, and do not permit
     participants to average fills across instruments. This lack of ability to use APS functionality
     across multiple positions is a significant drawback to any product that suffers from the
    multiple position issue.
    [00039]   While swaps have traditionally been uncleared, recently there has been pressure to
    migrate swaps to central clearing, including mandates set forth in the Dodd-Frank Wall
    Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") (Pub.L. 111-203,
    H.R. 4173) signed into law by President Obama on 21 July 2010. As a result of political
   pressure for greater transparency of uncleared financial instruments, the Dodd-Frank Act was
   passed into law in the wake of the 2008/2009 financial crisis. During the 2008/2009 financial
   crisis, many participants in uncleared financial instruments faced counterparties that were
   unable to meet their obligations.
   [00040]   As described above, existing swap derivatives instruments carry certain advantages
   and disadvantages in terms of structure. Overcoming the trade-offs that have traditionally
  been inherent in trading par swaps, off-market swaps, and futures in this new, government
  regulated environment has proven to be a significant challenge. At first glance, it would seem
  that the solution to these issues could all be addressed through the creation of a futures
  product for forward-starting swaps in a standardized coupon. By listing futures that are
  forward-starting and with a standardized coupon, the effects of the granularization issue are
 mitigated. And futures need not impose upfront payments, thus avoiding the upfront payment
 issue.
 [000411    The Chicago Board of Trade's 10-Year Interest Rate Swap Futures attempts to list
futures products with the economics of forward-starting swaps based on a standardize
coupon.         See     http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/interest-rates/files/IR145_SwapFC_lo
res-web.pdf (accessed May 17, 2011). However, after multiple years of existence, these 10
Year Interest Rate Swap Futures trade at daily volume levels that are low relative to the
                                                 12

      volume of the interest rate swaps market, suggesting that market has failed to adopt them as
      true substitutes for interest rate swaps. Open interest for this futures, as of May 17, 2011 was
     reported                            by                         CME                          Group
     (http://www.cmegroup.com/dailybulletin/preliminary_voi/VOIREPORT.pdf, accessed May
     17, 2011) to be 11,694 contracts, which equates to $1.69 billion of notional value, compared
     to $364 trillion dollars of notional value of open interest for interest rate derivatives that
    ISDA      estimated      in   March,    2011     (http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110329
    709826.html, accessed May 17, 2011), or 0.0003%.
    [000421  Assessing the potential success or even explaining the lack of success of futures
    products is not straightforward, as a thriving futures market requires the confluence of a large
    number of factors, such as product design, distribution, technology, liquidity, and
   macroeconomics forces. Issues related to the design of the CBOT Swap Future that may
   contribute to its lack of commercial success include, the product only allows traders to
   transact a single coupon rate, imposing rigid standardization to minimize the granularization
   issue. The rate was 6.0% for contracts that expired from the inception of the product until
  December 2009, and has been set by the exchange at 4.0% since that time. In addition, the
  CBOT Swap Future is "traded in price and quoted in points", as per the CBOT web site,
  rather than the par coupon or NPV protocols more familiar to the swap market.
  http://www.emegroup.com/trading/interest-rates/files/IR145                 _SwapFC_lo-res web.pdf
  (accessed May 17, 2011).
 [=oo43j    Another issue related to the design of the CBOT Swap Future that may contribute to
 its lack of commercial success is, the product doesn't seek to mimic the economics of a swap
 over the entire maturity of the swap: the product expires and is cash-settled at the conclusion
 of the forward-period of the swap. For example, the September 2011 CBOT 10-year Interest
 Rate Swap Future expires September 19, 2011, at which point the position is settled by the
clearing house and open interest ceases to exist. A comparable OTC interest rate swap
implies that the forward-period ends in September 2011, but the swap itself does not mature
until September, 2021. In addition, the CBOT Swap Future uses simple present value
analysis, rather than adhering to swap convention of discounting cash flows at LIBOR or
overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates.
                                                  13

      [ooo4] Rigid standardization, deviation from OTC trading protocols, and expiration after the
      forward-period are the most prominent characteristics in which the CBOT Interest Rate Swap
      Future deviates from the construction of OTC interest rate swaps.
      [00045] As of May 2011, Eris Exchange's Eris IR Swap Futures have been offered as par
     swaps, but the product is easily adaptable to a forward-starting swap model. The construction
     of this future product mitigates several of the issues that have hampered the product design of
     the previous attempts at migrating swaps volume into futures products. However, Eris IR
    Swap Futures does not mitigate the granularization issue or overcome the preference for par
    swaps issue without raising the multiple position issue.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    [00040] A rate-negotiated, standardized-coupon financial instrument and method of trading in
   accordance with the principles of the present invention combines the advantages of the Eris
   IR Swap Futures in a forward-starting fashion that both mitigates the granularization issue by
   offering multiple, standardized coupons, but also overcomes the preference for par swaps
   issue without raising the multiple position issue. A rate-negotiated, standardized-coupon
  financial instrument in accordance with the principles of the present invention includes a
  coupon negotiated between two parties. At least one forward curve and a discount curve are
  implied or approximated to be consistent with the negotiated coupon. A consistent value for a
  swap with a different coupon is determined. The consistent value can comprise the net
  present value (NPV) of the interest rate swap written as the difference between the present
  values of two interest payment legs. In the case of a vanilla swap the two legs correspond to
 fixed coupon payments and floating coupon payments. In the case of a basis swap, one leg is
 the floating coupon payments with a reference rate plus a fixed coupon, and the other leg is
 floating coupon payments with a different reference rate. The rate-negotiated, standardized
 coupon financial instrument of the present invention provides for a financial instrument
 negotiated in rate terms to be substituted with an equivalent position in an instrument with a
 different coupon rate, at an adjusted price.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
[000471     Figure 1 is a flow-chart setting forth an example for determining the net present value
(NPV) of an interest rate swap (receiver).
                                                   14

      [ooo4s] Figure 2 is a flow-chart setting forth an example for determining the net present value
      (NPV) of an interest rate swap (receiver).
     1000491  Figure 3 is a flow-chart setting forth an example for determining the net present value
     (NPV) of a basis swap (receiver).
     [ooso5   Figure 4 is a non-limiting example of a hardware infrastructure that can be used to run
     a system that implements electronic trading of a rate-negotiated, standardized-coupon
    financial instrument of the present invention.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
    [00051l   While an exemplary embodiment of the invention illustrated and described has been
   built to trade on Eris Exchange, 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60606,
   it will be appreciated that the present invention is not so limited and can be traded on other
   exchanges or trading platforms, regardless of whether located in the United States or abroad,
   traded through a private negotiation, traded in currencies other than United States dollars or
  traded as a future or as a cleared swap or other type of financial instrument. When used
  herein, the terms exchange and trading platform refer broadly to a marketplace in which
  securities, commodities, derivatives and other financial instruments are traded, and includes
  but is not necessarily limited to designated markets, exempt boards of trade, designated
  clearing      organizations,   securities  exchanges,    swap   execution   facilities, electronic
  communications networks, and the like.
 [000521     As previously detailed, as of May 2011 Eris Exchange's Eris IR Swap Futures have
 been offered as par swaps, with the product easily adaptable to a forward-starting swap
 model. The construction of this future product mitigates several of the issues that have
 hampered the product design of the previous attempts at migrating swaps volume into futures
 products. Consider the possibility of listing a version of Eris IR Swap Futures for forward
 starting, par swaps trading in rate terms. This product would reduce the granularization issue,
through its forward-starting nature. As a future cleared by CME Clearing using a method that
does not require bilateral payments, the product mitigates the upfront payment issue. Since
the product is traded in rate terms, traders would be operating in a familiar pricing
environment that is supported by numerous pricing tools. Since this product matures at the
end of the swap tenor, rather than the end of the forward-period, it more closely resembles an
OTC interest rate swap. On the other hand, the granularization issue and multiple position
                                                  15

     issue associated with negotiating par coupons would not be mitigated, resulting in a
     proliferation of open interest across multiple coupons, rather than a concentration of liquidity
     in smaller number of futures.
    [00053]  Next, consider the alternative possibility of listing a version of Eris IR Swap Futures
    for forward-starting, off-market swaps traded in NPV, with multiple standardized coupons.
    This product would mitigate the granularization issue more completely than the previous
    alternative, by its forward-starting nature and by pooling liquidity into a standard set of
    coupons. As a future, the product mitigates the upfront payment issue. Trading the future in
   NPV terms is attractive in that it follows OTC convention, and mitigates the multiple position
   issue; however, the product would still suffer from the preference for par swaps issue, since it
   is not traded in rate.
   [00054]  What is thus desirable would be a product that combines the advantages of the Eris IR
   Swap Futures in a forward-starting fashion that both mitigates the granularization issue by
  offering multiple, standardized coupons, but also overcomes the preference for par swaps
  issue without raising the multiple position issue,
  [oooss] The present invention provides a mechanism whereby a financial instrument
  negotiated in rate terms can be substituted with an equivalent position in an instrument with a
 different coupon rate, at an adjusted price. When used herein, the term equivalent means
 nearly equal in amount, value, measure, force, effect, significance, etc., and encompasses an
 instrument with a different coupon rate, at an adjusted price, having nearly-equivalent but
 economically satisfactory position. In accordance with the principles of the present invention,
 a rate-negotiated, standardized-coupon financial instrument and method of trading are
 provided. Referring first to Figure 1, a flow-chart is seen setting forth the general example for
 determining the net present value (NPV) of a vanilla interest rate swap. Quoted rates and
other curve input data such as for example deposit rates, swap rates, spreads, etc. are input
into a curve constructor. The net present value (NPV) of the vanilla interest rate swap
(receiver) can be written as the difference between the present value of fixed coupon
payments and floating coupon payments. The price for a swap with a fixed coupon C is:
                                                                         Equation I
         where,
                                                16

                               is the forward rate at t , relevant to the floating payment at 4TT;
                      S--0 is the discount factor from t to S , it         ; and
                       vii 4 J  are the year fractions of the accrual period for fixed and floating
                    payments respectively.
     The discount rates and forward rates may or may not be derived from the same yield curve.
     For example, when modeling vanilla interest rate swaps before 2007, the market practice was
    to use a LIBOR curve to derive both rates; post the financial-crisis, the growing consensus
    has migrated to use of the OIS curve to derive discount rates, and a LIBOR curve to calculate
    the forward rates. Various assumptions and curve construction methodology do not affect the
    application of the present invention.
    [0os5   In accordance with the principles of the present invention, while a coupon is
   negotiated between two parties, the forward curve and discount curve are implied or
   approximated to be consistent with the negotiated coupon. Then a net present value such as
   for example the above NPV Equation I can be used or approximated to generate a consistent
   value for a swap with a different coupon.
  [000571  Denoting the summation X                       by A-t), A00 is called the annuity of the
  swap, also known as present value of a basis point (PVOI), and is determined by the discount
  (funding) curve. For two swaps that have the same characteristics - floating leg index, start
  date, payment schedules, day count, and holiday conventions - the difference in NPV is:
           n   Pra      KP      r) = &1-- eIMft          Equation 2
 [ooosa   Based on this observation, another embodiment of a rate-negotiated, standardized
 coupon financial instrument and method of trading can be provided. Referring to Figure 2, a
 flow-chart is seen setting forth a second example for determining the net present value (NPV)
 of an interest rate swap. Trades can be negotiated and quoted in par swap rate. Let          C2   be a
quoted rate, it implies NP k.t2 A =          Then a swap with a given coupon ci can be assigned
                        (Pt - CO7Yr; I4J~t
with a NPV equal to                 r.                  In order to compute the annuity, input data
such as deposit rates, swap rates, spreads, etc. are needed for the curve construction;
however, the quoted par swap rate may or may not be used in the curve construction.
                                                  17

     fooossj In another embodiment of the present invention, the NPV of a given coupon, together
     with its sensitivity with respect to the change in the par swap rate, can be pre-computed. The
     sensitivity is often referred to as "DVO1". Let Ct be the fixed coupon, and assume that at
    time to the swap with the same characteristics has a par coupon of cv. The prevailing
    forward     curve      and    discount     curve    are    used   to    compute    NWt'   4), and
                              O6        . At time t when a trade is negotiated in terms of the par
    coupon C ,then a swap with the given coupon c2 can be assigned with a value of
             NVY     ', V    l'V;
                             MPV (0cr.     + OVU (c 1 ,t 4 J x - - c)      Equation 3
   [00060] Referring to Figure 3, a flow-chart is seen setting forth the general example for
   determining the net present value (NPV) of a basis swap in accordance with the principles of
   the present invention. The NPV of the basis swap can be written as the difference between
   the present value of two legs of floating coupon payments. The price for a swap with a fixed
  coupon C is:
                          V=z                                                                 Equation
            4
            where,
                   Let (T            ), L *. tJz,0      ) are the rates at t determined by two forward
                   curves, relevant to the floating payments at T1           m respectively;
                   DPE , is the discount factor from t to s , t S           ; and
                   Thu eare the year fractions of the accrual periods of the two floating
                   payments respectively.
 [000611 The coupon in a basis swap often indicates the difference between the two forward
 curves. Similar to the vanilla swaps, while a coupon is negotiated between two parties, the
 forward curves and discount curve are implied or approximated to be consistent with the
 negotiated coupon. Then a net present value such as for example the above NPV Equation 4
can be used or approximated to generate a consistent value for a swap with a different
coupon.
[oooe2    Same methods of determining the fixed-coupon swap price from a negotiated coupon
that apply to vanilla swaps can be applied to basis swaps as welL For example, denoting the
                                                     18

                    ?1
      summation M=j                    by A   , for two swaps that have the same characteristics
      floating leg indices, start date, payment schedules, day count, and holiday conventions - the
     difference in NPV is:
               NPV&4., ti - A'PV. t),-= 6c  -   s)0
     [000631  Let -c be a quoted par coupon, it implies NPWk    2   t = C . Then a basis swap with a
     given coupon Cj can be assigned with a NPV equal to (es      -  c-40X   . In order to compute the
     annuity, input data such as deposit rates, swap rates, spreads, etc. are needed for the curve
    construction; however, the quoted par swap rate may or may not be used in the curve
    construction.
    [00064]   The derived NPV of a fixed coupon can be directly used as the price of the cleared
    swap. In another embodiment in accordance with the present invention, a constant can be
    added or subtracted from the NPV to obtain the price. Generally the profit and loss of a
   cleared swap comes only from the price change, and, thus, modifying the price process by a
   constant does not affect the nature of the swap.
   [ooEqi    The following are non-limiting examples of converting a negotiated coupon to a price
   for a swap with a fixed coupon. Unless specified otherwise, the NPV of the fixed coupon
  swap is used as the price, and all NPV's are calculated from the perspective of the receiver.
  Example 1
  [000661    This example shows the negotiated par coupon for a spot starting swap can be
 converted to a price for fixed coupon swap using Equation I directly.
 [00067]    Consider a spot starting 10-year LIBOR interest rate swap with notional amount of
 $1,000,000. The fixed coupon is set to be 3.5%, and the trades are negotiated in terms of the
 par coupon. Assume that the discounting curve is an OIS curve, and the forward curve is a
 LIBOR curve. A set of LIBOR swap rates, Eurodollar rates, and swap spreads are used to
construct the OIS curve and LIBOR curve. When a trade is consummated, and a par coupon
is agreed on, this coupon is passed in as an input to the yield curve construction, and forward
rates and discount factors are updated accordingly. Then Equation I is used to compute the
price of the 3.5% swap. Table I is an example of the quoted coupon and the corresponding
price:
                                                  19

                Par coupon   13.40     13.42   13.44 13.46       13.48
                Price          8832    17065    5298     3531     1765
               Table 1
     Example 2
     [00068]  This example shows the negotiated par coupon for a spot starting swap can be
     converted to a price for fixed coupon swap using Equation 2. This yields the same result as in
     Example 1.
    [000691 Consider the same spot starting 10-year LIBOR interest rate swap with notional
    amount of $1,000,000 as in Example 1. Because the change in the swap rates effects the
    discounting (OTS) curve by the curve construction method in the current example, the annuity
    in Equation 2 needs to be updated when the par coupon is quoted in a trade. Table 2 shows
   the annuity as well as the price for the 3.5% coupon swap at different levels of the quoted par
   coupon:
               Parcoupon      3.40       3.42     3.44       3.46      3.48
               Annuity        883.21    883.09    882.97     882.85    882.73
               Price          8832      7065      5298       3531      1765
              Table 2
  Take the third column, for example, with the quoted par coupon =3.44%, the price for the
  3.5% coupon is 100*(3.5-3.44)*882.97=5298.
  Example 3
  [00070]    This example shows a good approximation is obtained when the annuity At is pre
 computed. The same set-up as in Example 2 is used.
  000711    In most of the curve construction methodology, the sensitivity of the annuity with
 respect to the par coupon is small, if exists at all. Therefore in practice, the annuity can be
 pre-computed and published periodically. When a par coupon is negotiated in a trade, it can
be directly plugged into Equation 2 to compute the price without updating Jm1).
looni      Consider the same swap example as in Example 2. Assume that the annuity of 882.97
is the latest update when the market prevailing 10-year swap rate is 3.44%. Table 3 shows the
conversion from quoted par coupon to the price of 3.5% coupon swap using the fixed
annuity:
            Par coupon     3.40      3.42      3.44      3.46      3.48
            Annuity        882.97    882.97    882.97    882.97    882.97
                                                 20

                Price           8830      7064      5298    13532       1766
              Table 3
     Take the first column, for example, with the quoted par coupon =3.4%, the price for the 3.5%
     coupon is 100*(3.5-3.40)*882.97=8830.
    Example 4
    [00073]   This example shows the negotiated par coupon for a spot starting swap can be
    converted to a price for fixed coupon swap using Equation 3, the DVO I method, with very
    small approximation error.
    [00074J  Consider the same swap as in the previous examples. Assume that the NPV and DVOJ
    of a 3.50% coupon swap are calculated when the prevailing 10-year swap rate is 3.44%, If it
   turns out that NPV8.E4           ) = 5298 and U           .           =  -883.36, the Table 4 shows
   the conversion result using Equation 3:
              Par coupon      3.40        3.42      344        3.46        3.48
              DVO1            -883.36     -883.36   -883,36    -883.36     -883.36
              Price           8831        7065      5298       3531        1764
             Table 4
  Take the first column, for example, with the quoted par coupon =3.4%, the price for the 3.5%
  coupon is 5298-100*(3.4-3.44)*883.36=8831.
  [00075]   All the previous examples can be applied to forward-starting swaps.
 Example 5
 [00076}    This example shows Equation 2 can be used to convert the negotiated par coupon for
 a forward starting swap to a consistent price for a fixed coupon forward swap that has the
same starting date and maturity date.
[00077]     Consider a 3-month forward starting 10-year interest rate swap with a notional
amount of $1,000,000. Assume that the annuity of such a forward swap is equal to 875.63
when the prevailing par coupon of the 3-month forward 10-year swap is 3.5653%. Table 5
shows the conversion result:
            Par coupon     3.52      3.54      3.56     3.58        3.60
            Annuity       875.63     875.63    875.63   875.63      875.63
            Price         -1751     -3503      -5254    -7005      -8756
          Table 5
                                                  21

      Example 6
      [00078]  This example shows Equation 2 can be used to convert the negotiated par spread for a
      spot-starting basis swap to a consistent price for a fixed-spread basis swap with the same
      terms.
     looos79   Consider a spot starting 10-year 3/6 LIBOR basis swap with notional amount of
     $1,000,000. The fixed spread is set to be 0.05%, or 5 basis points (bp), and the trades are
     negotiated in terms of the par spread. Assume that the discounting curve is an OIS curve, one
     forward curve is constructed from LIBOR with 3 month tenor (the interest accrual period),
     and the other forward curve is constructed from LIBOR with 6 month tenor. A set of LIBOR
    swap rates, Eurodollar rates, and swap spreads are used to construct these curves. Assuming
    the annuity is pre-computed and equal to 879.35 at the time of the trade, then the negotiated
    par spread is passed into Equation 2 to compute the price of the basis swap with 5bp spread.
    The following table shows the corresponding prices for the different negotiated par spreads:
               Par spread (bp)   4.8      4.9      5.0       5.1      5.2
               Annuity           879.35   879.35   879.35   879.35    879.35
               Price             175.88   87.94    0        -87.94    -175.88
              Table 6
   [ooosol Again, the foregoing are non-limiting examples of converting a negotiated coupon to
  a price for a swap with a fixed coupon.
  [00081]    Coupling an embodiment of the present invention with a spot-starting swap derivative
  with multiple standardized coupons permits the creation of an instrument that lessens the
  effect of the granularization issue through coupon standardization, without sacrificing the
  ability to negotiate the product in rate terms to overcome the preference for par swaps issue.
  The conversion from coupon-negotiated value to a new position at a different price, using one
  of the methods the present invention, can occur at the time the trade occurs or at the end of a
 period, such as the trading day. The conversion can be effected by one of several components
 or actors in the trading process: the execution venue (e.g a futures exchange or swap
 execution facility) or the central counterparty (e.g, a Designated Clearing Organization), or in
 less likely cases, a clearing firm or market participant.
[00052) According to the principles of the present invention, in order to publish daily and
terminal settlement values a clearinghouse, exchange, futures commission merchant or other
market participant may use computers with software specifically designed for this purpose.
                                                22

     The computation of the terminal value in accordance with the present invention is iterative
     and complex, and special software is required for this purpose. This software may be linked
     to a centralized marketplace via data lines, networks or the Internet, so that the prices are
    published in a seamless manner. The clearing house may store the daily prices for each
    financial instrument in existence at any given moment in a database that can be electronically
    published to the marketplace.
    [00083] Referring now to Figure 4, a non-limiting example of a high level hardware
   implementation can used to run a system of the present invention is seen. The infrastructure
   should include but not be limited to: wide area network connectivity, local area network
   connectivity, appropriate network switches and routers, electrical power (backup power),
   storage area network hardware, server-class computing hardware, and an operating system
   such as for example Redhat Linux Enterprise AS Operating System available from Red Hat,
  Inc, 1801 Varsity Drive, Raleigh, North Carolina.
  [00084]    The clearing and settling and administrative applications software sever can run for
  example on an HP ProLiant DL 360 G6 server with multiple Intel Xeon 5600 series
  processors with a processor base frequency of 3.33 GHz, up to 192 GB of RAM, 2 PCIE
  expansion slots, 1GB or 10GB network controllers, hot plug SFF SATA drives, and
 redundant power supplies, available from Hewlett-Packard, Inc, located at 3000 Hanover
 Street, Palo Alto, California. The database server can be run for example on a HP ProLiant
 DL 380 G6 server with multiple Intel Xeon 5600 series processors with a processor base
 frequency of 3.33 GHZ, up to 192 GB of RAM, 6 PCIE expansion slots, 16 SFF SATA drive
bays, an integrated P41 Oi integrated storage controller, and redundant power supply, available
from Hewlett-Packard.
pooasj      While the invention has been described with specific embodiments, other
alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
Accordingly, it will be intended to include all such alternatives, modifications and variations
set forth within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
                                               23

                                               24
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.     A computer-implemented financial instrument electronic trading system,
   said system including:
          an application server receiving from a first party computerized system
  first party data including first party identity data and first financial instrument
  identification data that identifies a first financial instrument and is electronically
  associated with first coupon rate data and first financial instrument buy-sell
  data,
          wherein said application server also receives from a second party
  computerized system second party data including second party identity data
  and second financial instrument identification data that identifies a second
 financial instrument and is electronically associated with second coupon rate
 data and second financial instrument buy-sell data,
         wherein, when said application server automatically electronically
 determines that:
         a) said first financial instrument identification data matches said second
 financial instrument identification data,
         b) said first coupon rate data matches said second coupon rate data,
 and
         c) said first financial instrument buy-sell data is automatically
electronically determined to indicate an inverse direction than that indicated by
said second financial instrument buy-sell data,
         said application server electronically automatically determines substitute
financial instrument identification data that identifies a substitute financial
05/04/18

                                                25
  instrument associated with substitute financial instrument coupon rate data
  differing from said first coupon rate data and said second coupon rate data,
           wherein said application server electronically automatically determines,
  in real time, price adjustment data based on the difference in net present value
  between said first financial instrument and said substitute financial instrument
  utilizing:
                           NPV(c1 , t) - NPV(c2, t) = (c, - c2 )A(t)
           where,
                  NPV is net present value;
                 c1 is a fixed coupon of said substitute financial instrument;
                 t is time;
                 c2 is a quoted par swap rate of said first financial instrument,
 implying NPV(c 2 , ) = 0.         ; and
                                    N
                          A(t) A       r0 fDF(t,T  1)
                 where,
                      is the year fraction of the accrual period for fixed payments;
 and
                 DF(t,Tg,)    is the discount factor from t to T,,,
          wherein said discount factor is determined in real time based on at least
one of the Overnight Indexed Swap (OIS) yield curve and the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) yield curve; and
          an electronic trade clearing platform electronically clearing an electronic
trade by:

                                           26
         a) automatically electronically associating said substitute financial
  instrument identification data, said price adjustment data, and said first financial
  instrument buy-sell data with a computerized trading account associated with
 said first party identity data, and
         b) automatically electronically associating said substitute financial
 instrument identification data, said price adjustment data, and said second
 financial instrument buy-sell data with a computerized trading account
 associated with said second party identity data.
 2.      The system of claim 1 wherein, on a date subsequent to the date on
 which said electronic trade clearing platform electronically cleared said
 electronic trade, said application server determines updated price adjustment
data by recalculating said price adjustment data using the equation above, but
substituting said date subsequent as the time index in said equation above and
using an update discount factor based on at least one of the current Overnight
Indexed Swap (OIS) yield curve and the current London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) yield curve.
3.      The system of claim 2 wherein said price adjustment data associated
with said computerized trading account associated with said first party identity
data is electronically updated based on said updated price adjustment data.
4.      The system of claim 2 wherein said price adjustment data associated
with said computerized trading account associated with said second party

                                         27
identity data is electronically updated based on the inverse of said updated
price adjustment data.
Dated this  5th day of April 2018
Eris Innovations, LLC
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
PETER MAXWELL AND ASSOCIATES

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
