                                         ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions for enhancing one or more of: myelination, re-myelination,
oligodendrocyte numbers, or neuroaxonal protection, while ameliorating an inflammatory
condition in a human subject are disclosed. In certain embodiments, the methods and
compositions described herein include a reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-I antagonist) and an
immunomodulatory agent, in combination. Thus, methods, compositions and kits described
herein can be useful for treating a CNS demyelinating disease.

                         COMBINATION THERAPIES AND
                              USES FOR TREATMENT OF
                           DEMYELINATING DISORDERS
                                      RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013329421,
   filed on 8 October 2013, and is related to International Patent Application No.
 5 PCT/US2013/063873, filed on 8 October 2013 and claims priority from U.S. Provisional
   Application No. 61/711,638, filed October 9, 2012, the contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference in their entirety.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10          Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory disease of the brain and spinal cord
   characterized by recurrent foci of inflammation that lead to destruction of the myelin sheath. In
   many areas, nerve fibers are also damaged. Inflammatory activity in MS patients tends to be
   highest in the initial phase of disease.
            Emerging data demonstrate that irreversible axonal loss occurs early in the course of
15 MS. Transected axons fail to regenerate in the central nervous system (CNS); and therefore,
   early treatment aimed at suppressing MS lesion formation is of importance. As early as disease
   onset, axons are transected in lesions with active inflammation (Trapp et al. (1998) NEngl J
   Med 338: 278-285; Bjartmar et al. (2001) Curr Opin Neurol 14: 271-278; Ferguson et al.
   (1997) Brain 120: 393-399). The degree of demyelination is related to the degree of
20 inflammation and the exposure of demyelinated axons to the inflammatory environment, as
   well as non-inflammatory mediators (Trapp et al. (1998) NEngl JMed 338: 278-285; Kornek
   et al. (2000) Am JPathol 157: 267-276; Bitsch et al. (2000) Brain 123: 1174-1183). There is
   also destruction of oligodendrocytes with impaired remyelination in demyelinating lesions
   (Peterson et al. (2002) J NeuropatholExp Neurol 61: 539-546; Chang et al. (2002) NEngl J
25 Med 346: 165-173). The loss of oligodendrocytes leads to a reduction in the capacity to re
   myelinate and may result in the loss of trophic factors that support neurons and axons (Bjartmar
   et al. (1999) JNeurocytol 28: 383-395).
            Currently approved therapies for CNS demyelinating diseases, such as multiple sclerosis
   (MS), are primarily immunomodulatory, and typically do not have direct effects
                                                     - 1-

   on CNS repair. Although some degree of axonal remyelination by oligodendrocytes
   takes place early during the course of MS, the ability to repair the CNS eventually fails,
   leading to irreversible tissue injury and an increase in disease-related disabilities. Thus,
   there is a need for additional therapies that enhance remyelination and neuroaxonal
 5 protection in CNS demyelinating diseases, such as MS.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention provides, at least in part, methods and compositions for
   enhancing one or more of: myelination, re-myelination, oligodendrocyte numbers, or
10 neuroaxonal protection in a subject, e.g., a human (e.g., a human MS patient), while
   ameliorating an inflammatory condition in the subject. In certain embodiments, the
   methods and compositions described herein include a reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-i
   antagonist) and an immunomodulatory agent, in combination. In other embodiments, the
   reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-I antagonist) can be used to treat an inflammatory
15 condition of the optic nerve, e.g., optic neuritis (e.g., acute optic neuritis (AON). Thus,
   methods, compositions and kits described herein can be useful for treating a CNS
   disorder, e.g., a CNS demyelinating disease.
            Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention features a method of enhancing one or
   more of: myelination, re-myelination, oligodendrocyte numbers, or neuroaxonal
20 protection in a subject (e.g., a subject in need thereof). The method includes
   administering to the subject a reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-I antagonist) and an
   immunomodulatory agent, in an amount sufficient to enhance one or more of:
   myelination, re-myelination, oligodendrocyte numbers, or neuroaxonal protection.
            In a related aspect, the invention features a method of treating a CNS disorder,
25 e.g., a CNS demyelinating disease (e.g., multiple sclerosis), in a subject (e.g., a subject in
   need of treatment). The method includes administering to the subject a reparative agent
   (e.g., a LINGO-I antagonist) and an immunomodulatory agent, in an amount sufficient to
   reduce one or more symptoms associated with the disorder, thereby treating the disorder.
   In certain embodiments, said treatment includes: reducing one or more symptoms
30 associated with the disease; and/or reducing, retarding or preventing a relapse, or the
   worsening of a disability, in the subject.
                                                  -2-

           In another aspect, the invention features a kit that includes a reparative agent (e.g.,
   a LINGO-i antagonist) and an immunomodulatory agent, e.g., an agent as described
   herein. Optionally, the kit is labeled and/or contains instructions for use in treating a
   CNS disorder, e.g., a CNS demyelinating disease.
 5         In yet another aspect, the invention features a packaged composition (e.g., a
   packaged pharmaceutical composition) that includes a reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-i
   antagonist) and/or an immunomodulatory agent, e.g., an agent as described herein.
   Optionally, the packaged composition is labeled and/or contains instructions for use of
   the reparative agent and the immunomodulatory agent in combination in treating a CNS
10 disorder, e.g., a CNS demyelinating disease. The LINGO-i antagonist and/or the
   immunomodulatory agent can be in a form suitable for any route of administration, e.g.,
   peripheral administration (e.g., intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravitreal,
   intrathecal, or oral administration). The route of administration can be the same or
   different depending on the composition used. In one embodiment, the packaged
15 pharmaceutical composition includes a LINGO-I antagonist (e.g., an antibody against
   LINGO-1) in a form or preparation suitable for intravenous administration. In another
   embodiment, the packaged pharmaceutical composition includes an immunomodulatory
   agent (e.g., an interferon) in a form or preparation suitable for intramuscular
   administration. One or more agents can be included in the packaged pharmaceutical
20 composition.
           In yet another aspect, the invention features a method of treating an inflammatory
   condition of the optic nerve, e.g., optic neuritis (e.g., acute optic neuritis (AON), in a
   subject (e.g., a subject in need of treatment). The method includes administering to the
   subject a reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-I antagonist), in an amount sufficient to reduce
25 one or more symptoms associated with the condition, thereby treating the disorder. In
   certain embodiments, said treatment includes: reducing one or more symptoms
   associated with the condition or disease; and/or reducing, retarding or preventing a
   relapse, or the worsening of a disability, in the subject.
           Additional embodiments, features or improvements of any of the foregoing
30 methods, compositions and kits are as follows:
                                                  -3 -

   CNS disordersand CNS demyelinating diseases
            The CNS disorder (e.g., the CNS demyelinating disease) can be any condition,
   disease, disorder or injury associated with one or more of: demyelination,
 5 dysmyelination, axonal injury, loss of axonal area or axial diffusivity, or loss of neuronal
   synapsis/connectivity, and/or dysfunction or death of an oligodendrocyte or a neuronal
   cell. In certain embodiments, the CNS disorder affects the nervous system by causing
   damage to the myelin sheath of axons. In other embodiments, the CNS disorder includes
   Nogo receptor-i (NgR1-) mediated inhibition of axonal extension or neurite extension,
10 e.g., in the brain and spinal cord. In other embodiments, the CNS disorder has one or
   more inflammatory components. Exemplary CNS disorders include, but are not limited
   to, CNS demyelinating diseases, CNS injury, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS),
   Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, diabetic neuropathy,
   stroke, idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis (MS), optic
15 neuritis (e.g., acute optic neuritis), neuromyelitis optica (NMO), leukodystrophies,
   vitamin B 12 deficiency, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML),
   encephalomyelitis (EPL), acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), central pontine
   myelolysis (CPM), Wallerian Degeneration, adrenoleukodystrophy, Alexander's disease,
   Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease (PMZ), traumatic glaucoma, periventricular leukomalatia
20 (PVL), essential tremor, white matter stroke, or transverse myelitis. A CNS
   demyelinating disease can be chosen from one or more of the aforesaid disorders. In one
   embodiment, the CNS demyelinating disease is multiple sclerosis. In other embodiments,
   the CNS demyelinating disease is optic neuritis, e.g., acute optic neuritis.
25 Reparative agents
            In certain embodiments, the reparative agent causes one or more of: enhances
   myelination or re- myelination, enhances neuroaxonal protection, increases axonal
   extension, increases neuronal sprouting, and/or promotes oligodendrocyte numbers (e.g.,
   by increasing one or more of: survival or differentiation of oligodendrocytes).
30          In one embodiment, the reparative agent is an antagonist of LRR and Ig domain
   containing, Nogo receptor-interacting protein ("LINGO," e.g., LINGO-1). LINGO-1,
                                                 -4-

   previously called Sp35, is a cell surface glycoprotein that is selectively expressed in the
   adult CNS in neurons and oligodendrocytes, where it is believed to function as a negative
   regulator of oligodendrocyte differentiation, myelination, and remyelination. Thus,
   antagonism of LINGO-I can enhance myelination or re-myelination of axons, e.g., by
 5 oligodendrocytes, and enhance neuroaxonal protection in the CNS. LINGO-I has been
   described in International Applications PCT/US2006/026271, filed Jul. 7, 2006,
   PCT/US2004/008323, filed Mar. 17, 2004, PCT/US2005/022881, filed Jun. 24, 2005 and
   PCT/US2008/000316, filed Jan. 9, 2008, each of which is incorporated by reference in its
   entirety herein.
10         In one embodiment, the reparative agent, e.g., the LINGO-i antagonist, inhibits or
   reduces the expression or activity of LINGO-1, e.g., human LINGO-1.
           In one embodiment, the reparative agent, e.g., the LINGO-i antagonist, inhibits or
   reduces the formation and/or activity of a complex (e.g., a functional signaling complex)
   of the NgRi, p75, and LINGO-1; and/or NgRi, TAJ (TROY), and LINGO-1. In another
15 embodiment, the reparative agent, e.g., the LINGO-i antagonist, inhibits or reduces
   LINGO-I binding to NgR 1.
           In one embodiment, the reparative agent, e.g., the antagonist of LINGO-1, is an
   antibody molecule. In one embodiment, the antibody molecule reduces the formation
   and/or activity of a complex (e.g., a functional signaling complex) of the NgRi, p75, and
20 LINGO-1; and/or NgRI, TAJ (TROY), and LINGO-1. In one embodiment, the antibody
   molecule binds to at least one of the components of the complex (e.g., at least one of
   NgR1, p75, and LINGO-1; and/or NgR1, TAJ (TROY), and LINGO-1), and inhibits or
   reduces the functional signaling.
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule binds to LINGO, e.g., human LINGO.
25 In another embodiment, the antibody molecule binds to LINGO-1, e.g., human LINGO-1.
   The antibody molecule can be a monoclonal or single specificity antibody, or an antigen
   binding fragment thereof (e.g., an Fab, F(ab') 2, Fv, a single chain Fv fragment, a single
   domain antibody, a diabody (dAb), a bivalent or bispecific antibody or fragment thereof,
   a single domain variant thereof) that binds to LINGO-1, e.g., a mammalian (e.g., human
30 LINGO-I (or a functional variant thereof)). In one embodiment, the antibody molecule is
   a monoclonal antibody against LINGO-1, e.g., human LINGO-1. Typically, the antibody
                                                -5-

   molecule is a human, a humanized, a CDR-grafted, a chimeric, a camelid, or an in vitro
   generated antibody to human LINGO-I (or functional fragment thereof, e.g., an antibody
   fragment as described herein). Typically, the antibody inhibits, reduces or neutralizes
   one or more activities of LINGO-I (e.g., one or more biological activities of LINGO-I as
 5 described herein).
            The antibody molecule can be full-length (e.g., can include at least one, and typically
   two, complete heavy chains, and at least one, and typically two, complete light chains) or can
   include an antigen-binding fragment (e.g., a Fab, an F(ab') 2, an Fv, a single chain Fv fragment,
   or a single domain antibody or fragment thereof). In yet other embodiments, the antibody
10 molecule has a heavy chain constant region chosen from, e.g., the heavy chain constant region of
   IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgM, IgAl, IgA2, IgD, and IgE; particularly, chosen from, e.g., the
   (e.g., human) heavy chain constant regions of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. In another
   embodiment, the antibody molecule has a light chain constant region chosen from, e.g., the (e.g.,
   human) light chain constant regions of kappa or lambda. The framework region or constant
15 region of the antibody molecule can be altered, e.g., mutated, to modify the properties of the
   antibody (e.g., to increase or decrease one or more of: Fc receptor binding, antibody
   glycosylation, the number of cysteine residues, effector cell function, and/or complement
   function). In one embodiment, the framework or constant region of the antibody molecule is
   altered, e.g., mutated, to decrease one or more of: Fc receptor binding, antibody glycosylation,
20 the number of cysteine residues, effector cell function, and/or complement function. In one
   embodiment, the framework region of the antibody molecule is modified to reduce antibody
   glycosylation, effector cell and/or complement function. In one embodiment, the antibody
   molecule includes an aglycosyl framework.
            In another embodiment, the antibody molecule binds to LINGO-1, e.g., human
25 LINGO-1, and is an immunoglobulin G subclass I (IgG1). In certain embodiments, the
   antibody molecule is modified to reduce effector cell and complement function compared
   to wild-type IgGI. In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes an aglycosyl
   (IgGI) framework.
            In certain embodiments, the antibody molecule specifically binds to the same, or
30 substantially the same, LINGO-I epitope as the reference monoclonal antibody Li62 or
   Li8i, described in U.S. Patent No. 8,058,406 and U.S. Patent No. 8,128,926, both of
                                                -6-

   which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. In an embodiment, the
   antibody molecule comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of, an immunoglobulin
   heavy chain variable region (VH) wherein the CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3 regions are
   selected from the amino acid sequences shown in Table 3, or an amino acid sequence
 5 substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or
   95% identical to the amino acid sequences shown in Table 3; or at least 80%, 85%, 90,
   95% or 100% identical to the VH CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3 regions of the
   immunoglobulin heavy chain of Li62 or Li8 1).
           In some embodiments, the antibody molecule includes a VH that comprises,
10 consists essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ
   ID NO:8 or any one of SEQ ID NOs: 17 to 49, or an amino acid sequence substantially
   identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical
   thereto).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
15 CDR2, and CDR3 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ
   ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, respectively, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ
20 ID NOs: 2, 3, and 30, respectively, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
           In other embodiments, the antibody molecule includes an immunoglobulin light
   chain variable region (VL) wherein the CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3 regions are selected
   from the polypeptide sequences shown in Table 4, or an amino acid sequence
25 substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or
   95% identical to the amino acid sequences shown in Table 4; or at least 80%, 85%, 90%,
   95% or 100% identical to the VL CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3 regions of the
   immunoglobulin light chain of Li62 or Li8 1).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL wherein the VL CDR1,
30 CDR2, and CDR3 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ
                                                  -7-

   ID NOs: 14, 15, and 16, respectively, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL wherein the VL CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ
 5 ID NOs: 10, 11, and 12, respectively, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ
   ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, respectively; and a VL wherein the VL CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3
10 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 14, 15,
   and 16, respectively; or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an
   amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ
15 ID NOs: 2, 3, and 30, respectively; and a VL wherein the VL CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3
   comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of, the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 10, 11,
   and 12, respectively; or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an
   amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
           In other embodiments, the antibody molecule includes a VH selected from the
20 group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 5, and 53-85, or an amino acid sequence
   substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or
   95% identical to said SEQ ID NOs: 1, 5 and 53-85).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 or an amino acid
25 sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 5).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:66, or an amino
   acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
30 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 66).
                                                 -8-

           In yet other embodiments, the antibody molecule includes a VL selected from the
   group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 13, as shown in Table 4, or an amino acid
   sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NOs: 9 and 13, as shown in Table 4).
 5         In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13, or an amino
   acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
   85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 13).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL that comprises, consists
10 essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:9, or an amino acid
   sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 9).
           In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, or an amino acid
15 sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 5); and a VL that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13, or an amino
   acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
   85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 13).
20 In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:66, or an amino
   acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
   85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 66); and a VL that comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9, or an amino acid
25 sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 9).
           In another embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a heavy chain as shown
   below, that comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of, the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 275, or a sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid
30 sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto), as follows:
   EVQLLESGGG LVQPGGSLRL SCAASGFTFS AYEMKWVRQA PGKGLEWVSV
                                                 -9-

   IGPSGGFTFY ADSVKGRFTI SRDNSKNTLY LQMNSLRAED TAVYYCATEG
   DNDAFDIWGQ GTTVTVSSAS TKGPSVFPLA PSSKSTSGGT AALGCLVKDY
   FPEPVTVSWN SGALTSGVHT FPAVLQSSGL YSLSSVVTVP SSSLGTQTYI
   CNVNHKPSNT KVDKKVEPKS CDKTHTCPPC PAPELLGGPS VFLFPPKPKD
 5 TLMISRTPEV TCVVVDVSHE DPEVKFNWYV DGVEVHNAKT KPREEQYNSA
   YRVVSVLTVL HQDWLNGKEY KCKVSNKALP APIEKTISKA KGQPREPQVY
   TLPPSRDELT KNQVSLTCLV KGFYPSDIAV EWESNGQPEN NYKTTPPVLD
   SDGSFFLYSK LTVDKSRWQQ GNVFSCSVMH EALHNHYTQK SLSLSPG (SEQ ID
   NO: 275).
10         In other embodiments, the antibody molecule comprises, consists essentially of,
   or consists of, a light chain as shown below, comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
   ID NO: 276, or a sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at
   least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto), as follows:
   DIQMTQSPAT LSLSPGERAT LSCRASQSVS SYLAWYQQKP GQAPRLLIYD
15 ASNRATGIPA RFSGSGSGTD FTLTISSLEP EDFAVYYCQQ RSNWPMYTFG
   QGTKLEIKRT VAAPSVFIFP PSDEQLKSGT ASVVCLLNNF YPREAKVQWK
   VDNALQSGNS QESVTEQDSK DSTYSLSSTL TLSKADYEKH KVYACEVTHQ
   GLSSPVTKSF NRGEC (SEQ ID NO: 276).
           In another embodiment, the reparative agent, e.g., the antagonist of LINGO-1, is a
20 soluble LINGO molecule, e.g., a LINGO-I molecule (e.g., a fragment of LINGO-1), or a
   soluble form of a component of the LINGO-i complex (e.g., a soluble form of NgRI,
   p75, or TAJ (TROY)).
           A soluble form of LINGO or a complex component can be used alone or
   functionally linked (e.g., by chemical coupling, genetic or polypeptide fusion, non
25 covalent association or otherwise) to a second moiety, e.g., an immunoglobulin Fc
   domain, serum albumin, pegylation, a GST, Lex-A, an MBP polypeptide sequence, or an
   antibody (e.g., a bispecific or a multispecific antibody). The fusion proteins may
   additionally include a linker sequence joining the first moiety, e.g., the soluble form of
   LINGO-I or the complex component, to the second moiety. In other embodiments,
30 additional amino acid sequences can be added to the N- or C-terminus of the fusion
   protein to facilitate expression, steric flexibility, detection and/or isolation or purification.
                                                  - 10-

   For example, a soluble form of LINGO-I or a complex component can be fused to a
   heavy chain constant region of the various isotypes, including: IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4,
   IgM, IgA1, IgA2, IgD, and IgE. Typically, the fusion protein can include the
   extracellular domain of LINGO or the complex component (or a sequence homologous
 5 thereto), and, e.g., fused to, a human immunoglobulin Fc chain, e.g., a human IgG (e.g., a
   human IgGI or a human IgG2, or a mutated form thereof). The Fc sequence can be
   mutated at one or more amino acids to reduce effector cell function, Fc receptor binding
   and/or complement activity.
           In another embodiment, one or more reparative agents are added in combination.
10 For example, a LINGO-I antagonist can be added in combination with another
   remyelinating agent.
   Immunomodulatory agents
           The methods, kits and compositions described herein can include one or more
15 immunomodulatory agents. In certain embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is
   chosen from one or more of:
           an IFN-P 1 molecule;
           a polymer of glutamic acid, lysine, alanine and tyrosine, e.g., glatiramer (e.g.,
   Copaxone®);
20         an antibody or fragment thereof against alpha-4 integrin, e.g., natalizumab (e.g.,
   Tysabri®);
           an anthracenedione molecule, e.g., mitoxantrone (e.g., Novantrone®);
           a fingolimod, e.g., FTY720 (e.g., Gilenya@);
           a dimethyl fumarate, e.g., an oral dimethyl fumarate (e.g., Tecfidera@);
25         an antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T cells, e.g., daclizumab;
           an antibody against CD52, e.g., alemtuzumab (e.g., CAMPATH);
           an inhibitor of a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, e.g., leflunomide or an active
   metabolite thereof, e.g., teriflunomide (e.g., AUBAGIO);
           an antibody to CD20, e.g., ocrelizumab;
30         a Sphingosine 1-phosphate (SIP) modulating agent, e.g., as described in WO
   2012/109108; or
                                                 - 11 -

           a corticosteroid.
           In one embodiment, the immunomodulatory agent is an IFN-P 1 molecule. The
   IFN-P 1 molecule can be chosen from one or more of an IFN-Pla or IFN-P lb
   polypeptide, a variant, a homologue, a fragment or a pegylated variant thereof.
 5         In one embodiment, the IFN-P 1 molecule includes an IFNP agent chosen from an
   IFN- Pla molecule, an IFN- Plb molecule, or a pegylated variant of an IFN- Pla molecule
   or an IFN-P lb molecule.
           In one embodiment, the IFNP1 molecule is an IFN-Pla agent (e.g., Avonex@,
   Rebif®). In another embodiment, the IFNP1 molecule is an INF-Plb agent (e.g.,
10 Betaseron@, Betaferon@ or Extavia@).
           In one embodiment, the immunomodulatory agent is a polymer of glutamic acid,
   lysine, alanine and tyrosine, e.g., glatiramer (e.g., Copaxone®).
           In one embodiment, the immunomodulatory agent is an antibody or fragment
   thereof against alpha-4 integrin (e.g., natalizumab (e.g., Tysabri@)).
15         In yet other embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an anthracenedione
   molecule (e.g., mitoxantrone (e.g., Novantrone@)).
           In yet another embodiment, the immunomodulatory agent is a fingolimod (e.g.,
   FTY720; e.g., Gilenya@).
           In one embodiment, the immunomodulatory agent is a dimethyl fumarate (e.g., an
20 oral dimethyl fumarate (e.g., BG-12)).
           In other embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an antibody to the alpha
   subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T cells (e.g., Daclizumab).
           In other embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an antibody to CD20, e.g.,
   ocrelizumab.
25         In other embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is a corticosteroid, e.g.,
   methylprednisolone (e.g., high dose corticosteroid, e.g., methylprednisolone).
           In certain embodiments, the method further includes the use of one or more
   symptom management therapies, such as antidepressants, analgesics, anti-tremor agents,
   among others.
30         Any combination of the reparative agent (e.g., one or more reparative agents
   described herein, e.g., a LINGO-i antagonist) and an immunomodulatory agent (e.g., one
                                                 - 12-

   or more immunomodulatory agents described herein) can be used in the methods, kits and
   compositions described herein. For example, the reparative agent can be combined with
   a polymer of glutamic acid, lysine, alanine and tyrosine, e.g., glatiramer. In other
   embodiments, the reparative agent can be combined with an antibody or fragment thereof
 5 against alpha-4 integrin, e.g., natalizumab. In yet another embodiment, the reparative
   agent can be combined with an anthracenedione molecule, e.g., mitoxantrone. In yet
   another embodiment, the reparative agent can be combined with a fingolimod, e.g.,
   FTY720. In yet another embodiment, the reparative agent can be combined with a
   dinethyl fumarate, e.g., an oral dinethyl fumarate. In other embodiments, the reparative
10 agent can be combined with an antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T
   cells, e.g., daclizumab. In yet another embodiment, the reparative agent can be combined
   with an antibody against CD52, e.g., alemtuzumab. In yet another embodiment, the
   reparative agent can be combined with an inhibitor of a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase,
   e.g., teriflunomide. In another embodiment, the reparative agent can be combined with
15 an antibody to CD20, e.g., ocrelizumab. In another embodiment, the reparative agent can
   be combined with a corticosteroid, e.g., methylprednisolone. In one embodiment, the
   reparative agent can be combined with a SIP modulating agent.
            In other embodiment, the reparative agent is combined with two, three, four or
   more immunomodulatory agents, e.g., two, three, four or more of the immunomodulatory
20 agents described herein. In one exemplary embodiment, a combination of a LINGO
   antagonist, an IFN-P 1 molecule and a corticosteroid is used. In other embodiments, a
   combination of a LINGO antagonist, an IFN-P 1 molecule and a polymer of glutamic
   acid, lysine, alanine and tyrosine, e.g., glatiramer, is used. In yet other embodiments, a
   combination of a LINGO antagonist, an IFN-P 1 molecule and an antibody or fragment
25 thereof against alpha-4 integrin, e.g., natalizumab, is used.
            In certain embodiment of the methods, kits and compositions described herein,
   the reparative agent is an antibody molecule against LINGO-1, e.g., an anti-LINGO
   antibody as described herein, and the immunosuppressive agent is an IFN-P 1 molecule,
   e.g., an IFN-P 1 molecule as described herein.
30
                                                  - 13 -

   Combination therapy and timing of administration
           The combinations of reparative agent (e.g., LINGO-i antagonist) and the
   immunomodulatory agent described herein can be administered in any order, e.g.,
   concurrently or sequentially as described herein. In one embodiment, the reparative
 5 agent and the immunomodulatory agent are administered concurrently. In another
   embodiment, the reparative agent and the immunomodulatory agent are administered
   sequentially. For example, the administration of the reparative agent and the
   immunomodulatory agent can overlap, at least in part or completely, with each other.
           In certain embodiments, initiation of the administration of the immunomodulatory
10 agent and the reparative agent occurs at the same time. In other embodiments, the
   immunomodulatory agent is administered before initiating treatment with the reparative
   agent. In yet other embodiments, the reparative agent is administered before initiating
   treatment with the immunomodulatory agent. In another embodiment, the administration
   of the immunomodulatory agent continues after cessation of administration of the
15 reparative agent. In other embodiments, administration of the reparative agent continues
   after cessation of administration of the immunomodulatory agent. In other embodiments,
   administration of the reparative agent continues intermittently (e.g., for 2 or 3 months
   every 3 or 6 or 12 months, or for 3-6 months every 1-2 years) while the
   immunomodulatory agent is given continuously.
20         In certain embodiments, the reparative agent is an antibody molecule against
   LINGO-I and is administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly. In one
   embodiment, the antibody molecule is administered intravenously. In such embodiments,
   the antibody molecule is administered at about 1 to 100 mg/kg (typically, at about 3
   mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg, about 30 mg/kg, about 50mg/kg or about 100 mg/kg). In some
25 embodiments, the antibody molecule is administered once every one, two, three, four or
   five weeks by IV infusion.
           In certain embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an IFN-P 1 molecule is
   administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly. For example, the IFN
    131 molecule can be administered at one or more of:
30         (i) at 20-45 microgram (e.g., 30 microgram), e.g., once a week via intramuscular
   injection;
                                               - 14-

            (ii) at 20-30 microgram (e.g., 22 microgram), e.g., three times a week, or at 40-50
   micrograms (e.g., 44 micrograms), e.g., once a week, via subcutaneous injection; or
            (iii) in an amount of between 10 and 50 ig intramuscularly, e.g., three times a
   week, or every five to ten days, e.g., once a week; or
 5          (iv) in an amount between 200 and 600 pig (e.g., between 250 and 500 pig), e.g.,
   every other day, via subcutaneous injection. In one embodiment, the IFN-P 1 molecule is
   an interferon P-lb (Betaseron@/Betaferon@, or Extavia@).
            In other embodiments, the reparative agent is an antibody molecule against
   LINGO-i and is administered once every four weeks by IV infusion dosed at about 3
10 mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg, about 30 mg/kg, 50mg/kg or about 100 mg/kg; and
            the immunomodulatory agent the IFN-P 1 is administered at one or more of:
            (i) at 20-45 microgram (e.g., 30 microgram), e.g., once a week via intramuscular
   injection;
            (ii) at 20-30 microgram (e.g., 22 microgram), e.g., three times a week, or at 40-50
15 micrograms (e.g., 44 micrograms), e.g., once a week, via subcutaneous injection; or
            (iii) in an amount of between 10 and 50 [tg intramuscularly, e.g., three times a
   week, or every five to ten days, e.g., once a week.
   Subjects
20          For any of the methods, compositions and kits disclosed herein, the subject
   treated, is a subject (e.g., a human) having, or at risk of having, a CNS disorder or a CNS
   demyelinating disease, e.g., as described herein.
            In one embodiment, the subject (e.g., the human) has, or is at risk of having, MS.
   The subject with MS can be at any stage of treatment. In certain embodiments, the
25 subject with MS is chosen from a human having one or more of: Benign MS, RRMS
   (e.g., quiescent RRMS, active RRMS), primary progressive MS (PPMS), or secondary
   progressive MS (SPMS), clinically isolated syndrome (CIS), or clinically defined MS
   (CDMS). In one embodiment, the subject is asymptomatic. In other embodiments, the
   subject has one or more MS-like symptoms, such as those having clinically isolated
30 syndrome (CIS) or clinically defined MS (CDMS). In other embodiments, the subject
                                                 - 15 -

   has one or more MS relapses (e.g. acute optic neuritis, transverse myelitis, brainstem
   syndrome).
           In one embodiment, the subject has a relapsing form of MS (e.g., RRMS or
   relapsing SPMS). In one embodiment, the subject has RRMS and has one or more
 5 ongoing clinical exacerbations and/or subclinical activity, e.g., as shown by gadolinium
   (Gd) enhancement or development of new and/or enlarged T2/FLAIR lesions on
   magnetic resonance imaging (e.g., brain or spinal cord MRI). In another embodiment,
   the subject has SPMS and has one or more ongoing clinical exacerbations and/or
   subclinical activity, e.g., as shown by gadolinium (Gd) enhancement or development of
10 new and/or enlarged T2/FLAIR lesions on magnetic resonance imaging (e.g., brain or
   spinal cord MRI). In one embodiment, the subject has an active form of MS, e.g., an
   active RRMS. In other embodiments, the MS subject has at least one newly developed
   lesion. In other embodiment, the MS subject has at least one pre-existing lesion. In one
   embodiment, the subject has RRMS, and has one or more newly developed or pre
15 existing lesions, or a combination thereof. In other embodiments, the subject has a
   baseline EDSS score of 1.5 to 7.
           In one embodiment, the subject is an MS patient (e.g., a patient with RRMS or
   SPMS) prior to administration of an MS therapy (a monotherapy or a combination
   therapy of the agents described herein). In one embodiment, the subject is a newly
20 diagnosed or an undiagnosed RRMS or SPMS patient or a subject with a radiologically
   isolated syndrome. In another embodiment, the subject is an MS patient (e.g., an RRMS
   patient) after administration of an MS therapy described herein (a monotherapy or a
   combination therapy of the agents described herein). In other embodiments, the subject
   is an MS patient after administration of the MS therapy for one, two weeks, one month,
25 two months, three months, four months, six months, one year or more.
   Subject Monitoring
           Alternatively, or in combination, with the methods disclosed herein, a method of
   evaluating, diagnosing, and/or monitoring the progression of, a CNS disorder or a CNS
30 demyelinating disease is disclosed. The method includes evaluating a subject (e.g., a
   patient, a patient group or a patient population), having the CNS disorder or CNS
                                                 - 16-

   demyelinating disease, or at risk of developing the disorder. In one embodiment, the
   subject is evaluated using (i) an assessment of neurological function (e.g., EDSS); and/or
   (ii) an assessment of physical function. For example, an assessment of physical function
   can include an assessment of ambulatory function (e.g., short distance and/or longer
 5 distance ambulatory function), alone or in combination with an assessment of upper
   and/or lower extremity function.
            In certain embodiments, the subject is evaluated by one or more of:
            performing a neurological examination;
            acquiring the subject's status on the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS);
10          acquiring the subject's status on the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite
            (MSFC);
            detecting the subject's lesion status, e.g., as assessed using an MRI;
            acquiring a measure of upper and/or lower extremity function;
            acquiring a measure of ambulatory function (e.g., short distance ambulatory
15          function) (e.g., Timed Walk of 25 Feet (T25FW)); or long distance ambulatory
            function (e.g. the 6 minute walk test (6MW);
            acquiring a measure of cognitive function (e.g., an MS-COG); or
            acquiring an assessment of visual function.
            In one embodiment, the measure of upper extremity function is acquired using a 9
20 Hole Peg Test (9HP).
            In other embodiments, the measure of short distance ambulatory function is
   acquired using a Timed Walk of 25 Feet (T25FW).
            In other embodiments, the measure of long distance ambulatory function is
   acquired using a 6 minute walk test (6MW).
25          In certain embodiments, an increase by at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or higher in
   a measure of extremity and/or ambulatory function is indicative of disease progression,
   e.g., a steady worsening of symptoms and/or disability, in the subject; and a decrease of
   at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or more in a measure of extremity and/or ambulatory
   function as described above is indicative of an improved outcome (e.g., a decrease in
30 disease progression or an improved condition) in the subject.
                                                  - 17-

            In certain embodiments, the subject is evaluated using an assessment of
   neurological function, e.g., EDSS. In some embodiments, the EDSS includes an
   assessment of neurological function, an assessment of ambulatory function, or both. In
   one embodiment, an EDSS score is calculated based on a combination of one or more
 5 scores for the EDSS functional systems (FS) (e.g., one, two, three, four, five, six, or all
   seven individual scores for the EDSS FS chosen from visual, brainstem, cerebellar,
   motor, sensory, bladder/bowel or cognitive systems). In other embodiments, the EDSS
   includes a score for ambulation. In one embodiment, the EDSS includes a determination
   of a subject's ambulation that includes an assessment of one or more (or all) of:
10 Unrestricted ambulation, e.g., without aid or rest for a predetermined distance (e.g., a
   distance greater or equal to 500, 300, 200, or 100 meters, or less than 200 or 100 meters);
   unilateral assistance; bilateral assistance; essentially or fully restricted to a wheelchair; or
   essentially or fully restricted to a bed.
            In one embodiment, the assessment of visual function is acquired by one or more
15 of: e.g., low-contrast letter acuity (LCLA), Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ),
   Functional Acuity Contrast Testing (FACT), VEPs (described e.g., in MacKay, AM
   (2008) Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 49(1):438-41), optical coherence tomography (OCT),
   some of which are described in, e.g., Balcer et al. (2010) Neurology 74 Suppl 3:S16-23;
   Bock, M. et al. (2012) Br J Ophthalmol. 96(1):62-7).
20          In yet other embodiments, the measure of cognitive function comprises an
   evaluation of a learning test, a memory test and/or an attention/processing speed test. For
   example, the measure of cognitive function can include an evaluation of one or more of
   auditory memory, verbal learning and/or remembering visual information (e.g., Selective
   Reminding Test (SRT)); tests for evaluating auditory/verbal memory (e.g., California
25 Verbal Learning Test Second Edition (CVLT2)), the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test
   (RAVLT); tests for evaluating visual/spatial memory (e.g., Brief Visuospatial Memory
   Test Revised (BVMTR)); processing speed cognitive tests, e.g., Paced Auditory Serial
   Addition Test (PASAT), Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT); MSNQ-information,
   MSNQ-subject, and/or SF-36. In one embodiment, the measure of cognitive function is
30 performed using a composite of MS cognitive endpoint that comprises SDMT, PASAT-3
   and -3, SRT-Total Learned (SRT-TL), SRT Delayed Recall (SRT-DR), and BVMTR
                                                  - 18-

   Delayed Recall (BVMTR-DR) (e.g., MS-COG as described in Cadavid et al,, 2 9 th
   Congress European Committee for Treatment and Research in MS (ECTRIMS), 2-5
   October 2013).
           In certain embodiments, the subject's lesion status is evaluated using magnetic
 5 resonance imaging. In one embodiment, the magnetic resonance imaging comprises
   magnetic transfer and/or diffusion tensor imaging.
           In certain embodiments, an improvement in the subject is defined by one or more
   of:
                a.   >1.0 point decrease in EDSS from a baseline score of <6.0;
10              b. >15% improvement from baseline in T25FW;
                c.   >15% improvement from baseline in 9HPT; or
                d.   >15% improvement from baseline in PASAT.
           In other embodiments, the method further includes one or more of the following:
           (i) identifying the subject as being in need of a therapy, e.g., a therapy as
15 described herein;
           (ii) identifying the subject as having an increased or a decreased response to a
   therapy, e.g., a therapy as described herein;
           (iii) identifying the subject as being stable, as showing an improvement in
   function or abilities (e.g., as being a disease non-progressor), or showing a decline in
20 function or abilities (e.g., as being a disease progressor);
           (iv) diagnosing, and/or prognosing the subject.
           The steps in the methods described herein (e.g., administration of the reparative
   agent and immunomodulatory agent ("administration step"), and subject monitoring
   and/or evaluating ("evaluating step") can be performed in any order. In one embodiment,
25 the administration step occurs prior to the evaluating step. In another embodiment, the
   evaluating step occurs prior to the administration step.
           Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
30 described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable
   methods and materials are described below. All publications, patent applications, patents,
                                                  - 19-

   and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In
   addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be
   limiting.
           Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed
 5 description, drawings, and from the claims.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           FIG. 1 depicts the region of interest (ROI) selection for the quantification of optic
   nerve axonal density in the mouse model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
10 (EAE).
           FIG. 2A is a line graph showing the survival curve of EAE mice treated with
   vehicle or anti-LINGO-i antibody. FIG. 2B is a line graph showing the development of
   complete paraplegia in EAE mice treated with vehicle or anti-LINGO-I antagonist.
           FIGS. 3A-3F contain images of the coronal optic nerve diffusion imaging in
15 mouse EAE. Diffusion direction is indicated by the small arrows. The right optic nerve
   location is indicated by the large arrows. FIG. 3A is an image of a T2 weighted localizer
   scan. FIG. 3B is an image of a diffusion weighted image perpendicular to the optic nerve.
   FIG. 3C is an image of a diffusion weighted scan parallel to the optic nerve. FIG. 3D is
   an image of a diffusion weighted image perpendicular to the optic nerve. FIG. 3E is an
20 enlargement of the optic nerve image of FIG. 3B. FIG. 3F is an enlargement of the optic
   nerve image of FIG. 3D.
           FIG. 4 is a bar graph depicting the optic nerve integrity analyzed by diffusion
   tensor imaging (DTI) in mouse EAE.
           FIG. 5 depicts the histological analysis of the optic nerve in EAE mice treated
25 with vehicle or anti-LINGO-I antibody or healthy mice.
           FIG. 6 depicts the measurement of axonal loss in the optic nerve in EAE mice
   treated with vehicle or anti-LINGO-I antibody or healthy mice. FIG. 6 includes
   measurements of optic nerve area (am 2 ), average central axon area (Pm 2), total central
   axon count, total peripheral axon count, total central axo-plasmal area (Pm 2), and total
30 peripheral axo-plasmal area (pm 2 ).
                                                - 20 -

           FIG. 7 depicts histological analysis of sections of optic nerve detected by anti-111
   tubulin staining and DAPI, respectively, after the following treatments: treatment group
   (Veh + control Antibody), methylprednisolone (MP), anti-LINGO-I antibody, and MP +
   anti-LINGO-i antibody.
 5         FIG. 8 is a bar graph reflecting the axonal segment count/field in the treatment
   groups indicated. The anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody treatment group (Veh + anti
   LINGO-i monoclonal antibody) showed 5-fold higher axonal numbers, suggesting that
   anti-LINGO-i monoclonal antibody treatment prevented axonal loss (FIG. 8). The
   combination treatment group (MP + anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody) showed an 8
10 fold increase in axonal numbers compared with the control treatment group (Veh +
   control Antibody.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Inflammatory demyelinating CNS diseases, such as MS, are a common cause of
15 non-traumatic neurological disability in young adults. Currently approved therapies for
   MS are primarily immunomodulatory, and do not have detectable direct effects on CNS
   repair. For example, the current standard of care for patients with relapsing MS includes
   the use of immunomodulatory drugs to reduce the frequency and severity of relapses and
   the accumulation of relapse-related physical disability, and to provide various
20 symptomatic treatment as needed such as for depression, bladder dysfunction, or walking
   impairment. Several immunomodulatory drugs are currently available for relapsing MS,
   including, but not limited to, different preparations of interferon 0 (interferon 0- i a given
   intramuscularly [IM] [Avonex] or subcutaneously [SC] [Rebif@], interferon j-lb
   [Betaseron/Betaferon@/Extavia@]), glatiramer acetate (Copaxone®), natalizumab
25 (Tysabri@), and fingolimod (Gilenya@). Short courses of corticosteroids are
   occasionally given with mixed success. Chemotherapeutic agents, such as mitoxantrone
   and cyclophosphamide, are occasionally used in cases of severe relapsing MS. Although
   some degree of axonal remyelination by oligodendrocytes takes place early during the
   course of MS, the ability to endogenously repair the CNS often fails, leading to
30 irreversible tissue injury and an increase in disease-related disability.
           Several preclinical studies have demonstrated a role for LINGO-I antagonism in
                                                 -21 -

   enhancing CNS remyelination and neuroaxonal protection in animal models of toxic
   injury (Cuprizone) (Mi et al. (2009) Ann Neurology, 65: 304-15), chemical injury
   (lysophosphatidylcholine [LPC]), and inflammatory demyelination (myelin
   oligodendrocyte glycoprotein- experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis [MOG
 5 EAE]) [Mi et al. (2007) Nat Med, 13: 1228-33); and of toxic (I-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6
   tetrahydropyridine [MPTP]) neuronal injury (Inoue et al. (2007) Proc Natl Acad Sci, 104:
   14430-5), traumatic/hypertensive optic nerve injury (Fu et al. (2008) Invest Opthalmol
   Vis Sci, 49: 975-85) and spinal cord injury (Ji et al. (2006) Mol Cell Neurosci, 33: 311
   20; Ji et al. (2008) Mol Cell Neurosci, 39: 258-67; Lv et al. (2010)
10 Neuroimmunomodulat, 17: 270-8). Thus, antagonizing LINGO-i with an anti-LINGO-i
   antibody can enhance remyelination and neuroaxonal protection in the CNS. An anti
   LINGO-I antibody can reach the CNS in sufficient concentrations to block LINGO-I in
   both axons and oligodendroyctes after peripheral administration. This in turn, can
   promote remyelination via differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPC)
15 normally present in the brain of MS patients.
            Binding of an anti-LINGO-I antibody to LINGO-I in axons and neurons can also
   provide neuroaxonal protection via blockade of signaling by myelin debris on the
   Nogo66 receptor-I(NgR1)/p75/LINGO-I receptor complex in the CNS. It has been
   proposed that the failure of axonal repair/neurite regeneration in MS can be due, at least
20 in part, to signaling of myelin debris on the NgRI/p75/LINGO-I complex and the
   NgRI/TROY/LINGO-I complex in damaged axons (Mi et al. (2004) Nat Neurosci, 7:
   221-8). Signaling on the NgRI receptor complex may interfere not only with axonal
   regeneration (Yamashita et al. (2005) Mol Neurobiol, 32: 105-11), but also with neuronal
   survival following neuroaxonal injury (Mi et al. (2004) Nat Neurosci, 7: 221-8; Fu et al.
25 (2008) Invest Opthalmol Vis Sci, 49: 975-85; Zhao et al. (2008) Cell Mol Neurobiol, 28:
   727-35).
            Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that newly developed
   lesions may be easier to repair and remyelinate due, at least in part, to the greater
   preservation of axons and lesser interference from glial scar (Jasmin and Ohara (2002)
30 Neuroscientists 8(3):198-203; Vick et al. (1992) J. Neurotrauma9 Suppl 1:S93-103).
   However, reparative effects of LINGO-i antagonists on pre-existing lesions can also
                                                - 22 -

   occur. For example, the efficacy of an anti-LINGO-I antibody treatment in pre-existing
   lesions is supported by (1) the finding that OPCs are found in chronically demyelinated
   MS lesions, (2) animal studies that show the ability of chronically demyelinated brain
   lesions to be remyelinated, and (3) studies showing the enhancement of remyelination by
 5 LINGO-i blockade in established demyelinated lesions (e.g., in the Cuprizone model).
           Thus, antagonism of LINGO-I with an anti-LINGO-I antibody can enhance
   remyelination and neuroaxonal protection in CNS demyelinating diseases such as MS
   and acute optic neuritis, leading to improved CNS repair with corresponding beneficial
   effects on neurological function and disability. Since an anti-LINGO-I antibody does not
10 have detectable immunomodulatory effects on the inflammatory component of MS
   pathogenesis, concurrent administration with an immunomodulatory agent is desirable.
   Therefore, combination treatments of an immunomodulatory agent, e.g., IFN- agent,
   e.g., Avonex@; with a reparative agent, e.g., anti-LINGO-i antibody, are disclosed.
           The present invention provides, at least in part, methods, composition and kits for
15 enhancing one or more of: myelination, re-myelination, oligodendrocyte numbers, or
   neuroaxonal protection in a subject, e.g., a human (e.g., a human MS patient), while
   ameliorating an inflammatory condition in the subject. Such methods, compositions and
   kits described herein are useful for treating a CNS disorder, e.g., a CNS demyelinating
   disease. Accordingly, methods, composition and kits include a reparative agent (e.g., a
20 LINGO-i antagonist) and an immunomodulatory agent, in combination, as described
   herein.
           In other embodiments, the reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-i antagonist) can be
   used to treat an inflammatory condition of the optic nerve, e.g., optic neuritis (e.g., acute
   optic neuritis (AON). Thus methods and compositions comprising a reparative agent for
25 treating an inflammatory condition of the optic nerve, e.g., optic neuritis (e.g., AON) are
   also disclosed.
           The term "reparative agent" as used herein includes any agent that causes one or
   more of: enhances myelination, re- myelination, enhances neuroaxonal protection,
   increases axonal extension, increases neuronal sprouting, and/or promotes
30 oligodendrocyte numbers (e.g., by increasing one or more of: survival or differentiation
   of oligodendrocytes), without having a substantial (e.g., a detectable) immunomodulatory
                                                 -23 -

   effect. In one embodiment, the reparative agent is a LINGO-I antagonist, e.g., a LINGO
   1 antagonist as described herein.
           Various aspects of the invention are described in further detail in the following
   subsections.
 5
   Definitions
           As used herein, each of the following terms has the meaning associated with it in
   this section.
           As used herein, the articles "a" and "an" refer to one or to more than one (e.g., to at least
10 one) of the grammatical object of the article.
           The term "or" is used herein to mean, and is used interchangeably with, the term
   "and/or", unless context clearly indicates otherwise.
           The terms "proteins" and "polypeptides" are used interchangeably herein.
            "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for the
15 quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Exemplary degrees of
   error are within 20 percent (%), typically, within 10%, and more typically, within 5% of a given
   value or range of values.
           "Acquire" or "acquiring" as the terms are used herein, refer to obtaining
   possession of, determining, or evaluating, a desired result, e.g., a value, e.g., a numerical
20 value, by "directly acquiring" or "indirectly acquiring" the result. "Directly acquiring"
   means performing a process (e.g., performing a test, e.g., a measure of upper and/or
   lower extremity function, and/or ambulatory function) to obtain the result, e.g., the value.
   "Indirectly acquiring" refers to receiving the result, e.g., the value, from another party or
   source (e.g., a third party clinician or health professional that directly acquired the value).
25         A "CNS disorder" (e.g., a "CNS demyelinating disease") can be any disease,
   disorder or injury associated with one or more of: demyelination, dysmyelination, axonal
   injury, and/or dysfunction or death of an oligodendrocyte or a neuronal cell, or loss of
   neuronal synapsis/connectivity. In certain embodiments, the CNS disorder affects the
   nervous system by causing damage to the myelin sheath of axons. In other embodiments,
30 the CNS disorder includes Nogo receptor-i (NgRi-) mediated inhibition of axonal
   extension or neurite extension, e.g., in the brain and spinal cord. In other embodiments,
                                                  - 24 -

   the CNS disorder has one or more inflammatory components. In one embodiment, the
   CNS disorder (e.g., the CNS demyelinating disease) is multiple sclerosis. The CNS
   disorder (e.g., the CNS demyelinating disease) is "treated," "inhibited" or "reduced," if at
   least one symptom of the disease or disorder is reduced, alleviated, terminated, slowed, or
 5 prevented.
           As used herein, multiple sclerosis is "treated," "inhibited," or "reduced," if
   recurrence or relapse of the disease is reduced, slowed, delayed, or prevented.
   Exemplary clinical symptoms of multiple sclerosis that can be used to aid in determining
   the disease status in a subject can include e.g., tingling, numbness, muscle weakness, loss
10 of balance, blurred or double vision, slurred speech, sudden onset paralysis, lack of
   coordination, cognitive difficulties, fatigue, heat sensitivity, spasticity, dizziness, tremors,
   gait abnormalities, speech/swallowing difficulties, and extent of lesions assessed by
   imaging techniques, e.g., MRI. Clinical signs of MS are routinely classified and
   standardized, e.g., using an EDSS rating system based on neurological examination and
15 long distance ambulation. For the lower end of the scale (1-5.5) a decrease of one full
   step indicates an effective MS treatment (Kurtzke, Ann. Neurol. 36:573-79, 1994), while
   an increase of one full step will indicate the progression or worsening of the disease (e.g.,
   exacerbation). For the higher end of the scale (5-7), a half a point typically indicates
   improvement (a reduction) or worsening (an increase).
20         As used herein, the "Expanded Disability Status Scale" or "EDSS" is intended to
   have its customary meaning in the medical practice. EDSS is a rating system that is
   frequently used for classifying and standardizing MS. The accepted scores range from 0
   (normal) to 10 (death due to MS). Typically patients having an EDSS score of about 4-6
   will have moderate disability (e.g., limited ability to walk), whereas patients having an
25 EDSS score of about 7 or 8 will have severe disability (e.g., will require a wheelchair).
   More specifically, EDSS scores in the range of 1-3 refer to an MS patient who is fully
   ambulatory, but has some signs in one or more functional systems; EDSS scores in the
   range higher than 3 to 4.5 show moderate to relatively severe disability; an EDSS score
   of 5 to 5.5 refers to a disability impairing or precluding full daily activities; EDSS scores
30 of 6 to 6.5 refer to an MS patient requiring intermittent to constant, or unilateral to
   bilateral constant assistance (cane, crutch or brace) to walk; EDSS scores of 7 to 7.5
                                                 -25 -

   means that the MS patient is unable to walk beyond five meters even with aid, and is
   essentially restricted to a wheelchair; EDSS scores of 8 to 8.5 refer to patients that are
   restricted to bed; and EDSS scores of 9 to 10 mean that the MS patient is confined to bed,
   and progressively is unable to communicate effectively or eat and swallow, until death
 5 due to MS.
            As used herein, a "disease progression" includes a measure (e.g., one or more
   measures) of a worsening of one or more symptoms and/or disability in a subject. In
   certain embodiments, disease progression is evaluated as a steady worsening of one or
   more symptoms and/or disability over time, as opposed to a relapse, which is relatively
10 short in duration. In certain embodiments, the disease progression is evaluated in a
   subject with a relapsing form of MS (e.g., RRMS) or a progressive form of MS (e.g., a
   subject with primary or secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS or SPMS,
   respectively), or a subject with progressive-relapsing MS (PRMS)).
            In certain embodiments, the evaluation of disease progression includes a measure
15 of upper extremity function (e.g., a 9HP assessment). Alternatively or in combination,
   disease progression includes a measure of lower extremity function. Alternatively or in
   combination, disease progression includes a measure of ambulatory function, e.g., short
   distance ambulatory function (e.g., T25FW). Alternatively or in combination, disease
   progression includes a measure of ambulatory function, e.g., longer distance ambulatory
20 function (e.g., a 6-minute walk test). In one embodiment, the disease progression
   includes a measure of ambulatory function other than EDSS ambulatory function. In one
   embodiment, disease progression includes a measure of upper extremity function (e.g., a
   9HP assessment) and a measure of ambulatory function, e.g., short distance ambulatory
   function (e.g., T25FW). In one embodiment, disease progression includes a measure of
25 upper extremity function (e.g., a 9HP assessment) and a measure of lower extremity
   function. In one embodiment, disease progression includes a measure of upper extremity
   function (e.g., a 9HP assessment), a measure of lower extremity function, and a measure
   of ambulatory function, e.g., short distance ambulatory function (e.g., T25FW) and/or
   longer distance ambulatory function (e.g., a timed (e.g., 6-minute) walk test (e.g.,
30 6MWT)). In one embodiment, one, two or the combination of the T25FW, 6MWT and
   9HP assessments can be used to acquire a disease progression value. The measure of
                                                -26 -

   ambulatory function (e.g., short distance ambulatory function (e.g., T25FW) or longer
   distance ambulatory function (e.g., a timed (e.g., 6-minute) walk test (e.g., 6MWT))
   and/or measure of upper extremity function (e.g., a 9HP assessment) can further be used
   in combination with the EDSS to evaluate MS, e.g., progressive forms of MS.
 5          In one embodiment, a progressor is a subject who possesses a disease progression
   value reflecting at least one, two or all of the following criteria:
            a. confirmed progression in T25FW: Time taken for 25-foot walk increased by at
   least 15% or 20% of the baseline walk, confirmed at a second time point at least 3, 4, 5,
   or 6 months apart;
10          b. confirmed progression in a timed (e.g., 6-minute) walk test (e.g., 6MWT):
   Time taken for walk increased by at least 15% or 20% of the baseline walk, confirmed at
   a second time point at least 3, 4, 5, or 6 months apart;
            c. confirmed progression in 9HP: Time taken for 9-hole peg increased by at least
   15% or 20% of the time taken at baseline, confirmed at a second time point at least 3, 4,
15 5, or 6 months apart. The progression in 9HP can occur on either hand, but will have to
   be confirmed on the same hand; and/or
            d. confirmed progression in EDSS:
            (i) EDSS total score increase from baseline by at least 1 point, if the change in
   EDSS total score is determined (or primarily determined) by evaluating a change in
20 neurological function (e.g., one or more changes in neurological systems); and/or
            (ii) EDSS total score increased from baseline by at least 0.5 point if the change in
   EDSS total score is determined (or primarily determined) by a change in ambulatory
   function,
   if either or both of (i) or (ii) is/are confirmed on a second examination at least 3, 4, 5 or 6
25 months apart (typically, at least 6 months apart).
            Baseline values for the aforementioned tests (e.g., T25FW, 6MWT, EDSS, or
   9HP) can be determined using the best baseline value or the average baseline value.
            "Responsiveness," to "respond" to a treatment, and other forms of this term, as
   used herein, refer to the reaction of a subject to treatment with a therapy as described. As
30 an example, an MS subject responds to therapy if at least one symptom of multiple
   sclerosis (e.g., disease worsening) in the subject is reduced or retarded by about 10%,
                                                   -27 -

   20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or more. In another example, an MS
   subject responds to a therapy, if at least one symptom of multiple sclerosis in the subject
   is reduced by about 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% or more as determined by any
   appropriate measure, e.g., one or more of: a measure of upper or lower extremity
 5 function, a measure of ambulatory function, or an assessment of Expanded Disability
   Status Scale (EDSS). In another example, an MS subject responds to treatment with a
   therapy, if the subject has an increased time to progression. Several methods can be used
   to determine if a patient responds to a treatment including the assessments described
   herein, as set forth herein.
10         In certain embodiments, an improvement in the subject is defined by one or more
   of:
                a.   >1.0 point decrease in EDSS from a baseline score of <6.0;
                b. >15% improvement from baseline in T25FW;
                c. >15% improvement from baseline in 9HPT; or
15              d. >15% improvement from baseline in PASAT.
           A "non-responder" or "progressor" refers to a subject, e.g., an MS patient, if in
   response to a therapy (e.g., a therapy described herein), at least one symptom or disability
   of multiple sclerosis in the subject is reduced by less than about 5%, as determined by
   any appropriate measure, e.g., one or more of: a measure of upper or lower extremity
20 function, a measure of ambulatory function, a measure of cognitive function, or an
   assessment of Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS).
           The methods, compositions and kits disclosed herein encompass polypeptides and nucleic
   acids having the sequences specified, or sequences substantially identical or similar thereto, e.g.,
   sequences at least 85%, 90%, 95% identical or higher to the sequence specified. In the context
25 of an amino acid sequence, the term "substantially identical" is used herein to refer to a first
   amino acid that contains a sufficient or minimum number of amino acid residues that are i)
   identical to, or ii) conservative substitutions of aligned amino acid residues in a second amino
   acid sequence such that the first and second amino acid sequences can have a common structural
   domain and/or common functional activity. For example, amino acid sequences that contain a
30 common structural domain having at least about 85%, 90%. 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
   97%, 98% or 99% identity to a sequence described herein are termed substantially identical.
                                                  -28 -

            In the context of nucleotide sequence, the term "substantially identical" is used herein to
   refer to a first nucleic acid sequence that contains a sufficient or minimum number of nucleotides
   that are identical to aligned nucleotides in a second nucleic acid sequence such that the first and
   second nucleotide sequences encode a polypeptide having common functional activity, or encode
 5 a common structural polypeptide domain or a common functional polypeptide activity. For
   example, nucleotide sequences having at least about 85%, 90%. 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%,
   96%, 97%, 98% or 99% identity to a sequence described herein are termed substantially
   identical.
            Calculations of homology or sequence identity between sequences (the terms are used
10 interchangeably herein) are performed as follows.
            To determine the percent identity of two amino acid sequences, or of two nucleic acid
   sequences, the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes (e.g., gaps can be
   introduced in one or both of a first and a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal
   alignment and non-homologous sequences can be disregarded for comparison purposes). In a
15 preferred embodiment, the length of a reference sequence aligned for comparison purposes is at
   least 30%, preferably at least 40%, more preferably at least 50%, 60%, and even more preferably
   at least 70%, 80%, 90%, 100% of the length of the reference sequence. The amino acid residues
   or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared.
   When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide
20 as the corresponding position in the second sequence, then the molecules are identical at that
   position (as used herein amino acid or nucleic acid "identity" is equivalent to amino acid or
   nucleic acid "homology").
            The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical
   positions shared by the sequences, taking into account the number of gaps, and the length of each
25 gap, which need to be introduced for optimal alignment of the two sequences.
            The comparison of sequences and determination of percent identity between two
   sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. In a preferred embodiment, the
   percent identity between two amino acid sequences is determined using the Needleman and
   Wunsch ((1970) J. Mol. Biol. 48:444-453 ) algorithm which has been incorporated into the GAP
30 program in the GCG software package (available at http://www.gcg.com), using either a
   Blossum 62 matrix or a PAM250 matrix, and a gap weight of 16, 14, 12, 10, 8, 6, or 4 and a
                                                 - 29 -

   length weight of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. In yet another preferred embodiment, the percent identity
   between two nucleotide sequences is determined using the GAP program in the GCG software
   package (available at http://www.gcg.com), using a NWSgapdna.CMP matrix and a gap weight
   of 40, 50, 60, 70, or 80 and a length weight of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. A particularly preferred set of
 5 parameters (and the one that should be used unless otherwise specified) are a Blossum 62 scoring
   matrix with a gap penalty of 12, a gap extend penalty of 4, and a frameshift gap penalty of 5.
           The percent identity between two amino acid or nucleotide sequences can be determined
   using the algorithm of E. Meyers and W. Miller ((1989) CABIOS, 4:11-17) which has been
   incorporated into the ALIGN program (version 2.0), using a PAM120 weight residue table, a gap
10 length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4.
           The nucleic acid and protein sequences described herein can be used as a "query
   sequence" to perform a search against public databases to, for example, identify other family
   members or related sequences. Such searches can be performed using the NBLAST and
   XBLAST programs (version 2.0) of Altschul, et al. (1990) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-10. BLAST
15 nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program, score = 100, wordlength = 12
   to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to BMP-10/BMP-10 receptor nucleic acid (SEQ ID
   NO: 1) molecules of the invention. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST
   program, score = 50, wordlength = 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to BMP
   10/BMP- 10 receptor (SEQ ID NO: 1) protein molecules of the invention. To obtain gapped
20 alignments for comparison purposes, Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et
   al., (1997) Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3389-3402. When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST
   programs, the default parameters of the respective programs (e.g., XBLAST and NBLAST) can
   be used. See http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
           Also included are fragments, derivatives, analogs, or variants of the polypeptides, and any
25 combination thereof. The terms "fragment," "variant," "derivative" and "analog" include any
   polypeptides which retain at least some of the properties of the corresponding native polypeptide.
   Fragments of polypeptides include proteolytic fragments, as well as deletion fragments. Variants
   of polypeptides include fragments as described above, and also polypeptides with altered amino
   acid sequences due to amino acid substitutions, deletions, or insertions. Variants may occur
30 naturally or be non-naturally occurring. Non-naturally occurring variants may be produced using
                                                 -30-

   art-known mutagenesis techniques. Variant polypeptides may comprise conservative or non
   conservative amino acid substitutions, deletions or additions.
            The term "functional variant" refers polypeptides that have a substantially identical amino
   acid sequence to the naturally-occurring sequence, or are encoded by a substantially identical
 5 nucleotide sequence, and are capable of having one or more activities of the naturally-occurring
   sequence.
            Derivatives of polypeptides are polypeptides which have been altered so as to exhibit
   additional features not found on the native polypeptide. Examples include fusion proteins.
            A "conservative amino acid substitution" is one in which the amino acid residue is
10 replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of amino acid
   residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art. These families include
   amino acids with basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic side chains
   (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine, asparagine,
   glutamine, serine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine,
15 valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan), beta
   branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and aromatic side chains (e.g.,
   tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine).
            Various aspects of the invention are described in further detail below. Additional
   definitions are set out throughout the specification.
20
   Reparative Agents
            Methods, composition and kits described herein include a combination of a
   reparative agent (e.g., a LINGO-I antagonist) and an immunomodulatory agent. In one
   embodiment, the reparative agent is an antagonist of LRR and Ig domain-containing,
25 Nogo receptor-interacting protein ("LINGO," e.g., LINGO-1). For example, the LINGO
   1 antagonist can inhibit or reduce the expression or activity of LINGO-1, e.g., human
   LINGO-1. In one embodiment, the LINGO-I antagonist inhibits or reduces the
   formation and/or activity of a complex (e.g., a functional signaling complex) of the
   NgRi, p75, and LINGO-1; and/or NgRi, TAJ (TROY), and LINGO-1. In another
30 embodiment, the LINGO-I antagonist inhibits or reduces LINGO-I binding to NgR1.
                                                -31 -

   LINGO-] and LINGO-] Antagonists
            LINGO-1, previously called Sp35, is a cell surface glycoprotein that is selectively
   expressed in the adult CNS in neurons and oligodendrocytes. LINGO-I is a member of a
   protein family comprising 3 other paralogs: LINGO-2 (GI: 12309630, 61% protein
 5 identity), LINGO-3 (GI: 23342615, 56% identity) and LINGO-4 (GI: 21211752, 44%
   identity). LINGO-I is highly conserved evolutionarily with human and mouse
   orthologues sharing 99.5% identity. By Northern blot analysis, LINGO-I was found to be
   highly expressed in human brain and was not detectable in non-neural tissues (Barrette et
   al. (2007) Mol Cell Neurosci, 34: 519-38; Carim-Todd et al. (2003) Eur Journal
10 Neurosci, 18: 3167-82; Llorens et al. (2008) Dev Neurobiol, 68: 521-41; Mi et al. (2004)
   Nat Neurosci, 7: 221-8; Okafuji et al. (2005) Gene Expr Patterns,6: 57-62; Park et al.
   (2006) Neurosci Lett, 404: 61-6; Shao et al. (2005) Neuron, 45: 353-9). LINGO-1 has
   also been described in detail in International Applications PCT/US2006/026271, filed Jul.
   7, 2006, PCT/US2004/008323, filed Mar. 17, 2004, PCT/US2005/022881, filed Jun. 24,
15 2005 and PCT/US2008/000316, filed Jan. 9, 2008, each of which is incorporated by
   reference in its entirety herein.
            LINGO-I is selectively expressed in both oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs)
   and neurons. LINGO-I functions as a negative regulator of oligodendrocyte
   differentiation myelination, and remyelination; preventing myelination of axons by
20 oligodendrocytes (Lee et al. (2007) JNeurosci,27: 220-5; Mi et al. (2005) Nat Neurosci,
   8: 745-51; Mi et al. (2008) Int JournalBiochem Cell Biol 40(10):1971-8; Mi et al. (2009)
   Ann Neurology, 65: 304-15). Axonal and neuronal expression of LINGO-I increases
   after injury (Ji et al. (2006) Mol Cell Neurosci, 33: 311-20). LINGO-I expression
   prevents myelination of axons by oligodendrocytes. Several preclinical studies have
25 demonstrated the potential for LINGO-1 antagonism to enhance CNS remyelination and
   neuroaxonal protection in animal models of toxic (Cuprizone) (Mi et al. (2009) Ann
   Neurology, 65: 304-15), chemical injury (lysophosphatidylcholine [LPC]), and
   inflammatory (myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein- experimental autoimmune
   encephalomyelitis [MOG-EAE]) [Mi et al. (2007) Nat Med, 13: 1228-33) demyelination;
30 and of toxic (I-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine [MPTP]) neuronal injury
   (Inoue et al. (2007) Proc Natl Acad Sci, 104: 14430-5), traumatic/hypertensive optic
                                                -32 -

   nerve injury (Fu et al. (2008) Invest Opthalmol Vis Sci, 49: 975-85) and spinal cord
   injury (Ji et al. (2006) Mol Cell Neurosci, 33: 311-20; Ji et al. (2008) Mol Cell Neurosci,
   39: 258-67; Lv et al. (2010) Neuroimmunomodulat, 17: 270-8). Remyelination and
   neuroaxonal protection can be provided via blockade of signaling by myelin debris and/or
 5 sulfated proteoglycans on the NgRI receptor complex in the CNS caused by the
   inhibition of LINGO-I in axons and oligodendroyctes. This in turn may promote
   remylination via differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) normally
   present in the brain of MS patients. Thus, antagonism of LINGO-I can enhance
   myelination or re-myelination of axons, e.g., by oligodendrocytes, and enhance
10 neuroaxonal protection in the CNS, and for example, in CNS demyelinating diseases such
   as multiple sclerosis (MS) and acute optic neuritis, leading to improved CNS repair.
            LINGO-1 is also known in the art by the names LRRN6, LRRN6A, FLJ14594,
   LERN1, MGC17422 and UNQ201. The human, full-length wild-type LINGO-I
   polypeptide contains an LRR domain consisting of 14 leucine-rich repeats (including N
15 and C-terminal caps), an Ig domain, a transmembrane region, and a cytoplasmic domain.
   The cytoplasmic domain contains a canonical tyrosine phosphorylation site. In addition,
   the naturally occurring LINGO-1 protein contains a signal sequence, a short basic region
   between the LRR-C-terminal domain (LRRCT) and Ig domain, and a transmembrane
   region between the Ig domain and the cytoplasmic domain. The human LINGO-I gene
20 (SEQ ID NO:52) contains alternative translation start codons, so that six additional amino
   acids, i.e., MQVSKR (SEQ ID NO:87) may or may not be present at the N-terminus of
   the LINGO-I signal sequence. Table 2 lists the LINGO-I domains and other regions,
   according to amino acid residue number, based on the LINGO-1 amino acid sequence
   presented herein as SEQ ID NO: 51. The LINGO-I polypeptide is characterized in more
25 detail in PCT Publication No. WO 2004/085648, which is incorporated herein by
   reference in its entirety.
30
                                                -33 -

                                             TABLE2
                                        LINGO-i Domains
   Domain or Region                       Beginning Residue                Ending Residue
 5 Signal Sequence                                 1                            33 or 35
   LRRNT                                      34 or 36                              64
   LRR                                             66                               89
   LRR                                             90                               113
   LRR                                             114                              137
10 LRR                                             138                              161
   LRR                                             162                              185
   LRR                                             186                              209
   LRR                                             210                              233
   LRR                                             234                              257
15 LRR                                             258                              281
   LRR                                             282                              305
   LRR                                             306                              329
   LRR                                             330                              353
   LRRCT                                           363                         414 or 416
20 Basic                                       415 or 417                           424
   Ig                                              419                              493
   Connecting sequence                             494                              551
   Transmembrane                                   552                              576
   Cytoplasmic                                     577                              614
25
            Tissue distribution and developmental expression of LINGO-I has been studied in
   humans and rats. LINGO-I biology has been studied in an experimental animal (rat)
   model. Expression of rat LINGO-i is localized to neurons and oligodendrocytes, as
   determined by northern blot and immuno-histochemical staining. Rat LINGO-I mRNA
30 expression level is regulated developmentally, peaking shortly after birth, i.e., ca.
   postnatal day one. In a rat spinal cord transection injury model, LINGO-i is up-regulated
   at the injury site, as determined by RT-PCR. See Mi et al. Nature Neurosci. 7:221-228
   (2004).
            In the context of the amino acids comprising the various structural and functional
35 domains of a LINGO-i polypeptide, the term "about" includes the particularly recited
   value and values larger or smaller by several (e.g., 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1) amino
   acids. Since the location of these domains as listed in Table 2 have been predicted by
   computer graphics, one of ordinary skill would appreciate that the amino acid residues
   constituting the domains may vary slightly (e.g., by about 1 to 15 residues) depending on
                                                -34 -

   the criteria used to define the domain.
            Full-length, wild-type LINGO-I binds to NgR1. See PCT Publication No. WO
   2004/085648. LINGO-i is expressed in oligodendrocytes and that the LINGO-i protein
   is involved in the regulation of oligodendrocyte-mediated myelination of axons. See U.S
 5 Patent Publication No. 2006/0009388 Al, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety.
            The nucleotide sequence for the full-length LINGO-I molecule is as follows:
   ATGCTGGCGGGGGGCGTGAGGAGCATGCCCAGCCCCCTCCTGGCCTGCTG
   GCAGCCCATCCTCCTGCTGGTGCTGGGCTCAGTGCTGTCAGGCTCGGCCA
10 CGGGCTGCCCGCCCCGCTGCGAGTGCTCCGCCCAGGACCGCGCTGTGCTG
   TGCCACCGCAAGCGCTTTGTGGCAGTCCCCGAGGGCATCCCCACCGAGAC
   GCGCCTGCTGGACCTAGGCAAGAACCGCATCAAAACGCTCAACCAGGACG
   AGTTCGCCAGCTTCCCGCACCTGGAGGAGCTGGAGCTCAACGAGAACATC
   GTGAGCGCCGTGGAGCCCGGCGCCTTCAACAACCTCTTCAACCTCCGGAC
15 GCTGGGTCTCCGCAGCAACCGCCTGAAGCTCATCCCGCTAGGCGTCTTCA
   CTGGCCTCAGCAACCTGACCAAGCTGGACATCAGCGAGAACAAGATTGTT
   ATCCTGCTGGACTACATGTTTCAGGACCTGTACAACCTCAAGTCACTGGA
   GGTTGGCGACAATGACCTCGTCTACATCTCTCACCGCGCCTTCAGCGGCC
   TCAACAGCCTGGAGCAGCTGACGCTGGAGAAATGCAACCTGACCTCCATC
20 CCCACCGAGGCGCTGTCCCACCTGCACGGCCTCATCGTCCTGAGGCTCCG
   GCACCTCAACATCAATGCCATCCGGGACTACTCCTTCAAGAGGCTCTACC
   GACTCAAGGTCTTGGAGATCTCCCACTGGCCCTACTTGGACACCATGACA
   CCCAACTGCCTCTACGGCCTCAACCTGACGTCCCTGTCCATCACACACTG
   CAATCTGACCGCTGTGCCCTACCTGGCCGTCCGCCACCTAGTCTATCTCC
25 GCTTCCTCAACCTCTCCTACAACCCCATCAGCACCATTGAGGGCTCCATG
   TTGCATGAGCTGCTCCGGCTGCAGGAGATCCAGCTGGTGGGCGGGCAGCT
   GGCCGTGGTGGAGCCCTATGCCTTCCGCGGCCTCAACTACCTGCGCGTGC
   TCAATGTCTCTGGCAACCAGCTGACCACACTGGAGGAATCAGTCTTCCAC
   TCGGTGGGCAACCTGGAGACACTCATCCTGGACTCCAACCCGCTGGCCTG
30 CGACTGTCGGCTCCTGTGGGTGTTCCGGCGCCGCTGGCGGCTCAACTTCA
   ACCGGCAGCAGCCCACGTGCGCCACGCCCGAGTTTGTCCAGGGCAAGGAG
   TTCAAGGACTTCCCTGATGTGCTACTGCCCAACTACTTCACCTGCCGCCG
   CGCCCGCATCCGGGACCGCAAGGCCCAGCAGGTGTTTGTGGACGAGGGCC
                                                -35 -

   ACACGGTGCAGTTTGTGTGCCGGGCCGATGGCGACCCGCCGCCCGCCATC
   CTCTGGCTCTCACCCCGAAAGCACCTGGTCTCAGCCAAGAGCAATGGGCG
   GCTCACAGTCTTCCCTGATGGCACGCTGGAGGTGCGCTACGCCCAGGTAC
   AGGACAACGGCACGTACCTGTGCATCGCGGCCAACGCGGGCGGCAACGAC
 5 TCCATGCCCGCCCACCTGCATGTGCGCAGCTACTCGCCCGACTGGCCCCA
   TCAGCCCAACAAGACCTTCGCTTTCATCTCCAACCAGCCGGGCGAGGGAG
   AGGCCAACAGCACCCGCGCCACTGTGCCTTTCCCCTTCGACATCAAGACC
   CTCATCATCGCCACCACCATGGGCTTCATCTCTTTCCTGGGCGTCGTCCT
   CTTCTGCCTGGTGCTGCTGTTTCTCTGGAGCCGGGGCAAGGGCAACACAA
10 AGCACAACATCGAGATCGAGTATGTGCCCCGAAAGTCGGACGCAGGCATC
   AGCTCCGCCGACGCGCCCCGCAAGTTCAACATGAAGATGATATGA. (SEQ ID NO: 52)
          The polypeptide sequence for the full-length LINGO-i polypeptide is as follows:
   MLAGGVRSMPSPLLACWQPILLLVLGSVLSGSATGCPPRCECSAQDRAVL
15 CHRKRFVAVPEGIPTETRLLDLGKNRIKTLNQDEFASFPHLEELELNENI
   VSAVEPGAFNNLFNLRTLGLRSNRLKLIPLGVFTGLSNLTKLDISENKIV
   ILLDYMFQDLYNLKSLEVGDNDLVYISHRAFSGLNSLEQLTLEKCNLTSI
   PTEALSHLHGLIVLRLRHLNINAIRDYSFKRLYRLKVLEISHWPYLDTMT
   PNCLYGLNLTSLSITHCNLTAVPYLAVRHLVYLRFLNLSYNPISTIEGSM
20 LHELLRLQEIQLVGGQLAVVEPYAFRGLNYLRVLNVSGNQLTTLEESVFH
   SVGNLETLILDSNPLACDCRLLWVFRRRWRLNFNRQQPTCATPEFVQGKE
   FKDFPDVLLPNYFTCRRARIRDRKAQQVFVDEGHTVQFVCRADGDPPPAI
   LWLSPRKHLVSAKSNGRLTVFPDGTLEVRYAQVQDNGTYLCIAANAGGND
   SMPAHLHVRSYSPDWPHQPNKTFAFISNQPGEGEANSTRATVPFPFDIKT
25 LIIATTMGFISFLGVVLFCLVLLFLWSRGKGNTKHNIEIEYVPRKSDAGI
   SSADAPRKFNMKMI. (SEQ ID NO: 51)
   Anti-LINGO-] Antibody Molecules
          In certain embodiments the antibody molecule binds to LINGO, e.g., human
30 LINGO. In another embodiment, the antibody molecule binds to LINGO-1, e.g., human
   LINGO-1. In one embodiment, the antibody molecule is isolated, purified or
   recombinant. By an "isolated" polypeptide or a fragment, variant, or derivative thereof is
   intended a polypeptide that is not in its natural milieu. No particular level of purification
                                                 -36-

   is required. For example, an isolated polypeptide can be removed from its native or
   natural environment. Recombinantly produced polypeptides and proteins expressed in
   host cells are considered isolated for purposed of the invention, as are native or
   recombinant polypeptides which have been separated, fractionated, or partially or
 5 substantially purified by any suitable technique.
            As used herein, the term "antibody molecule" refers to a protein comprising at
   least one immunoglobulin variable domain sequence. The term antibody molecule
   includes, for example, full-length antibodies, mature antibodies, fragments, e.g., antigen
   binding fragments of an antibody, derivatives, analogs, or variants of the antibodies
10 disclosed herein, and any combination thereof.
           The terms "fragment," "variant," "derivative" and "analog" when referring to LINGO-i
   antibody molecules or antibody polypeptides include any polypeptides which retain at least some
   of the antigen-binding properties of the corresponding native antibody or polypeptide. Fragments
   of polypeptides include proteolytic fragments, as well as deletion fragments, in addition to
15 specific antibody fragments discussed elsewhere herein. Variants of LINGO-i antibody and
   antibody polypeptides include fragments as described above, and also polypeptides with altered
   amino acid sequences due to amino acid substitutions, deletions, or insertions. Variants may
   occur naturally or be non-naturally occurring. Non-naturally occurring variants may be
   produced using art-known mutagenesis techniques. Variant polypeptides may comprise
20 conservative or non-conservative amino acid substitutions, deletions or additions. Derivatives of
   LINGO-I antibody molecules and antibody polypeptides are polypeptides which have been
   altered so as to exhibit additional features not found on the native polypeptide. Examples include
   fusion proteins.
           As used herein a "derivative" of a LINGO-I antibody molecule or antibody polypeptide
25 refers to a subject polypeptide having one or more residues chemically derivatized by reaction of
   a functional side group. Also included as "derivatives" are those peptides which contain one or
   more naturally occurring amino acid derivatives of the twenty standard amino acids. For
   example, 4-hydroxyproline may be substituted for proline; 5-hydroxylysine may be substituted
   for lysine; 3-methylhistidine may be substituted for histidine; homoserine may be substituted for
30 seine; and ornithine may be substituted for lysine.
                                                 -37 -

            For example, an antibody molecule can include a heavy (H) chain variable
   domain sequence (abbreviated herein as VH), and a light (L) chain variable domain
   sequence (abbreviated herein as VL). In another example, an antibody molecule includes
   two heavy (H) chain variable domain sequences and two light (L) chain variable domain
 5 sequence, thereby forming two antigen binding sites, such as Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, Fc, Fd,
   Fd', Fv, single chain antibodies (scFv for example), single variable domain antibodies,
   diabodies (Dab) (bivalent and bispecific), and chimeric (e.g., humanized) antibodies,
   which may be produced by the modification of whole antibodies or those synthesized de
   novo using recombinant DNA technologies. These functional antibody fragments retain
10 the ability to selectively bind with their respective antigen or receptor. Antibodies and
   antibody fragments can be from any class of antibodies including, but not limited to, IgG,
   IgA, IgM, IgD, and IgE, and from any subclass (e.g., IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4) of
   antibodies. The antibody molecules can be monoclonal or polyclonal. The antibody can
   also be a human, humanized, CDR-grafted, or in vitro generated antibody. The antibody
15 can have a heavy chain constant region chosen from, e.g., IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4.
   The antibody can also have a light chain chosen from, e.g., kappa or lambda.
            Examples of antigen-binding fragments include: (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent
   fragment consisting of the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; (ii) a F(ab')2 fragment, a
   bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge
20 region; (iii) a Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CHI domains; (iv) a Fv fragment
   consisting of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a diabody (dAb)
   fragment, which consists of a VH domain; (vi) a camelid or camelized variable domain;
   (vii) a single chain Fv (scFv), see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-426; and
   Huston et al. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883); (viii) a single domain
25 antibody. These antibody fragments are obtained using conventional techniques known
   to those with skill in the art, and the fragments are screened for utility in the same manner
   as are intact antibodies.
            Antibody molecules can also be single domain antibodies. Single domain antibodies can
   include antibodies whose complementary determining regions are part of a single domain
30 polypeptide. Examples include, but are not limited to, heavy chain antibodies, antibodies
   naturally devoid of light chains, single domain antibodies derived from conventional 4-chain
                                                 -38-

   antibodies, engineered antibodies and single domain scaffolds other than those derived from
   antibodies. Single domain antibodies may be any of the art, or any future single domain
   antibodies. Single domain antibodies may be derived from any species including, but not limited
   to mouse, human, camel, llama, fish, shark, goat, rabbit, and bovine. In one aspect of the
 5 invention, a single domain antibody can be derived from a variable region of the
   immunoglobulin found in fish, such as, for example, that which is derived from the
   immunoglobulin isotype known as Novel Antigen Receptor (NAR) found in the serum of shark.
   Methods of producing single domain antibodies derivied from a variable region of NAR
   ("IgNARs") are described in WO 03/014161 and Streltsov (2005) ProteinSci. 14:2901-2909.
10 According to another aspect of the invention, a single domain antibody is a naturally occurring
   single domain antibody known as heavy chain antibody devoid of light chains. Such single
   domain antibodies are disclosed in WO 9404678, for example. For clarity reasons, this variable
   domain derived from a heavy chain antibody naturally devoid of light chain is known herein as a
   VHH or nanobody to distinguish it from the conventional VH of four chain immunoglobulins.
15 Such a VHH molecule can be derived from antibodies raised in Camelidae species, for example
   in camel, llama, dromedary, alpaca and guanaco. Other species besides Camelidae may produce
   heavy chain antibodies naturally devoid of light chain; such VHHs are within the scope of the
   invention.
           The VH and VL regions can be subdivided into regions of hypervariability, termed
20 "complementarity determining regions" (CDR), interspersed with regions that are more
   conserved, termed "framework regions" (FR). The extent of the framework region and CDRs
   has been precisely defined by a number of methods (see, Kabat, E. A., et al. (1991) Sequences of
   Proteins of Immunological Interest, Fifth Edition, U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services, NIH Publication No. 91-3242; Chothia, C. et al. (1987) J. Mol. Biol. 196:901-917; and
25 the AbM definition used by Oxford Molecular's AbM antibody modelling software. See,
   generally, e.g., ProteinSequence and Structure Analysis of Antibody Variable Domains. In:
   Antibody Engineering Lab Manual (Ed.: Duebel, S. and Kontermann, R., Springer-Verlag,
   Heidelberg). Generally, unless specifically indicated, the following definitions are used: AbM
   definition of CDR 1 of the heavy chain variable domain and Kabat definitions for the other
30 CDRs. In addition, embodiments of the invention described with respect to Kabat or AbM
   CDRs may also be implemented using Chothia hypervariable loops. Each VH and VL typically
                                              -39 -

   includes three CDRs and four FRs, arranged from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in the
   following order: FRI, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4.
            As used herein, an "immunoglobulin variable domain sequence" refers to an amino acid
   sequence which can form the structure of an immunoglobulin variable domain. For example, the
 5 sequence may include all or part of the amino acid sequence of a naturally-occurring variable
   domain. For example, the sequence may or may not include one, two, or more N- or C-terminal
   amino acids, or may include other alterations that are compatible with formation of the protein
   structure.
            The term "antigen-binding site" refers to the part of an antibody molecule that comprises
10 determinants that form an interface that binds to LINGO-1, or an epitope thereof. With respect
   to proteins (or protein mimetics), the antigen-binding site typically includes one or more loops
   (of at least four amino acids or amino acid mimics) that form an interface that binds to LINGO-1.
   Typically, the antigen-binding site of an antibody molecule includes at least one or two CDRs, or
   more typically at least three, four, five or six CDRs.
15          The terms "monoclonal antibody" or "monoclonal antibody composition" as used herein
   refer to a preparation of antibody molecules of single molecular composition. A monoclonal
   antibody composition displays a single binding specificity and affinity for a particular epitope.
   A monoclonal antibody can be made by hybridoma technology or by methods that do not use
   hybridoma technology (e.g., recombinant methods).
20          An "effectively human" protein is a protein that does not evoke a neutralizing antibody
   response, e.g., the human anti-murine antibody (HAMA) response. HAMA can be problematic
   in a number of circumstances, e.g., if the antibody molecule is administered repeatedly, e.g., in
   treatment of a chronic or recurrent disease condition. A HAMA response can make repeated
   antibody administration potentially ineffective because of an increased antibody clearance from
25 the serum (see, e.g., Saleh et al., CancerImmunol. Immunother., 32:180-190 (1990)) and also
   because of potential allergic reactions (see, e.g., LoBuglio et al., Hybridoma, 5:5117-5123
   (1986)).
            In certain embodiments, the antibody molecule can be a monoclonal or single
   specificity antibody, or an antigen-binding fragment thereof (e.g., an Fab, F(ab') 2 , Fv, a
30 single chain Fv fragment, a single domain antibody, a diabody (dAb), a bivalent or
   bispecific antibody or fragment thereof, a single domain variant thereof) that binds to
                                                  -40 -

   LINGO-1, e.g., a mammalian (e.g., human LINGO-I (or a functional variant thereof)).
   In one embodiment, the antibody molecule is a monoclonal antibody against LINGO-1,
   e.g., human LINGO-1. Typically, the antibody molecule is a human, humanized, a CDR
   grafted, chimeric, camelid, or in vitro generated antibody to human LINGO-i (or
 5 functional fragment thereof, e.g., an antibody fragment as described herein). Typically,
   the antibody inhibits, reduces or neutralizes one or more activities of LINGO-I (e.g., one
   or more biological activities of LINGO-I as described herein).
           In certain embodiments, the antibody molecule specifically binds to the same, or
   substantially the same, LINGO-I epitope as the reference monoclonal antibody Li62 or Li8 1,
10 described in U.S. Patent No. 8,058,406, incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
   Exemplary anti-LINGO-I antibody molecules are described in U.S. Patent No. 8,058,406.
   In one embodiment, antibody molecule includes at least the antigen-binding domains of Li62,
   Li8i. As used herein, the term "antigen binding domain" includes a site that specifically binds
   an epitope on an antigen (e.g., an epitope of LINGO-1). The antigen binding domain of an
15 antibody typically includes at least a portion of an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region
   and at least a portion of an immunoglobulin light chain variable region. The binding site formed
   by these variable regions determines the specificity of the antibody.
           In other embodiments, the anti- LINGO-I antibody molecule competitively inhibits Li62
   or Li81 from binding to LINGO-1.
20         In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a particular LINGO-I polypeptide fragment or domain. Such LINGO-I
   polypeptide fragments include, but are not limited to, a LINGO-i polypeptide comprising,
   consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino acids 34 to 532; 34 to 417; 34 to 425; 34 to 493;
   66 to 532; 66 to 417; 66 to 426; 66 to 493; 66 to 532; 417 to 532; 417 to 425 (the LINGO-i basic
25 region); 417 to 493; 417 to 532; 419 to 493 (the LINGO- I1 g region); or 425 to 532 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; or a LINGO-I variant polypeptide at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% identical
   to amino acids 34 to 532; 34 to 417; 34 to 425; 34 to 493; 66 to 532; 66 to 417; 66 to 426; 66 to
   493; 66 to 532; 417 to 532; 417 to 425 (the LINGO-i basic region); 417 to 493; 417 to 532; 419
   to 493 (the LINGO- II g region); or 425 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:5 1.
30         In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a LINGO-i peptide fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or
                                                -41-

   consisting of one or more leucine-rich-repeats (LRR) of LINGO-1. Such fragments, include, for
   example, fragments comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino acids 66 to 89;
   66 to 113; 66 to 137; 90 to 113; 114 to 137; 138 to 161; 162 to 185; 186 to 209; 210 to 233; 234
   to 257; 258 to 281; 282 to 305; 306 to 329; or 330 to 353 of SEQ ID NO:51. Corresponding
 5 fragments of a variant LINGO-i polypeptide at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95%
   identical to amino acids 66 to 89; 66 to 113; 90 to 113; 114 to 137; 138 to 161; 162 to 185; 186
   to 209; 210 to 233; 234 to 257; 258 to 281; 282 to 305; 306 to 329; or 330 to 353 of SEQ ID
   NO:51 are also contemplated.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
10 preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of one or
   more cysteine rich regions flanking the LRR of LINGO-1. Such fragments, include, for example,
   a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino acids 34 to 64 of SEQ ID
   NO:51 (the N-terminal LRR flanking region (LRRNT)), or a fragment comprising, consisting
   essentially of, or consisting of amino acids 363 to 416 of SEQ ID NO:51 (the C-terminal LRR
15 flanking region (LRRCT)), amino acids Corresponding fragments of a variant LINGO-i
   polypeptide at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% identical to amino acids 34 to 64 and
   363 to 416 of SEQ ID NO:51 are also contemplated.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
20 acids 41 to 525 of SEQ ID NO:51; 40 to 526 of SEQ ID NO:51; 39 to 527 of SEQ ID NO:51; 38
   to 528 of SEQ ID NO:51; 37 to 529 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 530 of SEQ ID NO:51; 35 to 531
   of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 46 to 520 of SEQ ID NO:51; 45 to 521 of SEQ
   ID NO:51; 44 to 522 of SEQ ID NO:51; 43 to 523 of SEQ ID NO:51; and 42 to 524 of SEQ ID
   NO:51.
25         In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
   acids I to 33 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 35 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 64 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 64
   of SEQ ID NO:51; 66 to 89 of SEQ ID NO:51; 90 to 113 of SEQ ID NO:51; 114 to 137 of SEQ
   ID NO:51; 138 to 161 of SEQ ID NO:51; 162 to 185 of SEQ ID NO:51; 186 to 209 of SEQ ID
30 NO:51; 210 to 233 of SEQ ID NO:51; 234 to 257 of SEQ ID NO:51; 258 to 281 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; 282 to 305 of SEQ ID NO:51; 306 to 329 of SEQ ID NO:51; 330 to 353 of SEQ ID
                                                -42-

   NO:51; 363 to 416 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 424 of SEQ ID NO:51; 419 to 493 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; and 494 to 551 of SEQ ID NO:51.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
 5 acids I to 33 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 35 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 64 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 89 of
   SEQ ID NO:51; I to 113 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 137 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 161 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; 1 to 185 of SEQ ID NO:51; 1 to 209 of SEQ ID NO:51; 1 to 233 of SEQ ID NO:51; 1 to
   257 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 281 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 305 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 329 of SEQ
   ID NO:51; 1 to 353 of SEQ ID NO:51; 1 to 416 of SEQ ID NO:51; 1 to 424 of SEQ ID NO:51; 1
10 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 551 of SEQ ID NO:51; I to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51 and I to 532 of
   SEQ ID NO:51.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
   acids 34 to 64 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 89 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 113 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to
15 137 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 161 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 185 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 209 of
   SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 233 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 257 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 281 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; 34 to 305 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 329 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 353 of SEQ ID NO:51;
   34 to 416 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 424 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; and 34
   to 551 of SEQ ID NO:51.
20         In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
   acids 34 to 530 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34
   to 533 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 534 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 535 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 536
   of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 537 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 538 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 539 of SEQ
25 ID NO:51; 30 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 31 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 32 to 532 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; 33 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 35 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51;
   36 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 30 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 31 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 32 to
   531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 33 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 34 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 35 to 531 of
   SEQ ID NO:51; and 36 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51.
30         In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
                                               -43 -

   acids 36 to 64 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 89 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 113 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to
   137 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 161 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 185 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 209 of
   SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 233 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 257 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 281 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; 36 to 305 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 329 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 353 of SEQ ID NO:51;
 5 36 to 416 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 424 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; and 36
   to 551 of SEQ ID NO:51.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragments comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
   acids 36 to 530 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 531 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 532 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36
10 to 533 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 534 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 535 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 536
   of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 537 of SEQ ID NO:51; 36 to 538 of SEQ ID NO:51; and 36 to 539 of
   SEQ ID NO:51.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a fragment comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of amino
15 acids 417 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 495 of SEQ ID NO:51;
   417 to 496 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 497 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 498 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417
   to 499 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 500 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 492 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to
   491 of SEQ ID NO:51; 412 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; 413 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; 414 to 493
   of SEQ ID NO:51; 415 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; 416 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; 411 to 493 of
20 SEQ ID NO:51; 410 to 493 of SEQ ID NO:51; 410 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51; 411 to 494 of SEQ
   ID NO:51; 412 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51; 413 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51; 414 to 494 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; 415 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51; 416 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51; 417 to 494 of SEQ ID
   NO:51; and 418 to 494 of SEQ ID NO:51.
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
25 preferentially binds to a LINGO-i polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or
   consisting of peptides of the Ig domain of LINGO-I or fragments, variants, or derivatives of
   such polypeptides. Specifically, polypeptides comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting
   of the following polypeptide sequences: ITX 1X 2 X 3 (SEQ ID NO:88), ACX 1X 2 X 3 (SEQ ID
   NO:89), VCX1 X2 X 3 (SEQ ID NO:90) and SPX 1X 2 X 3 (SEQ ID NO:91) where X1 is lysine,
30 arginine, histidine, glutamine, or asparagine, X2 is lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, or
   asparagine and X3 is lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, or asparagine. For example, LINGO
                                                -44 -

   1 peptide fragments to which certain antibody molecules can bind include, those fragments
   comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of the following polypeptide sequences:
   SPRKH (SEQ ID NO:92), SPRKK (SEQ ID NO:93), SPRKR (SEQ ID NO:94), SPKKH (SEQ
   ID NO:95), SPHKH (SEQ ID NO:96), SPRRH (SEQ ID NO:97), SPRHH (SEQ ID NO:98),
 5 SPRRR (SEQ ID NO:99), SPHHH (SEQ ID NO:100) SPKKK (SEQ ID NO:101), LSPRKH
   (SEQ ID NO:102), LSPRKK (SEQ ID NO:103), LSPRKR (SEQ ID NO:104), LSPKKH (SEQ
   ID NO:105), LSPHKH (SEQ ID NO:106), LSPRRH (SEQ ID NO:107), LSPRHH (SEQ ID
   NO:108), LSPRRR (SEQ ID NO:109), LSPHHH (SEQ ID NO:110) LSPKKK (SEQ ID
   NO:111), WLSPRKH (SEQ ID NO:112), WLSPRKK (SEQ ID NO:113), WLSPRKR (SEQ ID
10 NO:114), WLSPKKH (SEQ ID NO:115), WLSPHKH (SEQ ID NO:116), WLSPRRH (SEQ ID
   NO:117), WLSPRHH (SEQ ID NO:118), WLSPRRR (SEQ ID NO:119), WLSPHHH (SEQ ID
   NO: 120) WLSPKKK (SEQ ID NO: 121). These LINGO-I polypeptides include the basic "RKH
   loop" (Arginine-Lysine-Histidine amino acids 456-458) in the Ig domain of LINGO-1.
   Additional LINGO-I peptides which include a basic tripeptide are ITPKRR (SEQ ID NO: 122),
15 ACHHK (SEQ ID NO: 123) and VCHHK (SEQ ID NO: 124).
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a LINGO-i polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or
   consisting of peptides of the Ig domain of LINGO-I or fragments, variants, or derivatives of
   such polypeptides. Specifically, peptides comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of
20 the following polypeptide sequences: X4 X 5RKH (SEQ ID NO: 125), X 4 X5 RRR (SEQ ID
   NO: 126), X 4X 5KKK (SEQ ID NO: 127), X 4X 5HHH (SEQ ID NO: 128), X 4X5 RKK (SEQ ID
   NO: 129), X 4X 5RKR (SEQ ID NO:130), X 4X 5KKH (SEQ ID NO:13 1), X4X 5HKH (SEQ ID
   NO:132), X 4 X 5RRH (SEQ ID NO:133) and X 4 X 5RHH (SEQ ID NO:134) where X 4 is any amino
   acid and X5 is any amino acid.
25         In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a LINGO-i polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or
   consisting of peptides of the Ig domain of LINGO-I or fragments, variants, or derivatives of
   such polypeptides. Specifically, polypeptides comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting
   of the following polypeptide sequences: ITX6 X 7 X8 (SEQ ID NO: 135), ACX 6 X 7 X8 (SEQ ID
30 NO:136), VCX6 X7 X8 (SEQ ID NO:137) and SPX6 X 7 X8 (SEQ ID NO:138) where X6 is lysine,
   arginine, histidine, glutamine, or asparagine, X 7 is any amino acid and X8 is lysine, arginine,
                                                -45 -

   histidine, glutamine, or asparagine. For example, a polypeptide comprising, consisting
   essentially of, or consisting of the following polypeptide sequence: SPRLH (SEQ ID NO: 139).
           In certain embodiments, the anti- LINGO-i antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a LINGO-i polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or
 5 consisting of peptides which contain amino acids 452-458 in the Ig domain of LINGO-1, or
   derivatives thereof, wherein amino acid 452 is a tryptophan or phenylalanine residue.
           In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a LINGO-i polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or
   consisting of peptides of the basic domain of LINGO-1. Specifically, peptides comprising,
10 consisting essentially of, or consisting of the following polypeptide sequences: RRARIRDRK
   (SEQ ID NO: 140), KKVKVKEKR (SEQ ID NO: 141), RRLRLRDRK (SEQ ID NO:142),
   RRGRGRDRK (SEQ ID NO: 143) and RRIRARDRK (SEQ ID NO: 144).
           Additional exemplary soluble LINGO-I polypeptides and methods and materials for
   obtaining these molecules for producing antibodies or antibody fragments of the present
15 invention may be found, e.g., in International Patent Application No. PCT/US2004/008323,
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           Methods of making antibodies are known in the art and described herein. Once antibodies
   to various fragments of, or to the full-length LINGO-I without the signal sequence, have been
   produced, determining which amino acids, or epitope, of LINGO-I to which the antibody or
20 antigen binding fragment binds can be determined by epitope mapping protocols as described
   herein as well as methods known in the art (e.g. double antibody-sandwich ELISA as described
   in "Chapter 11 --Immunology," Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Ed. Ausubel et al., v.2,
   John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1996)). Additional epitope mapping protocols may be found in Morris,
   G. Epitope Mapping Protocols, New Jersey: Humana Press (1996), which are both incorporated
25 herein by reference in their entireties. Epitope mapping can also be performed by commercially
   available means (i.e. ProtoPROBE, Inc. (Milwaukee, Wis.)).
           Additionally, antibodies produced which bind to any portion of LINGO-I can then be
   screened for their ability to act as an antagonist of LINGO-I and thus promote neurite outgrowth,
   neuronal and oligodendrocyte survival, proliferation and differentiation as well as promote
30 myelination. Antibodies can be screened for oligodendrocyte/neuronal survival for example by
   using the methods described herein such as in Examples II or 12 or as described in
                                                 -46 -

   PCT/US2008/000316, filed Jan. 9, 2008, and PCT/US2006/026271, filed Jul. 7, 2006, which are
   incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Additionally, antibodies can be screened for
   example by their ability to promote myelination by using the methods described herein such as in
   Examples 2, 6, 9, 10, 11 or 13 or as described in PCT/US2008/000316 and/or
 5 PCT/US2006/02627 1. Finally, antibodies can be screened for their ability to promote
   oligodendrocyte proliferation and differentiation, as well as neurite outgrowth for example by
   using the methods described herein such as in Examples 4 or 5 or as described in
   PCT/US2008/000316 and/or PCT/US2006/026271. Other antagonist functions of antibodies of
   the present invention can be tested using other assays as described in the Examples of US
10 8,058,406, incorporated by reference herein.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to at least one epitope of LINGO-1, where the epitope comprises, consists
   essentially of, or consists of at least about four to five amino acids of SEQ ID NO:5, at least
   seven, at least nine, or between at least about 15 to about 30 amino acids of SEQ ID NO:5. The
15 amino acids of a given epitope of SEQ ID NO:51 as described may be, but need not be
   contiguous or linear. In certain embodiments, the at least one epitope of LINGO-I comprises,
   consists essentially of, or consists of a non-linear epitope formed by the extracellular domain of
   LINGO-i as expressed on the surface of a cell or as a soluble fragment, e.g., fused to an IgG Fc
   region. Thus, in certain embodiments the at least one epitope of LINGO-I comprises, consists
20 essentially of, or consists of at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, at least
   10, at least 15, at least 20, at least 25, between about 15 to about 30, or at least 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
   35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, or 100 contiguous or non-contiguous amino
   acids of SEQ ID NO:51, where the non-contiguous amino acids form an epitope through protein
   folding.
25          In other embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule specifically or preferentially
   binds to at least one epitope of LINGO-1, where the epitope comprises, consists essentially of, or
   consists of, in addition to one, two, three, four, five, six or more contiguous or non-contiguous
   amino acids of SEQ ID NO:51 as described above, and an additional moiety which modifies the
   protein, e.g., a carbohydrate moiety may be included such that the LINGO-I antibody binds with
30 higher affinity to modified target protein than it does to an unmodified version of the protein.
                                                   -47 -

   Alternatively, the LINGO-I antibody does not bind the unmodified version of the target protein
   at all.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to a LINGO-I polypeptide or fragment thereof, or a LINGO-I variant
 5 polypeptide, with an affinity characterized by a dissociation constant             (KD) which is less than the
   KD   for said reference monoclonal antibody.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule specifically or
   preferentially binds to at least one epitope of LINGO-I or fragment or variant described above,
   i.e., binds to such an epitope more readily than it would bind to an unrelated, or random epitope;
10 binds preferentially to at least one epitope of LINGO-I or fragment or variant described above,
   i.e., binds to such an epitope more readily than it would bind to a related, similar, homologous,
   or analogous epitope; competitively inhibits binding of a reference antibody which itself binds
   specifically or preferentially to a certain epitope of LINGO-I or fragment or variant described
   above; or binds to at least one epitope of LINGO-I or fragment or variant described above with
15 an affinity characterized by a dissociation constant         KD   of less than about 5 x 10- 2 M, about 10-2
   M, about 5 x 10- 3 M, about 10- 3 M, about 5 x 10- 4 M, about 10- 4 M, about 5 x 10-5 M, about 10-5
   M, about 5 x 10-6 M, about 10-6 M, about 5 x 10-7 M, about 10-7 M, about 5 x 10-8 M, about 10
   M, about 5 x 10-9 M, about 10-9 M, about 5 x 10-" M, about 10-"' M, about 5 x 10-" M, about
   10-" M, about 5 x 10-1 M, about 10-1 M, about 5 x 10-1 M, about 10-13 M, about 5 x 10-14 M,
20 about 10-14 M, about 5 x 10-15 M, about 10-15 M. In a particular aspect, the antibody or fragment
   thereof preferentially binds to a human LINGO-I polypeptide or fragment thereof, relative to a
   murine LINGO-I polypeptide or fragment thereof.
            In other embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule binds LINGO-I
   polypeptides or fragments or variants thereof with an off rate (k(off)) of less than or equal to 5 x
25 10-2  sec-1, 10-2 sec-1, 5 x 10-3 sec-1 or 10-3 sec-1. Alternatively, an antibody, or antigen-binding
   fragment, variant, or derivative thereof of the invention binds LINGO-i polypeptides or
   fragments or variants thereof with an off rate (k(off)) of less than or equal to 5 x 10-4 sec1 , 10 4
   sec', 5 x 10-5 sec', or 10-5 sec', 5 x 10-6 sec1, 10-6 sec', 5 x 10-7 sec' or 10-7 sec1.
            In other embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule binds LINGO-1
30 polypeptides or fragments or variants thereof with an on rate (k(on)) of greater than or equal to
   10 3 M- 1 sec- 1, 5 x 10 3 M-1 sec-1 , 104 M- 1 sec- 1, 5 x 10 4 M-1 sec-1 . Alternatively, the antibody
                                                      -48 -

   molecule binds LINGO-I polypeptides or fragments or variants thereof with an on rate (k(on))
   greater than or equal to 10 5 M- 1 sec-1, 5 x 10 5 M-1 sec-1, 106 M- 1 sec-1, 5 x 106 M-1 sec-1, or 10 7 M
     sec-1, 5 x 107 M- sec-1.
            In other embodiments, the LINGO-I antibody molecule is an antagonist of
 5 LINGO-i activity. In certain embodiments, for example, binding of an antagonist
   LINGO-i antibody to LINGO-1, as expressed on neurons, blocks myelin-associated
   neurite outgrowth inhibition or neuronal cell death. In other embodiments, binding of the
   LINGO-I antibody to LINGO-1, as expressed on oligodendrocytes, blocks inhibition of
   oligodendrocyte growth or differentiation, or blocks demyelination or dysmyelination of
10 CNS neurons.
            Modified forms of LINGO-I antibody molecules can be made from whole
   precursor or parent antibodies using techniques known in the art. Exemplary techniques
   are discussed in more detail herein.
            In certain embodiments, the antibody molecule can be recombinantly produced,
15 e.g., produced by phage display or by combinatorial methods. Phage display and
   combinatorial methods for generating anti- LINGO-I antibodies are known in the art (as
   described in, e.g., Ladner et al. U.S. Patent No. 5,223,409; Kang et al. International
   Publication No. WO 92/18619; Dower et al. International Publication No. WO 91/17271;
   Winter et al. International Publication WO 92/20791; Markland et al. International
20 Publication No. WO 92/15679; Breitling et al. International Publication WO 93/01288;
   McCafferty et al. International Publication No. WO 92/01047; Garrard et al. International
   Publication No. WO 92/09690; Ladner et al. International Publication No. WO 90/02809;
   Fuchs et al. (1991) BiolTechnology 9:1370-1372; Hay et al. (1992) Hum Antibod
   Hybridomas 3:81-85; Huse et al. (1989) Science 246:1275-1281; Griffths et al. (1993)
25 EMBO J 12:725-734; Hawkins et al. (1992) JMol Biol 226:889-896; Clackson et al.
   (1991) Nature 352:624-628; Gram et al. (1992) PNAS 89:3576-3580; Garrad et al. (1991)
   BiolTechnology 9:1373-1377; Hoogenboom et al. (1991) Nuc Acid Res 19:4133-4137;
   and Barbas et al. (1991) PNAS 88:7978-7982, the contents of all of which are
   incorporated by reference herein).
30          In one embodiment, the anti- LINGO-I antibody is a fully human antibody (e.g., an
   antibody made in a mouse which has been genetically engineered to produce an antibody from a
                                                  -49 -

   human immunoglobulin sequence), or a non-human antibody, e.g., a rodent (mouse or rat), goat,
   primate (e.g., monkey), camel antibody. The non-human antibody can be a rodent (mouse or rat
   antibody). Method of producing rodent antibodies are known in the art.
            Human monoclonal antibodies can be generated using transgenic mice carrying the
 5 human immunoglobulin genes rather than the mouse system. Splenocytes from these transgenic
   mice immunized with the antigen of interest are used to produce hybridomas that secrete human
   mAbs with specific affinities for epitopes from a human protein (see, e.g., Wood et al.
   International Application WO 91/00906, Kucherlapati et al. PCT publication WO 91/10741;
   Lonberg et al. International Application WO 92/03918; Kay et al. International Application
10 92/03917; Lonberg, N. et al. 1994 Nature 368:856-859; Green, L.L. et al. 1994 Nature Genet.
   7:13-21; Morrison, S.L. et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81:6851-6855; Bruggeman et al.
   1993 Year Immunol 7:33-40; Tuaillon et al. 1993 PNAS 90:3720-3724; Bruggeman et al. 1991
   Eur J Immunol 21:1323-1326).
            An anti- LINGO-I antibody can be one in which the variable region, or a portion thereof,
15 e.g., the CDRs, are generated in a non-human organism, e.g., a rat or mouse. Chimeric, CDR
   grafted, and humanized antibodies are within the invention. Antibodies generated in a non
   human organism, e.g., a rat or mouse, and then modified, e.g., in the variable framework or
   constant region, to decrease antigenicity in a human are within the invention.
            Chimeric antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art.
20 For example, a gene encoding the Fc constant region of a murine (or other species) monoclonal
   antibody molecule is digested with restriction enzymes to remove the region encoding the
   murine Fc, and the equivalent portion of a gene encoding a human Fc constant region is
   substituted (see Robinson et al., International Patent Publication PCT/US86/02269; Akira, et al.,
   European Patent Application 184,187; Taniguchi, M., European Patent Application 171,496;
25 Morrison et al., European Patent Application 173,494; Neuberger et al., International
   Application WO 86/01533; Cabilly et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; Cabilly et al., European
   Patent Application 125,023; Better et al. (1988 Science 240:1041-1043); Liu et al. (1987) PNAS
   84:3439-3443; Liu et al., 1987, J. Immunol. 139:3521-3526; Sun et al. (1987) PNAS 84:214-218;
   Nishimura et al., 1987, Canc. Res. 47:999-1005; Wood et al. (1985) Nature 314:446-449; and
30 Shaw et al., 1988, J. Natl CancerInst. 80:1553-1559).
                                                -50-

           A humanized or CDR-grafted antibody will have at least one or two but generally all
   three recipient CDRs (of heavy and or light immuoglobulin chains) replaced with a donor CDR.
   The antibody may be replaced with at least a portion of a non-human CDR or only some of the
   CDRs may be replaced with non-human CDRs. It is only necessary to replace the number of
 5 CDRs required for binding of the humanized antibody to LINGO-I or a fragment thereof.
           An antibody can be humanized by methods known in the art. Humanized antibodies can
   be generated by replacing sequences of the Fv variable region which are not directly involved in
   antigen binding with equivalent sequences from human Fv variable regions. General methods
   for generating humanized antibodies are provided by Morrison, S. L., 1985, Science 229:1202
10 1207, by Oi et al., 1986, BioTechniques 4:214, and by Queen et al. US 5,585,089, US 5,693,761
   and US 5,693,762, the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Humanized
   or CDR-grafted antibodies can be produced by CDR-grafting or CDR substitution, wherein one,
   two, or all CDRs of an immunoglobulin chain can be replaced. See e.g., U.S. Patent 5,225,539;
   Jones et al. 1986 Nature 321:552-525; Verhoeyan et al. 1988 Science 239:1534; Beidler et al.
15 1988 J. Immunol. 141:4053-4060; Winter US 5,225,539, the contents of all of which are hereby
   expressly incorporated by reference. Winter describes a CDR-grafting method which may be
   used to prepare the humanized antibodies of the present invention (UK Patent Application GB
   2188638A, filed on March 26, 1987; Winter US 5,225,539), the contents of which is expressly
   incorporated by reference.
20         Also within the scope of the invention are humanized antibodies in which specific amino
   acids have been substituted, deleted or added. Humanized antibodies can have amino acid
   substitutions in the framework region, such as to improve binding to the antigen. For example, a
   humanized antibody will have framework residues identical to the donor framework residue or to
   another amino acid other than the recipient framework residue. To generate such antibodies, a
25 selected, small number of acceptor framework residues of the humanized immunoglobulin chain
   can be replaced by the corresponding donor amino acids. Preferred locations of the substitutions
   include amino acid residues adjacent to the CDR, or which are capable of interacting with a CDR
   (see e.g., US 5,585,089). Criteria for selecting amino acids from the donor are described in US
   5,585,089, e.g., columns 12-16 of US 5,585,089, the e.g., columns 12-16 of US 5,585,089, the
30 contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Other techniques for humanizing
   antibodies are described in Padlan et al. EP 519596 Al, published on December 23, 1992.
                                                -51-

             The anti- LINGO-I antibody can be a single chain antibody. A single-chain antibody
   (scFV) may be engineered (see, for example, Colcher, D. et al. (1999) Ann N YAcad Sci
   880:263-80; and Reiter, Y. (1996) Clin CancerRes 2:245-52). The single chain antibody can be
   dimerized or multimerized to generate multivalent antibodies having specificities for different
 5 epitopes of the same target LINGO-i protein.
             In yet other embodiments, the antibody molecule has a heavy chain constant region
   chosen from, e.g., the heavy chain constant regions of IgGi, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgM, IgAl,
   IgA2, IgD, and IgE; particularly, chosen from, e.g., the (e.g., human) heavy chain constant
   regions of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. In another embodiment, the antibody molecule has a
10 light chain constant region chosen from, e.g., the (e.g., human) light chain constant regions of
   kappa or lambda. The constant region can be altered, e.g., mutated, to modify the properties of
   the antibody (e.g., to increase or decrease one or more of: Fc receptor binding, antibody
   glycosylation, the number of cysteine residues, effector cell function, and/or complement
   function). In one embodiment the antibody has: effector function; and can fix complement. In
15 other embodiments the antibody does not; recruit effector cells; or fix complement. In another
   embodiment, the antibody has reduced or no ability to bind an Fc receptor. For example, it is a
   isotype or subtype, fragment or other mutant, which does not support binding to an Fc receptor,
   e.g., it has a mutagenized or deleted Fc receptor binding region.
             LINGO-i antibody molecules can comprise a constant region which mediates one
20 or more effector functions. For example, binding of the C1 component of complement to
   an antibody constant region may activate the complement system. Activation of
   complement is important in the opsonisation and lysis of cell pathogens. The activation of
   complement also stimulates the inflammatory response and may also be involved in
   autoimmune hypersensitivity. Further, antibodies bind to receptors on various cells via
25 the Fc region, with a Fc receptor binding site on the antibody Fc region binding to a Fc
   receptor (FcR) on a cell. There are a number of Fc receptors which are specific for
   different classes of antibody, including IgG (gamma receptors), IgE (epsilon receptors),
   IgA (alpha receptors) and IgM (mu receptors). Binding of antibody to Fc receptors on
   cell surfaces triggers a number of important and diverse biological responses including
30 engulfment and destruction of antibody-coated particles, clearance of immune
   complexes, lysis of antibody-coated target cells by killer cells (also referred to herein as
                                                -52 -

   antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, or ADCC), release of inflammatory
   mediators, placental transfer and control of immunoglobulin production.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule, in which at least a
   fraction of one or more of the constant region domains has been deleted or otherwise
 5 altered so as to provide desired biochemical characteristics such as reduced effector
   functions, the ability to non-covalently dimerize, increased ability to localize at the site of
   a tumor, reduced serum half-life, or increased serum half-life when compared with a
   whole, unaltered antibody of approximately the same immunogenicity. For example,
   certain antibodies for use in the diagnostic and treatment methods described herein are
10 domain deleted antibodies which comprise a polypeptide chain similar to an
   immunoglobulin heavy chain, but which lack at least a portion of one or more heavy
   chain domains. For instance, in certain antibodies, one entire domain of the constant
   region of the modified antibody will be deleted, for example, all or part of the CH2
   domain will be deleted.
15          In certain LINGO-i antibody molecules, the Fc portion may be mutated to
   decrease effector function using techniques known in the art. For example, the deletion or
   inactivation (through point mutations or other means) of a constant region domain may
   reduce Fc receptor binding of the circulating modified antibody thereby increasing tumor
   localization. In other cases it may be that constant region modifications consistent with
20 the instant invention moderate complement binding and thus reduce the serum half life
   and nonspecific association of a conjugated cytotoxin. Yet other modifications of the
   constant region may be used to modify disulfide linkages or oligosaccharide moieties that
   allow for enhanced localization due to increased antigen specificity or antibody
   flexibility. The resulting physiological profile, bioavailability and other biochemical
25 effects of the modifications, such as tumor localization, biodistribution and serum half
   life, may easily be measured and quantified using well know immunological techniques
   without undue experimentation.
   Exemplary anti-LINGO-] Antibody Molecules
30          In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecules comprise, consist
   essentially of, or consist of an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (VH), where
                                                -53 -

   at least one of the CDRs of the heavy chain variable region, or at least two the CDRs of
   the heavy chain variable region are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference
   heavy chain CDR1, CDR2, or CDR3 amino acid sequences of Li62 or Li81 or variants
   thereof as described in Table 3. Alternatively, the CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 regions of
 5 the VH are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference heavy chain CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 amino acid sequences of Li62 or Li81 or variants thereof as described
   in Table 3. Thus, according to this embodiment a heavy chain variable region of the
   invention has CDR1, CDR2, or CDR3 polypeptide sequences related to the polypeptide
   sequences shown in Table 3. In certain embodiment, the anti-LINGO-i antibody
10 molecules comprise, consist essentially of, or consist of the VH polypeptide or a
   fragment thereof as described in Table 3, or an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical thereto.
                                                -54 -

                  Table 3: LINGO-i Antibody VH Sequences
Antibody VH SEQUENCE                                 VH    VH CDR2 VH
                                                     CDR1          CDR3
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGHND
         RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDL
         NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGHNDWYFDL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:1)                   NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:4)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGYYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDQ
B06      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGYYDWYFDQ         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:53)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO: 17)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGQYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDV
B12      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGQYDWYFDV         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:54)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO: 18)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGDYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDL
F06      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGDYDWYFDL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:55)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO: 19)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGQYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFEL
BO       NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGQYDWYFEL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:56)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:20)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EADID
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WFFDL
D09      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREADIDWFFDL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:57)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:21)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGHYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDL
D12      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGHYDWYFDL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:58)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:22)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGRYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDP
FO       NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGRYDWYFDP         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:59)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:23)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGDYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFGL
F02      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGDYDWYFGL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:60)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:24)
                                                           NO:3)
Li62     EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV       IYPMF WIGPSG  EGRYD
variant  RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD        (SEQ  GITKYA  WYFDL
F06      NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGRYDWYFDL         ID    DSVKG   (SEQ ID
         WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:61)                  NO:2) (SEQ ID NO:25)
                                                           NO:3)

Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  ESHIDR
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  YFDL
F1O     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCARESHIDRYFDLW  ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:62)             NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:26)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGQYD
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WYFDV
G08     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGQYDWYFDV   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:63)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:27)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGHYN
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  GYFDL
H08     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGHYNGYFDL   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:64)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:28)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGYYD
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WYFDL
C1O     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGYYDWYFDL   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:65)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:29)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGTYD
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WYLDL
C02     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGTYDWYLDL   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:66)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:30)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGYYD
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WYFEL
D05     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGYYDWYFEL   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:67)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:31)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGLID
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WFFDQ
F02     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGLIDWFFDQ   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:68)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:32)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGQFD
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WYFDL
C1O     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGQFDWYFDL   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:69)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:33)
                                                     NO:3)
Li62    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSIYPMFWV IYPMF  WIGPSG  EGTYD
variant RQAPGKGLEWVSWIGPSGGITKYADSVKGRFTISRD  (SEQ   GITKYA  WYFDL
H08     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTATYYCAREGTYDWYFDL   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGRGTLVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:70)            NO:2)  (SEQ ID NO:34)
                                                     NO:3)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDND
        VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDI
        NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDNDAFDIW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:5)              NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:8)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGEND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDV
F09     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGENDAFDVW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:71)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:35)
                                                     NO: 7)

Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AYDT
G02     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDNDAYDT    ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:72)            NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:36)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGTND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDI
H03     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGTNDAFDIW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:73)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:37)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDS
A12     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDNDAFDSW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:74)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:38)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDT(S
C02     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDNDAFDTW   ID     DSVKG   EQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:75)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:39)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AYDR
C1l     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDNDAYDR    ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:76)            NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:40)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  VFDS
Di1     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDNDVFDSW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:77)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:41)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDDD
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  VFDM
E05     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDDDVFDM    ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:78)            NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:42)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGYND
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDF
H04     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGYNDAFDFW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:79)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:43)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDDD
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AYDM
B04     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDDDAYDM    ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        WGQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:80)            NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:44)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EQDYD
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  TYDL
A02     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEQDYDTYDLW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:81)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:45)
                                                     NO: 7)
Li81    EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW  AYEM   VIGPSG  EGDDD
variant VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD K (SEQ GFTFYA  AFDT
B12     NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGDDDAFDTW   ID     DSVKG   (SEQ ID
        GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:82)             NO:6)  (SEQ ID NO:46)
                                                     NO: 7)
                                   -56-

   Li81       EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW                 AYEM     VIGPSG    EADDD
   variant    VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD                K (SEQ   GFTFYA    AFDJ
   H06        NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEADDDAFDIW                  ID       DSVKG     (SEQ ID
              GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:83)                            NO:6)    (SEQ ID   NO:47)
                                                                            NO: 7)
   Li81       EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW                 AYEM     VIGPSG    EGEND
   variant    VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD                K (SEQ   GFTFYA    AFDM
   H08        NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGENDAFDM                   ID       DSVKG     (SEQ ID
              WGQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:84)                           NO:6)    (SEQ ID   NO:48)
                                                                            NO: 7)
   Li81       EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKW                 AYEM     VIGPSG    EGEYD
   variant    VRQAPGKGLEWVSVIGPSGGFTFYADSVKGRFTISRD                K (SEQ   GFTFYA    TYDI
   E07        NSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATEGEYDTYDIW                  ID       DSVKG     (SEQ ID
              GQGTTVTVSS (SEQ ID NO:85)                            NO:6)    (SEQ ID   NO:49)
                                                                            NO: 7)
           In another embodiment, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
 5 heavy chain variable region (VH), wherein at least the CDR3 region is at least 80%, 85%,
   90% or 95% identical to a reference CDR3 sequence selected from the group consisting
   of SEQ ID NOs: 4, 8 and 17-49. In further embodiments, the CDR3 region is identical to
   a reference CDR3 sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 4, 8 and
   17-49. In still further embodiments, the anti-LINGO-1 antibody molecule includes a
10 polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
   heavy chain variable region (VH), wherein, the CDRl and CDR2 regions are at least
   80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 100% identical to the CDRl and CDR2 amino acid sequences
   of SEQ ID NOs: 2 and 3, respectively, and the CDR3 region is at least 80%, 85%, 90%,
   95% or 100% identical to a CDR3 amino acid sequence selected from the group
15
20
                                                 -57-

   consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 4 and 17-34. In other embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I
   antibody molecule includes a polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or
   consisting of an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (VH), wherein the CDR1
   and CDR2 regions are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 100% identical to the CDR1 and
 5 CDR2 amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOs: 6 and 7, respectively, and the CDR3 region
   is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 100% identical to a CDR3 amino acid sequence
   selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 35-49.
            In another embodiment, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
10 heavy chain variable region (VH) in which the CDRI, CDR2, and CDR3 regions have
   polypeptide sequences which are identical to the CDRi, CDR2, and CDR3 groups shown
   in Table 3. In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule includes the
   VH polypeptide specifically or preferentially binds to LINGO-1.
            In a further embodiment, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
15 polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a VH polypeptide at
   least 80%, 85%, 90% 95% or 100% identical to a reference VH polypeptide sequence
   selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1, 5 and 53-85. In one particular embodiment, the VH
   polypeptide comprises a CDR3 amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting
   of SEQ ID NOs: 4, 8 and 17-49.
20          In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a VH polypeptide
   selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 5 and 53-85. In certain
   embodiments, an antibody or antigen-binding fragment comprising the VH polypeptide
   specifically or preferentially binds to LINGO-1.
25          In another aspect, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a VH comprising
   the amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 5. In certain embodiments, an antibody
   or antigen-binding fragment comprising the VH that specifically or preferentially binds to
   LINGO-1. In certain embodiments, an antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof
   comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a VH that specifically or
30 preferentially binds to the same epitope as Li62, Li81 or a variant thereof as described in
                                               -58-

   Table 3 or will competitively inhibit such a monoclonal antibody from binding to
   LINGO-1.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide, comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
 5 heavy chain which is identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 146 except for a
   replacement of one or more of the following amino acids: W50, P53, 157 and/or W104. In
   some embodiments, W50 is replaced with an H, F, L, M, G, I, or D residue. In some
   embodiments, P53 is replaced with an L, S, T, W, or G residue. In some embodiments,
   157 is replaced with a G, M, N, H, L, F, W, Y, S, P, V or T residue. In some
10 embodiments, W104 is replaced with a V, H, S,     Q, M, L, T, or I residue.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide, comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
   heavy chain variable region which is identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:5 except
   for a replacement of amino acid P53. In some embodiments, P53 is replaced with an L, S,
15 T, W, or G residue.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide, comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
   heavy chain variable region which is identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 except
   for a replacement of one or more of the following amino acids: W50, P53, 157 and/or
20 W104. In some embodiments, W50 is replaced with an H, F, L, M, G, I, or D residue. In
   some embodiments, P53 is replaced with an L, S, T, W, or G residue. In some
   embodiments, 157 is replaced with a G, M, N, H, L, F, W, Y, S, P, V or T residue. In
   some embodiments, W104 is replaced with a V, H, S,      Q, M,  L, T, or I residue.
            In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
25 polypeptide, comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
   heavy chain variable region which is identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:66
   except for a replacement of one or more of the following amino acids: W50, P53, 157
   and/or W104. In some embodiments, W50 is replaced with an H, F, L, M, G, I, or D
   residue. In some embodiments, P53 is replaced with an L, S, T, W, or G residue. In some
30 embodiments, 157 is replaced with a G, M, N, H, L, F, W, Y, S, P, V or T residue. In
   some embodiments, W104 is replaced with a V, H, S,      Q, M,  L, T, or I residue.
                                               -59 -

           In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes one or
   more of the VH polypeptides described above specifically or preferentially binds to the
   same epitope as Li62, Li81 or a variant thereof as described in Table 3, or can
   competitively inhibit such an antibody from binding to LINGO- 1.
 5         In another embodiment, the anti-LINGO-1 antibody molecule includes a polypeptide
   comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin light chain variable
   region (VL), where at least one of the CDRs of the light chain variable region or at least two
   of the CDRs of the light chain variable region are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to
   reference heavy chain CDR1, CDR2, or CDR3 amino acid sequences from monoclonal
10 LINGO-i antibodies disclosed herein. Alternatively, the CDRi, CDR2 and CDR3 regions of
   the VL are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference light chain CDRi, CDR2,
   and CDR3 amino acid sequences from monoclonal LINGO-i antibodies disclosed herein.
   Thus, according to this embodiment a light chain variable region of the antibody molecule has
   CDRi, CDR2, and CDR3 polypeptide sequences related to the polypeptides shown in Table
15 4. In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule comprising the VL
   polypeptide specifically or preferentially binds to LINGO-1.
   Table 4: LINGO-i Antibody VL Sequences
   Antibody   VL SEQUENCE                                           VL       VL       VL
                                                                             CDR2     CDR3
                                                                    CDR1
   Li62       DIQMTQSPSFLSASVGDSVAITCRASQDISRYLAWYQQ                RASQD    DASNL    QQYDT
              RPGKAPKLLIYDASNLQTGVPSRFSGSGSGTDFTFTITS               ISRYL    QT (SEQ  LHPS
              LQPEDFGTYYCQQYDTLHPSFGPGTTVDIK (SEQ ID                A (SEQ   ID       (SEQ ID
              NO: 9)                                                ID       NO:11)   NO:12)
                                                                    NO:10)
   Li81       DIQMTQSPATLSLSPGERATLSCRASQSVSSYLAWYQ                 RASQS    DASNR    QQRSN
              QKPGQAPRLLIYDASNRATGIPARFSGSGSGTDFTLTIS               VSSYL    AT (SEQ  WPMY
              SLEPEDFAVYYCQQRSNWPMYTFGQGTKLEIK               (SEQ   A (SEQ   ID NO:   T (SEQ
              ID NO:13)                                             ID       15)      ID NO:
                                                                    NO:14)             16)
20
           In another embodiment, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
   light chain variable region (VL) in which the CDRi, CDR2, and CDR3 regions have
   polypeptide sequences which are identical to the CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 groups shown

   in Table 4. In certain embodiments, an antibody or antigen-binding fragment comprising
   the VL polypeptide specifically or preferentially binds to LINGO-1.
           In a further embodiment, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a VL polypeptide at
 5 least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to a reference VL polypeptide sequence selected
   from SEQ ID NO: 9 or SEQ ID NO: 13, shown in Table 4. In certain embodiments, the
   anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule includes comprising the VL polypeptide specifically or
   preferentially binds to LINGO-1. In another aspect, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule
   includes a polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a VL
10 polypeptide selected from SEQ ID NO: 9 or SEQ ID NO: 13, shown in Table 4. In
   certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule comprising the VL
   polypeptide specifically or preferentially binds to LINGO-1.
           In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin light chain
15 which is identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 145 except for a replacement of
   amino acid W94. In some embodiments, W94 is replaced with an A, D, L, N, G,       Q, V,  or
   S residue.
           In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide, comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an immunoglobulin
20 light chain variable region which is identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:5 except
   for a replacement of amino acid W94. In some embodiments, W94 is replaced with an A,
   D, L, N, G,  Q, V, or S residue.
           In certain embodiments, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule includes a
   polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, one or more of the VL polypeptides
25 described above specifically or preferentially binds to the same epitope as Li62 or Li8 1,
   or will competitively inhibit such a monoclonal antibody from binding to LINGO-1.
           In other embodiments, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule comprises, consists
   essentially of or consists of a VH polypeptide, as shown in Table 3, and a VL
   polypeptide, as shown in Table 4, selected from the group consisting of: i) SEQ ID NO:
30 1 or SEQ ID NOs: 53-70 and SEQ ID NO: 9; and iii) SEQ ID NO: 5 or SEQ ID NOs: 71
   85 and SEQ ID NO: 13.
                                                -61 -

           In some embodiments, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule comprises, consists
   essentially of or consists of an antibody heavy chain as shown below in SEQ ID NO:86,
   or an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto.
   EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKWVRQAPGKGLEWVSV
 5 IGPSGGFTFYADISVKGRFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATE
   GDNDAFDIWGQGTTVTVSSASTKGPISVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVK
   DYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTIVPSSSLGTQ
   TYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
   PKDTLIMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQ
10 YNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDIWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPR
   EPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSIDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKT
   TPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTIQKSLS                           LSPG (SEQ
   ID NO:86)
           In other embodiments, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule comprises, consists
15 essentially of or consists of an aglycosylated version of an antibody heavy chain. For
   example, an aglycosylated version of Li8l is described in PCT/US2008/000316, filed
   Jan. 9, 2008 and US 8,128,926, which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   An aglycosylated version of the Li81 antibody was created by changing a single amino
   acid (T to A) in the Li81 heavy chain sequence. The sequence of an aglycosylated version
20 of Li81 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO:50) is shown below. The single amino acid change is
   marked in bold and underlined:
   EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSAYEMKWVRQAPGKGLEWVSV
   IGPSGGFTFYADISVKGRFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCATE
   GDNDAFDIWGQGTTVTVSSASTKGPISVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVK
25 DYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTIVPSSSLGTQ
   TYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
   PKDTLIMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQ
   YNSAYRVVSVLTVLHQDIWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPR
   EPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSIDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKT
30 TPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTIQKSLS                           LSPG. (SEQ
   ID NO: 50)
           The anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule includes a heavy chain at least 80%, 85%,
                                                -62 -

   90% or 95% identical to a reference polypeptide comprising the amino acids of SEQ ID
   NO:50 or 86. In certain embodiments, an antibody or antigen-binding fragment
   comprising the heavy chain specifically or preferentially binds to LINGO-1.
            In one embodiment, the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule is a fully human anti
 5 LINGO-i monoclonal antibody engineered into an aglycosyl immunoglobulin G subclass
   I (IgG1) framework to reduce effector function (also referred to herein as anti-LINGO-I
   Antibody 1. Histological and functional evaluations of LINGO-I knock-out mice have
   been performed, and in vivo pharmacological activity of anti-LINGO-I Antibody I has
   been demonstrated in several animal models of demyelination. Anti-LINGO-I Antibody
10 1 has been characterized in vitro and in vivo based on the evaluation of binding
   characteristics, biological activity, and pharmacological activity. The results of these
   studies indicate that anti-LINGO-I Antibody I has the following characteristics described
   in Table 1.
15 Table 1. Characteristics of Anti-LINGO-i Antibody I
   Binds to LINGO-i with similar high apparent affinity across human, monkey, rat and
   mouse.
   Is selective for LINGO-I and does not bind the other LINGO family members, LINGO
   2, LINGO-3, or LINGO-4.
   Promotes differentiation of primary rat, monkey, and human oligodendrocytes in vitro.
   Promotes axonal myelination in an in vitro rat dorsal root ganglion/OPC co-culture
   bioassay.
   Has reduced Fc (y) and complement effector functions compared to wild-type IgG1.
   Is efficacious in animal models using biochemical and functional readouts.
   Remyelination activity has been demonstrated in the rat LPC model following systemic
   administration from I to 100 mg/kg.
   Functional recovery in the rat MOG-EAE model has been demonstrated following
   weekly systemic administration of 3 and 10 mg/kg.
   Is efficacious in animal models when given in the presence of interferon .
   Is efficacious in animal models when given in the presence of high dose corticosteroids.
            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDRi,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, respectively, or
   an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at
20 least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
                                                 -63 -

            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, and 30, respectively,
   or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at
   least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
 5          In another embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL wherein the VL
   CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 14, 15, and 16,
   respectively, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino
   acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
            In another embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VL
10 CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 10, 11, and 12,
   respectively, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino
   acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, respectively;
15 and a VL wherein the VL CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID
   NOs: 14, 15, and 16, respectively; or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH wherein the VH CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, and 30, respectively;
20 and a VL wherein the VL CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 comprise the amino acids of SEQ ID
   NOs: 10, 11, and 12, respectively; or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical thereto).
            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that includes the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto
25 (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID
   NO: 5).
            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that includes the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:66, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said
30 SEQ ID NO: 66).
                                               -64 -

            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL that includes the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said
   SEQ ID NO: 13).
 5          In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VL that includes the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:9, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto
   (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID
   NO: 9).
            In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that includes the amino
10 acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto
   (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID
   NO: 5); and a VL that includes the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13, or an amino
   acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%,
   85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 13).
15          In one embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a VH that includes the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:66, or an amino acid sequence substantially identical
   thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said
   SEQ ID NO: 66); and a VL that includes the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9, or
   an amino acid sequence substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at
20 least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to said SEQ ID NO: 9).
            In another embodiment, the antibody molecule includes a heavy chain as shown
   below, comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 275, or a sequence
   substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or
   95% identical thereto), as follows:
25 EVQLLESGGG LVQPGGSLRL SCAASGFTFS AYEMKWVRQA PGKGLEWVSV
   IGPSGGFTFY ADSVKGRFTI SRDNSKNTLY LQMNSLRAED TAVYYCATEG
   DNDAFDIWGQ GTTVTVSSAS TKGPSVFPLA PSSKSTSGGT AALGCLVKDY
   FPEPVTVSWN SGALTSGVHT FPAVLQSSGL YSLSSVVTVP SSSLGTQTYI
   CNVNHKPSNT KVDKKVEPKS CDKTHTCPPC PAPELLGGPS VFLFPPKPKD
30 TLMISRTPEV TCVVVDVSHE DPEVKFNWYV DGVEVHNAKT KPREEQYNSA
   YRVVSVLTVL HQDWLNGKEY KCKVSNKALP APIEKTISKA KGQPREPQVY
                                                 -65 -

   TLPPSRDELT KNQVSLTCLV KGFYPSDIAV EWESNGQPEN NYKTTPPVLD
   SDGSFFLYSK LTVDKSRWQQ GNVFSCSVMH EALHNHYTQK SLSLSPG (SEQ ID
   NO: 275).
           In other embodiments, the antibody molecule includes a light chain as shown
 5 below comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 276, or a sequence
   substantially identical thereto (e.g., an amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90% or
   95% identical thereto), as follows:
   DIQMTQSPAT LSLSPGERAT LSCRASQSVS SYLAWYQQKP GQAPRLLIYD
   ASNRATGIPA RFSGSGSGTD FTLTISSLEP EDFAVYYCQQ RSNWPMYTFG
10 QGTKLEIKRT VAAPSVFIFP PSDEQLKSGT ASVVCLLNNF YPREAKVQWK
   VDNALQSGNS QESVTEQDSK DSTYSLSSTL TLSKADYEKH KVYACEVTHQ
   GLSSPVTKSF NRGEC (SEQ ID NO: 276).
           Any of the polypeptides described above may further include additional
   polypeptides, e.g., a signal peptide to direct secretion of the encoded polypeptide,
15 antibody constant regions as described herein, or other heterologous polypeptides as
   described herein. Additionally, polypeptides of the invention include polypeptide
   fragments as described elsewhere. Additionally polypeptides of the invention include
   fusion polypeptide, Fab fragments, and other derivatives, as described herein.
           Also, as described in more detail elsewhere herein, the present invention includes
20 compositions comprising the polypeptides described above.
           It will also be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that LINGO-I
   antibody polypeptides as disclosed herein may be modified such that they vary in amino
   acid sequence from the naturally occurring binding polypeptide from which they were
   derived. For example, a polypeptide or amino acid sequence derived from a designated
25 protein may be similar, e.g., have a certain percent identity to the starting sequence, e.g.,
   it may be 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% identical to the starting sequence.
           Furthermore, nucleotide or amino acid substitutions, deletions, or insertions
   leading to conservative substitutions or changes at "non-essential" amino acid regions
   may be made. For example, a polypeptide or amino acid sequence derived from a
30 designated protein may be identical to the starting sequence except for one or more
   individual amino acid substitutions, insertions, or deletions, e.g., one, two, three, four,
                                                 -66 -

   five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty or more individual amino acid
   substitutions, insertions, or deletions. In certain embodiments, a polypeptide or amino
   acid sequence derived from a designated protein has one to five, one to ten, one to fifteen,
   or one to twenty individual amino acid substitutions, insertions, or deletions relative to
 5 the starting sequence.
   Soluble LINGO Antagonists and Fusion Proteins
            In another embodiment, the reparative agent, e.g., the antagonist of LINGO-1, is a
   soluble LINGO molecule, e.g., a LINGO-I molecule (e.g., a fragment of LINGO-1), or a
10 soluble form of a component of the LINGO-i complex (e.g., a soluble form of NgRi,
   p75, or TAJ (TROY)).
            In certain embodiments, a soluble LINGO molecule or a LINGO-I antibody
   molecule comprises an amino acid sequence or one or more moieties not normally
   associated with an antibody. Exemplary modifications are described in more detail
15 below. For example, a single-chain fv antibody fragment of the invention may comprise a
   flexible linker sequence, or may be modified to add a functional moiety (e.g., PEG, a
   drug, a toxin, or a label).
            An antibody molecule, a soluble form of LINGO-1, or a complex component, as
   described herein, can be used alone or functionally linked (e.g., by chemical coupling,
20 genetic or polypeptide fusion, non-covalent association or otherwise) to a second moiety,
   a heterologous moiety, e.g., a heterologous polypeptide. The term "heterologous" as
   applied to a polynucleotide or a polypeptide, means that a portion with which it is not
   naturally linked in nature. For example, the polynucleotide or polypeptide is derived
   from a distinct entity from that of the rest of the entity to which it is being compared. For
25 instance, as used herein, a "heterologous polypeptide" to be fused to a LINGO-I antibody
   molecule is derived from a non-immunoglobulin polypeptide of the same species, or an
   immunoglobulin or non-immunoglobulin polypeptide of a different species.
            Exemplary heterologous moieties include, but are not limited to, an
   immunoglobulin Fc domain, serum albumin, pegylation, a GST, Lex-A and an MBP
30 polypeptide sequence. The fusion proteins may additionally include a linker sequence
   joining the first moiety, e.g., the antibody molecule, the soluble form of LINGO-i or the
                                                   -67 -

   complex component, to the second moiety. In other embodiments, additional amino acid
   sequences can be added to the N- or C-terminus of the fusion protein to facilitate
   expression, steric flexibility, detection and/or isolation or purification. For example, a
   soluble form of LINGO-I or a complex component can be fused to a heavy chain
 5 constant region of the various isotypes, including: IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgM, IgA1,
   IgA2, IgD, and IgE.
           It shall be understood that the antibody molecules and soluble or fusion proteins
   described herein can be functionally linked (e.g., by chemical coupling, genetic fusion,
   non-covalent association or otherwise) to one or more other molecular entities, such as an
10 antibody (e.g., a bispecific or a multispecific antibody), among others.
           In one embodiment, the fusion protein includes the extracellular domain of
   LINGO or the complex component (or a sequence homologous thereto), and, e.g., fused
   to, a human immunoglobulin Fc chain, e.g., human IgG (e.g., human IgGI or human
   IgG2, or a mutated form thereof). The Fc sequence can be mutated at one or more amino
15 acids to reduce effector cell function, Fc receptor binding and/or complement activity.
           In certain embodiments, an anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule can comprise,
   consist essentially of, or consist of, a fusion protein. Fusion proteins in this context are
   chimeric molecules which comprise, for example, an immunoglobulin antigen-binding
   domain with at least one target binding site, and at least one heterologous portion. The
20 amino acid sequences can normally exist in separate proteins that are brought together in
   the fusion polypeptide or they may normally exist in the same protein, but are placed in a
   new arrangement in the fusion polypeptide. Fusion proteins can be created, for example,
   by chemical synthesis, or by creating and translating a polynucleotide in which the
   peptide regions are encoded in the desired relationship.
25
   Nucleic Acid Molecule/RecombinantExpression
           Nucleic acid molecules, host cells and vectors that include a nucleotide sequence
   encoding any of the polypeptides, e.g., reparative agents and immunomodulators,
   described herein, are also encompassed by the invention.
30         In one exemplary embodiment, an isolated polynucleotide comprising, consisting
   essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid encoding an immunoglobulin heavy chain
                                                  -68 -

   variable region (VH) of an anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule, where at least one of the
   CDRs of the heavy chain variable region or at least two of the CDRs of the heavy chain
   variable region are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference heavy chain
   CDR1, CDR2, or CDR3 amino acid sequences of Li62 or Li81 or variants thereof as
 5 described in Table 3 is provided. Alternatively, the CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 regions of
   the VH are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference heavy chain CDR1,
   CDR2, and CDR3 amino acid sequences of Li62 or Li81 or variants thereof as described
   in Table 3. Thus, according to this embodiment, a heavy chain variable region of the
   invention has CDR1, CDR2, or CDR3 polypeptide sequences related to the polypeptide
10 sequences shown in Table 3.
           In another exemplary embodiment, an isolated polynucleotide comprising,
   consisting essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid encoding an immunoglobulin
   light chain variable region (VL) of an anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule, where at least
   one of the CDRs of the light chain variable region or at least two of the CDRs of the light
15 chain variable region are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference light
   chain CDR1, CDR2, or CDR3 amino acid sequences from monoclonal LINGO-I
   antibodies disclosed herein is provided. Alternatively, the CDRI, CDR2, and CDR3
   regions of the VL are at least 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to reference light chain
   CDR1, CDR2, and CDR3 amino acid sequences from monoclonal LINGO-I antibodies
20 disclosed herein. Thus, according to one embodiment, a light chain variable region of the
   invention has CDRi, CDR2, or CDR3 polypeptide sequences related to the polypeptide
   sequences shown in Table 4.
           Any of the polynucleotides described above may further include additional
   nucleic acids, encoding, e.g., a signal peptide to direct secretion of the encoded
25 polypeptide, antibody constant regions as described herein, or other heterologous
   polypeptides as described herein.
           Compositions comprising the polynucleotides comprising one or more of the
   polynucleotides described above are also disclosed. In one embodiment, the compositions
   comprising a first polynucleotide and second polynucleotide wherein said first
30 polynucleotide encodes a VH polypeptide as described herein and wherein said second
   polynucleotide encodes a VL polypeptide as described herein.
                                                 -69 -

            Also disclosed are fragments of the polynucleotides of the invention, as described
   elsewhere. Additionally polynucleotides which encode fusion polynucleotides, Fab
   fragments, and other derivatives, as described herein, are also contemplated by the
   invention.
 5          The polynucleotides can be produced or manufactured by any method known in
   the art. For example, if the nucleotide sequence of the antibody is known, a
   polynucleotide encoding the antibody may be assembled from chemically synthesized
   oligonucleotides (e.g., as described in Kutmeier et al., BioTechniques 17:242 (1994)),
   which, briefly, involves the synthesis of overlapping oligonucleotides containing portions
10 of the sequence encoding the antibody, annealing and ligating of those oligonucleotides,
   and then amplification of the ligated oligonucleotides by PCR.
            Recombinant expression of a polypeptide described herein, e.g., an antibody
   molecule that binds to LINGO-1, requires construction of an expression vector containing
   the polynucleotide that encodes the polypeptide, e.g., the antibody molecule. Once a
15 polynucleotide encoding the antibody molecule or a heavy or light chain of an antibody,
   or portion thereof (preferably containing the heavy or light chain variable domain), has
   been obtained, the vector for the production of the antibody molecule may be produced
   by recombinant DNA technology using techniques known in the art. Thus, methods for
   preparing a protein by expressing a polynucleotide containing a polypeptide encoding
20 nucleotide sequence are described herein and in US 8,058,406, the contents of which are
   incorporated by reference in their entirety.
            Methods known to those skilled in the art can be used to construct expression
   vectors containing antibody coding sequences and appropriate transcriptional and
   translational control signals. These methods include, for example, in vitro recombinant
25 DNA techniques, synthetic techniques, and in vivo genetic recombination. Replicable
   vectors comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide described herein (e.g.,
   an anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule, or a heavy or light chain thereof, or a heavy or light
   chain variable domain) operably linked to a promoter. Such vectors may include the
   nucleotide sequence encoding the constant region of the antibody molecule (see, e.g.,
30 PCT Publication WO 86/05807; PCT Publication WO 89/01036; and U.S. Pat. No.
                                                -70 -

   5,122,464) and the variable domain of the antibody may be cloned into such a vector for
   expression of the entire heavy or light chain.
            The host cell may be co-transfected with two expression vectors, the first vector
   encoding a heavy chain derived polypeptide and the second vector encoding a light chain
 5 derived polypeptide. The two vectors may contain identical selectable markers which
   enable equal expression of heavy and light chain polypeptides. Alternatively, a single
   vector may be used which encodes both heavy and light chain polypeptides. In such
   situations, the light chain is advantageously placed before the heavy chain to avoid an
   excess of toxic free heavy chain (Proudfoot, Nature 322:52 (1986); Kohler, Proc. Natl.
10 Acad. Sci. USA 77:2197 (1980)). The coding sequences for the heavy and light chains
   may comprise cDNA or genomic DNA.
            The term "vector" or "expression vector" is used herein to mean vectors used as a
   vehicle for introducing into and expressing a desired gene in a host cell. As known to
   those skilled in the art, such vectors can easily be selected from the group consisting of
15 plasmids, phages, viruses and retroviruses. In general, vectors compatible with the instant
   invention will comprise a selection marker, appropriate restriction sites to facilitate
   cloning of the desired gene and the ability to enter and/or replicate in eukaryotic or
   prokaryotic cells.
            For the purposes of this invention, numerous expression vector systems may be
20 employed. For example, one class of vector utilizes DNA elements which are derived
   from animal viruses such as bovine papilloma virus, polyoma virus, adenovirus, vaccinia
   virus, baculovirus, retroviruses (RSV, MMTV or MOMLV) or SV40 virus. Others
   involve the use of polycistronic systems with internal ribosome binding sites.
   Additionally, cells which have integrated the DNA into their chromosomes may be
25 selected by introducing one or more markers which allow selection of transfected host
   cells. The marker may provide for prototrophy to an auxotrophic host, biocide resistance
   (e.g., antibiotics) or resistance to heavy metals such as copper. The selectable marker
   gene can either be directly linked to the DNA sequences to be expressed, or introduced
   into the same cell by co-transformation. Additional elements may also be needed for
30 optimal synthesis of mRNA. These elements may include signal sequences, splice
   signals, as well as transcriptional promoters, enhancers, and termination signals.
                                                 -71 -

            In one embodiment, the cloned variable region genes are inserted into an
   expression vector along with the heavy and light chain constant region genes (preferably
   human) synthetic as discussed above. In one embodiment, this is effected using a
   proprietary expression vector of Biogen IDEC, Inc., referred to as NEOSPLA (U.S. Pat.
 5 No. 6,159,730). This vector contains the cytomegalovirus promoter/enhancer, the mouse
   beta globin major promoter, the SV40 origin of replication, the bovine growth hormone
   polyadenylation sequence, neomycin phosphotransferase exon 1 and exon 2, the
   dihydrofolate reductase gene and leader sequence. This vector has been found to result in
   very high level expression of antibodies upon incorporation of variable and constant
10 region genes, transfection in CHO cells, followed by selection in G418 containing
   medium and methotrexate amplification. Of course, any expression vector which is
   capable of eliciting expression in eukaryotic cells may be used in the present invention.
   Examples of suitable vectors include, but are not limited to plasmids pcDNA3,
   pHCMV/Zeo, pCR3.1, pEFI/His, pIND/GS, pRc/HCMV2, pSV40/Zeo2, pTRACER
15 HCMV, pUB6/V5-His, pVAX1, and pZeoSV2 (available from Invitrogen, San Diego,
   Calif.), and plasmid pCI (available from Promega, Madison, Wis.). In general, screening
   large numbers of transformed cells for those which express suitably high levels if
   immunoglobulin heavy and light chains is routine experimentation which can be carried
   out, for example, by robotic systems. Vector systems are also taught in U.S. Pat. Nos.
20 5,736,137 and 5,658,570, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety
   herein. This system provides for high expression levels, e.g., >30 pg/cell/day. Other
   exemplary vector systems are disclosed, e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 6,413,777.
            In other embodiments, the LINGO-I antibody molecules can be expressed using
   polycistronic constructs such as those disclosed in United States Patent Application
25 Publication No. 2003-0157641 Al, filed Nov. 18, 2002 and incorporated herein in its
   entirety. In these novel expression systems, multiple gene products of interest such as
   heavy and light chains of antibodies may be produced from a single polycistronic
   construct. These systems advantageously use an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) to
   provide relatively high levels of binding polypeptides in eukaryotic host cells.
30 Compatible IRES sequences are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,193,980 which is also
   incorporated herein. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such expression systems
                                               -72-

   can be used to effectively produce the full range of polypeptides disclosed in the instant
   application.
             More generally, once the vector or DNA sequence encoding a monomeric subunit
   of the polypeptide, e.g., the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule, has been prepared, the
 5 expression vector may be introduced into an appropriate host cell. Introduction of the
   plasmid into the host cell can be accomplished by various techniques well known to those
   of skill in the art. These include, but are not limited to, transfection (including
   electrophoresis and electroporation), protoplast fusion, calcium phosphate precipitation,
   cell fusion with enveloped DNA, microinjection, and infection with intact virus. See,
10 Ridgway, A. A. G. "MammalianExpression Vectors" Vectors, Rodriguez and Denhardt,
   Eds., Butterworths, Boston, Mass., Chapter 24.2, pp. 470-472 (1988). Typically, plasmid
   introduction into the host is via electroporation. The host cells harboring the expression
   construct are grown under conditions appropriate to the production of the light chains and
   heavy chains, and assayed for heavy and/or light chain protein synthesis. Exemplary
15 assay techniques include enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA),
   radioimmunoassay (RIA), or fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis (FACS),
   immunohistochemistry and the like.
             The expression vector is transferred to a host cell by conventional techniques and
   the transfected cells are then cultured by conventional techniques to produce a
20 polypeptide for use in the methods described herein. Thus, the invention includes host
   cells containing a polynucleotide encoding an antibody of the invention, or a heavy or
   light chain thereof, operably linked to a heterologous promoter. In preferred
   embodiments for the expression of double-chained antibodies, vectors encoding both the
   heavy and light chains may be co-expressed in the host cell for expression of the entire
25 immunoglobulin molecule, as detailed in US 8,058,406, the contents of which are
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
             As used herein, "host cells" refers to cells which harbor vectors constructed using
   recombinant DNA techniques and encoding at least one heterologous gene. In
   descriptions of processes for isolation of antibodies from recombinant hosts, the terms
30 "cell" and "cell culture" are used interchangeably to denote the source of antibody unless
   it is clearly specified otherwise. In other words, recovery of polypeptide from the "cells"
                                                   -73 -

   may mean either from spun down whole cells, or from the cell culture containing both the
   medium and the suspended cells.
            A variety of host-expression vector systems may be utilized to express
   polypeptides, e.g., antibody molecules, for use in the methods described herein. These
 5 include, but are not limited to, microorganisms such as bacteria (e.g., E. coli, B. subtilis)
   transformed with recombinant bacteriophage DNA, plasmid DNA or cosmid DNA
   expression vectors containing polypeptide coding sequences; yeast (e.g., Saccharomyces,
   Pichia)transformed with recombinant yeast expression vectors containing antibody
   coding sequences; insect cell systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors
10 (e.g., baculovirus) containing polypeptide coding sequences; plant cell systems infected
   with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g., cauliflower mosaic virus, CaMV;
   tobacco mosaic virus, TMV) or transformed with recombinant plasmid expression
   vectors (e.g., Ti plasmid) containing antibody coding sequences; or mammalian cell
   systems (e.g., COS, CHO, BLK, 293, 3T3 cells) harboring recombinant expression
15 constructs containing promoters derived from the genome of mammalian cells (e.g.,
   metallothionein promoter) or from mammalian viruses (e.g., the adenovirus late
   promoter; the vaccinia virus 7.5K promoter). Typically, bacterial cells such as
   Escherichiacoli, and more typically, eukaryotic cells, especially for the expression of
   whole recombinant antibody molecule, are used for the expression of a recombinant
20 polypeptide or antibody molecule. For example, mammalian cells such as Chinese
   hamster ovary cells (CHO), in conjunction with a vector such as the major intermediate
   early gene promoter element from human cytomegalovirus is an effective expression
   system for polypeptides antibodies (Foecking et al., Gene 45:101 (1986); Cockett et al.,
   Bio/Technology 8:2 (1990)).
25          The host cell line used for protein expression is often of mammalian origin; those
   skilled in the art are credited with ability to preferentially determine particular host cell
   lines which are best suited for the desired gene product to be expressed therein.
   Exemplary host cell lines include, but are not limited to, CHO (Chinese Hamster Ovary),
   DG44 and DUXB 11 (Chinese Hamster Ovary lines, DHFR minus), HELA (human
30 cervical carcinoma), CVI (monkey kidney line), COS (a derivative of CVI with SV40 T
   antigen), VERY, BHK (baby hamster kidney), MDCK, 293, W138, R1610 (Chinese
                                                  -74 -

   hamster fibroblast) BALBC/3T3 (mouse fibroblast), HAK (hamster kidney line), SP2/O
   (mouse myeloma), P3.times.63-Ag3.653 (mouse myeloma), BFA-lclBPT (bovine
   endothelial cells), RAJI (human lymphocyte) and 293 (human kidney). Host cell lines
   are typically available from commercial services, the American Tissue Culture Collection
 5 or from published literature.
           In addition, a host cell strain may be chosen which modulates the expression of
   the inserted sequences, or modifies and processes the gene product in the specific fashion
   desired. Such modifications (e.g., glycosylation) and processing (e.g., cleavage) of
   protein products may be important for the function of the protein. Different host cells
10 have characteristic and specific mechanisms for the post-translational processing and
   modification of proteins and gene products. Appropriate cell lines or host systems can be
   chosen to ensure the correct modification and processing of the foreign protein expressed.
   To this end, eukaryotic host cells which possess the cellular machinery for proper
   processing of the primary transcript, glycosylation, and phosphorylation of the gene
15 product may be used.
           For long-term, high-yield production of recombinant proteins, stable expression is
   preferred. For example, cell lines which stably express the antibody molecule may be
   engineered. Rather than using expression vectors which contain viral origins of
   replication, host cells can be transformed with DNA controlled by appropriate expression
20 control elements (e.g., promoter, enhancer, sequences, transcription terminators,
   polyadenylation sites, etc.), and a selectable marker. Following the introduction of the
   foreign DNA, engineered cells may be allowed to grow for 1-2 days in an enriched
   media, and then are switched to a selective media. The selectable marker in the
   recombinant plasmid confers resistance to the selection and allows cells to stably
25 integrate the plasmid into their chromosomes and grow to form foci which in turn can be
   cloned and expanded into cell lines. This method may advantageously be used to
   engineer cell lines which stably express the antibody molecule.
           CHO cells are particularly preferred. In certain embodiment, the antibody
   molecules are expressed in CHO cells stably transfected with expression vectors
30 containing the IgGi-agly heavy light chain structural genes specific to the human
   LINGO-I protein. A native human kappa light chain signal peptide and a human heavy
                                                 -75 -

   chain signal peptide, which are post-translationally removed by endoplasmic reticulum
   associated signal peptidase, can be used to direct secretion of the anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule. The antibody molecule can be purified from the media and formulated as a
   liquid. The antibody molecule can consists of 2 heavy and 2 light chains connected by
 5 inter-chain disulfide bonds. In one embodiment, the mass of the intact antibody molecule
   is approximately 144.4 kDa.
             A number of selection systems may be used, including but not limited to the
   herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (Wigler et al., Cell 11:223 (1977)), hypoxanthine
   guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (Szybalska & Szybalski, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
10 48:202 (1992)), and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (Lowy et al., Cell 22:817 1980)
   genes can be employed in tk-, hgprt- or aprt-cells, respectively. Also, antimetabolite
   resistance can be used as the basis of selection for the following genes: dhfr, which
   confers resistance to methotrexate (Wigler et al., Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:357 (1980);
   O'Hare et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78:1527 (1981)); gpt, which confers resistance
15 to mycophenolic acid (Mulligan & Berg, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78:2072 (1981));
   neo, which confers resistance to the aminoglycoside G-418 Clinical Pharmacy 12:488
   505; Wu and Wu, Biotherapy 3:87-95 (1991); Tolstoshev, Ann. Rev. Pharmacol. Toxicol.
   32:573-596 (1993); Mulligan, Science 260:926-932 (1993); and Morgan and Anderson,
   Ann. Rev. Biochem. 62:191-217 (1993); TIB TECH 11(5):155-215 (May, 1993); and
20 hygro, which confers resistance to hygromycin (Santerre et al., Gene 30:147 (1984).
   Methods commonly known in the art of recombinant DNA technology which can be used
   are described in Ausubel et al. (eds.), Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John
   Wiley & Sons, NY (1993); Kriegler, Gene Transfer and Expression, A Laboratory
   Manual, Stockton Press, NY (1990); and in Chapters 12 and 13, Dracopoli et al. (eds),
25 Current Prolocols in Human Genetics, John Wiley & Sons, NY (1994); Colberre-Garapin
   et al., J. Mol. Biol. 150:1 (1981), which are incorporated by reference herein in their
   entireties.
             Additional methods and host systems expression, production and/or purification
   of the polypeptides, e.g., antibodies, are disclosed in US 8,058,406, the contents of which
30 are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                                                 -76 -

   Nucleic Acid Antagonists
            In certain embodiments, the LINGO-i antagonist inhibits the expression of
   nucleic acid encoding a LINGO-1. Examples of such LINGO-I antagonists include
   nucleic acid molecules, for example, antisense molecules, ribozymes, RNAi double
 5 stranded molecules, triple helix molecules, microRNA molecules that hybridize to a
   nucleic acid encoding a LINGO-1, or a transcription regulatory region, and block or
   reduce mRNA expression of LINGO-1.
            An "antisense" nucleic acid can include a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to
   a "sense" nucleic acid encoding a protein, e.g., complementary to the coding strand of a double
10 stranded cDNA molecule or complementary to an mRNA sequence. The antisense nucleic acid
   can be complementary to an entire LINGO-I coding strand, or to only a portion thereof. In
   another embodiment, the antisense nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a "noncoding region" of
   the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence encoding LINGO-i (e.g., the 5' and 3' untranslated
   regions). Anti-sense agents can include, for example, from about 8 to about 80 nucleobases (i.e.
15 from about 8 to about 80 nucleotides), e.g., about 8 to about 50 nucleobases, or about 12 to about
   30 nucleobases. Anti-sense compounds include ribozymes, external guide sequence (EGS)
   oligonucleotides (oligozymes), and other short catalytic RNAs or catalytic oligonucleotides
   which hybridize to the target nucleic acid and modulate its expression. Anti-sense compounds
   can include a stretch of at least eight consecutive nucleobases that are complementary to a
20 sequence in the target gene. An oligonucleotide need not be 100% complementary to its target
   nucleic acid sequence to be specifically hybridizable. An oligonucleotide is specifically
   hybridizable when binding of the oligonucleotide to the target interferes with the normal function
   of the target molecule to cause a loss of utility, and there is a sufficient degree of
   complementarity to avoid non-specific binding of the oligonucleotide to non-target sequences
25 under conditions in which specific binding is desired, i.e., under physiological conditions in the
   case of in vivo assays or therapeutic treatment or, in the case of in vitro assays, under conditions
   in which the assays are conducted. Exemplary antisense compounds include DNA or RNA
   sequences that specifically hybridize to the target nucleic acid, e.g., the mRNA encoding
   LINGO-1. The complementary region can extend for between about 8 to about 80 nucleobases.
30 The compounds can include one or more modified nucleobases, which are known in the art.
   Descriptions of nucleic acid agents are available. See, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 4,987,071;.
                                                 -77 -

   5,116,742; and 5,093,246; Woolf et al. (1992) ProcNatl Acad Sci USA; Antisense RNA and
   DNA, D.A. Melton, Ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1988);
   89:7305-9; Haselhoff and Gerlach (1988) Nature 334:585-59; Helene, C. (1991) Anticancer
   Drug Des. 6:569-84; Helene (1992) Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 660:27-36; and Maher (1992)
 5 Bioassays 14:807-15.
           siRNAs are small double stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) that optionally include overhangs.
   For example, the duplex region of an siRNA is about 18 to 25 nucleotides in length, e.g., about
   19, 20, 21, 22, 23, or 24 nucleotides in length. Typically, the siRNA sequences are exactly
   complementary to the target mRNA. dsRNAs and siRNAs in particular can be used to silence
10 gene expression in mammalian cells (e.g., human cells). siRNAs also include short hairpin RNAs
   (shRNAs) with 29-base-pair stems and 2-nucleotide Y overhangs. See, e.g., Clemens et al.
   (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97:6499-6503; Billy et al. (2001) Proc. Natl. Sci. USA
   98:14428-14433; Elbashir et al. (2001) Nature. 411:494-8; Yang et al. (2002) Proc. Natl. Acad.
   Sci. USA 99:9942-9947; Siolas et al. (2005), Nat. Biotechnol. 23(2):227-31; 20040086884; U.S.
15 20030166282; 20030143204; 20040038278; and 20030224432.
           In still another embodiment, the nucleic acid molecule is a ribozyme. A ribozyme having
   specificity for a LINGO-I-encoding nucleic acid can include one or more sequences
   complementary to the nucleotide sequence of a LINGO-I mRNA, and a sequence having known
   catalytic sequence responsible for mRNA cleavage (see U.S. Pat. No. 5,093,246 or Haselhoff
20 and Gerlach (1988) Nature 334:585-591; Cech et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,987,071; and Cech et al.
   U.S. Patent No. 5,116,742; Bartel, D. and Szostak, J.W. (1993) Science 261:1411-1418).
           In one embodiment, the nucleic acid molecule is a microRNA molecule. A microRNA
   having specificity for a LINGO-I-encoding nucleic acid can include one or more sequences
   complementary to the nucleotide sequence of a LINGO-I mRNA, which can result in gene
25 silencing via translational repression or target degradation (see Bartel DP (2009) Cell 136 (2):
   215-33; Kusenda B, et al. (2006) Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub
   150 (2): 205-15).
           LINGO-i gene expression can be inhibited by targeting nucleotide sequences
   complementary to the regulatory region of the LINGO-I (e.g., the LINGO-I promoter and/or
30 enhancers) to form triple helical structures that prevent transcription of the LINGO-I gene in
   target cells. See generally, Helene, C. (1991) Anticancer Drug Des. 6:569-84; Helene, C. (1992)
                                                 -78 -

   Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 660:27-36; and Maher, L.J. (1992) Bioassays 14:807-15. The potential
   sequences that can be targeted for triple helix formation can be increased by creating a so-called
   "switchback" nucleic acid molecule.
            A LINGO-I nucleic acid molecule can be modified at the base moiety, sugar moiety or
 5 phosphate backbone to improve, e.g., the stability, hybridization, or solubility of the molecule.
   For non-limiting examples of synthetic oligonucleotides with modifications see Toulm6 (2001)
   Nature Biotech. 19:17 and Faria et al. (2001) Nature Biotech. 19:40-44; Hyrup B. et al. (1996)
   Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry 4: 5-23).
10 Immunomodulatory Agents
            Several immunomodulatory agents are presently used to modify the course of
   multiple sclerosis in patients. Such agents include, but are not limited to, an IFN
   j 1 molecule; a polymer of glutamic acid, lysine, alanine and tyrosine, e.g., glatiramer; an
   antibody or fragment thereof against alpha-4 integrin, e.g., natalizumab; an
15 anthracenedione molecule, e.g., mitoxantrone; a fingolimod, e.g., FTY720; a dimethyl
   fumarate, e.g., an oral dimethyl fumarate; an antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2
   receptor of T cells, e.g., daclizumab; an antibody against CD52, e.g., alemtuzumab; an
   inhibitor of a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, e.g., teriflunomide (e.g., ; an antibody to
   CD20, e.g., ocrelizumab; and a corticosteroid. The reparative agents disclosed herein can
20 be used in combination with any of these agents.
            Exemplary immunomodulatory agents are described in more detail as follows.
   IFN/J agents (Beta interferons)
            One known therapy for MS includes treatment with interferon beta. Interferons
25 (IFNs) are natural proteins produced by the cells of the immune systems of most animals
   in response to challenges by foreign agents such as viruses, bacteria, parasites and tumor
   cells. Interferons belong to the large class of glycoproteins known as cytokines.
   Interferon beta has 165 amino acids. Interferons alpha and beta are produced by many
   cell types, including T-cells and B-cells, macrophages, fibroblasts, endothelial cells,
30 osteoblasts and others, and stimulate both macrophages and NK cells. Interferon gamma
                                                 -79 -

   is involved in the regulation of immune and inflammatory responses. It is produced by
   activated T-cells and ThI cells.
           Several different types of interferon are now approved for use in humans.
   Interferon alpha (including forms interferon alpha-2a, interferon alpha-2b, and interferon
 5 alfacon-1) was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a
   treatment for Hepatitis C. There are two currently FDA-approved types of interferon beta.
   Interferon beta 1a (Avonex@) is identical to interferon beta found naturally in humans,
   and interferon beta lb (Betaseron@) differs in certain ways from interferon beta la found
   naturally in humans, including that it contains a serine residue in place of a cysteine
10 residue at position 17. Other uses of interferon beta have included treatment of AIDS,
   cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Acute Hepatitis C (non-A, non-B), Kaposi's sarcoma,
   malignant melanoma, hairy cell leukemia, and metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
           IFN3 agents can be administered to the subject by any method known in the art,
   including systemically (e.g., orally, parenterally, subcutaneously, intravenously, rectally,
15 intramuscularly, intravitreally, intraperitoneally, intranasally, transdermally, or by
   inhalation or intracavitary installation). Typically, the IFN3 agents are administered
   subcutaneously, or intramuscularly.
           IFN3 agents can be used to treat those subjects determined to be "responders"
   using the methods described herein. In one embodiment, the IFN3 agents are used as a
20 monotherapy (i.e., as a single "disease modifying therapy") although the treatment
   regimen can further comprise the use of "symptom management therapies" such as
   antidepressants, analgesics, anti-tremor agents, etc. In one embodiment, the IFN3 agent is
   an IFNP-1A agent (e.g., Avonex@, Rebif®). In another embodiment, the INFO agent is
   an INFO-1B agent (e.g., Betaseron@, Betaferon@, Extavia@).
25         Avonex@, an Interferon 0-la, is indicated for the treatment of patients with
   relapsing forms of MS that are determined to be responders using the methods described
   herein to slow the accumulation of physical disability and decrease the frequency of
   clinical exacerbations. Avonex@ (Interferon beta-la) is a 166 amino acid glycoprotein
   with a predicted molecular weight of approximately 22,500 daltons. It is produced by
30 recombinant DNA technology using genetically engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary cells
   into which the human interferon beta gene has been introduced. The amino acid sequence
                                                 - 80 -

   of Avonex@ is identical to that of natural human interferon beta. The recommended
   dosage of Avonex@ (Interferon beta-la) is 30 mcg injected intramuscularly once a week.
   Avonex@ is commercially available as a 30 mcg lyophilized powder vial or as a 30 mcg
   prefilled syringe.
 5          Interferon beta 1a (Avonex@) is identical to interferon beta found naturally in
   humans (AVONEX@, i.e., Interferon beta Ia (SwissProt Accession No. P01574 and
   gi:50593016). The sequence of interferon beta is:
   MTNKCLLQIALLLCFSTTALSMSYNLLGFLQRSSNFQCQKLLWQLNGRLEYCLKDRM
10 NFDIPEEIKQLQQFQKEDAALTIYEMLQNIFAIFRQDSSSTGWNETIVENLLANVYHQIN
   HLKTVLEEKLEKEDFTRGKLMSSLHLKRYYGRILHYLKAKEYSHCAWTIVRVEILRNF
   YFINRLTGYLRN (SEQ ID NO: 275).
            Methods for making Avonex@ are known in the art.
15          Treatment of responders identified using the methods described herein further
   contemplates that compositions (e.g., IFN beta 1 a molecules) having biological activity
   that is substantially similar to that of AVONEX@ will permit successful treatment similar
   to treatment with AVONEX@ when administered in a similar manner. Such other
   compositions include, e.g., other interferons and fragments, analogues, homologues,
20 derivatives, and natural variants thereof with substantially similar biological activity. In
   one embodiment, the INFO agent is modified to increase one or more pharmacokinetic
   properties. For example, the INFO agent can be a modified form of interferon la to
   include a pegylated moiety. PEGylated forms of interferon beta la are described in, e.g.,
   Baker, D.P. et al. (2006) Bioconjug Chem 17(1):179-88; Arduini, RM et al. (2004)
25 ProteinExpr Purif34(2):229-42; Pepinsky, RB et al. (2001) J. Pharmacol.Exp. Ther.
   297(3):1059-66; Baker, D.P. et al. (2010) J Interferon Cytokine Res 30(10):777-85 (all of
   which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, and describe a human
   interferon beta 1a modified at its N-terminal alpha amino acid to include a PEG moiety,
   e.g., a 20 kDa mPEG-0-2-methylpropionaldehyde moiety). Pegylated forms of IFN beta
30 la can be administered by, e.g., injectable routes of administration (e.g., subcutaneously).
                                                -81 -

           Rebif@ is also an Interferon P-la agent, while Betaseron@, Betaferon@, and
   Extavia@ are Interferon P-lb agents. Both Rebif@ and Betaseron@ are formulated for
   administration by subcutaneous injection.
           Dosages of IFN3 agents to administer can be determined by one of skill in the art,
 5 and include clinically acceptable amounts to administer based on the specific interferon
   beta agent used. For example, AVONEX@ is typically administered at 30 microgram
   once a week via intramuscular injection. Other forms of interferon beta la, specifically
   REBIF@, is administered, for example, at 22 microgram three times a week or 44
   micrograms once a week, via subcutaneous injection. Interferon beta- 1A can be
10 administered, e.g., intramuscularly, in an amount of between 10 and 50 fig. For example,
   AVONEX@ can be administered every five to ten days, e.g., once a week, while Rebif@
   can be administered three times a week.
   Anti-VLA4 antibody (e.g., Natalizumab (Tysabri@))
15         Anti-VLA4 antibodies (e.g., Natalizumab) inhibit the migration of leukocytes
   from the blood to the central nervous system. These antibodies bind to VLA-4 (also
   called a4pl) on the surface of activated T-cells and other mononuclear leukocytes. They
   can disrupt adhesion between the T-cell and endothelial cells, and thus prevent migration
   of mononuclear leukocytes across the endothelium and into the parenchyma. As a result,
20 the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines can also be reduced. Natalizumab can decrease
   the number of brain lesions and clinical relapses and accumulation of disability in
   patients with relapse remitting multiple sclerosis and relapsing secondary-progressive
   multiple sclerosis.
           Natalizumab and related VLA-4 binding antibodies are described, e.g., in U.S.
25 Pat. No. 5,840,299. Monoclonal antibodies 21.6 and HP1/2 are exemplary murine
   monoclonal antibodies that bind VLA-4. Natalizumab is a humanized version of murine
   monoclonal antibody 21.6 (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,840,299). A humanized version of
   HP 1/2 has also been described (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,602,503). Several additional
   VLA-4 binding monoclonal antibodies, such as HP2/1, HP2/4, L25 and P4C2, are
30 described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 6,602,503; Sanchez-Madrid et al, (1986) Eur. J. Immunol
   16:1343-1349; Hemler et al, (1987) JBiol. Chem. 2:11478-11485; Issekutz et al. (1991)
                                                - 82 -

   JImmunol 147: 109 (TA-2 mab); Pulido et al. (1991) JBiol. Chem. 266: 10241-10245;
   and U.S. Pat. No. 5,888,507). The contents of the aforesaid publications (including the
   antibody compositions, dosages, methods of administration and production) are
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
 5
   Dimethyl Fumarate (Tecfidera@)
           Dimethyl fumarate, DMF, (Tecfidera@) is a fumaric acid ester. DMF is thought
   to decrease leukocyte passage through the blood brain barrier and exert neuroprotective
   effects by the activation of antioxidative pathways, specifically through activation of the
10 Nrf-2 pathway (Lee et al. (2008) Int MS Journal 15: 12-18). Research also suggests that
   BG-12® has the potential to reduce the activity and impact of inflammatory cells on the
   CNS and induce direct cytoprotective responses in CNS cells. These effects may enhance
   the CNS cells' ability to mitigate the toxic inflammatory and oxidative stress that plays a
   role in MS pathophysiology.
15
   Glatirameracetate (Copaxone@)
           Copaxone@ (glatiramer acetate) consists of the acetate salts of synthetic
   polypeptides, specifically the four naturally occurring amino acids: L-glutamic acid, L
   alanine, L-tyrosine, and L-lysine (Bornstein et al. (1987) N Engl JMed. 317: 408-414).
20 Copaxone@ exhibits structural similarity to myelin basic protein and is thought to
   function as an immune modulator by shifting the T helper cell type 1 response towards a
   T helper cell type 2 response (Duda et al. (2000) J Clin Invest 105: 967-976; Nicholas et
   al. (2011) Drug Design, Development, and Therapy 5: 255-274).
25 Mitoxantrone (Novantrone@, an anthracenedionemolecule)
           Mitoxantrone is an anthracenedione molecule (1,4-dihydroxy-5,8-bis[2-(2
   hydroxyethylamino) ethylamino]-anthracene-9,10-dione) and a type II topoisomerase
   inhibitor that disrupts DNA synthesis and repair of cells. It is used to treat cancers and
   MS. Mitoxantrone is used to treat several forms of advancing MS, including secondary
30 progressive MS, progressive relapsing MS, and advanced relapsing-remitting MS.
                                                 -83 -

   For example, mitoxantrone is effective in slowing the progression of secondary
   progressive MS and extending the time between relapses in relapsing-remitting MS and
   progressive relapsing MS (Fox E (2006) Clin Ther 28 (4): 461-74).
 5 Fingolimod(Gilenya@; sphingosine 1-phosphate receptormodulator)
           Fingolimod is an immunomodulating drug, approved for treating MS. It has
   reduced the rate of relapses in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis by over half, but may
   have serious adverse effects. Fingolimod is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor
   modulator, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from moving
10 to the central nervous system for autoimmune responses in MS.
   Antibodies to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptorof T cells (daclizumab; Zenapax@)
           An antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T cells, e.g., daclizumab,
   can be used in the methods and compositions disclosed herein. Daclizumab is a
15 therapeutic humanized monoclonal antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T
   cells. Daclizumab was effective in reducing lesions and improving clinical scores in
   patients with multiple sclerosis not controlled with interferon (Rose JW et al. (2007).
   Neurology 69 (8): 785-789).
20 Antibody against CD52, e.g., alemtuzumab
           Antibodies against CD52, e.g., alemtuzumab (currently under further
   development as Lemtrada@), bind to CD52, which is a protein present on the surface of
   mature lymphocytes, but not on stem cells. Phase III studies reported positive results
   comparing alemtuzumab with Rebif@ (high-dose subcutaneous interferon beta-i a) in the
25 treatment of patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). Alemtuzumab has been
   approved in Europe.
   Antibody to CD20, e.g., ocrelizumab
           Antibodies against CD20, e.g., ocrelizumab, rituximab, ofatumumab, target
30 mature B lymphocytes. Phase 2 clinical studies of rituximab and ocrelizumab in relapse
   remitting MS have demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in disease activity
                                                -84 -

   measured by brain lesions (e.g., measured by MRI scans) and relapse rate compared to
   placebo.
   Inhibitorsof dihydroorotatedehydrogenase, e.g., teriflunomide
 5         Inhibitors of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, e.g., teriflunomide, inhibit pyrimidine
   synthesis. Teriflunomide (also known as A77 1726 or) is an active metabolite of
   leflunomide. Teriflunomide inhibits rapidly dividing cells, including activated T cells,
   which are thought to drive the disease process in MS. Teriflunomide was investigated in
   clinical trials as a medication for treating MS. (Vollmer EMS News (May 28, 2009)).
10
   Steroids
           Steroids, e.g., corticosteroid, and ACTH agents can be used to treat acute relapses
   in relapsing-remitting MS or secondary progressive MS. Such agents include, but are not
   limited to, Depo-Medrol@, Solu-Medrol@, Deltasone@, Delta-Cortef@, Medrol@,
15 Decadron@, and Acthar@.
           One or more of the aforesaid immunomodulatory agents can be used in
   combination with the reparative agents disclosed herein, as described in more detail
   below and exemplified by the combination of IFN-b and anti-LINGO-I Antibody
   Therapy.
20
   Therapeutic Methods
           Reparative agents, such as LINGO-i antagonists, can relieve NgRI-mediated
   inhibition of axonal regeneration and dendritic arborization that normally takes place in
   CNS neurons. This is beneficial in situations where axonal repair or neurite sprouting is
25 needed in the brain or spinal cord following CNS injury. Spinal cord injury, including
   partial or complete crush or severance, exemplifies a situation in which axonal repair is
   needed, but is normally inhibited through operation of the NgRI pathway. Examples of
   diseases or disorders in which axonal extension and/or neurite sprouting in the brain can
   be beneficial include, but are not limited to, stroke, multiple sclerosis (MS), and other
30 neurodegenerative diseases or disorders such as multiple sclerosis, progressive multifocal
   leukoencephalopathy (PML), encephalomyelitis (EPL), acute disseminated
                                                 -85 -

   encephalomyelitis (ADEM), central pontine myelolysis (CPM), neuromyelitis optics
   (NMO), adrenoleukodystrophy, Alexander's disease, Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease
   (PMZ), periventricular leukomalatia (PVL), Globoid cell Leucodystrophy (Krabbe's
   disease) and Wallerian Degeneration, optic neuritis (e.g., acute optic neuritis), transverse
 5 myelitis, amylotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease,
   Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, post radiation injury,
   neurologic complications of chemotherapy, stroke, neuropathy, acute ischemic optic
   neuropathy, vitamin B 12 deficiency, isolated vitamin E deficiency syndrome, AR,
   Bassen-Komzweig syndrome, Marchiafava-Bignami syndrome, metachromatic
10 leukodystrophy, trigeminal neuralgia, Bell's palsy, spinal cord injury, traumatic
   glaucoma, essential tremor, osmotic hyponatremia, and all neurological diseases related
   to neuronal cell death.
           LINGO-i is expressed in oligodendrocytes, and contributes to oligodendrocyte
   biology. Soluble derivatives of LINGO-1, polynucleotides (e.g. RNAi), as well as certain
15 antibodies which specifically bind to LINGO-I can act as antagonists to LINGO-I
   function in oligodendrocytes, promoting proliferation, differentiation and survival of
   oligodendrocytes and promoting myelination of neurons in vitro and in vivo. This can be
   beneficial for treating or preventing disorders or conditions involving demyelination and
   dysmyelination. Examples of diseases or disorders in which oligodendrocyte
20 proliferation, differentiation and survival, and/or myelination or remyelination would be
   beneficial include multiple sclerosis (MS), progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
   (PML), encephalomyelitis (EPL), acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), central
   pontine myelolysis (CPM), adrenoleukodystrophy, neuromyelitis optics (NMO),
   Alexander's disease, Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease (PMZ), Globoid cell Leucodystrophy
25 (Krabbe's disease), Wallerian Degeneration, optic neuritis (e.g., acute optic neuritis),
   periventricular leukomalatia (PVL), transverse myelitis, amylotrophic lateral sclerosis
   (ALS), Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury,
   traumatic brain injury, post radiation injury, neurologic complications of chemotherapy,
   stroke, acute ischemic optic neuropathy, vitamin B 12 deficiency, isolated vitamin E
30 deficiency syndrome, AR, Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome, Marchiafava-Bignami
                                                 -86 -

   syndrome, metachromatic leukodystrophy, trigeminal neuralgia, traumatic glaucoma,
   osmotic hyponatremia and Bell's palsy.
           Accordingly, methods for treating spinal cord injury, diseases or disorders
   associated with inhibition of neuronal growth in the CNS, diseases or disorders
 5 associated with inhibition of oligodendrocyte growth or differentiation, and diseases
   involving demyelination or dysmyelination of CNS neurons in a subject suffering from
   such injury or disease or predisposed to contract such disease, are disclosed. The method
   includes administering to the subject an effective amount of a reparative agent, e.g., a
   LINGO-I antagonist, alone or in combination with an immunomodulatory agent.
10         In one embodiment, the reparative agent, alone or in combination, reduces one or
   more symptoms of an inflammatory condition of the optic nerve (e.g., optic neuritis, e.g.,
   acute optic neuritis (AON)). AON is an inflammatory disease of the optic nerve that
   often occurs in multiple sclerosis. AON is caused by inflammatory injury to the optic
   nerve and presents with visual loss due to edema, inflammation, and damage to the
15 myelin sheath covering the optic nerve and axons. There is significant loss of the retinal
   nerve fiber layer and retinalganglion cell layer as a result of AON. Current treatment of
   AON is limited to intravenous treatment with high dose corticosteroids which fasten the
   resolution of edema, but do not promote central nervous system (CNS) remyelination or
   provide neuroaxonal protection from CNS inflammatory demyelination. Thus the
20 reparative agents disclosed herein can be used, alone or in combination, to treat such
   inflammation of the optic nerve.
            "Treat," "treatment," and other forms of this word refer to the administration of a
   combination therapy, alone or in combination with one or more symptom management
   agents, to a subject, e.g., an MS patient, to impede disease progression, to induce
25 remission, to extend the expected survival time of the subject and or reduce the need for
   medical interventions (e.g., hospitalizations). In those subjects, treatment can include,
   but is not limited to, inhibiting or reducing one or more symptoms such as numbness,
   tingling, muscle weakness; reducing relapse rate or severity, reducing size or number of
   sclerotic lesions; inhibiting or retarding the development of new lesions; prolonging
30 survival, or prolonging progression-free survival, and/or enhanced quality of life.
                                                 - 87 -

           As used herein, unless otherwise specified, the terms "prevent," "preventing" and
   "prevention" contemplate an action that occurs before a subject begins to suffer from a
   relapse and/or which inhibits or reduces the severity of the disease.
           As used herein, and unless otherwise specified, the terms "manage," "managing"
 5 and "management" encompass preventing the progression of disease symptoms in a
   subject who has already suffered from the disease, and/or lengthening the time that the
   subject who has suffered from the disease remains in remission. The terms encompass
   modulating the threshold, development and/or duration of the disease, or changing the
   way that a patient responds to the disease.
10         As used herein, and unless otherwise specified, a "therapeutically effective
   amount" of a compound is an amount sufficient to provide a therapeutic benefit in the
   treatment or management of the disease, or to delay or minimize one or more symptoms
   associated with the disease. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound means an
   amount of therapeutic agent, alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents, which
15 provides a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of the disease. The term
   "therapeutically effective amount" can encompass an amount that improves overall
   therapy, reduces or avoids symptoms or causes of the disease, or enhances the therapeutic
   efficacy of another therapeutic agent.
           As used herein, and unless otherwise specified, a "prophylactically effective
20 amount" of a compound is an amount sufficient to prevent relapse of the disease, or one
   or more symptoms associated with the disease, or prevent its recurrence. A
   prophylactically effective amount of a compound means an amount of the compound,
   alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents, which provides a prophylactic
   benefit in the prevention of disease relapse. The term "prophylactically effective amount"
25 can encompass an amount that improves overall prophylaxis or enhances the prophylactic
   efficacy of another prophylactic agent.
           As used herein, the term "patient" or "subject" typically refers to a human (i.e., a
   male or female of any age group, e.g., a pediatric patient (e.g., infant, child, adolescent)
   or adult patient (e.g., young adult, middle-aged adult or senior adult) or other mammal,
30 such as a primate (e.g., cynomolgus monkey, rhesus monkey); commercially relevant
   mammals such as cattle, pigs, horses, sheep, goats, cats, and/or dogs;, that will be or has
                                                -88 -

   been the object of treatment, observation, and/or experiment. When the term is used in
   conjunction with administration of a compound or drug, then the patient has been the
   object of treatment, observation, and/or administration of the compound or drug.
 5 Treatment of MS
           Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a central nervous system disease that is characterized
   by inflammation and loss of axons and myelin sheaths.
           Subjects having MS can be identified by clinical criteria establishing a diagnosis
   of clinically definite MS as defined by Poser et al. (1983) Ann. Neurol. 13:227. Briefly,
10 an individual with clinically definite MS has had two attacks and clinical evidence of
   either two lesions or clinical evidence of one lesion and paraclinical evidence of another,
   separate lesion. Definite MS may also be diagnosed by evidence of two attacks and
   oligoclonal bands of IgG in cerebrospinal fluid or by combination of an attack, clinical
   evidence of two lesions and oligoclonal band of IgG in cerebrospinal fluid. The
15 McDonald criteria can also be used to diagnose MS. (McDonald et al. (2001)
   Recommended diagnostic criteriafor Multiple sclerosis: guidelinesfrom the
   InternationalPanel on the Diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis, Ann Neurol 50:121-127);
   Polman, CH et al. (2005 Dec). Diagnosticcriteriafor multiple sclerosis: 2005 revisions
   to the "McDonaldCriteria"Annals of Neurology 58 (6): 840-6; Polman, C.H. et al.
20 (2011) Ann. Neurol. 69(2):292-302). The McDonald criteria include the use of MRI
   evidence of CNS impairment over time to be used in diagnosis of MS, in the absence of
   multiple clinical attacks. Further updates to the McDonald criteria (Polman et al, Annals
   of Neurology 2011) allow the diagnosis of MS at the time of first CNS demyelinating
   episode based on the finding of characteristic MRI lesions. Effective treatment of
25 multiple sclerosis may be evaluated in several different ways. The following parameters
   can be used to gauge effectiveness of treatment. Two exemplary criteria include: EDSS
   (extended disability status scale), and appearance of exacerbations on MRI (magnetic
   resonance imaging).
           Exacerbations are defined as the appearance of a new symptom that is attributable
30 to MS and accompanied by an appropriate new neurologic abnormality. In addition, the
   exacerbation must last at least 24 hours and be preceded by stability or improvement for
                                                - 89 -

   at least 30 days. Briefly, patients are given a standard neurological examination by
   clinicians. Exacerbations are mild, moderate, or severe according to changes in a
   Neurological Rating Scale like, for example, the Scripps Neurological Rating Scale (Sipe
   et al. (1984) Neurology 34:1368); the EDSS; or by patient reported outcomes (e.g.,
 5 MSWS-12). An annual exacerbation rate and proportion of exacerbation-free patients are
   determined.
            Therapy can be deemed to be effective using a clinical measure if there is a
   statistically significant difference in the rate or proportion of exacerbation-free or relapse
   free patients between the treated group and the placebo group for either of these
10 measurements. In addition, time to first exacerbation and exacerbation duration and
   severity may also be measured. A measure of effectiveness as therapy in this regard is a
   statistically significant difference in the time to first exacerbation or duration and severity
   in the treated group compared to control group. An exacerbation-free or relapse-free
   period of greater than one year, 18 months, 20, or 24 months is particularly noteworthy.
15 Clinical measurements include the relapse rate in one and two-year intervals, and a
   change in EDSS, including time to worsening from baseline of 1.0 unit on the EDSS that
   persists for three or six months. On a Kaplan-Meier curve, a delay in sustained
   progression of disability shows efficacy. Other criteria include a change in area and
   volume of T2 images on MRI, and the number and volume of lesions determined by
20 gadolinium enhanced images.
            MRI can be used to measure active lesions using gadolinium-DTPA-enhanced
   imaging (McDonald et al., Ann. Neurol. 36:14, 1994) or the location and extent of lesions
   using T2-weighted techniques. Briefly, baseline MRIs are obtained. The same imaging
   plane and patient position are used for each subsequent study. Positioning and imaging
25 sequences can be chosen to maximize lesion detection and facilitate lesion tracing. The
   same positioning and imaging sequences can be used on subsequent studies. The
   presence, location and extent of MS lesions can be determined by radiologists. Areas of
   lesions can be outlined and summed slice by slice for total lesion area. Three analyses
   may be done: evidence of new lesions, rate of appearance of active lesions, and
30 percentage change in lesion area (Paty et al., (1993) Neurology 43:665). Improvement
                                                   - 90 -

   due to therapy can be established by a statistically significant improvement in an
   individual patient compared to baseline or in a treated group versus a placebo group.
            Exemplary symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis, which can be treated
   with the methods described herein or managed using symptom management therapies,
 5 include: optic neuritis, decreased visual acuity, diplopia, nystagmus, ocular dysmetria,
   internuclear ophthalmoplegia, movement and sound phosphenes, afferent pupillary
   defect, paresis, monoparesis, paraparesis, hemiparesis, quadraparesis, plegia, paraplegia,
   hemiplegia, tetraplegia, quadraplegia, spasticity, dysarthria, muscle atrophy, spasms,
   cramps, hypotonia, clonus, myoclonus, myokymia, restless leg syndrome, footdrop,
10 dysfunctional reflexes, paraesthesia, anaesthesia, neuralgia, neuropathic and neurogenic
   pain, L'hermitte's, proprioceptive dysfunction, trigeminal neuralgia, ataxia, intention
   tremor, dysmetria, vestibular ataxia, vertigo, speech ataxia, dystonia, dysdiadochokinesia,
   frequent micturation, bladder spasticity, flaccid bladder, detrusor- sphincter dyssynergia,
   erectile dysfunction, anorgasmy, frigidity, constipation, fecal urgency, fecal incontinence,
15 depression, cognitive dysfunction, dementia, mood swings, emotional lability, euphoria,
   bipolar syndrome, anxiety, aphasia, dysphasia, fatigue, Uhthoff's symptom,
   gastroesophageal reflux, and sleeping disorders.
            Each case of MS displays one of several patterns of presentation and subsequent
   course. Most commonly, MS first manifests itself as a series of attacks followed by
20 complete or partial remissions as symptoms mysteriously lessen, only to return later after
   a period of stability. This is called relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). Primary-progressive
   MS (PPMS) is characterized by a gradual clinical decline with no distinct remissions,
   although there may be temporary plateaus or minor relief from symptoms. Secondary
   progressive MS (SPMS) begins with a relapsing-remitting course followed by a later
25 progressive course independently of relapses. Rarely, patients may have a progressive
   relapsing (PRMS) course in which the disease takes a progressive path punctuated by
   intermittent acute attacks. PPMS, SPMS, and PRMS are sometimes lumped together and
   called chronic progressive MS.
            A few patients experience malignant MS, defined as a swift and relentless decline
30 resulting in significant disability or even death shortly after disease onset. This decline
   may be arrested or decelerated by determining the likelihood of the patient to respond to
                                                  -91 -

   a therapy early in the therapeutic regime and switching the patient to an agent that they
   have the highest likelihood of responding to.
   Combination Therapy
 5          The invention discloses combined administration of an immunomodulatory agent,
   e.g., an IFN- agent, e.g., Avonex@; and a reparative agent, e.g., an anti-LINGO-i
   antibody, for treatment of a demyelinating disorder, e.g., MS.
            The agents, e.g., pharmaceutical compositions including the agents, can be
   administered concurrently with, prior to, or subsequent to, one or more other additional
10 therapies or therapeutic agents. In general, each agent can be administered at a dose
   and/or on a time schedule determined for that agent. In will further be appreciated that
   the additional therapeutic agent utilized in this combination can be administered together
   in a single composition or administered separately in different compositions. The
   particular combination to employ in a regimen will take into account compatibility of the
15 pharmaceutical composition with the additional therapeutically active agent and/or the
   desired therapeutic effect to be achieved. In general, it is expected that additional
   therapeutic agents utilized in combination be utilized at levels that do not exceed the
   levels at which they are utilized individually. In some embodiments, the levels utilized in
   combination will be lower than those utilized individually.
20          Treatment of a subject with a disease with a reparative agent can be combined
   with one or more immunomodulatory agents. Exemplary immunomodulatory agents are
   described herein and include, but are not limited to, an IFN-    1 molecule; a polymer of
   glutamic acid, lysine, alanine and tyrosine, e.g., glatiramer; an antibody or fragment
   thereof against alpha-4 integrin, e.g., natalizumab; an anthracenedione molecule, e.g.,
25 mitoxantrone; a fingolimod, e.g., FTY720; a dimethyl fumarate, e.g., an oral dimethyl
   fumarate; an antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T cells, e.g.,
   daclizumab; an antibody against CD52, e.g., alemtuzumab; an inhibitor of a
   dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, e.g., teriflunomide; a corticosteroid; and an anti-CD20
   antibody, e.g., ocrelizumab.
30          In one embodiment, a combination of Avonex@ and anti-LINGO-I antibody
   therapy is administered. In certain embodiments, an anti-LINGO-I antibody can be
                                                 - 92 -

   administered once about every 4 weeks (plus or minus about 5 days) by intravenous (IV)
   infusion in addition to once weekly Avonex@ intramuscular (IM) injections. Anti
   LINGO-i antibody treatment doses can include: IV infusions of: 3mg/kg; or 10mg/kg; or
   30mg/kg; or 50mg/kg or 100 mg/kg; concurrent with once-weekly Avonex@ IM
 5 injections.
            In one embodiment, 3 mg/kg IV infusion once every 4 weeks of an anti-LINGO-i
   antibody was selected. This regimen is expected to yield a mean average serum
   concentration similar to rat serum EC50 in the spinal cord lysolecithin model (adjusted
   for -0. 1% brain penetration). Additional dosing regimens, 10 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg can
10 also be administered. These 2 dosing regimens are expected to yield mean average serum
   concentrations approximately 1.2-fold and 3.7-fold higher than the rat serum EC90
   (adjusted for -0. 1% brain penetration), respectively.
            In certain embodiments, the immunomodulatory agent is an IFN-        1 molecule and
   is administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly. For example, the IFN
15 P 1 molecule can be administered at one or more of:
            (i) at 20-45 microgram (e.g., 30 microgram), e.g., once a week via intramuscular
   injection;
            (ii) at 20-30 microgram (e.g., 22 microgram), e.g., three times a week, or at 40-50
   micrograms (e.g., 44 micrograms), e.g., three times a week, via subcutaneous injection;
20 or
            (iii) in an amount of between 10 and 50 [g intramuscularly, e.g., three times a
   week, or every five to ten days, e.g., once a week.
            In one embodiment, Avonex@ is administered at 30 microgram once a week via
   intramuscular injection. Following titration when applicable, Avonex@ can be
25 administered by IM injection following dosage and administration schedules known in
   the art.
            In one embodiment, the IFN- agent, e.g., Avonex@, is administered by an
   injection device, e.g., an autoinjection device or pen.
            In one embodiment, the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule is supplied as a liquid
30 drug product containing 50 mg/mL BIB033 (also referred to herein as an antibody
   molecule having a VH that includes the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 275 and a
                                                -93 -

   VL that includes the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 276), 10 mM sodium citrate,
   160 mM L-arginine hydrochloride (pH 6.5), and 0.03% (weight per volume) polysorbate
   80. The anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule can be administered by IV infusion following
   saline dilution.
 5         In one embodiment, the immunomodulatory agent is Avonex@, which is is
   formulated as a sterile clear liquid for IM injection. Each 0.5 mL of Avonex in a prefilled
   glass syringe contains 30 mcg of interferon P-la. Other ingredients include sodium
   acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid, arginine hydrochloride, and polysorbate 20 in
   Water for Injection at a pH of approximately 4.8. The immunomodulatory agent, e.g.,
10 Avonex@, can be administered by any suitable means, e.g., a pen or other device.
   Symptom management
           Treatment of a subject with a combination therapy described herein can be
   combined with one or more of the following therapies often used in symptom
15 management of subjects having MS: Tegretol@ (carbamazepine), Epitol@
   (carbamazepine), Atretol@ (carbamazepine), Carbatrol@ (carbamazepine), Neurontin@
   (gabapentin), Topamax@ (topiramate), Zonegran@ (zonisamide), Dilantin@ (phenytoin),
   Norpramin@ (desipramine), Elavil@ (amitriptyline), Tofranil@ (imipramine), Imavate@
   (imipramine), Janimine@ (imipramine), Sinequan@ (doxepine), Adapin@ (doxepine),
20 Triadapin@ (doxepine), Zonalon@ (doxepine), Vivactil@ (protriptyline), Marinol@
   (synthetic cannabinoids), Trental@ (pentoxifylline), Neurofen@ (ibuprofen), aspirin,
   acetaminophen, Atarax@ (hydroxyzine), Prozac@ (fluoxetine), Zoloft@ (sertraline),
   Lustral@ (sertraline), Effexor XR® (venlafaxine), Celexa@ (citalopram), Paxil®,
   Seroxat@, Desyrel@ (trazodone), Trialodine@ (trazodone), Pamelor@ (nortriptyline),
25 Aventyl@ (imipramine), Prothiaden@ (dothiepin), Gamanil@ (lofepramine), Parnate®
   (tranylcypromine), Manerix@ (moclobemide), Aurorix@ (moclobemide), Wellbutrin
   SR® (bupropion), Amfebutamone@ (bupropion), Serzone@ (nefazodone), Remeron@
   (mirtazapine), Ambien@ (zolpidem), Xanax@ (alprazolam), Restoril® (temazepam),
   Valium@ (diazepam), BuSpar@ (buspirone), Symmetrel@ (amantadine), Cylert@
30 (pemoline), Provigil@ (modafinil), Ditropan XL® (oxybutynin), DDAVP®
   (desmopressin, vasopressin), Detrol@ (tolterodine), Urecholine@ (bethane),
                                                  - 94 -

   Dibenzyline@ (phenoxybenzamine), Hytrin@ (terazosin), Pro-Banthine@ (propantheline),
   Urispas@ (hyoscyamine), Cystopas@ (hyoscyamine), Lioresal@ (baclofen), Hiprex@
   (methenamine), Mandelamine@ (metheneamine), Macrodantin® (nitrofurantoin),
   Pyridium@ (phenazopyridine), Cipro@ (ciprofloxacin), Dulcolax@ (bisacodyl),
 5 Bisacolax@ (bisacodyl), Sani-Supp@ (glycerin), Metamucil@ (psyllium hydrophilic
   mucilloid), Fleet Enema@ (sodium phosphate), Colace@ (docusate), Therevac Plus@,
   Klonopin@ (clonazepam), Rivotril@ (clonazepam), Dantrium@ (dantrolen sodium),
   Catapres@ (clonidine), Botox@ (botulinum toxin), Neurobloc@ (botulinum toxin),
   Zanaflex@ (tizanidine), Sirdalud@ (tizanidine), Mysoline@ (primidone), Diamox@
10 (acetozolamide), Sinemet@ (levodopa, carbidopa), Laniazid@ (isoniazid), Nydrazid@
   (isoniazid), Antivert@ (meclizine), Bonamine@ (meclizine), Dramamine@
   (dimenhydrinate), Compazine@ (prochlorperazine), Transderm@ (scopolamine),
   Benadryl@ (diphenhydramine), Antegren@ (natalizumab), Campath-1H®
   (alemtuzumab), Fampridine@ (4-aminopyridine), Gammagard® (IV immunoglobulin),
15 Gammar-IV@ (IV immunoglobulin), Gamimune N® (IV immunoglobulin), Iveegam@
   (IV immunoglobulin), Panglobulin@ (IV immunoglobulin), Sandoglobulin@ (IV
   immunoglobulin), Venoblogulin@ (IV immunoglobulin), pregabalin, ziconotide, Badofen
   and AnergiX-MS@.
20 Clinical Tests/Assessments for the Evaluation of Combination Avonex@ and Anti
   LINGO-1 Antibody Therapy
           Efficacy endpoints of the therapy in any subject can be evaluated using tests and
   assessments known in the art. For example, for an RRMS patient, the subject can be
   evaluated by acquiring the subject's status using EDSS. In other embodiments where the
25 subject has a progressive form of MS, e.g., SPMS or PPMS, the subject can be evaluated
   by obtaining a measure of upper and/or lower extremity function, and/or a measure of
   ambulatory function, e.g., short distance ambulatory function, in addition to acquiring the
   subject's status using EDSS. In certain embodiments, an assessment of lower extremity
   ambulatory function (e.g., Timed Walk of 25 Feet (T25FW)), and/or an assessment of
30 upper extremity function (e.g., 9 Hole Peg Test (9HP)) can be performed.
                                               - 95 -

           Additional exemplary efficacy endpoints that can be evaluated include one or
   more of the following.
   Efficacy Endpoints
 5 Exemplary Primary Endpoints
           Subjects can be evaluated for confirmed improvement of neurophysical and/or
   cognitive function over treatment as measured by a composite endpoint comprising the
   Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), Timed 25-Foot Walk (T25FW), 9-Hole Peg
   Test (9HPT), and (3-Second) Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT).
10 Improvement on neurophysical and/or cognitive function can be defined as at least 1 of
   the following:
       a) A >1.0 point decrease in EDSS from a baseline score of <6.0 (decrease sustained
           for 3 months or greater);
       b) A >15% improvement from baseline in T25FW (improvement sustained for 3
15         months or greater);
       c) A >15% improvement from baseline in 9HPT (improvement sustained for 3
           months or greater); and
       d) A >15% improvement from baseline in PASAT (improvement sustained for 3
           months or greater).
20
   Exemplary Secondary Endpoints
           Subjects can be evaluated for confirmed worsening of neurophysical and/or
   cognitive function and/or disability treatment as measured by a composite endpoint of the
   EDSS, T25FW, 9HPT, and PASAT. Progression of disability or worsening of neuro
25 physical and/or cognitive function is defined as at least 1 of the following:
       a) A >1.0 point increase in EDSS from a baseline score of <5.5 or a >0.5 point
           increase from a baseline score equal to 6.0 (increase sustained for 3 months or
           greater);
       b) A >15% worsening from baseline in T25FW (worsening sustained for 3 months
30         or greater);
       c) A >15% worsening from baseline in 9HPT (worsening sustained for 3 months or
                                               -96 -

           greater); and
       d) A >15% worsening from baseline in PASAT (worsening sustained for 3 months
           or greater).
 5 Additional Clinical Efficacy Endpoints
           In certain embodiments, subjects can be evaluated using additional clinical
   measures, including:
       a) A change from baseline in cognitive function as measured by an MS cognitive
           composite endpoint comprising 2 tests of processing speed (the PASAT and the
10         Symbol-Digit Modalities Test [SDMT]) and 2 tests of memory and learning (the
           Selective Reminding Test [SRT] for verbal memory and the Brief Visuospatial
           Memory Test-Revised [BVMT-R] for visual memory);
       b) Severity of clinical relapses as determined by the Scripps Neurological Rating
           Scale (SNRS); and/or
15     c) A >10% (e.g., >15%, >20%, >30%) worsening from baseline in Six Minute Walk
           (6MW) walking time (worsening sustained for 3 months or greater).
   Exemplary MRI Efficacy Endpoints
           Analysis of brain MRI focused on measures of repair at the focal and diffuse
20 levels with both new and preexisting lesions can include one or more of:
   (i) Analysis of new brain lesions:
       a) Percentage Gd lesion volume with increased and decreased magnetization transfer
           ratio (MTR);
       b) A change from onset in new Gd lesion mean MTR relative to the normal
25         appearing white matter (NAWM) with lesions per subject as the unit of measure;
       c) A change from onset in MTR signal for voxels per scan whose MTR drops below
           the normal value (new MTR lesions) with subject as the unit of measure;
       d) A change from onset in new Gd lesion radial diffusivity with subject as the unit of
           measure;
30     e) A change from onset in radial diffusivity for voxels per scan whose MTR drops
           below the normal value (new MTR lesions) with subject as the unit of measure; or
                                                - 97 -

        f) Percentage conversion from new Gd brain lesions to chronic black hole with
           chronic black holes defined as TI hypointensity still visible after at least 6 months
           from onset.
   (ii) Analysis of pre-existing brain lesions (lesions that are present at baseline scan):
 5             a. A change in MTR from baseline for abnormal TI volume;
               b. A change in MTR from baseline for abnormal T2 volume;
               c. A change in MTR from baseline for abnormal T2 volume not associated
                   with TI hypointensity;
               d. A change in diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) from baseline for abnormal
10                 TI volume;
               e. A change in DTI from baseline for abnormal T2 volume; or
               f.  A change in DTI from baseline for abnormal T2 volume not associated
                   with TI hypointensity.
   (iii) Analysis of diffuse brain MRI metrics:
15      a) Percentage brain volume change;
        b) A change from baseline in cerebral cortical brain volume;
        c) A change from baseline in thalamic volume; or
        d) A change from baseline in whole brain radial diffusivity.
20 Exemplary Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) Efficacy Endpoints
           In certain embodiments, subjects can be evaluated by patient reported outcomes,
   including one or more of:
        a) 12-Item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale (MSWS-12).
        b) ABILHAND 56-Item Questionnaire.
25      c) 29-Item Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS-29).
        d) The Short Form (36) Health Survey (SF-36).
        e) MSNQ-informant and MSNQ-patient
   Efficacy EndpointAnalysis
30 General Methods of Analysis
           Summary statistics may be presented. For continuous endpoints, the summary
                                                 -98 -

   statistics may generally include: the number of subjects randomized or dosed; or the
   number of subjects with data, mean, SD, median, and range. For categorical endpoints,
   the summary statistics may generally include: the number of subjects randomized or
   dosed; the number of subjects with data, or the percent of subjects with data in each
 5 category.
   Primary Endpoint Analyses
            The primary efficacy endpoint can include the percentage of subjects with
   confirmed clinical improvement in 1 or more of the components of the composite
10 endpoint (EDSS, T25FW, 9HPT, or PASAT). The percentage of confirmed improvers
   can be presented by treatment groups, and the data analyzed by a logistic regression
   model. Time to confirmed improvement may be analyzed using the Cox proportional
   hazards model. Baseline EDSS, T25FW, 9HPT (both dominant and non-dominant
   hands), PASAT, and stratification factors may be included in both logistic regression and
15 Cox models as covariates. If 2 baseline EDSS assessments are performed, the higher
   EDSS score can be used for analysis. MRI activity may be explored as potential
   covariates as well.
   Secondary Endpoint Analyses
20          The secondary efficacy endpoint may include the percentage of subjects with
   confirmed clinical worsening in 1 or more of the components of the composite endpoint
   (EDSS, T25FW, 9HPT, or PASAT). The percentage of confirmed worseners can be
   presented by treatment groups, and the data analyzed by a logistic regression model.
   Time to confirmed worsening may be analyzed using the Cox proportional hazards
25 model. Baseline EDSS, T25FW, 9HPT (both dominant and non-dominant hands),
   PASAT, and stratification factors may be included in both logistic regression and Cox
   models as covariates. If 2 baseline EDSS assessments are performed, the higher EDSS
   score can be used for analysis. MRI activity may be explored as potential covariates as
   well.
30
                                               - 99 -

   Exploratory Endpoint Analyses
           The exploratory endpoints may include clinical metrics, MRI metrics, and PRO
   variables. They can be summarized by presenting summary statistics for continuous
   variables or frequency distributions for categorical variables. The statistical methods
 5 used will depend on the nature of the variables. Binary variables can be analyzed by
   using a logistic regression model; continuous variables can be analyzed by using the
   analysis of covariance model, adjusting for the corresponding baselines and stratification
   factors. Time-to-event variables can be analyzed using the Cox proportional hazards
   regression model, by adjusting for the corresponding baselines and stratification factors.
10 Count variables can be analyzed by a Negative Binomial regression model or a Wilcoxon
   rank-sum test.
   Ambulatory Assessments
   T25FW
15         The T25FW is a timed walk of 25 feet. The T25W is a measure of quantitative
   ambulatory capacity over a short distance that is responsive to deterioration mostly for
   subjects who are very disabled, e.g., EDSS steps 6-6.5. It can be used as quantitative
   measure of lower extremity function. Broadly, the patient is directed to one end of a
   clearly labeled 25-foot course and is instructed to walk 25 feet as quickly as possible, but
20 safely. The task can be immediately administered again by having the patient walk back
   the same distance. Patients may use assistive devices when completing the T25W. A
   time limit of 3 minutes to complete the test is usually used. The test is discontinued if the
   patient cannot complete Trial 2 of the T25W after a 5 minute rest period, or if the patient
   cannot complete a trial in 3 minutes.
25
   9HP
           The 9HP is a 9-hole peg test. It is a quantitative measure that captures a clinically
   important aspect of upper extremity (e.g., arm and hand) function that is not measured by
   the EDSS or the T25FW. Unlike the EDSS and the T25FW, the 9HP is responsive across
30 a wide EDSS range. Broadly, a patient is asked to pick up 9 pegs one at a time, using
   their hands only, and put the pegs into the holes on a peg board as quickly as possible
                                                - 100-

   until all of the holes are filled. The patient must then, without pausing, remove the pegs
   one at a time and return them to the container as quickly as possible. Both the dominant
   and non-dominant hands are tested twice (two consecutive trials of the dominant hand,
   followed immediately by two consecutive trials of the non-dominant hand). A time limit
 5 of 5 minutes to complete the test is usually used. The test is discontinued if the patient
   cannot complete one trial of the 9HP test in 5 minutes; if the patient cannot complete a
   trial with his or her dominant hand within 5 minutes, the patient is usually instructed to
   move onto the trials with the non-dominant hand.
10 6MW
            The 6 minute walking test (6MW) is used to assess walking distance. Broadly,
   the patient is asked to walk the fastest speed possible without physical assistance for 6
   minutes and the distance is measured. Assistive devices can be used but should be kept
   consistent and documented from test to test. The patient should walk continuously if
15 possible, but the patient can slow down to stop or rest during the test.
   SNRS
            The Scripps Neurological Rating Scale (SNRS) measures several parameters,
   including, mentation and mood; eyes and related cranial nerves, e.g., visual acuity, visual
20 fields, eye movements, nystagmus; lower cranial nerves; motor function in each
   extremity, e.g., right upper, left upper, right lower, left lower; deep tendon reflexes, e.g.,
   upper extremities, lower extremities; Babinski sign, e.g., left side, right side; sensory
   function in each extremity, e.g., right upper, left upper, right lower, left lower; cerebellar
   signs, e.g., upper extremities, lower extremities; and gait trunk balance, e.g., special
25 category for autonomic dysfunction, e.g., bladder dysfunction, sexual dysfunction.
   EDSS
            As described above, the EDSS is based on a standardized neurological
   examination, focusing on the symptoms that occur frequently in MS. The EDSS assess
30 the seven functional systems: visual, brainstem, pyramidal, cerebellar, sensory,
   bowel/bladder and cerebral; through neurological examination. In addition the EDSS
                                                 - 101 -

   also includes an assessment of walking range. Based on the functional system scores and
   the walking range, an EDSS step is determined. The range of the EDSS includes 19 steps
   from 0 to 10, with EDSS step 0 corresponding to a completely normal examination and
   EDSS step 10 to death due to MS. For EDSS ratings between 0 and 4, the scale relies
 5 mainly on the scores of the individual FS. For ratings over 4, the EDSS is primarily
   determined by the ability and range of walking.
   Patient Reported Outcome Assessments
   MSWS-12
10         The Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale-12 (MSWS-12) test is a self rated measure
   of walking ability. The test contains 12 questions with Likert-type responses, describing
   the impact of MS on walking. The questions were generated from 30 MS patient
   interviews, expert opinions, and literature reviews.
15 ABILHAND 56-Item Questionnaire
           The ABILHAND 56-Item Questionnaire is a measure of manual ability designed
   to measure a patient's experience of problems in performing everyday tasks such as
   feeding, dressing, or managing tasks. The ABILHAND contains 56 unbiased and
   bimanual activities, which the patients are asked to judge on a four-level scale:
20 impossible,     1=very difficult, 2=difficult, 3=easy.
   MSIS-29
           The Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale 29 (MSIS-29) is a 29 item self report rating
   scale which measures physical and psychological parameters of MS. Three of the items
25 deal with limited abilities, and the remaining 26 items are related to being impacted by
   symptoms or consequences of disease. Twenty of the items refer to physical function.
   Responses use a 5 point Likert scale range from 1 to 5.
   SF-36
30         The short form 36 (SF-36) test measures overall health related quality of life. The
   SF-36 is a structured, self report questionnaire that the patient can generally complete
                                                 - 102 -

   with little to no intervention from a physician. There is no single overall score for the SF
   36, instead it generates 8 subscales and two summary scores. The 8 subscales include
   physical functioning, role limitations due to physical problems, bodily pain, general
   health perceptions, vitality, social functioning, role limitations due to emotional
 5 problems, and mental health. The two summary scores include a physical component
   summary and a mental health component summary.
   Cognitive Test Assessments
            Several cognitive test instruments can be used to determine the value of the
10 composite parameter, as follows.
   Symbol DigitModalities Test (SDMT)
            The SDMT is a test that evaluates processing speed and working memory in
   which the subject is given 90 seconds to pair specific numbers with given geometric
15 figures based on a reference key. It is modeled after the Digit Symbol or Coding Tasks
   tests, which have been included in the Wechsler intelligence scales for many years (e.g.,
   Wechsler et al. (1974) Manualfor the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised.
   New York: Psychological Corporation; Wechsler et al. (1981) WAIS-R Manual. New
   York: Psychological Corporation). Recognizing the limitations some patients have with
20 manual dexterity, Rao and colleagues modified the SDMT to include only an oral
   response (Rao et al. (1991) Neurology 41: 685-691). In this oral SDMT selected in the
   present invention, participants are presented with an 8.5 x 11 inch sheet that contains the
   numbers and symbols to be processed. The top row of stimuli includes nine symbols,
   each of which is paired with a single digit in the key. The remainder of the page has a
25 pseudo-randomized sequence of these symbols, and the participant's task is to respond
   orally with the digit associated with each of the symbols as quickly as possible. The score
   is the total number of correct matches (out of 110) made by the subject within the 90
   second time frame.
            Good test-retest reliability (r = 0.93 - 0.97, p < .001) has been established in MS
30 subjects (Benedict et al. (2006) Journalof the InternationalNeuropsychologicalSociety
   12: 549-558; Benedict et al. (2008) Multiple Sclerosis 14: 940-946). Good discriminative
                                                  - 103 -

   validity for distinguishing between MS patients and normal controls (d= 1.0 - 1.5, p <
   .001) (see e.g., Deloire et al. (2005) Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery & Psychiatry
   76: 519-526; Benedict et al. (2006) Journal of the InternationalNeuropsychological
   Society 12: 549-558; Houtchens et al. (2007) Neurology 69: 113-123; Strober et al.
 5 (2009) Multiple Sclerosis 15: 1077-1084; Parmenter et al. (2010) J Int Neuropsychol Soc
   16: 6-16) and for distinguishing between RRMS and SPMS patients (d= 0.8, p < 0.001)
   (see Benedict et al. (2006) Archives of Neurology 63: 1301-1306) has also been
   confirmed. In addition, correlations between performance and brain MRI have also been
   documented (see e.g., Benedict et al. (2007) Multiple Sclerosis 13: 722-730; Houtchens
10 et al. (2007) Neurology 69: 113-123; Tekok-Kilic et al. (2007) NeuroImage 36: 1294
   1300).
   Paced SerialAddition Test (PASAT)
            First developed by Gronwall et al. to assess patients recovering from concussion,
15 the PASAT requires patients to monitor a series of 61 audiotaped digits while adding
   each consecutive digit to the one immediately preceding it (Gronwall et al. (1977)
   Perceptualand Motor Skills 44: 367-373). The PASAT requires both rapid information
   processing and simultaneous allocation of attention to two tasks, as well as reasonably
   intact calculation ability. In its original format, the PASAT was administered at four
20 inter-stimulus intervals (2.4 seconds, 2.0 seconds, 1.6 seconds, and 1.2 seconds). The
   number of inter-stimulus intervals and presentation rates were subsequently modified by
   Rao and colleagues for use with MS patients to 3.0 seconds and 2.0 seconds (Rao et al.
   (1991) A Manual for the Brief, Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological Tests in
   Multiple Sclerosis: National Multiple Sclerosis Society; Rao et al. (1991)
25 Neuropsychological Screening Battery for Multiple Sclerosis: National Multiple Sclerosis
   Society; Rao et al. (1991) Neurology 41: 685-691; Rao et al. (1991) Neurology 41: 692
   696).
            This latter version of the test was selected to be a component of the MS
   Functional Composite (MSFC) and the MACFIMS battery (Benedict et al. (2002)
30 Clinical Neuropsychologist 16: 381-397). Test-retest reliability in MS populations ranges
   from r= 0.78 to 0.93 (Benedict et al. (2006) Journalof the International
                                                  -104-

   NeuropsychologicalSociety 16: 228-237; Drake et al. (2010) Multiple Sclerosis 16: 228
   237). Good discriminative validity for distinguishing between MS patients and normal
   controls (d= 0.5 - 0.7, p < 0.001 to 0.34) (Deloire et al. (2005) Journal of Neurology,
   Neurosurgery & Psychiatry 76: 519-526; Benedict et al. (2006) Journal of the
 5 InternationalNeuropsychologicalSociety 12: 549-558; Houtchens et al. (2007)
   Neurology 69: 113-123; Strober et al. (2009) Multiple Sclerosis 15: 1077-1084;
   Parmenter et al. (2010) J Int Neuropsychol Soc 16: 6-16; Drake et al. (2010) Multiple
   Sclerosis 16: 228-237) and for distinguishing between RRMS and SPMS patients (d= 0.5,
   p < 0.002) (Benedict et al. (2006) Archives ofNeurology 63: 1301-1306) has been
10 confirmed. The PASAT score of interest is the total number of correct responses at each
   presentation rate. Two alternate forms of the Rao version of the PASAT are available
   (PASAT 3" and PASAT 2") and were selected in the current invention. In the PASAT
   3", the stimulus is presented every 3 seconds, where as in the PASAT 2", the stimulus is
   presented every 2 seconds.
15
   Selective Reminding Test (SRT)
           The SRT was first developed by Buschke et al. (see Buschke et al. (1974)
   Neurology 24: 1019-1025) who conducted research in the area of anterograde amnesia.
   Rather than ask patients to recall an entire word list on each successive learning trial, the
20 experimenter only repeated words not recalled on each successive learning trial.
   Subsequently, several memory investigators developed normative data for the test, and
   alternate forms. Note, the original versions were based on a form of the test using 15
   words and 12 learning trials. Such an administration is arduous and time consuming, and
   therefore there has been much interest in shorter forms of the SRT. The administration
25 procedure widely used in MS research is a six-trial form developed by Rao et al. (see
   e.g., Rao et al. (1991) A Manual for the Brief, Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological
   Tests in Multiple Sclerosis: National Multiple Sclerosis Society; Rao et al. (1991)
   Neuropsychological Screening Battery for Multiple Sclerosis: National Multiple Sclerosis
   Society; Rao et al. (1991) Neurology 41: 685-691; Rao et al. (1991) Neurology 41: 692
30 696). This six-trial format is utilized in the current invention. A number of different
   versions of SRT word lists exist. Hannay and Levin's word lists for adults, test forms 1
                                                 - 105 -

   and 3, are utilized in the current invention (Hannay et al. (1985) J Clin Exp Neuropsychol.
   7: 251-263). Discriminative validity of the SRT has been established in several studies,
   with SRT discriminating between MS subjects and normal controls d = 0.6 to d= 1.0 (see
   e.g., Rao et al. (1991) A Manual for the Brief, Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological
 5 Tests in Multiple Sclerosis: National Multiple Sclerosis Society; Deloire et al. (2005)
   Journalof Neurology, Neurosurgery & Psychiatry76: 519-526; Strober et al. (2009)
   Multiple Sclerosis 15: 1077-1084). It has also been shown that SRT findings can be
   associated with ventricular enlargement as seen on brain MRI (R2 = 0.14; p=0.05)
   (Christodoulou et al. (2003) Neurology 60: 1793-1798).
10
   Brief VisuospatialMemory Test - Revised (BVMT-R)
            The BVMT-R is based on an initial effort to develop an equivalent alternate form
   visual memory test along the lines of the visual reproduction subtest from the Wechsler
   Memory Scale (Benedict et al. (1993) NeuropsychologicalRehabilitation3: 37-5 1;
15 Benedict et al. (1995) Clinical Neuropsychologist9: 11-16; Wechsler et al. (1987)
   Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised Manual. New York: Psychological Corporation).
   Initially, the BVMT included just a single exposure to a one-page presentation of six
   visual designs. The revised version includes three 10-second exposures to the stimulus
   (Benedict et al. (1997) Brief Visuospatial Memory Test - Revised: Professional Manual.
20 Odessa, Florida: Psychological Assessment Resources, Inc.; Benedict et al. (1996)
   PsychologicalAssessment 8: 145-153). After each exposure, the subject is asked to
   reproduce the matrix using a pencil on a blank sheet of paper. There are rigid scoring
   criteria for accuracy and location. After a 25 minute delay, the patient is asked to
   reproduce the information again without another exposure. Finally a yes/no recognition
25 task is presented. The BVMT-R has excellent reproducibility, with test-retest reliability
   ranging from r=0.85 to r=.91 (Benedict et al. (1996) PsychologicalAssessment 8: 145
   153; Benedict et al. (2005) Journalof the InternationalNeuropsychologicalSociety 11:
   727-736); as well as good discriminative validity between MS and normal control
   subjects (d= 0.9, p<O.) (Strober et al. (2009) Multiple Sclerosis 15: 1077-1084; Parmenter
30 et al. (2010) JInt Neuropsychol Soc 16: 6-16) and RRMS and SPMS patients (d=0.6,
   p<0.001) (Benedict et al. (2006) Archives of Neurology 63: 1301-1306). Predictive
                                                - 106-

   validity, in the form of correlation between BVMT-R performance and brain MRI
   findings, has also been established. Further, there is extensive research showing that all 6
   forms of the test are of equivalent difficulty. Variables of interest in the current invention
   are the Total Learning and Delayed Recall scores.
 5          This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not
   be construed as limiting. The contents of all references, figures, sequence listing, patents
   and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby
   incorporated by reference.
10                                         Exemplification
   Example 1. LINGO-I antagonism reduces morbidity and mortality from MOG-EAE in
   mice and promotes axonal protection in the inflamed optic nerve.
            Acute optic neuritis (AON) is an inflammatory disease of the optic nerve that
   often occurs in multiple sclerosis. AON is caused by inflammatory injury to the optic
15 nerve and presents with visual loss due to edema, inflammation, and damage to the
   myelin sheath covering the optic nerve and axons. As a result of AON, there is often a
   significant loss of the retinal nerve fiber layer and retinal ganglion cell layer. Current
   treatment of AON is limited to intravenous treatment with high dose corticosteroids
   which fasten the resolution of edema but do not promote central nervous system (CNS)
20 remyelination or provide neuroaxonal protection from CNS inflammatory demyelination.
            Animal models for the study of optic neuritis include the rat and mouse
   experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) models; in which EAE induction
   results in the development of optic nerve neuritis. In the present example, the effects of
   LINGO-I antagonism were analyzed using an EAE mouse model. Briefly, EAE was
25 induced in C57BL/6 male and female mice at 8-12 weeks of age by subcutaneous
   injection of 250 k 1 into both flanks at the tail base with 125 Pg of MOG 35-55 emulsified
   in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) followed by intravenous injection of 300 ng
   pertussis toxin in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) immediately afterwards and three days
   later. Efficacy on motor system impairment was measured using EAE severity scores on
30 a range from 0-7.
                                                  - 107 -

           Two separate cohorts of 14 mice each were blindly treated with intraperitoneal
   injections of 10 mg/kg of an antagonistic anti-LINGO-i mouse antibody or a control
   monoclonal antibody (N=7 per treatment group per cohort). Mice were treated on 4
   different occasions every three days starting on day six post EAE induction and prior to
 5 the onset of clinical disease (days 6, 9, 12, and 15). Mice were sacrificed at EAE-disease
   peak.
           The optic nerve was imaged once at EAE-disease peak using diffusion tensor
   imaging (DTI) on a Bruker 4,7T MRI system. MRI images were acquired with the
   following parameters: TR of 1 s, TE of 30 ms, A of 10 ms, 8 NEX, slice thickness 0.5
10 mm, field of view 2x2 cm 2, data matrix 256x128. B values of Os/mm 2 (non-diffusion
   weighted image) and 700 s/mm 2 for one parallel and one perpendicular diffusion
   sensitizing gradient directions (Wu, Butzkueven et al. (2007) Neuroimage 37: 13138
   1147) were employed.
           Immediately following MRI analysis, mice were euthanized with pentobarbital,
15 perfused with PBS, fixed with 4% paraformaldhyde (PFA) in 0. IM PBS, and the optic
   nerves removed and post fixed in 4% PFA solution containing 2.5% glutaraldhyde and
   0. IM sodium cacodylate buffer and processed for electron microscopy. Whole pre
   chiasmal cross-sectional optic nerve images were taken at    loX and   1OOX magnification
   and merged on Photoshop CS3 software (Adobe Systems Incorporated, San Jose, CA,
20 USA). Five pre-chiasmal cross-sectional optic nerve ROIs (regions of interest) were
   chosen for analysis, four peripheral and one central, each measuring approximately 3600
       2
   Pm (FIG. 1). Analysis was conducted using image Pro Plus software (Media
   Cybernetics, Inc., Rockville, MD, USA) to assess axonal number, axonal area, and
   axoplasmal area of each identified axon on each ROI. The periphery of the nerve
25 contained the majority of the inflammatory infiltrate. The heavily infiltrated peripheral
   area and the central nerve areas were assessed separately for each nerve.
           There was no EAE mortality observed in the anti-LINGO antibody treated mice,
   whereas 5/14 placebo treated mice had to be euthanized due to EAE severity (FIG.2A). In
   addition, a significantly lower proportion of anti-LINGO-I antibody treated mice reached
30 complete hindlimb paralysis (paraplegia) (grade 5 disease severity) (4/14 mice) compared
   to placebo-treated mice (7/14 mice) (FIG.2B).
                                                 - 108 -

           Optic nerve diffusion MRI scans were conducted on 16 surviving control-treated
   mice and 18 surviving anti-LINGO-I antibody treated mice at peak EAE severity on days
   16-17 post induction. The optic nerve ROI images comprised 10 voxels in the center of
   the optic nerves at the prechiasmal level. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) showed
 5 significantly higher apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values parallel to the long axis
   (longitudinal, axial, or parallel diffusivity or XII) in anti-LINGO-I antibody treated mice
   (mean 1,400, SD 27 msec) than in control-treated mice (mean 1,183, SD 36 msec) (FIG.
   3, FIG. 4). In contrast, there was no difference by treatment group in ADC values
   perpendicular to the optic nerve long axis (radial or perpendicular diffusivity or k) (415
10 19msec in anti-LINGO-I antagonist treated mice versus 403 ± 25msec in control treated
   mice) (FIG. 3, FIG. 4).
           Assessment of central and peripheral axonal areas, axonal counts, and axo
   plasmal cross sectional areas in the 5 ROIs for each optic nerve examined were tabulated
   for comparison (FIG. 5; FIG. 6). Nineteen EAE nerves per condition and 5 healthy nerves
15 were analyzed. The results showed there was no difference in the total optic nerve area or
   the number of axons in the ROIs with the central or peripheral (FIG. 5; FIG. 6). However,
   the individual axonal area (a measure of axonal health) in the central optic nerve ROI was
   13% lower in the control-treated mice relative to the anti-LINGO-I antibody treated mice
   (FIG. 5; FIG. 6). Overall, LINGO-I antagonism reduced the morbidity and mortality
20 from MOG-EAE in mice; and promoted axonal protection in the inflamed optic nerve by
   reducing the loss of axonal area and reducing the loss of axial diffusivity. In summary,
   damage to the optic nerve was seen in MOG-EAE histologically and by MRI, and it
   appeared to be reduced by LINGO-I blockade.
25 Example 2. LINGO-I antagonism in combination with corticosteroid treatment provides
   increased axonal protection compared to LINGO-I antagonism alone in the rat EAE
   model.
           Acute optic neuritis (AON) is an inflammatory disease of the optic nerve that
   often occurs in multiple sclerosis. AON is caused by inflammatory injury to the optic
30 nerve and presents with visual loss due to edema, inflammation, and damage to the
   myelin sheath covering the optic nerve and axons. There is significant loss of the retinal
                                                  - 109 -

   nerve fiber layer and retinalganglion cell layer as a result of AON. Current treatment of
   AON is limited to intravenous treatment with high dose corticosteroids which fasten the
   resolution of edema, but do not promote central nervous system (CNS) remyelination or
   provide neuroaxonal protection from CNS inflammatory demyelination.
 5          Animal models for the study of optic neuritis include the rat and mouse
   experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) models; in which EAE induction
   results in the development of optic nerve neuritis. In the present example, the effects of
   LINGO-i antagonism alone and in combination with corticosteroid treatment were
   analyzed using the EAE rat model. Briefly, female Brown Norway (BN) rats 8 to 10
10 weeks of age were anesthetized by inhalation of isoflurane and injected intradermally at
   the base of the tail with a total volume of 200 p1 of inoculums, containing 100 pg
   rMOGI-125 in saline emulsified (1:1) with complete Freud's adjuvant containing 400 P g
   heat inactivated mycobacterium tuberculosis.
            After the onset of clinical symptoms (15-16 days post EAE induction), rats were
15 treated with 30mg/kg/day of methylprednisolone (MP) in saline solution or saline
   solution alone (Veh) intravenously for three consecutive days. On the second day of MP
   injection, rats were given either 6mg/kg of the anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody or
   control antibody, administered intrapetitoneally once a week for three weeks. There were
   a total of four different treatment groups: (1) control treatment group (Veh + control
20 Antibody (Ab)); (2) MP treatment group (MP + control antibody); (3) anti-LINGO-i
   monoclonal antibody treatment group (Veh + anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody); and
   (4) combination treatment group (MP + anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody).
            One week post the last treatment (4 weeks post the onset of symptoms and 6
   weeks post EAE induction), the rats were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) in
25 PBS and cryostat microtome sections of optic nerves (ONs) were stained with anti-111
   tubulin antibody to analyze axonal pathology using DAPI and visualized by fluorescence
   microscopy at 40X magnification. For axonal quantification, 3 different sections per optic
   nerve were analyzed, and 3-5 animals were counted per treatment group.
            As shown in FIG. (FIG. 7), axonal loss was detected in the sections of optic
30 nerves of the control treatment group (Veh + control Antibody) by anti-111 tubulin
   staining, suggesting severe axonal loss. Inflammatory infiltration was also observed ion
                                                -110-

   these areas as shown by DAPI staining (FIG. 7). The number of axons was slightly higher
   in the MP treatment group (MP + control antibody) (p value = non significant) (FIG. 8).
   The anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody treatment group (Veh + anti-LINGO-I
   monoclonal antibody) showed 5-fold higher axonal numbers, suggesting that anti
 5 LINGO-i monoclonal antibody treatment prevented axonal loss (FIG. 8). The
   combination treatment group (MP + anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody) showed an 8
   fold increase in axonal numbers compared with the control treatment group (Veh +
   control Antibody; suggesting that combination treatment of anti-LINGO-i antagonist
   such as an anti-LINGO-i monoclonal antibody with high dose corticosteroids can have a
10 synergistic effect (FIG. 8).
           Overall, LINGO-i antagonism reduced axonal loss in the optic nerve in rat EAE.
   While axonal protection was not seen with daily treatment for three days with high dose
   intravenous methylprednisolone, anti-LINGO-I monoclonal antibody treatment resulted
   in axonal protection in inflammatory demyelination; and combination treatment of the
15 anti-LINGO-i monoclonal antibody with high dose IV methylprednisolone resulted in
   even greater axonal protection.
           In summary, LINGO-I blockade with the monoclonal anti-LINGO-I antibody
   reduced axonal loss in rat MOG-EAE; and the neuroprotective effects of LINGO-i
   blockade in rat MOG-EAE were seen in the presence or absence of anti-inflammatory
20 treatment with high-dose steroids.
                                   Incorporation by Reference
           The contents of all references, figures, sequence listing, patents and published
   patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference.
25 All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned herein are hereby
   incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each individual publication, patent or
   patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by
   reference. In case of conflict, the present application, including any definitions herein,
   will control.
30         Also incorporated by reference in their entirety are any polynucleotide and
   polypeptide sequences which reference an accession number correlating to an entry in a
                                                -111-

  public database, such as those maintained by The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR)
  on the worldwide web at tigr.org and/or the National Center for Biotechnology
  Information (NCBI) on the worldwide web at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
5                                          Equivalents
            Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more
  than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the
  invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed.
                                               -112-

   What is claimed is:
            1. A method of treating a CNS demyelinating disease chosen from multiple
   sclerosis or an inflammatory condition of the optic nerve, in a subject in need thereof,
   said method comprising administering to the subject an anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule
 5 and an immunosuppressive agent in an amount sufficient to treat the CNS demyelinating
   disease, wherein the immunosuppressive agent is chosen from one or more of:
            an IFN-    1 molecule;
            a corticosteroid;
            a polymer of glutamic acid, lysine, alanine and tyrosine or glatiramer;
10          an antibody or fragment thereof against alpha-4 integrin or natalizumab;
            an anthracenedione molecule or mitoxantrone;
            a fingolimod or FTY720 or other SIPI functional modulator;
            a dimethyl fumarate;
            an antibody to the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor of T cells or daclizumab;
15          an antibody against CD52 or alemtuzumab;
            an antibody against CD20; or
            an inhibitor of a dihydroorotate dehydrogenase or teriflunomide;
            thereby treating the CNS demyelinating disease.
20          2. The method of claim 1, wherein the CNS demyelinating disease is multiple
   sclerosis.
            3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inflammatory condition of the optic nerve
   is optic neuritis.
25
            4. The method of claim 3, wherein the optic neuritis is acute optic neuritis.
            5. A method of treating multiple sclerosis or optic neuritis, in a subject in need
   thereof, said method comprising administering to the subject an anti-LINGO-I antibody
30 molecule, and an IFN-       1 molecule, in an amount sufficient to treat the multiple sclerosis
   or optic neuritis.
                                                 - 113 -

           6. A method of treating multiple sclerosis or optic neuritis, in a subject in need
   thereof, said method comprising administering to the subject an anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule and a corticosteroid, in an amount sufficient to treat the multiple sclerosis or the
 5 optic neuritis.
           7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule
   causes one or more of: enhances myelination, enhances neuroaxonal protection,
   promotes differentiation and survival of oligodendrocytes, enhances synapse number or
10 synapse efficiency, or accelerates conduction velocity.
           8. The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule is a monoclonal antibody against human LINGO-1.
15         9. The method of claim 8, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule is a
   human, humanized, a CDR-grafted, or an in vitro-generatedantibody against human
   LINGO-1.
           10. The method of either of claim 8 or 9, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody
20 molecule is an immunoglobulin G subclass I (IgGI).
           11. The method of any of claims I-10, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule comprises an aglycosyl (IgGi) framework.
25         12. The method of any of claims I-11, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule is modified to reduce effector cell and complement function compared to wild
   type IgG1.
           13. The method of any of claims 1-12, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
30 molecule comprises one, two or three CDRs of a heavy chain variable domain comprising
                                               -114-

   the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, 7 or 8, or SEQ ID NO: 2, 3 or 30, or a
   sequence substantially identical thereto.
           14. The method of any of claims 1-12, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
 5 molecule comprises one, two or three CDRs of a light chain variable domain comprising
   the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 14, 15 or 16, or SEQ ID NO: 10, 11 or 12, or a
   sequence substantially identical thereto.
           15. The method of any of claims 1-12, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
10 molecule comprises a heavy chain variable domain comprising the amino acid sequence
   of SEQ ID NO: 5 or SEQ ID NO: 66, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
           16. The method of any of claims 1-12, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
   molecule comprises a light chain variable domain comprising the amino acid sequence of
15 SEQ ID NO: 13 or SEQ ID NO: 9, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
           17. The method of any of claims 1-12, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
   molecule comprises a heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:
   275, or a sequence substantially identical thereto; and a light chain comprising the amino
20 acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 276, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
           18. The method of any of claims 1-17, wherein the IFN-        1 molecule comprises
   one or more of an IFN-P la or IFN-P lb polypeptide, a variant, a homologue, a fragment
   or a pegylated variant thereof.
25
           19. The method of any of claims 1-17, wherein the IFN-        1 molecule comprises
   an IFN agent chosen from an IFN-       la molecule, an IFN-     lb molecule, or a pegylated
   variant of an IFN-   la molecule or an IFN- lb molecule.
30         20. The method of claim 19, wherein the IFN-       la molecule is Avonex@ or
   Rebif@; and the IFNj-lb molecule is Betaseron@ or Betaferon@ or Extavia@.
                                               -115-

           21. The method of any of claims 1-20, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule comprises a heavy chain variable domain comprising the amino acid sequence
   of SEQ ID NO: 5 or SEQ ID NO: 66, and a light chain variable domain comprising the
 5 amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13 or SEQ ID NO: 9; and the immunosuppressive
   agent is Avonex@.
           22. The method of any of claims 1-21, wherein the subject has one of: relapsing
   remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), primary progressive MS, secondary progressive
10 MS, clinically isolated syndrome (CIS), clinically defined MS (CDMS), or benign MS.
           23. The method of claim 22, wherein the subject has one or more newly
   developed lesions.
15         24. The method of claim 22, wherein the subject has one or more pre-existing
   lesion.
           25. The method of any of claims 1-21, wherein the subject has relapsing
   remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).
20
           26. The method of any of claims 1-21, wherein the subject has secondary
   progressive MS (SPMS).
           27. The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein the subject is a patient with active
25 disease.
           28. The method of any of claims 1-27, wherein said treating step comprises
   reducing one or more symptoms associated with the disease; or reducing retarding or
   preventing, a relapse, or the worsening of a disability, in the subject.
30
                                               -116-

           29. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
   molecule and the immunosuppressive agent are administered concurrently.
           30. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
 5 molecule and the immunosuppressive agent are administered sequentially.
           31. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein the administration of the anti
   LINGO-i antibody molecule and the immunosuppressive agent overlaps in part with
   each other.
10
           32. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein initiation of the administration of
   the immunosuppressive agent and the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule occurs at the
   same time.
15         33. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein the immunosuppressive agent is
   administered before initiating treatment with the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule.
           34. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
   molecule is administered before initiating treatment with the immunosuppressive agent.
20
           35. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein administration of the
   immunosuppressive agent continues after cessation of administration of the anti-LINGO
   1 antibody molecule.
25         36. The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein administration of the anti
   LINGO-I antibody molecule continues after cessation of administration of the
   immunosuppressive agent.
           37. The method of any of claims 1-36, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
30 molecule is an antibody molecule against LINGO-I and is administered intravenously,
   subcutaneously, intravitreally, intrathecally or intramuscularly.
                                                -117-

           38. The method of claim 40, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule is
   administered intravenously.
 5         39. The method of any of claims 1-38, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
   molecule is dosed at 1 to 100 mg/kg.
           40. The method of any of claims 1-38, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody
   molecule is dosed at about 3 mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg, about 30 mg/kg, about 50mg/kg, or
10 about 100 mg/kg.
           41. The method of any of claims 1-40, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody
   molecule is administered once every one, two, three, four or five weeks by IV infusion.
15         42. The method of any of claims 1-41, wherein the immunosuppressive agent is
   an IFN-P 1 molecule is administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly.
           43. The method of claim 42, wherein the IFN-P 1 molecule is administered at
   one or more of:
20         (i) at 20-45 microgram once a week via intramuscular injection;
           (ii) at 20-30 microgram three times a week, or at 40-50 micrograms three times a
   week, via subcutaneous injection; or
           (iii) in an amount of between 10 and 50 [tg intramuscularly, three times a week, or
   every five to ten days once a week.
25
           44. The method of any of claims 1-43, wherein:
           the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule is administered once every four weeks by
   IV infusion dosed at about 3 mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg, about 30 mg/kg, about 50mg/kg, or
   about 100 mg/kg; and
30         the immunosuppressive agent is IFN-P 1 and is administered at one or more of:
           (i) at 20-45 microgram once a week via intramuscular injection;
                                              - 118-

           (ii) at 20-30 microgram once or three times a week, or at 40-50 micrograms once
   or three times a week, via subcutaneous injection; or
           (iii) in an amount of between 10 and 50 g intramuscularly, e.g., three times a
   week, or every five to ten days.
 5
           45. The method of any of claims 1-44, wherein the subject has been, or is being
   evaluated by one or more of:
           performing a neurological examination;
           acquiring the subject's status on the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS);
10         acquiring the subject's status on the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite
           (MSFC);
           detecting the subject's lesion status;
           acquiring a measure of upper and/or lower extremity function;
           acquiring a measure of short distance ambulatory function;
15         acquiring a measure of long distance ambulatory function;
           acquiring a measure of cognitive function; or
           acquiring a measure of visual function.
           46. The method of any of claims 1-44, further comprising one or more of:
20         acquiring the subject's status on the MSFC;
           performing a neurological examination;
           acquiring the subject's status on the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS);
           detecting the subject's lesion status;
           acquiring a measure of upper and/or lower extremity function;
25         acquiring a measure of short distance ambulatory function;
           acquiring a measure of long distance ambulatory function;
           acquiring a measure of cognitive function; or
           acquiring a measure of visual function.
30         47. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein the measure of upper extremity
   function is acquired using a 9 Hole Peg Test (9HP).
                                                -119-

            48. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein the measure of short distance
   ambulatory function is acquired using a Timed Walk of 25 Feet (T25FW).
 5          49. The method of claim 45 or 46, wherein the measure of cognitive function
   comprises an evaluation of a learning test, a memory test and/or an attention/processing
   speed test.
            50. The method of any of claims 1-44, wherein the subject is evaluated using an
10 EDSS assessment and an assessment of ambulatory function chosen from one, two, three,
   or all of an assessment of : short distance ambulatory function, long distance ambulatory
   function, upper extremity function or lower extremity function.
            51. The method of claim 50, wherein an increase by at least 10%, 15%, 20%,
15 25% or higher in a measure of extremity and/or ambulatory function is indicative of
   disease progression in the subject; and a decrease of at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or
   more in a measure of extremity and/or ambulatory function is indicative of an improved
   outcome in the subject.
20          52. The method of claim 49, wherein the measure of cognitive function
   comprises an evaluation of one or more of auditory memory, verbal learning and/or
   remembering verbal information (e.g., Selective Reminding Test (SRT)); tests for
   evaluating auditory/verbal memory (e.g., California Verbal Learning Test Second Edition
   (CVLT2)), the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT); tests for evaluating
25 visual/spatial memory (e.g., Brief Visuospatial Memory Test Revised (BVMTR));
   cognition tests, e.g., PASAT, SDMT; and patient reported outcome measures (e.g.
   MSWS-12, MSIS-29, ABILHAND, MSNQ, and/or SF-36).
            53. The method of either of claim 45 or 46, wherein the measure of cognitive
30 function is performed using a composite of MS cognitive endpoint that comprises SDMT,
                                               - 120-

   PASAT-3 and -3, SRT-Total Learned (SRT-TL), SRT Delayed Recall (SRT-DR), and
   BVMTR Delayed Recall (BVMTR-DR).
           54. The method of claim 53, wherein the measure of cognitive function
 5 comprises an MS-COG.
           55. The method of any of claims 45-54, wherein an improvement in the subject is
   defined by one or more of:
                      a.   >1.0 point decrease in EDSS from a baseline score of <6.0;
10                    b. >15% improvement from baseline in T25FW;
                      c.   >15% improvement from baseline in 9HPT; or
                      d.   >15% improvement from baseline in PASAT.
           56. The method of any of claims 45-54, wherein the subject's lesion status is
15 evaluated using magnetic resonance imaging.
           57. The method of claim 56, wherein the magnetic resonance imaging comprises
   magnetic transfer and diffusion tensor imaging.
20         58. A kit comprising an antibody molecule against human LINGO-I and an IFN
     1 molecule with instructions for use in treating multiple sclerosis or an inflammatory
   condition of the optic nerve.
           59. A packaged composition comprising an antibody molecule against human
25 LINGO-i and an IFN-P 1 molecule with instructions for use in treating multiple sclerosis
   or an inflammatory condition of the optic nerve.
           60. A method of treating acute optic neuritis, in a subject in need thereof, said
   method comprising administering to the subject an anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule in
30 an amount sufficient to treat the acute optic neuritis.
                                                - 121 -

           61. The method of claim 60, wherein the anti-LINGO-I antibody molecule
   comprises one, two or three CDRs of a heavy chain variable domain comprising the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6, 7 or 8, or SEQ ID NO: 2, 3 or 30, or a sequence
   substantially identical thereto.
 5
           62. The method of claim 60, wherein the anti-LINGO-i antibody molecule
   comprises one, two or three CDRs of a light chain variable domain comprising the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 14, 15 or 16, or SEQ ID NO: 10, 11 or 12, or a sequence
   substantially identical thereto.
10
           63. The method of claim 60, wherein the antibody molecule comprises a heavy
   chain variable domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 or SEQ ID
   NO: 66, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
15         64. The method of claim 60, wherein the antibody molecule comprises a light
   chain variable domain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 13 or SEQ ID
   NO: 9, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
           65. The method of claim 60, wherein the antibody molecule comprises a heavy
20 chain comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 275, or a sequence
   substantially identical thereto; and a light chain comprising the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 276, or a sequence substantially identical thereto.
25
                                                 - 122 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Cadavid, Diego
                      Mi, Sha
              <120>   COMBINATION THERAPIES AND USES FOR TREATMENT OF DEMYELINATING
                      DISORDERS
              <130>   B2047-7090WO
<removed-apn>
              <150>   61/711638
              <151>   2012-10-09
              <160>   276
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   1
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                     Page 1

                                                     155620_1
<removed-date>
                           100                 105                110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   2
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR1 sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   2
              Ile Tyr Pro Met Phe
              1               5
              <210>   3
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR2 sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   3
              Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly
              <210>   4
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   4
              Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
                                                      Page 2

                                                     155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   5
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   5
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   6
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR1 sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   6
                                                      Page 3

                                                     155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Tyr Glu Met Lys
              1               5
              <210>   7
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR2 sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   7
              Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly
              <210>   8
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   8
              Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile
              1               5
              <210>   9
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   9
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Phe Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Ala Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Arg Tyr
                                                      Page 4

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                           20                  25                 30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Arg Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Leu Gln Thr Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Thr Ser Leu Gln Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Gly Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Thr Leu His Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Phe Gly Pro Gly Thr Thr Val Asp Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   10
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL CDR1 sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   10
              Arg Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Arg Tyr Leu Ala
              1               5                   10
              <210>   11
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL CDR2 sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   11
              Asp Ala Ser Asn Leu Gln Thr
              1               5
              <210>   12
                                                     Page 5

                                                     155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL CDR3 sequence of Li62 antibody
              <400>   12
              Gln Gln Tyr Asp Thr Leu His Pro Ser
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   13
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   13
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   14
                                                      Page 6

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL CDR1 sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   14
              Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr Leu Ala
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10
              <210>   15
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL CDR2 sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   15
              Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr
              1               5
              <210>   16
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VL CDR3 sequence of Li81 antibody
              <400>   16
              Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Met Tyr Thr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   17
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant B06 antibody
              <400>   17
              Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Gln
                                                   Page 7

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10
              <210>   18
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant B12 antibody
<removed-apn>
              <400>   18
              Glu Gly Gln Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val
              1               5                   10
              <210>   19
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant F06 antibody
              <400>   19
              Glu Gly Asp Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   20
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant B01 antibody
              <400>   20
              Glu Gly Gln Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Glu Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   21
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant D09 antibody
                                                   Page 8

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   21
              Glu Ala Asp Ile Asp Trp Phe Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   22
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant D12 antibody
              <400>   22
              Glu Gly His Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   23
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant F01 antibody
              <400>   23
              Glu Gly Arg Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210>   24
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant F02 antibody
              <400>   24
              Glu Gly Asp Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Gly Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   25
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
                                                   Page 9

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant F06 antibody
              <400>   25
              Glu Gly Arg Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   26
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant F10 antibody
              <400>   26
              Glu Ser His Ile Asp Arg Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   27
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant G08 antibody
              <400>   27
              Glu Gly Gln Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val
              1               5                   10
              <210>   28
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant H08 antibody
              <400>   28
              Glu Gly His Tyr Asn Gly Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
                                                   Page 10

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   29
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant C10 antibody
              <400>   29
<removed-apn>
              Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   30
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant C02 antibody
              <400>   30
              Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   31
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant D05 antibody
              <400>   31
              Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Glu Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   32
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant F02 antibody
              <400>   32
                                                   Page 11

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Gly Leu Ile Asp Trp Phe Phe Asp Gln
              1               5                   10
              <210>   33
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant C10 antibody
              <400>   33
              Glu Gly Gln Phe Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   34
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li62 variant H08 antibody
              <400>   34
              Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   35
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant F09 antibody
              <400>   35
              Glu Gly Glu Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Val
              1               5
              <210>   36
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                    Page 12

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant G02 antibody
              <400>   36
              Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Tyr Asp Thr
              1               5
              <210>   37
<removed-apn>
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant H03 antibody
              <400>   37
              Glu Gly Thr Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile
              1               5
              <210>   38
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant A12 antibody
              <400>   38
              Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ser
              1               5
              <210>   39
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant C02 antibody
              <400>   39
              Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Thr
              1               5
              <210>   40
                                                    Page 13

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant C11 antibody
              <400>   40
              Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Tyr Asp Arg
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   41
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant D11 antibody
              <400>   41
              Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Val Phe Asp Ser
              1               5
              <210>   42
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant E05 antibody
              <400>   42
              Glu Gly Asp Asp Asp Val Phe Asp Met
              1               5
              <210>   43
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant H04 antibody
              <400>   43
              Glu Gly Tyr Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Phe
                                                    Page 14

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5
              <210>   44
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant B04 antibody
<removed-apn>
              <400>   44
              Glu Gly Asp Asp Asp Ala Tyr Asp Met
              1               5
              <210>   45
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant A02 antibody
              <400>   45
              Glu Gln Asp Tyr Asp Thr Tyr Asp Leu
              1               5
              <210>   46
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant B12 antibody
              <400>   46
              Glu Gly Asp Asp Asp Ala Phe Asp Thr
              1               5
              <210>   47
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant H06 antibody
                                                    Page 15

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   47
              Glu Ala Asp Asp Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile
              1               5
              <210>   48
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant H08 antibody
              <400>   48
              Glu Gly Glu Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Met
              1               5
              <210>   49
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH CDR3 sequence of Li81 variant E07 antibody
              <400>   49
              Glu Gly Glu Tyr Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ile
              1               5
              <210>   50
              <211>   447
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Aglycosylated Li81 heavy chain
              <400>   50
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                    Page 16

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
                                                  Page 17

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala
<removed-apn>
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Ala Tyr Arg Val Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr
                              325                 330                 335
              Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser
                  370                 375                 380
              Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
                                                  Page 18

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   51
              <211>   614
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   51
              Met Leu Ala Gly Gly Val Arg Ser Met Pro Ser Pro Leu Leu Ala Cys
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Trp Gln Pro Ile Leu Leu Leu Val Leu Gly Ser Val Leu Ser Gly Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Thr Gly Cys Pro Pro Arg Cys Glu Cys Ser Ala Gln Asp Arg Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Leu Cys His Arg Lys Arg Phe Val Ala Val Pro Glu Gly Ile Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Glu Thr Arg Leu Leu Asp Leu Gly Lys Asn Arg Ile Lys Thr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asn Gln Asp Glu Phe Ala Ser Phe Pro His Leu Glu Glu Leu Glu Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Glu Asn Ile Val Ser Ala Val Glu Pro Gly Ala Phe Asn Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Asn Leu Arg Thr Leu Gly Leu Arg Ser Asn Arg Leu Lys Leu Ile
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Gly Val Phe Thr Gly Leu Ser Asn Leu Thr Lys Leu Asp Ile
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Glu Asn Lys Ile Val Ile Leu Leu Asp Tyr Met Phe Gln Asp Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Asn Leu Lys Ser Leu Glu Val Gly Asp Asn Asp Leu Val Tyr Ile
                              165                 170                 175
                                                  Page 19

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser His Arg Ala Phe Ser Gly Leu Asn Ser Leu Glu Gln Leu Thr Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Glu Lys Cys Asn Leu Thr Ser Ile Pro Thr Glu Ala Leu Ser His Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              His Gly Leu Ile Val Leu Arg Leu Arg His Leu Asn Ile Asn Ala Ile
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Arg Asp Tyr Ser Phe Lys Arg Leu Tyr Arg Leu Lys Val Leu Glu Ile
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser His Trp Pro Tyr Leu Asp Thr Met Thr Pro Asn Cys Leu Tyr Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Asn Leu Thr Ser Leu Ser Ile Thr His Cys Asn Leu Thr Ala Val
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Tyr Leu Ala Val Arg His Leu Val Tyr Leu Arg Phe Leu Asn Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Tyr Asn Pro Ile Ser Thr Ile Glu Gly Ser Met Leu His Glu Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Arg Leu Gln Glu Ile Gln Leu Val Gly Gly Gln Leu Ala Val Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Glu Pro Tyr Ala Phe Arg Gly Leu Asn Tyr Leu Arg Val Leu Asn Val
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Gly Asn Gln Leu Thr Thr Leu Glu Glu Ser Val Phe His Ser Val
                          340                 345                 350
              Gly Asn Leu Glu Thr Leu Ile Leu Asp Ser Asn Pro Leu Ala Cys Asp
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Arg Leu Leu Trp Val Phe Arg Arg Arg Trp Arg Leu Asn Phe Asn
                  370                 375                 380
                                                  Page 20

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Arg Gln Gln Pro Thr Cys Ala Thr Pro Glu Phe Val Gln Gly Lys Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Phe Lys Asp Phe Pro Asp Val Leu Leu Pro Asn Tyr Phe Thr Cys Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Ala Arg Ile Arg Asp Arg Lys Ala Gln Gln Val Phe Val Asp Glu
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Gly His Thr Val Gln Phe Val Cys Arg Ala Asp Gly Asp Pro Pro Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Ala Ile Leu Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys His Leu Val Ser Ala Lys Ser
                  450                 455                 460
              Asn Gly Arg Leu Thr Val Phe Pro Asp Gly Thr Leu Glu Val Arg Tyr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ala Gln Val Gln Asp Asn Gly Thr Tyr Leu Cys Ile Ala Ala Asn Ala
                              485                 490                 495
              Gly Gly Asn Asp Ser Met Pro Ala His Leu His Val Arg Ser Tyr Ser
                          500                 505                 510
              Pro Asp Trp Pro His Gln Pro Asn Lys Thr Phe Ala Phe Ile Ser Asn
                      515                 520                 525
              Gln Pro Gly Glu Gly Glu Ala Asn Ser Thr Arg Ala Thr Val Pro Phe
                  530                 535                 540
              Pro Phe Asp Ile Lys Thr Leu Ile Ile Ala Thr Thr Met Gly Phe Ile
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Ser Phe Leu Gly Val Val Leu Phe Cys Leu Val Leu Leu Phe Leu Trp
                              565                 570                 575
              Ser Arg Gly Lys Gly Asn Thr Lys His Asn Ile Glu Ile Glu Tyr Val
                          580                 585                 590
                                                  Page 21

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Arg Lys Ser Asp Ala Gly Ile Ser Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Arg Lys
                      595                 600                 605
              Phe Asn Met Lys Met Ile
                  610
              <210>   52
              <211>   1845
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 52
              atgctggcgg ggggcgtgag gagcatgccc agccccctcc tggcctgctg gcagcccatc     60
              ctcctgctgg tgctgggctc agtgctgtca ggctcggcca cgggctgccc gccccgctgc    120
              gagtgctccg cccaggaccg cgctgtgctg tgccaccgca agcgctttgt ggcagtcccc    180
              gagggcatcc ccaccgagac gcgcctgctg gacctaggca agaaccgcat caaaacgctc    240
              aaccaggacg agttcgccag cttcccgcac ctggaggagc tggagctcaa cgagaacatc    300
              gtgagcgccg tggagcccgg cgccttcaac aacctcttca acctccggac gctgggtctc    360
              cgcagcaacc gcctgaagct catcccgcta ggcgtcttca ctggcctcag caacctgacc    420
              aagctggaca tcagcgagaa caagattgtt atcctgctgg actacatgtt tcaggacctg    480
              tacaacctca agtcactgga ggttggcgac aatgacctcg tctacatctc tcaccgcgcc    540
              ttcagcggcc tcaacagcct ggagcagctg acgctggaga aatgcaacct gacctccatc    600
              cccaccgagg cgctgtccca cctgcacggc ctcatcgtcc tgaggctccg gcacctcaac    660
              atcaatgcca tccgggacta ctccttcaag aggctctacc gactcaaggt cttggagatc    720
              tcccactggc cctacttgga caccatgaca cccaactgcc tctacggcct caacctgacg    780
              tccctgtcca tcacacactg caatctgacc gctgtgccct acctggccgt ccgccaccta    840
              gtctatctcc gcttcctcaa cctctcctac aaccccatca gcaccattga gggctccatg    900
              ttgcatgagc tgctccggct gcaggagatc cagctggtgg gcgggcagct ggccgtggtg    960
              gagccctatg ccttccgcgg cctcaactac ctgcgcgtgc tcaatgtctc tggcaaccag   1020
              ctgaccacac tggaggaatc agtcttccac tcggtgggca acctggagac actcatcctg   1080
              gactccaacc cgctggcctg cgactgtcgg ctcctgtggg tgttccggcg ccgctggcgg   1140
                                                  Page 22

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              ctcaacttca accggcagca gcccacgtgc gccacgcccg agtttgtcca gggcaaggag   1200
              ttcaaggact tccctgatgt gctactgccc aactacttca cctgccgccg cgcccgcatc   1260
              cgggaccgca aggcccagca ggtgtttgtg gacgagggcc acacggtgca gtttgtgtgc   1320
              cgggccgatg gcgacccgcc gcccgccatc ctctggctct caccccgaaa gcacctggtc   1380
              tcagccaaga gcaatgggcg gctcacagtc ttccctgatg gcacgctgga ggtgcgctac   1440
<removed-apn>
              gcccaggtac aggacaacgg cacgtacctg tgcatcgcgg ccaacgcggg cggcaacgac   1500
              tccatgcccg cccacctgca tgtgcgcagc tactcgcccg actggcccca tcagcccaac   1560
              aagaccttcg ctttcatctc caaccagccg ggcgagggag aggccaacag cacccgcgcc   1620
              actgtgcctt tccccttcga catcaagacc ctcatcatcg ccaccaccat gggcttcatc   1680
              tctttcctgg gcgtcgtcct cttctgcctg gtgctgctgt ttctctggag ccggggcaag   1740
              ggcaacacaa agcacaacat cgagatcgag tatgtgcccc gaaagtcgga cgcaggcatc   1800
              agctccgccg acgcgccccg caagttcaac atgaagatga tatga                   1845
              <210>   53
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant B06 antibody
              <400>   53
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
                                                   Page 23

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              65                   70                 75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Gln Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   54
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant B12 antibody
              <400>   54
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Gln Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
                                                   Page 24

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   55
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant F06 antibody
              <400>   55
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Asp Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   56
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                   Page 25

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant B01 antibody
              <400>   56
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Gln Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Glu Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   57
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant D09 antibody
              <400>   57
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                                                   Page 26

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                           20                  25                 30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Ala Asp Ile Asp Trp Phe Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   58
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant D12 antibody
              <400>   58
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
                                                    Page 27

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   59
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant F01 antibody
              <400>   59
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Arg Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Pro Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                   Page 28

                                                     155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100                105                110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   60
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant F02 antibody
              <400>   60
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Asp Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Gly Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   61
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
                                                     Page 29

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant F06 antibody
              <400>   61
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Arg Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   62
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant F10 antibody
              <400>   62
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                   Page 30

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Ser His Ile Asp Arg Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   63
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant G08 antibody
              <400>   63
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                                                   Page 31

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                  50                    55                    60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Gln Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>    64
              <211>    119
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial
              <220>
              <223>    VH sequence of Li62 variant H08 antibody
              <400>    64
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                    Page 32

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Tyr Asn Gly Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   65
<removed-apn>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant C10 antibody
              <400>   65
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   66
                                                   Page 33

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant C02 antibody
              <400>   66
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   67
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant D05 antibody
              <400>   67
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
                                                   Page 34

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Glu Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   68
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant F02 antibody
              <400>   68
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                   Page 35

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Leu Ile Asp Trp Phe Phe Asp Gln Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   69
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant C10 antibody
              <400>   69
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                                                   Page 36

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                 90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Gln Phe Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
<removed-apn>
              <210>   70
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li62 variant H08 antibody
              <400>   70
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
                                                   Page 37

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   71
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant F09 antibody
              <400>   71
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Glu Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   72
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant G02 antibody
              <400>   72
                                                   Page 38

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Tyr Asp Thr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   73
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant H03 antibody
              <400>   73
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                                                   Page 39

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
                       35                  40                    45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Thr Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   74
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant A12 antibody
              <400>   74
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                   Page 40

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ser Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                      115
              <210>   75
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant C02 antibody
              <400>   75
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Thr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                                                   Page 41

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
                       115
              <210>   76
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant C11 antibody
<removed-apn>
              <400>   76
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Tyr Asp Arg Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   77
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant D11 antibody
                                                   Page 42

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   77
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Val Phe Asp Ser Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   78
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant E05 antibody
              <400>   78
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                   Page 43

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asp Asp Val Phe Asp Met Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   79
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant H04 antibody
              <400>   79
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
                                                   Page 44

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              65                   70                 75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Tyr Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Phe Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   80
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant B04 antibody
              <400>   80
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asp Asp Ala Tyr Asp Met Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
                                                   Page 45

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   81
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant A02 antibody
              <400>   81
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gln Asp Tyr Asp Thr Tyr Asp Leu Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   82
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                   Page 46

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant B12 antibody
              <400>   82
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asp Asp Ala Phe Asp Thr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   83
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant H06 antibody
              <400>   83
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                                                   Page 47

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                           20                  25                 30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Ala Asp Asp Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   84
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant H08 antibody
              <400>   84
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
                                                    Page 48

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Glu Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Met Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   85
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   VH sequence of Li81 variant E07 antibody
              <400>   85
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Glu Tyr Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                                                   Page 49

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                           100                105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   86
              <211>   447
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 heavy chain
              <400>   86
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly
                  130                 135                 140
                                                    Page 50

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr
                              325                 330                 335
              Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu
                          340                 345                 350
                                                  Page 51

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser
                  370                 375                 380
              Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp
<removed-apn>
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   87
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   N-terminus of LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   87
              Met Gln Val Ser Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   88
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
                                                   Page 52

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   88
              Ile Thr Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   89
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <400>   89
              Ala Cys Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   90
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <400>   90
              Val Cys Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   91
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                   Page 53

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <400>   91
<removed-apn>
              Ser Pro Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   92
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   92
              Ser Pro Arg Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   93
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   93
              Ser Pro Arg Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   94
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   94
                                                   Page 54

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Pro Arg Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   95
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   95
              Ser Pro Lys Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   96
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   96
              Ser Pro His Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   97
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   97
              Ser Pro Arg Arg His
              1               5
              <210>   98
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                            Page 55

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   98
              Ser Pro Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   99
<removed-apn>
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   99
              Ser Pro Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   100
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   100
              Ser Pro His His His
              1               5
              <210>   101
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   101
              Ser Pro Lys Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   102
                                            Page 56

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   102
              Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys His
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   103
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   103
              Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   104
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   104
              Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   105
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   105
              Leu Ser Pro Lys Lys His
                                            Page 57

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5
              <210>   106
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <400>   106
              Leu Ser Pro His Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   107
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   107
              Leu Ser Pro Arg Arg His
              1               5
              <210>   108
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   108
              Leu Ser Pro Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   109
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
                                            Page 58

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   109
              Leu Ser Pro Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   110
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   110
              Leu Ser Pro His His His
              1               5
              <210>   111
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   111
              Leu Ser Pro Lys Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   112
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   112
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   113
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
                                            Page 59

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   113
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys Lys
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   114
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   114
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   115
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   115
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Lys Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   116
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   116
              Trp Leu Ser Pro His Lys His
              1               5
                                            Page 60

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   117
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   117
<removed-apn>
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg Arg His
              1               5
              <210>   118
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   118
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   119
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   119
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   120
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   120
                                            Page 61

                                            155620_1
<removed-date>
              Trp Leu Ser Pro His His His
              1               5
              <210>   121
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   121
              Trp Leu Ser Pro Lys Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   122
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   122
              Ile Thr Pro Lys Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   123
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   123
              Ala Cys His His Lys
              1               5
              <210>   124
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                            Page 62

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   124
              Val Cys His His Lys
              1               5
              <210>   125
<removed-apn>
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   125
              Xaa Xaa Arg Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   126
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   126
              Xaa Xaa Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   127
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
                                                   Page 63

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
<removed-apn>
              <400>   127
              Xaa Xaa Lys Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   128
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   128
              Xaa Xaa His His His
              1               5
              <210>   129
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   129
                                                   Page 64

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              Xaa Xaa Arg Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210>   130
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   130
              Xaa Xaa Arg Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   131
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   131
              Xaa Xaa Lys Lys His
              1               5
              <210>   132
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
                                                   Page 65

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   132
              Xaa Xaa His Lys His
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   133
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   133
              Xaa Xaa Arg Arg His
              1               5
              <210>   134
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (1)..(2)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   134
              Xaa Xaa Arg His His
              1               5
                                                   Page 66

                                                  155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   135
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(3)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (4)..(4)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (5)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <400>   135
              Ile Thr Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   136
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(3)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (4)..(4)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
                                                   Page 67

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
              <222>   (5)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <400>   136
              Ala Cys Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   137
<removed-apn>
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(3)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (4)..(4)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (5)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
              <400>   137
              Val Cys Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   138
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (3)..(3)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
                                                   Page 68

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (4)..(4)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (5)..(5)
              <223>   X can be lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamine, asparagine
<removed-apn>
              <400>   138
              Ser Pro Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   139
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   139
              Ser Pro Arg Leu His
              1               5
              <210>   140
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   140
              Arg Arg Ala Arg Ile Arg Asp Arg Lys
              1               5
              <210>   141
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
                                                    Page 69

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   141
              Lys Lys Val Lys Val Lys Glu Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   142
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   142
              Arg Arg Leu Arg Leu Arg Asp Arg Lys
              1               5
              <210>   143
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   143
              Arg Arg Gly Arg Gly Arg Asp Arg Lys
              1               5
              <210>   144
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   LINGO-1 polypeptide
              <400>   144
              Arg Arg Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Arg Lys
              1               5
              <210>   145
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
                                                    Page 70

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Fab' light chain
              <400>   145
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Trp Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                                                  Page 71

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                            180               185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
<removed-apn>
              <210>   146
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Fab' heavy chain
              <400>   146
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
                                                    Page 72

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
<removed-apn>
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   147
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   147
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser His Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                                                  Page 73

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  50                    55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>    148
              <211>    230
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial
                                                  Page 74

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   148
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Phe Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
                                                  Page 75

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
<removed-apn>
              225                 230
              <210>   149
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   149
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Leu Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                                                  Page 76

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       115                 120                125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   150
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   150
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 77

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Met Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   151
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
                                                  Page 78

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   151
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Leu Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                                                  Page 79

                                                       155620_1
<removed-date>
                            180                  185              190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   152
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   152
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
                                                       Page 80

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   153
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   153
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                                                  Page 81

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       35                 40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Thr Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   154
                                                  Page 82

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   154
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Trp Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
                                                  Page 83

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   155
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   155
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Val Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                  Page 84

                                                       155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100                  105              110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   156
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   156
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                       Page 85

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp His Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
                                                  Page 86

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   157
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   157
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Ser Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                                                  Page 87

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               165               170                  175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   158
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   158
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                  Page 88

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Gln Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   159
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   159
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                                                  Page 89

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
                                                   Page 90

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              225                  230
              <210>   160
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>   160
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Met Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                  Page 91

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   161
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   161
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Asn Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                                                  Page 92

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                90                   95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   162
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   162
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 93

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly His Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
                                                  Page 94

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   163
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   163
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Leu Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
                                                  Page 95

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              145                  150               155                  160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   164
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   164
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                  Page 96

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
<removed-apn>
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   165
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
              <400>   165
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                                                  Page 97

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              1               5                  10                   15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Ala Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                                                  Page 98

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                  210
              <210>     166
              <211>     214
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Artificial
              <220>
              <223>     Li33 Light Chain Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>     166
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Asp Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                   Page 99

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   167
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
              <400>   167
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Leu Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                                                 Page 100

                                                       155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100                  105              110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   168
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
              <400>   168
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
                                                       Page 101

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Asn Pro Leu
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   169
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
                                                 Page 102

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   169
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Gly Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                                                 Page 103

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       195                 200                205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   170
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
              <400>   170
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Gln Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
                                                 Page 104

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   171
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
              <400>   171
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Val Pro Leu
                                                 Page 105

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                90                   95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   172
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Light Chain Variant
              <400>   172
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Gly Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                 Page 106

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Glu Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Asp Lys Ser Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   173
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
                                                 Page 107

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   173
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Gly Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                                                 Page 108

                                                       155620_1
<removed-date>
                            180                  185              190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   174
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   174
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ile Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
                                                       Page 109

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   175
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   175
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                                                 Page 110

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       35                 40                  45
              Ser Asp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   176
                                                 Page 111

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   176
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Met Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
                                                 Page 112

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   177
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   177
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Leu Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                 Page 113

                                                       155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100                  105              110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   178
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   178
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                       Page 114

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Thr Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
                                                 Page 115

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   179
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   179
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Ile Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                                                 Page 116

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               165               170                  175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   180
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   180
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                 Page 117

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   181
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   181
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                                                 Page 118

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Trp Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
                                                   Page 119

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              225                  230
              <210>   182
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>   182
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Tyr Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                 Page 120

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   183
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   183
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ser Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                                                 Page 121

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                90                   95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   184
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   184
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                 Page 122

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Pro Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
                                                 Page 123

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   185
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   185
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Val Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
                                                 Page 124

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              145                  150               155                  160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   186
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   186
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Thr Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                 Page 125

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
<removed-apn>
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>   187
              <211>   230
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li33 Heavy Chain Variant
              <400>   187
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
                                                 Page 126

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              1               5                  10                   15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Gln Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                                                 Page 127

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  210                     215               220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              225                 230
              <210>     188
              <211>     119
              <212>     PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>     Artificial
              <220>
              <223>     Li62 VH Variant
              <400>     188
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser His Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>     189
              <211>     119
              <212>     PRT
                                                 Page 128

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   189
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Phe Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   190
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   190
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                 Page 129

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Leu Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   191
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   191
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Met Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                                                 Page 130

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  50                     55                 60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>    192
              <211>    119
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial
              <220>
              <223>    Li62 VH Variant
              <400>    192
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Leu Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                 Page 131

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   193
<removed-apn>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   193
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   194
                                                 Page 132

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   194
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Thr Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   195
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   195
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
                                                 Page 133

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5                 10                   15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Trp Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   196
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   196
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                 Page 134

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Val Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   197
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   197
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                                                 Page 135

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                90                   95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp His Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
<removed-apn>
              <210>   198
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   198
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Ser Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
                                                 Page 136

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   199
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   199
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Gln Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   200
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   200
                                                 Page 137

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   201
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   201
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                                                 Page 138

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       35                   40                45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Met Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   202
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   202
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Asn Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                 Page 139

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                      115
              <210>   203
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   203
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly His Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                                                 Page 140

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       115
              <210>   204
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>   204
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Leu Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   205
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
                                                 Page 141

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   205
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   206
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   206
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                 Page 142

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Gly Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   207
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   207
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ile Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
                                                 Page 143

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              65                   70                75                   80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   208
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   208
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Asp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
                                                 Page 144

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   209
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   209
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Met Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   210
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                 Page 145

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   210
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Leu Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   211
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   211
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                                                 Page 146

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                            20                25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Thr Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   212
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   212
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
                                                   Page 147

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Ile Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   213
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   213
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                 Page 148

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100               105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   214
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   214
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Trp Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   215
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
                                                    Page 149

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   215
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Tyr Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   216
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   216
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                 Page 150

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ser Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   217
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   217
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Pro Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                                                 Page 151

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  50                     55                 60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>    218
              <211>    119
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial
              <220>
              <223>    Li62 VH Variant
              <400>    218
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Val Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                 Page 152

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   219
<removed-apn>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   219
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Thr Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Trp Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   220
                                                 Page 153

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li62 VH Variant
              <400>   220
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly His Asn Asp Gln Tyr Phe Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   221
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   221
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                                                 Page 154

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5                 10                   15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   222
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   222
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
                                                 Page 155

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105
              <210>   223
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   223
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   224
                                                 Page 156

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   224
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   225
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   225
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                                                 Page 157

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                            20                25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   226
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   226
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                   Page 158

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   227
<removed-apn>
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   227
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   228
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                 Page 159

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   228
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Phe
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   229
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VH Variant
              <400>   229
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                                                 Page 160

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       35                 40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Leu Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   230
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VH Variant
              <400>   230
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                 Page 161

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                      115
              <210>   231
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VH Variant
              <400>   231
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Thr Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                                                 Page 162

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       115
              <210>   232
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VH Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>   232
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Trp Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   233
              <211>   118
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VH Variant
                                                 Page 163

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   233
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   234
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   234
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                 Page 164

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Ala Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   235
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   235
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Asp Pro Met
                                                 Page 165

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                90                   95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   236
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   236
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Leu Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   237
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
                                                 Page 166

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   237
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Asn Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   238
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   238
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
                                                 Page 167

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Gly Pro Met
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   239
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   239
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Gln Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                                                 Page 168

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100               105
              <210>   240
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>   240
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Val Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   241
              <211>   108
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li81 VL Variant
              <400>   241
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                                                    Page 169

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5                 10                   15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Ser Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   242
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   242
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser His Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
                                                 Page 170

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   243
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   243
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Phe Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                 Page 171

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100               105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   244
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   244
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Leu Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   245
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
                                                    Page 172

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   245
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Met Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   246
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   246
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                 Page 173

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Leu Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   247
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   247
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Ser Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                                                 Page 174

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  50                      55                60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>    248
              <211>    119
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial
              <220>
              <223>    Li113 VH Variant
              <400>    248
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Thr Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                 Page 175

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   249
<removed-apn>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   249
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Trp Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   250
                                                 Page 176

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   250
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Val Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   251
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   251
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
                                                 Page 177

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              1                5                 10                   15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp His Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   252
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   252
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
                                                 Page 178

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Ser Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   253
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   253
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                                                 Page 179

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                               85                90                   95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Gln Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
<removed-apn>
              <210>   254
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   254
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
                                                 Page 180

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   255
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   255
<removed-apn>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Met Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   256
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   256
                                                 Page 181

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Asn Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   257
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   257
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                                                 Page 182

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       35                   40                45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly His Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   258
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   258
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Leu Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                 Page 183

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                      115
              <210>   259
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   259
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                                                 Page 184

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                       115
              <210>   260
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
<removed-apn>
              <400>   260
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Gly Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   261
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
                                                 Page 185

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <400>   261
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ile Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   262
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   262
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
                                                 Page 186

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Asp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   263
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   263
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
                                                 Page 187

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              65                   70                75                   80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Met Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   264
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   264
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Leu Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
                                                 Page 188

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   265
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   265
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Thr Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   266
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
                                                 Page 189

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   266
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Ile Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   267
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   267
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                                                 Page 190

                                                   155620_1
<removed-date>
                            20                25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   268
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   268
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Trp Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
                                                   Page 191

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   269
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   269
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Tyr Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                                                 Page 192

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                            100               105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   270
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   270
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ser Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   271
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
                                                    Page 193

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   271
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Pro Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   272
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   272
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                 Page 194

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Val Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   273
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   273
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Thr Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                                                 Page 195

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  50                      55                60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Trp Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>    274
              <211>    119
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Artificial
              <220>
              <223>    Li113 VH Variant
              <400>    274
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ile Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Met Phe Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Trp Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Ile Thr Lys Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
                                                 Page 196

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Glu Gly Thr Tyr Asp Gln Tyr Leu Asp Leu Trp Gly Arg Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   275
<removed-apn>
              <211>   447
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   275
              Glu Val Gln Leu Leu Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ala Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Met Lys Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Val Ile Gly Pro Ser Gly Gly Phe Thr Phe Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Thr Glu Gly Asp Asn Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly
                                                 Page 197

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
                  130                 135                   140
              Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Ala Tyr Arg Val Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr
                              325                 330                 335
              Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu
                                                 Page 198

                                                    155620_1
<removed-date>
                            340               345                 350
              Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser
                  370                 375                 380
<removed-apn>
              Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   276
              <211>   215
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Li113 VH Variant
              <400>   276
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Thr Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Leu Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ala Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Ala Ser Asn Arg Ala Thr Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
                                                    Page 199

                                                 155620_1
<removed-date>
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Arg Ser Asn Trp Pro Met
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala
<removed-apn>
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gln Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Tyr Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210                 215
                                                 Page 200

