ABSTRACT
A method for improving the hydrophobic properties of a fiber cement product,
      is provided, the method comprises the steps of
   *  Providing a fiber cement product comprising at least one profiled
      surface;
   *  Applying a water-free silane-based liquid to the at least one profiled
      surface;
   " Allowing said a water-free silane-based liquid to penetrate into the fiber
      cement product.

                                              1
            HYDROPHOBIZED FIBER CEMENT PRODUCT COMPRISING AT LEAST ONE PROFILED SURFACE
   Field of the invention
 5 The present invention relates to fiber cement products, having improved
   hydrophobic properties and to methods to improve the hydrophobic properties of
   such fiber cement products.
   Background of the invention
10 Fiber cement products are well known. However under some weather conditions,
   typically under humid conditions, water can penetrate into the fiber cement matrix
   of the product. In general, fiber cement products need to be protected to
   penetrating water, as       the water may negatively influence the mechanical
   properties, resistance to weather conditions such as frost, the aging of the
15 product and in some cases the appearance of the fiber cement product.
   As an example, by slowly dissolving salts present in the matrix, the water can
   function as a carrier to bring the salts to the surface. This effect, called
   efflorescence, causes white traces to become visible on the surface.
   To avoid these negative effects, agents which cause the fiber cement product to
20 be more hydrophobic, hydrophobation agents, are used and applied to the
   surface of the fiber cement product. As such, water is to a large extent prevented
   to penetrate into the fiber cement matrix, reducing the efflorescence to a large
   extent.
   However it was noticed that, when applying typical hydrophobation agents to a
25 profiled, such as milled, surface, the hydrophobation agent itself leaves traces in
   the surface after being applied and dried.
   Summary of the invention
   It is an object of the present invention to provide a fiber cement product having at
30 least one profiled, typically milled, surface, to which a hydrophobation agent is
   applied without leaving traces of this hydrophobation agent.

                                             2
   According to the first aspect of the present invention, a method for improving the
           hydrophobic properties of a fiber cement product is provided. The method
           comprises the steps of
 5     0 Providing a fiber cement product comprising at least one profiled surface;
       " Applying a water-free silane-based liquid to the at least one profiled
           surface;
       *   Allowing said a water-free silane-based liquid to penetrate into the fiber
           cement product.
10
   The water-free silane-based liquid is allowed to penetrate in to the pores of the
   fiber cement matrix along the outer profiled surface of the fiber cement product.
   The term liquid refers to a liquid state under ambient temperature (21'C) and at
15 ambient pressure (1035 hPa). Matter is a liquid under these conditions when its
   volume remains constant while its shape adopts to the container in which it is
   provided.
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the water-free silane
20 based liquid may be a solvent-free silane-based liquid.
   When a silane- and/or siloxane-base, water diluted liquid is used, it was found
   that white residue traces were noticed on the profiled surface of the fiber cement
   product. Using solvent diluted silane- and/or siloxane-based liquids to provide
25 improved hydrophobic properties to the fiber cement product, often, but not
   always, discolored spots are visible. Both visual effects are noticed as defects,
   causing the fiber cement product to be either rejected or considered as impaired.
   The water-free and preferably solvent-free silane-based liquid comprises one or
   more silanes (SiR 4, each of the 4 R-groups independently being an organic
30 group), and may further comprise on or more oligomer siloxanes (H(R2 SiO)oOH,

                                             3
   each     of the R-groups independently being an organic groups). According to
   preferred embodiments, the water-free and preferably solvent-free silane-based
   liquid may comprise or even may consist of alkyltriethoxysilane.
 5 More preferred, the used water-free, and preferably also solvent-free silane
   based liquid comprises at least 50%w, even more than 75 %w of silanes. Most
   preferred, the water- and solvent-free silane-based liquid comprises 99%w or
   more of silanes.
10 The water-free and preferably also solvent-free silane-based liquid provides the
   treated surface with improved hydrophobic properties. The water-free and
   preferably also solvent-free silane-based         liquid is used as a so-called
   hydrophobation agent.
   It was found that other hydrophobation agents were not suitable for use on
15 profiled fiber cement products, in particularly not on surfaces where recesses
   and/or groves are milled. The other hydrophobation agents were not able to
   penetrate in the fiber cement material along the inside corners of the recessions,
   leaving traces of polymerized hydrophobation agent.
   Though the reason is not fully        understood, water-free and preferably also
20 solvent-free silane-based liquid, when used as hydrophobation agent on profiled
   fiber cement products, in particularly having recesses or groves along its surface,
   was found to penetrate in the fiber cement material also along the inside corners
   of the recessions, without leaving visual traces.
   The fiber cement products obtainable by the method according to the first aspect
25 of the present invention may have an average density in the range of 0.35 kg/m 3
   to 2 kg/m, such as between 0.4 kg/m and 1.9 kg/m2. The average density is the
   density at average over a representative surface and thickness. The product at
   its profiled surface may have a density slightly higher as the density throughout
   the product at the non profiled volumes and surfaces. This due e.g. the profiling
30 action, such as milling and alike.

                                              4
   The benefit of the use of water-free and preferably also solvent-free silane-based
   liquid is best noticeable for fiber cement products having higher density. The fiber
   cement products obtainable or obtained using a method              according to the
   invention preferably have a density in the range of 0.9 kg/M 3 to 2 kg/m 3 , such as
 5 in the range of 1.1 kg/M 3 to 1.95 kg/M 3 , more preferred in the range of 1.15
   kg/m 3 to 1.9 m/kg 3.
   The fiber cement products have a hydrophobic property expressed as the fiber
   cement product having a water take up of less than 1.5 ml after 48h using the
   RILEM Test No 11.4 in horizontal application.       Preferably the water take up is
10 even less than 1 ml per 48h according to this test.
   This is obtained using water-free and preferably also solvent-free silane-based
   liquid as hydrophobation agent. When the water-free and preferably also solvent
   free silane-based liquid also comprised siloxanes, a significant improvement of
   the beading effect can be obtained.
15
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the water-free silane
   based liquid may be applied to the at least one profiled surface in an amount of
   less than 150 g/m2 , and more than 10 g/m2 .
   More preferred less than 120 g/m2 or even less than 90 g/m2 is applied to the
20 profiled surface. More preferred more than 40 g/m2 or even more than 50 g/m2 or
   even more than 60 g/m2 is applied to the profiled surface.
   It is understood that also the other sides and surfaces of the fiber cement product,
   in particular when the product is a fiber cement plate, can be treated with the
25 same or a different hydrophobation agent.
   The fiber cement product can be any type of product, but typically is a product
   having a planar shape.
30 According to some embodiments of the present invention, the fiber cement
   product may be a fiber cement plate.

                                              5
   Fiber cement plates are well known in the art. The fiber cement products are
   made out of fiber cement slurry, which is formed in a so-called green fiber
   cement product, and cured.
 5 Dependent to some extent on the curing process used , the fiber cement slurry
   typically comprises water, process or reinforcing fibers which both may be natural
   organic    fibers   (typically   cellulose  fibers)  or   synthetic  organic  fibers
   (polyvynilalcohol,     polyacrilonitrile,  polypropylene,    polyamide,   polyester,
   polycarbonate, polyethylene, etc.), cement e.g. Portland cement, limestone,
10 chalk, quick lime, slaked or hydrated lime, ground sand, silica sand flour, quartz
   flour, amorphous silica, condensed silica fume, microsilica           , metalkaolin,
   wollastonite, mica, perlite, vermiculite, aluminum hydroxide, pigments, anti
   foaming agents, flocculants, and other additives.
   The green fiber cement product is cured, typically by curing to the air (air cured
15 fiber cement products) or under pressure in presence of steam and increased
   temperature (autoclave cured). For autoclave cured products, typically sand is
   added in the fiber cement slurry. The autoclave curing typically results in the
   presence of 11.3 A (angstrom) Tobermorite in the fiber cement product.
   Fiber cement plates usually are made using the well known Hatschek-process,
20 flow-on process or Magnani-process.
   According to embodiments, the fiber cement plate may have at least one flat, non
   profiled surface. This least one flat, non profiled surface may be present opposite
   to the profiled surface of the fiber cement product.
25 The fiber cement plate may preferably have a thickness up to 45mm. The fiber
   cement plate according to the invention may have a thickness up to and including
   35mm, optionally only up to and including 30mm, or even only up to and
   including 25mm, a height typically up to 4m and a width typically up to 1.5m .
   Most preferred the thickness of the plate are in the range of 4mm to 40mm, such
30 as in the range of 5mm to 35 mm, e.g. in the range of 5mm to 20 mm, more
   preferred in the range of 5mm to 16mm, e.g. 5mm, 6mm, 7mm, 8mm, 9mm,

                                               6
   10mm, 11mm, 12mm, 13mm, 14mm or 15mm. The height of the fiber cement
   plate may preferably be in the range of 1.5m to 4m, most preferred in the range
   of 2m to 4m, e.g. in the range of 2.5m to 3.7m, e.g. 2.5m, 2.6m, 2.7m, 2.8m,
   2.9m, 3.0m, 3.1m, 3.2m, 3.3m, 3.4m, 3.5m, 3.6m and 3.7m. The width of the
 5 fiber cement plate may preferably be in the range of 0.6m to 1.75m, most
   preferred in the range of 0.6m to 1.5m, e.g. in the range of 0.75m to 1.5m, e.g.
   1.0m, 1.1m, 1.2m, 1.3m, 1.4m or 1.5m.
   Preferably the fiber cement product is a fiber cement plate, having two
   substantially flat surfaces, of which one or two, preferably only one, is provided
10 with a profile. The profile may be a random or random-like profile. An example
   of such profile may be the profile of timber.
   Alternatively the profile is a repetitive profile, such as a checkerboard profile with
   locally sunk rectangular or square surfaces.
   The profile may comprise sunk parts or surfaces, delimited by flanks having an
15 angle between the sunk surface and the flank in the range of 900 to about 1800,
   preferably more than 900, such as more than 950 or more than 1000, and less
   than 1750 such less than 1700 or less than 1650 such as less than 1600 even less
   than 1550 or less than 1500. The inner, as well as potentially outer corners may
   have a sharp delimitation, or may be rounded, typically with a small bending
20 radius.
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the fiber cement
   product may be a fiber cement plate having at least one surface comprising at
   least one groove. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the
25 profiled surface comprises a plurality of grooves being equally distributed over
   the surface, the grooves all have a uniform direction and a uniform depth.
   The grooves may have a cross section in a section according to a plane
   perpendicular to the direction of the groove being triangular, trapezoid,
30 rectangular or square, elliptic, circular, or alike.

                                             7
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the grooves may have
   a trapezoid cross section in a section according to a plane perpendicular to the
   direction of the groove, the groove having a flat bottom and two flanks, the
   angles between the bottom and each of the flanks is in the range of 90 to about
 5 1800, preferably more than 90*, such as more than 950 or more than 100', and
   less than 175* such less than 170* or less than 165* such as less than 1600 even
   less than 1550 or less than 1500.
   The depth of the grooves is preferably more than 0.1mm, and more preferred in
10 the range of 0.15mm to 1.0mm, such as between 0.15mm and to 0.5mm. The
   maximum width at the bottom of the groove is preferably in the range of 2mm to
   20mm, and most preferred in the range of 4mm to 15mm.
   As an example, the grooves may have a trapezoid cross section and distributed
   at equal distances one to the other. As such the profile of a section according to
15 a plane perpendicular to the direction of the groove will have a step-wave shape.
   The width of the top surfaces between adjacent grooves is preferably more than
   1mm, typically more than 2mm or more than 3mm.
20 According to some embodiments of the present invention, the water-free silane
   based liquid may penetrate at least 1mm into the profiled surface.
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the fiber cement
   product may be an autoclave cured fiber cement product. Alternatively the fiber
25 cement product may be an air cured fiber cement product.
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the fiber cement
   product may be obtained using a Hatschek process. According to some
   embodiments of the present invention, the fiber cement product may be obtained
30 using a flow-on process. According to some embodiments of the present
   invention, the fiber cement product may be obtained using a Magnani-process.

                                            8
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, applying the water-free
   silane-based liquid may be done by spraying the water-free silane-based liquid to
   the profiled surface.
 5 Such spraying may be done by means of any known spraying installation. Given
   the profiled surface to be sprayed, the spraying nozzles may have angled
   positions in view of the surface to be sprayed to guarantee an equal amount of
   liquid to be sprayed over the profiled surface. Optionally the spraying nozzles
   may have a dynamically changeable orientation.
10
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, applying the water-free
   silane-based liquid may be done by brushing or rolling the water-free silane
   based liquid to the profiled surface.
15  The brushes and/or rollers preferably needs to be sufficiently soft, flexible and/or
   compressible to allow them to contact the profiled surface also in the lower
   sunken parts.
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the provision of a fiber
20 cement product comprising at least one profiled surface may comprise the
   provision of a green fiber cement plate using a Hatscheck process, and profiling
   at least one surface of the fiber cement plate after curing of the green fiber
   cement plate.
25 A green fiber cement product is to be understood as the product obtained directly
   after shaping the product, but before the cement is cured.
   The green fiber cement product may be pressed before curing.
30 According to some embodiments of the present invention, the green fiber cement
   plate may be cured using autoclave curing.

                                             9
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the profiled surface
   may be provided by milling the fiber cement product.
 5 The fiber cement product according to the invention has at least one, and
   possibly more than one surface which is profiled, typically milled or grinded.
   The fiber cement product comprising at least one profiled surface which is
   preferably provided after curing the cement of the fiber cement product. Such
10 profiled surface is to be understood as a post-curing profiled surface.
   The profiled surface may be provided by profiling a surface of the green fiber
   cement product, by pressing a profile in to the surface of the green fiber cement
   product. It may even be profiled during production of the green fiber cement
15 product, e.g. by using equipment with profiled surfaces which contacts the fiber
   cement slurry during the provision of the green fiber cement product.
   Most preferably the profiled surface is provided after curing of the green fiber
   cement product. This is typically done by milling.
20 The milling can be done using suitable milling tools such as milling cutters,
   typically having hard metal of diamond coated cutting surfaces.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention, a fiber cement product
   obtained according to the first aspect of the present invention is provided.
25
   According to a second aspect of the present invention, a fiber cement product is
   provided, which comprising at least one profiled surface, the fiber cement product
   comprises a porous fiber cement matrix along the at least one profiled surface
   characterized in that water-free silane-based hydrophobic agent, originating from
30 a water-free silane-based liquid, is present in the pores of the matrix along the at
   least one profiled surface.

                                            10
   According to some embodiments of the present invention, the profiled surface
   may be free of silane- and siloxane-residue.
 5 The independent and dependent claims set out particular and preferred features
   of the invention. Features from the dependent claims may be combined with
   features of the independent or other dependent claims, and/or with features set
   out in the description above and/or hereinafter as appropriate.
10 The above and other characteristics, features and advantages of the present
   invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which illustrate, by way of example,
   the principles of the invention. This description is given for the sake of example
   only, without limiting the scope of the invention. The reference figures quoted
15 below refer to the attached drawings.
   Brief description of the drawings
   Fig. 1a is schematically a top-view of a profiled fiber cement product, having one
   post-curing profiled surface, according to the invention.
20 Fig. 1b is schematically a side-view of a part of this profiled fiber cement product
   of figure 1a, having one post-curing profiled surface, according to the invention.
   Fig. 2 is a schematically view of a process to improve the hydrophobic properties
   of a profiled fiber cement product, having one post-curing profiled surface,
   according to the invention
25
   The same reference signs refer to the same, similar or analogous elements in the
   different figures.
   Description of illustrative embodiments
30 The present invention will be described with respect to particular embodiments.

                                              11
    It is to be noticed that the term "comprising", used in the claims, should not be
   interpreted as being restricted to the means listed thereafter; it does not exclude
   other elements or steps. It is thus to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
   the stated features, steps or components as referred to, but does not preclude
 5 the presence or addition of one or more other features, steps or components, or
   groups thereof. Thus, the scope of the expression "a device comprising means A
   and B" should not be limited to devices consisting only of components A and B. It
   means that with respect to the present invention, the only relevant components of
   the device are A and B.
10 Throughout      this   specification, reference  to   "one  embodiment"     or  "an
   embodiment" are made. Such references indicate that a particular feature,
   described in relation to the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of
   the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or
   "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not
15 necessarily all      referring to the same      embodiment,   though they could.
   Furthermore, the particular features or characteristics may be combined in any
   suitable manner in one or more embodiments, as would be apparent to one of
   ordinary skill in the art.
   When reference is made to a range, unless otherwise specified, the range is to
20 be understood inclusive.
   The fiber cement product, being a fiber cement plate 100 in figure 1, comprises
   one profiled surface 102, provided by milling of the trapezoid like grooves 110
   after the fiber cement plate 100 was cured in an autoclave. The cured fiber
25 cement product before milling is obtainable from Eternit NV as EQUITONE
   [Tectiva].
   After having been milled using appropriate milling tools, the profiled surface 102
   is provided with an hydrophobation agent being water-free silane-based liquids.
   The used liquids are set out in table 1. Hydrophobation agents used in test 4 to
30 9 are water-free silane-based liquids, i.e. according to a method of the present
   invention. Hydrophobation agents in test 4, 6, 7 and 8 are also solvent-free.

                                                 12
   In each case, this product is applied by spraying the liquid to the profiled surface.
   The profiled surface has a width E of 1.22m and a height L of 2.5m, resulting in a
   surface of 3.05 M 2 . The amount of liquid, per such surface unit of the profiled
 5 surface was 80 g/m2 .
   Table 1
   test                     Hydrophobation agent #                  W% active ingredient in
   #                                                                    liquid applied
          Product name         Waterlsolvent  Active ingredient(s)
                               born
   1      DC520    1           Water born     Silane & siloxane    16
   2      DC520 + IE6682 "     Water born     Silane & siloxane    16
   3      IE6682   1           Water born     silane               16
   4      Z6341  1             Waterfree &    silane               100
                               solventfree
   5      Funcosil SNL  2      Solvent born   Silane & siloxane    7
   6      Protectosil BHN 3    Waterfree &    silane               100
                               solventfree
   7      Protectosil BHN 3    Waterfree &    silane               100
                               solventfree
   8      Protectosil 10ONK 3  Waterfree &    silane               100
                               solventfree
   9      Z6689/MR2404 "       Solvent born   silane               7.5
   1 : available from Dow Corning;
10 2:  available from Remmers
   3:  available from Demula / Evonik
   After having allowed the liquid to penetrate into the profiled surface, the liquid
   has penetrated into the surface up to an average depth D, as such providing a
15 zone 120 in which the hydrophobation agent is present in the porous fiber
   cement matrix.

                                                 13
   The profiled surfaces are tested on hydrophobicity using the RILEM Test No 11.4
   in   horizontal    application. Also      the presence of white  residue of the
   hydrophobation agent was noted (yes or no), and the beading effect of the
   hydrophobation agent was characterized using a ranking of 1 (water droplets are
 5 either soaked up by the surface or remain present as droplets with contact angle
   of 900 or less between surface and droplet) to 5 (droplets remain on surface as
   beads, the contact angle being substantially 1800). The results are set out in
   table 2.
   The contact angle between a surface Sx and the outer surface of a droplet is the
10 angle between the tangent, at the contact point between surface Sx and the
   droplet surface, of the curve obtained by making a section of the outer surface of
   the droplet and a plane perpendicular to the surface Sx, the angle being the
   angle oriented towards the droplet volume.
15 Table 2
   test                           results
          Rilem test after 48h  White residue  Beading; visual
          (ml)                  present?       assessment (1
                                (y/n)          to 5)
   1      0.3                   Y              4
   2      0.4                   Y              3
   3      0.45                  Y              2
   4      0.23                  N              4
   5      0.35                  N              4
   6      0.28                  N              3
   7      0.28                  N              2
   8      0.3                   N              5
   9      0.4                   N              5
   As is noticeable, the tests 4 to 9, using a water-free, silane based
   hydrophobation agent, no white residue of the hydrophobation agent is left.

                                                14
   As can be seen in figure 1a and 1b, the profile is a step-wave profile 122 having
   trapezoid like grooves 110 with a recess depth R of 2mm, a top width T of 8mm
   and a recess width W of 12mm. The total thickness A of the plate 100 is 10mm,
   and a remaining thickness B at the lower surface or bottom 124 of the groove of
 5 8mm. The inclination angle a between the bottom 124 and each of the flanks 126
   and 128 is 1100, thus providing slopes with a slope width S.
   A schematic view of the method to provide the fiber cement products according
   to the invention is shown in figure 2.
10 The method for improving the hydrophobic properties of a fiber cement product,
   comprises first the step 200 of providing a green fiber cement product, preferably
   a plate. This may be done by a Hatscheck process.
   This green plate may optionally be compresses in the optional step 210, after
   which the green fiber cement plate is cured by means of air curing or autoclave
15 curing in step 220.
   In a next step 230, the cured product is given a profiled surface by e.g. milling.
   Thereafter in a next step 240 water-free, silane based hydrophobation agents are
   applied, e.g. by spraying to the at least one profiled surface.
   The applies hydrophobation agent is allowed to penetrate in step 250 and a
20 product according to the present invention is obtained. The hydrophobation agent
   is penetrated through the surface into the pores of the fiber cement matrix of the
   fiber cement product. At the surface, no visual residue of the hydrophobation
   agent is left.
25 It is to be understood that although preferred embodiments and/or materials have
   been discussed for providing embodiments according to the present invention,
   various modifications or changes may be made without departing from the scope
   and spirit of this invention.
30 This application is a divisional application from Australian application 2014320551.
   The full disclosure of AU2014320551 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                      15
   CLAIMS
   1.        A method for improving the hydrophobic properties of a fiber cement product
             comprising at least one profiled surface, said method comprises the steps of
 5      e    Providing a fiber cement product comprising at least one profiled surface;
        *    Applying a water-free silane-based liquid to the at least one profiled surface;
        *    Allowing said water-free silane-based liquid to penetrate into the fiber cement
             product.
 0 2.        The method according to claim 1, wherein said water-free silane-based liquid is a
             solvent-free silane-based liquid.
   3.        The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein a water-free silane-based liquid
             is applied to the at least one profiled surface in an amount of less than 150 g/m 2, and
 5           more than 10 g/m 2 .
   4.        The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the fiber cement
             product is a fiber cement plate.
 0 5.        The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the fiber cement
             product is a fiber cement plate having at least one profiled surface comprising at
             least one groove.
   6.        The method according to claim 5, wherein the profiled surface comprises a plurality
25           of grooves being equally distributed over said surface, said grooves all have a uniform
             direction and a uniform depth.
   7.        The method according to claim 5 or claim 6, wherein said grooves have a trapezoid
             cross section in a section according to a plane perpendicular to the direction of the
30           groove, said groove having a flat bottom and two flanks, the angles between the
             bottom and each of said flanks is in the range of 90" to 180", but is not identical to
             1800.
   3446778vl

                                                     16
   8.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein applying said water-free
             silane-based liquid is done by spraying said water-free silane-based liquid to the
 5           profiled surface.
   9.         The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein applying said water-free
             silane-based liquid is done by brushing or rolling said water-free silane-based liquid
             to the profiled surface.
 0
   10.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the provision of a fiber
             cement product comprising at least one profiled surface comprises the provision of a
             green fiber cement plate using a Hatschek process, and profiling at least one surface
             of said fiber cement plate after curing of the green fiber cement plate.
 5
   11.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the green fiber cement
             plate is cured using autoclave curing.
   12.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the profiled surface is
 0           provided by milling the fiber cement product.
   13.       A fiber cement product comprising at least one profiled surface obtained according
             to any one of the preceding claims.
25 14.       A fiber cement product comprising at least one profiled surface, said fiber cement
             product comprises a porous fiber cement matrix along said at least one profiled
             surface, wherein a water-free silane-based hydrophobic agent is present in the pores
             of said matrix along said at least one profiled surface.
30 15.       The fiber cement product according to claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the fiber
             cement product is an autoclave cured fiber cement product.
   3446778vl

                                                 17
16.       Use of a water-free silane-based liquid to improve the hydrophobic properties of the
          profiled surfaces of a fiber cement product having at least one profiled surface.
3446778vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
