Abstract:
This disclosure relates to remote control of dialysis machines (102). In certain aspects, a
method includes receiving a request for a network connection from a dialysis machine (402)
and establishing the network connection with the dialysis machine (404, 406, 408). The method
also includes receiving, from a client device, a request to access the dialysis machine (412),
authorizing the client device to access the dialysis machine (414,416), receiving, from the
dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of the dialysis machine (422), and
providing, to the client device, the received information (424).

WO 2013/074635              PCT/US2012/065021
               --------------
                                              LL

                       REMOTE CONTROL OF DIALYSIS MACHINES
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]       This invention relates to remote control of dialysis machines.
 5                                       BACKGROUND
   [0002]       Renal dysfunction or failure and, in particular, end-stage renal disease,
   causes the body to lose the ability to remove water and minerals and excrete harmful
   metabolites, maintain acid-base balance and control electrolyte and mineral
   concentrations within physiological ranges. Toxic uremic waste metabolites, including
10 urea, creatinine, and uric acid, accumulate in the body's tissues which can result in a
   person's death if the filtration function of the kidney is not replaced.
   [0003]       Dialysis is commonly used to replace kidney function by removing these
   waste toxins and excess water. In one type of dialysis treatment--hemodialysis--toxins
   are filtered from a patient's blood externally in a hemodialysis machine. Blood passes
15 from the patient through a dialyzer separated by a semi-permeable membrane from a
   large volume of externally-supplied dialysis solution. The waste and toxins dialyze out
   of the blood through the semi-permeable membrane into the dialysis solution, which is
   then typically discarded.
   [0004]       The dialysis solutions or dialysates used during hemodialysis typically
20 contain sodium chloride and other electrolytes, such as calcium chloride or potassium
   chloride, a buffer substance, such as bicarbonate or acetate, and acid to establish a
   physiological pH, plus optionally, glucose or another osmotic agent.
                                            SUMMARY
25
   [0005]       In one aspect of the invention, a method includes receiving a request for a
   network connection from a dialysis machine, and establishing the network connection
   with the dialysis machine. The method also includes             receiving, from a client
   device, a request to access the dialysis machine and authorizing the client device to
                                                  1

   access the dialysis machine. The method also includes receiving, from the dialysis
   machine, information pertaining to an operation of the dialysis machine and providing,
   to the client device, the received information.
   [0006]      In another aspect of the invention, a method includes a dialysis machine
 5 sending a request, to a server, to establish a network connection with the server and
   receiving an access request from the server, the access request requesting access to the
   dialysis machine by the server. The method also includes providing a response to the
   access request and providing data to the server comprising information pertaining to an
   operation of the dialysis machine.
10 [0007]      In another aspect of the invention, a system includes a server, a dialysis
   machine configured to connect to the server through a network, and a client device
   configured to connect to the server through the network. The server is configured to
   maintain an access control list to determine whether the client device is authorized to
   connect to the dialysis machine. The server is also configured to provide a connection
15 for transfer of data between the dialysis machine and the client device.
   [0008]      Implementations can include one or more of the following features.
   [0009]      In certain implementations, the method also includes receiving, from the
   client device, instructions for the dialysis machine and providing, to the dialysis
   machine, the received instructions.
20 [0010]      In some implementations, the method also includes receiving a connection
   from a second dialysis machine and receiving, from a second client device, a request to
   access the second dialysis machine. The method also includes          authorizing the
   second client device to access the second dialysis machine, receiving, from the second
   dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of the second dialysis
25 machine, and providing, to the second client device, the information received from the
   second dialysis machine.
   [0011]      In certain implementations, the method also includes assigning a proxy port
   for communication with each dialysis machine.
   [0012]      In certain implementations, the client device and the second client device
30 are the same device.
   [0013]      In certain implementations, authorizing the client device comprises using an
   access control list stored on the data processor.
                                                 2

   [0014]      In some implementations, the access control list is configured to allow
   updating of a set of client devices that are authorized to access the dialysis machine by
   updating, at the data processor, the access control list stored on the data processor.
   [0015]      In certain implementations, the data processor is at a remote location from
 5 the dialysis machine.
   [0016]      In certain implementations, the data processor is at a clinic.
   [0017]      In some implementations, the dialysis machine is at a home of a patient.
   [0018]      In certain implementations, the client device and the data processor are the
   same device.
10 [0019]      In certain implementations, the method further includes receiving
   instructions from the server and executing the received instructions.
   [0020]      In some implementations, the server is further configured for receiving a
   request for a network connection from the dialysis machine and establishing the
   network connection with the dialysis machine. The server is further configured for
15 receiving, from the client device, a request to access the dialysis machine and
   authorizing the client device to access the dialysis machine. The server is also
   configured for receiving, from the dialysis machine, information pertaining to an
   operation of the dialysis machine and providing, to the client device, the received
   information.
20 [0021]      In certain implementations, the server is further configured for receiving,
   from the client device, instructions for the dialysis machine and providing, to the
   dialysis machine, the received instructions.
   [0022]      In certain implementations, the system further includes a second dialysis
   machine; and a second server. The server is also configured for receiving a connection
25 from the second dialysis machine and receiving, from the second client device, a
   request to access the second dialysis machine. The server is also configured for
   authorizing the second client device to access the second dialysis machine and
   receiving, from the second dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of
   the second dialysis machine. The server is also configured for providing, to the second
30 client device, the information received from the second dialysis machine.
   [0023]      In some implementations, the server is further configured for assigning a
   proxy port for communication with each dialysis machine.
                                                 3

   [0024]      Implementations can include one or more of the following advantages.
   [0025]      In some implementations, the methods described provide remote control of
   dialysis machines. By controlling a dialysis machine remotely, a patient using the
   dialysis machine need not be in the same location as an operator of the machine. Thus,
 5 a patient can receive dialysis through the machine at a more convenient location, such
   as the patient's home. Additionally, multiple machines can be in different locations
   while the remote controller can be in one location. As such, the operator can more
   easily monitor and control more than one machine at a time. Furthermore, as a remote
   server is used to control access to the dialysis machines, the users at the dialysis
10 machines need not know how to update access controls or configuration settings. The
   controls and configurations at the dialysis machine can be simplified, allowing less
   technologically sophisticated users to use the dialysis machines at remote locations,
   such as their homes. Additionally, updates or changes can be made more efficiently as
   only the server needs to be updated, rather than multiple dialysis machines located in
15 different places.
                                 DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
   [0026]      FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of a system including a hemodialysis system
20 that can be controlled remotely.
   [0027]      FIG. 2 is a schematic illustration of the hemodialysis machine of FIG. 1.
   [0028]      FIG. 3 illustrates a screen shot of the user interface of the hemodialysis
   system of FIG. 1.
   [0029]      FIG. 4 is a flow chart depicting a method of remotely controlling the
25 hemodialysis machine of FIG. 1.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0030]      In general, the invention relates to systems and methods for remotely
30 controlling dialysis machines. In some aspects of the invention, a hemodialysis
   machine includes a controller that controls the hemodialysis machine, to carry out a
   hemodialysis treatment. The controller receives signals from the hemodialysis machine
                                                 4

   that indicate states of the machine, and provides instructions that control the machine.
   The controller connects to a proxy server through a network. The proxy server
   provides a virtual control, reflecting the controller of the hemodialysis machine to a
   server through the network. A client device can connect to the server through the
 5 network to receive the information from the proxy server so that a user can see the
   virtual control from the client device. Thus, the user can control the hemodialysis
   machine remotely, monitoring the operation of the hemodialysis machine and also
   providing instructions to the hemodialysis machine through the proxy server via the
   network and server. The hemodialysis machine can also include video and audio
10 transmission capabilities, through which a patient can communicate with the user
   controlling the hemodialysis machine at the client device through streaming video and
   audio. For example, both the hemodialysis machine and the client device can have
   video cameras, which can allow the patient to see the user on a screen of the
   hemodialysis machine, and the user to see the patient on a screen of the client device.
15 The hemodialysis machine can include multiple cameras to send video information
   showing various connections between the patient and the hemodialysis machine and
   between components on the hemodialysis machine. The hemodialysis machine can also
   include an internet protocol (IP) phone through which the hemodialysis machine can
   transmit voice data to the client device.
20 [0031]      Referring to FIG. 1, a remote control hemodialysis system environment 100
   includes a dialysis machine 102 that is configured to connect to a server 104 through a
   network 110. The server 104 generates a proxy for the dialysis machine 102 and a
   virtual controller for the dialysis machine 102. A client device 108 connects to the
   server 104 through the network 110. The dialysis machine 102 communicates with the
25 proxy on the server 104 to provide information about operations on the dialysis
   machine 102. The server 104 provides the information from the proxy to the client
   device 108. A remote user at the client device 108 thus receives information from the
   dialysis machine 102, and monitors the operation of the dialysis machine 102. The
   remote user also provides instructions through the client device 108 to the dialysis
30 machine 102. The instructions input by the remote user are sent to the server 104
   through the network 110. The server relays the instructions through the proxy to the
   dialysis machine 102 for execution.
                                                 5

   [0032]      Referring to FIG. 2, a dialysis system 200 includes the dialysis machine 102
   and a disposable blood line set 103 that is operatively connected to the face of the
   dialysis machine 102. The dialysis machine 102 includes a control panel 202, which
   has a display 204 for providing a user interface to monitor operation of the dialysis
 5 machine 102. The machine 102 also includes a keypad 206 for the user to input
   instructions for the dialysis machine 102. During treatment the disposable blood line
   set 103, which includes a dialyzer, is connected to the machine 102 and to a patient to
   permit the patient's blood to circulate through the fluid line set and dialyzer. The
   dialysis machine 102 includes various sensors (e.g., pressure sensors, air sensors,
10 temperature sensors, etc.) that cooperate with the disposable fluid line set to monitor
   treatment parameters. Current treatment data, such as treatment time remaining,
   arterial venous, and transmembrane pressures, ultrafiltration (UF) data, and dialysate
   data is shown on the display 204. The display 204 also shows status of the treatment
   and any alarm or alert messages as necessary.
15 [0033]      FIG. 3 is a screen shot of the display 204 of the dialysis machine 102. The
   display 204 shows a status box 206, indicating a status of an operation. In the example
   display shown, the dialysis operation has been paused. The display 204 also shows
   treatment data using various blood pressure gauges 208, an UF module 210, and a
   dialysate module 212. The display 204 also shows a menu button row 214 that
20 provides various options to the user. For example, the user can select one of the menu
   options from the menu button row 214 to receive different types of information through
   the display 204. The user enters input through the keypad 206 to provide instructions
   to the dialysis machine.
   [0034]      The display 204 updates to show current data during the operation of the
25 dialysis machine 102. The display 204 also shows different screens at various stages of
   the machine's use, such as a startup screen, testing screens, shutdown screens, and other
   user interfaces.
   [0035]      On establishing a connection between the client device 108 and the dialysis
   machine 102, the client device 108 is provided data to display the same information as
30 shown on the display 204 of the dialysis machine 102. Thus, for example, a remote
   user at the client device 108 would see the same screen shot as shown in FIG. 3 at such
   a stage in a dialysis treatment.
                                                 6

   [0036]       FIG. 4 depicts an example process for remote control of the dialysis
   machine 102 (400). On startup, the dialysis machine 102 connects to the server 104
   (402). The dialysis machine 102 requests an IP address of the server 104 so that the
   dialysis machine 102 can establish a connection with the server 104 via the network.
 5 On establishing a connection with the dialysis machine 102, the server 104 creates a
   proxy (404) for the dialysis machine 102. The server 104 uses different ports as
   proxies for each dialysis machine 102. Thus, the server 104 maintains a list of each
   dialysis machine 102 connected to the server 104 and the proxy port used to
   communicate with each dialysis machine 102. The server 104 provides the port
10 number to the dialysis machine 102 so that the dialysis machine 102 communicates to
   the appropriate proxy on the server 104.
   [0037]       The server 104 then requests authorization from the dialysis machine 102
   (406). A user at the dialysis machine 102 decides whether or not to allow access to the
   proxy. The user can allow different levels of access to the proxy, such as no access,
15 authority to monitor the dialysis machine 102 only, or authority to control the dialysis
   machine 102. In this example process, the user grants full access (408) to the proxy.
   [0038]       The server 104 then creates a virtual control (410). The virtual control
   provides an interface for the dialysis machine 102, such as the user interface provided
   by the control panel 202 of the dialysis machine 102. The virtual control shows the
20 same information as shown on the display 204 of the dialysis machine 102. Input is
   provided to the virtual control in a similar manner as provided to the control panel 202.
   [0039]       After the server 104 creates a virtual control, the client device 108 requests
   connection to the dialysis machine 102 (412). The client device 108 provides this
   request to the server 104. The server 104 checks the authorization of the client device
25 108 (414). The server 104 maintains a list of all the proxies and dialysis machines 102
   that are connected to the server 104. The server 104 also maintains an access control
   list to authorize access to client devices 108 to dialysis machines 102. For example, the
   server 104 can require a login/password combination for each client device 108. The
   login/password combination is different for each dialysis machine 102 connected to the
30 server 104.
   [0040]       Upon authorization, the server 104 provides access (416) to the client device
   108. The server 104 provides the virtual control to the client device 108. The client
                                                 7

   device 108 receives the virtual control (418) and displays the virtual control to a remote
   user at the client device 108. The remote user is thus able to see the same controls as
   the user at the dialysis machine 102.
   [0041]      The dialysis machine 102 then starts an operation (420). In this example,
 5 the operation is a dialysis treatment started by the user at the dialysis machine 102.
   Alternatively, the operation can also be started by a remote user at the client device
   108. As the treatment progresses, the display 204 shows treatment data on the dialysis
   machine 102. The dialysis machine 102 also transmits the treatment data (422) to the
   server 104. The server 104 receives the treatment data and transmits the data (424) to
10 the client device 108. The client device receives the treatment data and displays the
   data via the virtual control. Thus, the remote user can monitor the operation (426) of
   the dialysis machine 102 at the client device 108.
   [0042]      The remote user also provides instructions (428) at the client device 108 to
   the dialysis machine 102. For example, the remote user can pause the dialysis
15 treatment or request other information through the menu buttons shown on the virtual
   control. The client device 108 transmits the instructions to the server 104. The server
   104 receives the instructions and transmits the instructions (430) to the dialysis
   machine 102. The dialysis machine 102 receives the instructions and executes the
   instructions (432). In this manner, the remote user controls the dialysis machine 102
20 from a location remote to the dialysis machine 102.
   [0043]      While the process shown in FIG. 4 and the example environment of FIG. 1
   depicts one dialysis machine 102 and one client device 108, the system can include
   multiple dialysis machines and multiple client devices connected to the server 104. The
   server 104 can maintain a list of all the dialysis machines, as well as all the client
25 devices. The server 104 can include an access control list that determines which client
   devices can access which dialysis machines. In some implementations, a single client
   device can monitor and/or control multiple dialysis machines. Conversely, in some
   implementations, multiple client devices can monitor and/or control a single dialysis
   machine. The client machines can have a hierarchy of control, which can determine
30 what instructions provided to the dialysis machine receive priority over other
   instructions from other client machines. The server 104 can receive a request for
   authorization for each of the client machines that request access to the dialysis machine
                                                 8

   102. In some implementations, the dialysis machine 102 can receive a request for
   authorization for each of the client machines that request access to the dialysis machine
   102. The local controls at the dialysis machine can also be included in the hierarchy of
   controls. In some implementations, the local controls at the dialysis machine 102 have
 5 the highest priority over all remote controls from client devices.
   [0044]      While the proxies generated by the server 104 have been described as ports
   used by the server 104, the proxies can also each be separate proxy server devices.
   Thus, a dialysis machine can connect to a separate proxy server, which in turn can
   connect to the server 104.
10 [0045]      While the server 104 and the client device 108 have been described as
   separate computing devices, the client device 108 and the server 104 can also be the
   same computing device. Thus, the server 104 can provide the functions of the client
   device 108 to a remote user at the server 104.
   [0046]      While the access control on the server 104 has been described as using a
15 login/password combination, various access control methods can be used. For
   example, the server 104 can maintain a list of specific client devices (e.g., using IP
   addresses and/or MAC addresses) that are authorized to access specific dialysis
   machines. The server 104 can also require a login/password combination, such that
   only authorized users can access specific dialysis machines from the specific client
20 devices. For example, the client devices allowed access can be restricted to those in a
   specific hospital. Users can be required to log in to access dialysis machines located in
   patients' homes, with different login credentials required for different dialysis
   machines.
   [0047]      While the server 104 has been described as a single computing device, the
25 server 104 can also be a server system including multiple computing devices.
   [0048]      While only one controller is described on the dialysis machine 102, multiple
   controllers may alternatively be used.
   [0049]      While the user input device has been described as a keypad 206, the user
   input device can also include a keyboard, a trackpad, and other devices through which a
30 user can provide input to the dialysis machine 102.
                                                9

   [0050]      While the client device 108 has been depicted as a computer, the client
   device can be any computing device that can connect to a network, including, for
   example, mobile phones, tablet computers, laptops, netbooks, and smartphones.
   [0051]      While FIG. 3 shows an example screen shot of the display 204 of the
 5 dialysis machine 102, the display 204 can also show video transmitted to and from the
   client device.
   [0052]      While the dialysis machine has been described to optionally include an IP
   phone, the dialysis machine can be configured to include a microphone and voice data
   transmission capability.
10 [0053]      Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this
   specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in computer
   software, firmware, or hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification
   and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them.
   Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be
15 implemented as one or more computer programs, i.e., one or more modules of
   computer program instructions, encoded on computer storage medium for execution by,
   or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition,
   the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal,
   for example, a machine-generated electrical, optical, or electromagnetic signal, that is
20 generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for
   execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be, or be
   included in, a computer-readable storage device, a computer-readable storage substrate,
   a random or serial access memory array or device, or a combination of one or more of
   them. Moreover, while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal, a
25 computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program
   instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer
   storage medium can also be, or be included in, one or more separate physical
   components or media (for example, multiple CDs, disks, or other storage devices).
   [0054]      The operations described in this specification can be implemented as
30 operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more
   computer-readable storage devices or received from other sources.
                                                10

   [0055]       The term "data processing apparatus" encompasses all kinds of apparatus,
   devices, and machines for processing data, including by way of example a
   programmable processor, a computer, a system on a chip, or multiple ones, or
   combinations, of the foregoing The apparatus can include special purpose logic
 5 circuitry, for example, an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC
   (application specific integrated circuit). The apparatus can also include, in addition to
   hardware, code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in
   question, for example, code that constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a
   database management system, an operating system, a cross-platform runtime
10 environment, a virtual machine, or a combination of one or more of them. The
   apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model
   infrastructures, such as web services, distributed computing and grid computing
   infrastructures.
   [0056]       A computer program (also known as a program, software, software
15 application, script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language,
   including compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and it
   can be deployed in any form, including as a standalone program or as a module,
   component, subroutine, object, or other unit suitable for use in a computing
   environment. A computer program may, but need not, correspond to a file in a file
20 system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data
   (for example, one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single
   file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (for example,
   files that store one or more modules, sub programs, or portions of code). A computer
   program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that
25 are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a
   communication network.
   [0057]       The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be
   performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer
   programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The
30 processes and logic flows can also be performed by, and apparatus can also be
   implemented as, special purpose logic circuitry, for example, an FPGA (field
   programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit).
                                                 11

    [0058]     Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way
   of example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more
   processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally, a processor will receive
   instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both.
 5 The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in
   accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions
   and data. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive
   data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data,
   for example, magnetic, magneto optical disks, or optical disks. However, a computer
10 need not have such devices. Moreover, a computer can be embedded in another device,
   for example, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile audio or
   video player, a game console, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, or a
   portable storage device (for example, a universal serial bus (USB) flash drive), to name
   just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include
15 all forms of nonvolatile memory, media and memory devices, including by way of
   example semiconductor memory devices, for example, EPROM, EEPROM, and flash
   memory devices; magnetic disks, for example, internal hard disks or removable disks;
   magneto optical disks; and CD ROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the
   memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.
20  [0059]     To provide for interaction with a user, implementations of the subject matter
   described in this specification can be implemented on a display device (e.g., the display
   device of the dialysis machine 102), for example, a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD
   (liquid crystal display) monitor, for displaying information to the user and a keyboard
   or keypad and/or a pointing device, for example, a mouse or a trackball, by which the
25 user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide
   for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be
   any form of sensory feedback, for example, visual feedback, auditory feedback, or
   tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including
   acoustic, speech, or tactile input.
30  [0060]     While this specification contains many specific implementation details,
   these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any disclosures or of what
   may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular
                                                12

  implementations of particular disclosures. Certain features that are described in this
  specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in
  combination in a single implementation. Conversely, various features that are
  described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in
5 multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover,
  although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even
  initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can in some
  cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to
  a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
                                              13

           The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.     A method performed by a data processor, the method comprising:
           receiving a request for a network connection from a dialysis machine;
 5         establishing the network connection with the dialysis machine;
           receiving, from a client device, a request to access the dialysis machine;
           authorizing the client device to access the dialysis machine;
           receiving, from the dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of the
   dialysis machine;
10         providing, to the client device, the received information;
           receiving, from the client device, first video data obtained by a camera of the client
   device;
           providing, to a display of the dialysis machine, video based on the first video data;
           receiving, from the dialysis machine, second video data obtained by a camera of the
15 dialysis machine; and
           providing, to a display of the client device, video based on the second video data,
           wherein an interface of the client device is configured to present controls for
   controlling the dialysis machine.
20         2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
           receiving, from the client device, instructions for the dialysis machine; and
           providing, to the dialysis machine, the received instructions.
           3.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
25         receiving a connection from a second dialysis machine;
           receiving, from a second client device, a request to access the second dialysis machine;
           authorizing the second client device to access the second dialysis machine;
           receiving, from the second dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of
   the second dialysis machine;
30         providing, to the second client device, the information received from the second
   dialysis machine;
                                                 - 14 -

           receiving, from the second client device, instructions for the second dialysis machine;
   and
           providing, to the second dialysis machine, the received instructions.
 5         4.      The method of claim 3, further comprising assigning a proxy port for
   communication with each dialysis machine.
           5.      The method of claim 3, wherein the client device and the second client device
   are the same device.
10
           6.      The method of claim 1, wherein authorizing the client device comprises using
   an access control list stored on the data processor.
           7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the access control list is configured to allow
15 updating of a set of client devices that are authorized to access the dialysis machine by
   updating, at the data processor, the access control list stored on the data processor.
           8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the data processor is at a remote location from
   the dialysis machine.
20
           9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the data processor is at a clinic.
            10.    The method of claim 9, wherein the dialysis machine is at a home of a patient.
25          11.    The method of claim 1, wherein the client device and the data processor are the
   same device.
            12.    A method performed on a data processor of a dialysis machine, the method
   comprising:
30         sending a request, to a server, to establish a network connection with the server;
           receiving an access request from the server, the access request requesting access to the
   dialysis machine by the server;
                                                 - 15 -

           providing a response to the access request;
           providing, to a client device, via the server, information pertaining to an operation of
   the dialysis machine;
           receiving, from the client device, first video data obtained by a camera of the client
 5 device;
           providing, to a display of the dialysis machine, video based on the first video data; and
           sending, to the client device, second video data obtained by a camera of the dialysis
   machine, wherein the client device provides video based on the second video data to a display
   of the client device,
10         wherein an interface of the client device is configured to present controls for
   controlling the dialysis machine.
            13.     The method of claim 12, further comprising:
           receiving, from the client device, via the server, instructions; and
15         executing the received instructions.
            14.     The method of claim 12, wherein the dialysis machine is at a remote location
   from the server.
20          15.     A system comprising:
           a server;
           a dialysis machine configured to connect to the server through a network; and
           a client device configured to connect to the server through the network,
   wherein the server is configured for:
25         maintaining an access control list to determine whether the client device is authorized
   to connect to the dialysis machine; and
           providing a connection for transfer of data between the dialysis machine and the client
   device, the transfer of data comprising:
                    receiving, from the client device, first video data obtained by a camera of the
30         client device;
                    providing, to a display of the dialysis machine, video based on the first video
           data;
                                                  - 16 -

                   receiving, from the dialysis machine, second video data obtained by a camera
           of the dialysis machine; and
                   providing, to a display of the client device, video based on the second video
           data,
 5         wherein an interface of the client device is configured to present controls for
   controlling the dialysis machine.
            16.    The system of claim 15, wherein the server is configured for:
           receiving a request for a network connection from the dialysis machine;
10         establishing the network connection with the dialysis machine;
           receiving, from the client device, a request to access the dialysis machine;
           authorizing the client device to access the dialysis machine;
           receiving, from the dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of the
   dialysis machine; and
15         providing, to the client device, the received information.
            17.    The system of claim 15, wherein the server is further configured for:
           receiving, from the client device, instructions for the dialysis machine; and
           providing, to the dialysis machine, the received instructions.
20
            18.    The system of claim 15, further comprising a second dialysis machine,
   wherein the server is further configured for:
           receiving a connection from the second dialysis machine;
           receiving, from a second client device, a request to access the second dialysis machine;
25         authorizing the second client device to access the second dialysis machine;
           receiving, from the second dialysis machine, information pertaining to an operation of
   the second dialysis machine;
           providing, to the second client device, the information received from the second
   dialysis machine;
30         receiving, from the second client device, instructions for the second dialysis machine;
   and
           providing, to the second dialysis machine, the received instructions.
                                                 - 17 -

            19.    The system of claim 18, wherein the server is further configured for assigning a
   proxy port for communication with each dialysis machine.
 5         20.     The system of claim 18, wherein the client device and the second client device
   are the same device.
           21.     The system of claim 15, wherein the access control list is configured to allow
   updating of a set of client devices that are authorized to access the dialysis machine by
10 updating, at the server, the access control list.
           22.     The system of claim 15, wherein the server is at a remote location from the
   dialysis machine.
15         23.     The system of claim 22, wherein the server is at a clinic.
           24.     The system of claim 23, wherein the dialysis machine is at a home of a patient.
           25.     The method of claim 1, wherein authorizing the client device to access the
20 dialysis machine comprises receiving a user login and password from the client device.
           26.     The method of claim 3, further comprising:
           receiving, from a third client device, a request to access the second dialysis machine;
           authorizing the third client device to access the second dialysis machine;
25         providing, to the third client device, the information received from the second dialysis
   machine;
           receiving, from the third client device, instructions for the second dialysis machine;
   and
           providing, to the second dialysis machine, the received instructions.
30
                                                  - 18 -

           27.     The method of claim 26, wherein the instructions received from the second
   client device for the second dialysis machine have a priority over the instructions received
   from the third client device for the second dialysis machine.
 5         28.     The method of claim 27, wherein, when there is a conflict between the
   instructions received from the second client device for the second dialysis machine and the
   instructions received from the third client device for the second dialysis machine, the
   instructions received from the second client device are executed by the second dialysis
   machine, and the instructions received from the third client device are not executed by the
10 second dialysis machine.
           29.     The method of claim 1, wherein the information provided to the client device
   comprises voice data.
15         30.     The method of claim 1, wherein the information provided to the client device
   comprises one or both of video and audio.
           31.     The method of claim 30, wherein the video and audio comprise information
   related to connections and components of the dialysis machine.
20
           32.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
           receiving, from the client device, a video stream; and
           providing, to the display of the dialysis machine, the video stream.
25         33.     The method of claim 32, wherein the video stream includes audio.
           34.     The method of claim 1, wherein the information pertaining to an operation of
   the dialysis machine comprises data related to a dialysis treatment.
30         35.     The method of claim 1, wherein the information pertaining to an operation of
   the dialysis machine comprises one or more of time remaining for a dialysis treatment, arterial
                                                - 19 -

   pressure, venous pressure, transmembrane pressure, data related to ultrafiltration (UF), data
   related to dialysate, treatment status, and alarm information.
           36.     The method of claim 1, wherein the information pertaining to an operation of
 5 the dialysis machine is presented by the interface of the client device.
           37.     The method of claim 36, wherein the interface presents at least some of the
   information that is presented on the display of the dialysis machine.
10         38.     The method of claim 1, wherein the client device is a mobile computing device.
           39.     The method of claim 2, wherein the instructions for the dialysis machine
   comprise one or more of initiating a dialysis treatment and pausing a dialysis treatment.
15         40.     The method of claim 2, wherein at least some of the instructions for the dialysis
   machine are for setting one or more treatment parameters for a dialysis treatment.
           41.     The method of claim 2, further comprising providing, to the client device, a
   virtual control interface, wherein the instructions for the dialysis machine are received from
20 the client device through the virtual control interface.
           42.     The method of claim 13, wherein a virtual control interface is provided to the
   client device that is configured to access the dialysis machine, and the instructions are received
   from the client device through the virtual control interface.
25
           43.     The system of claim 16, wherein authorizing the client device to access the
   dialysis machine comprises receiving a user login and password from the client device.
           44.     The system of claim 18, wherein the server is further configured for:
30         receiving, from a third client device, a request to access the second dialysis machine;
           authorizing the third client device to access the second dialysis machine;
                                                 - 20  -

           providing, to the third client device, the information received from the second dialysis
   machine;
           receiving, from the third client device, instructions for the second dialysis machine;
   and
 5         providing, to the second dialysis machine, the received instructions.
           45.     The system of claim 44, wherein the instructions received from the second
   client device for the second dialysis machine have a priority over the instructions received
   from the third client device for the second dialysis machine.
10
           46.     The system of claim 45, wherein, when there is a conflict between the
   instructions received from the second client device for the second dialysis machine and the
   instructions received from the third client device for the second dialysis machine, the
   instructions received from the second client device are executed by the second dialysis
15 machine, and the instructions received from the third client device are not executed by the
   second dialysis machine.
           47.     The system of claim 16, wherein the information provided to the client device
   comprises voice data.
20
           48.     The system of claim 16, wherein the information provided to the client device
   comprises one or both of video and audio.
           49.     The system of claim 48, wherein the video and audio comprise information
25 related to connections and components of the dialysis machine.
           50.     The system of claim 16, wherein the server is further configured for:
           receiving, from the client device, a video stream; and
           providing, to the display of the dialysis machine, the video stream.
30
           51.     The system of claim 50, wherein the video stream includes audio.
                                                  - 21 -

           52.     The system of claim 16, wherein the information pertaining to an operation of
   the dialysis machine comprises data related to a dialysis treatment.
           53.     The system of claim 16, wherein the information pertaining to an operation of
 5 the dialysis machine comprises one or more of time remaining for a dialysis treatment, arterial
   pressure, venous pressure, transmembrane pressure, data related to ultrafiltration (UF), data
   related to dialysate, treatment status, and alarm information.
           54.     The system of claim 16, wherein the information pertaining to an operation of
10 the dialysis machine is presented by the interface of the client device.
           55.     The system of claim 54, wherein the interface presents at least some of the
   information that is presented on the display of the dialysis machine.
15         56.     The system of claim 15, wherein the client device is a mobile computing
   device.
           57.     The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions for the dialysis machine
   comprise one or more of initiating a dialysis treatment and pausing a dialysis treatment.
20
           58.     The system of claim 17, wherein at least some of the instructions for the
   dialysis machine are for setting one or more treatment parameters for a dialysis treatment.
           59.     The system of claim 17, wherein the server is further configured for providing,
25 to the client device, a virtual control interface, wherein the instructions for the dialysis
   machine are received from the client device through the virtual control interface.
           60.     The method of claim 1, wherein a video stream includes the first video data and
   the second video data.
30
           61.     The method of claim 60, wherein the video stream enables a patient receiving
   treatment from the dialysis machine and a user of the client device to communicate.
                                                 - 22 -

           62.     The method of claim 61, wherein the user of the client device is located at a
   hospital.
 5         63.     The method of claim 1, wherein the video based on the first video data includes
   instructions for controlling operations of the dialysis machine that are provided by a user of
   the client device.
           64.     The method of claim 1, wherein the video based on the second video data is
10 used by a user of the client device to monitor operations of the dialysis machine.
           65.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
           receiving, from the client device, first audio data obtained by a microphone of the
   client device;
15         providing, to a speaker of the dialysis machine, audio based on the first audio data;
           receiving, from the dialysis machine, second audio data obtained by a microphone of
   the dialysis machine; and
           providing, to a speaker of the client device, audio based on the second audio data.
                                                - 23 -

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

