                                           ABSTRACT
                                                                   1 2        3
The invention relates to compounds of Formula (I), wherein L , L , and L are defined in the
specification, useful for the synthesis of novel conjugates and immunogens derived from
paliperidone. The invention also relates to conjugates of a paliperidone hapten and a protein.

                                HAPTENS OF PALIPERIDONE
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013305930,
which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
This application claims priority of the benefits of the filing of U.S. Provisional Application
Serial No. 61/691,459, filed August 21, 2012. The complete disclosures of the aforementioned
related U.S. patent application is/are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to the field of immunoassays for determining the presence of paliperidone
in human biological fluids.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating psychiatric disorder affecting approximately 0.45-1
% of the world's population (van Os, J.; Kapur, S. "Schizophrenia" Lancet 2009, 374, 635
645). The principal goals of treatment are to achieve sustained remission from psychotic
symptoms, reduce the risk and consequences of relapse, and improve patient functioning and
overall quality of life. While many patients with schizophrenia are able to achieve symptom
stability with the available antipsychotic medications, poor adherence to medication is a
common reason for relapse with daily administered oral medications. Several studies (Abdel
Baki, A.; Ouellet-Plamondon, C.; Malla, A. "Pharmacotherapy Challenges in Patients with
First-Episode Psychosis" Journal of Affective Disorders 2012, 138, S3-S14) investigating the
outcomes of non-compliance have shown that patients with schizophrenia who do not take their
medication as prescribed have higher rates of relapse, hospital admission and suicide as well as
increased mortality. It is estimated that 40 to 75% of patients with schizophrenia have
difficulty adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen (Lieberman, J. A.; Stroup, T. S.; McEvoy,
J. P.; Swartz, M. S.; Rosenheck, R. A.; Perkins, D. 0.; Keefe, R. S. E.; Davis,

S. M.; Davis, C. E.; Lebowitz, B. D.; Severe, J.; Hsiao, .1. K. "Effectiveness of
Antipyschotic Drugs in Patients with Chronic Schizophrenia" New England Journal of
Medicine 2005, 353(12), 1209-1223).Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the
quantification of serum or plasma concentrations of drugs, including anti-psychotic
drugs, for treatment monitoring and optimization. Such monitoring permits, for example,
the identification of patients that are not adhering to their medication regimen, that are
not achieving therapeutic doses, that are non-responsive at therapeutic doses, that have
suboptimal tolerability, that have pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, or that have
abnormal metabolism resulting in inappropriate plasma concentrations. Considerable
individual variability exists in the patient's ability to absorb, distribute, metabolize, and
excrete anti-psychotic drugs. Such differences can be caused by concurrent disease, age,
concomitant medication or genetic peculiarities. Different drug formulations can also
influence the metabolism of anti-psychotic drugs. TDM permits dose optimization for
individual patients, improving therapeutic and functional outcomes. TDM further
permits a prescribing clinician to ensure compliance with prescribed dosages and
achievement of effective serum concentrations.
To date, methods for determining the levels of serum or plasma concentrations of anti
psychotic drugs involve the use of liquid chromatography (LC) with UV or mass
spectrometry detection, and radioimmunoassays (see, for example, Woestenborghs et al.,
1990 "On the selectivity of some recently developed RIA's" in Methodological Surveys
in Biochemistry and Analysis 20:241-246. Analysis of Drugs and Metabolites, Including
Anti-infective Agents; Heykants et al., 1994 "The Pharmacokinetics of Risperidone in
Humans: A Summary", J Clin Psychiatry 55/5, suppl: 13-17; Huang et al., 1993
"Pharmacokinetics of the novel anti-psychotic agent risperidone and the prolactin
response in healthy subjects", Clin Pharmacol Ther 54:257-268). Radioimmunoassays
detect one or both of risperidone and paliperidone. Salamone et al. in US Patent No.
8,088,594 disclose a competitive immunoassay for risperidone using antibodies that
detect both risperidone and paliperidone but not pharmacologically inactive metabolites.
The antibodies used in the competitive immunoassav are developed against a particular
immunogen. ID Labs Inc. (London, Ontario, Canada) markets an ELISA for olanzapine,

another anti-psychotic drug, which also utilizes a competitive format. The Instructions
For Use indicate that the assay is designed for screening purposes and intended for
forensic or research use, and is specifically not intended for therapeutic use. The
Instructions recommend that all positive samples should be confirmed with gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and indicate that the antibody used detects
olanzapine and clozapine (see ID Labs Inc., "Instructions For Use Data Sheet IDEL
F083", Rev. Date Aug. 8, 2011). Some of these methods, namely HPLC and GC/MS,
can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are generally only performed in large or
specialty labs having the appropriate equipment.
A need exists for other methods for determining the levels of anti-psychotic drugs,
particularly methods that can be performed in a prescribing clinician's office (where the
treatment for an individual patient can be adjusted accordingly in a much more timely
manner) and in other medical settings lacking LC or GC/MS equipment or requiring
rapid test results.
Paliperidone is:
                           N-O
                    N                  F
        N
   OH
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The subject invention provides compounds and conjugates that permit such an improved
method for determining the levels of the anti-psychotic drug paliperidone.
The invention comprises compounds of Formula I
                                               3

                                    N-N
                N
L3-L 2-L'                                        Formula I
wherein
L' is OC(O)(CH 2). or O(CH2)n;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                 .ys ,r-\         0
                    ' N\----/NE
L2 is NHC(O), 0                      or absent;
                                0
L3 is (CH 2 )C0  2 H, or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3; provided that m may only be 0 if L2 is absent.
The invention comprises conjugates of compounds of the invention with immnunogenic
carriers such as proteins, and products produced by the process of contacting the
compounds of the invention with immunogenic carriers.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Figs. 1 and 2 show Competitive ELISA results generated with hybridoma 5-9;
Fig. 3 shows Competitive ELISA results generated with risperidone/paliperidone clone
2A5;
Fig. 4 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow assay device;
and
Fig. 5 shows a typical dose response curve generated with risperidone/paliperidone clone
5-9.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                                                4

The subject invention provides compounds and conjugates that permit the determination
of levels of anti-psychotic drugs. Such methods will permit clinicians to evaluate
objectively at an appointment how likely it is that the worsening of a patient's symptoms
may be due to lack of adherence. Alternatively, if compliant, a clinician can consider a
different treatment choice. Therapeutic drug monitoring, which is enabled by such
methods, is key in identifying the most effective treatment options. Moreover, clinicians
believe that such TDM will help them to move into a very different relationship with
their patients., i.e., to move from a hypothetical discussion on treatment non-adherence
towards a more collaborative one by engaging patients to actively take ownership in
optimizing their treatment regimen.
The development of the method requires first the synthesis of several immunogens,
comprising a synthetic hapten linked to a protein. A hapten is a small molecule that can
elicit an immune response when attached to a large carrier such as a protein. They are
protein-free substances, of mostly low molecular weight, which are not capable of
stimulating antibody formation alone, but which do react with antibodies. A hapten
protein conjugate is able to stimulate the production of antibodies. Specific antibody
generation against small molecules is useful for immunoassay development (Pharm Res.
1992, 9(11):1375-9, Annali Dell'Istituto Superiore di Sanita. 1991, 27(1):167-74, Annali
Dell'Istituto Superiore di Sanita. 1991, 27(1i):149-54, linuinology Letters.1991,
28(1):79-83),
The invention comprises compounds of Formula I
                                    N'-O
                 0F
             N               N/                F
                  N
 L3-L 2-L'                                       Formula I
wherein
Li is OC(O)(CH 2)1 , or O(CH 2);

wherein n is 2, or 3;
                       / -- \     0
                      N      N4P
           (0\
L is NHC(O),           ,     N      or absent;
                                0
L- is (CH 2)mCO 2 H, or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, 2., or 3; provided that in may only be 0 if L' is absent.
In another embodiment of the invention:
L! is OC(O)(CH2)a, or O(CH2)n;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                      4/~~~\ N
L2 is NHC(O)., 0         --         or absent;
L is (CH)mCO2H, or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, or 2; provided that m may only be 0 if L2 is absent.
Another embodiment of the invention is a compound of Formula I which is:
                                                   N-O
                                  N                            F
               OH                 N
 0           0           0                                       ; or
                                                   N-O
                                  o
                                                               F
                               N            N                  F
            N H N           O
 0           0
                                               6

Another embodiment of the invention is a compound of Formula I which is:
                                        N-O
                      0
                                 N'               F
                      NN
    O                 N
   HOO        0
                                              N-O
                             0
                                     N               F
                          N
                            NN
    O                        N
               HO                                      : or
                                             0
                                                    N          '     F
                                          N
                          0                  N
    O                 N
  HOO
            0
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein
U is OC(O)(CH2), or O(CH2),;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                      N       NE
L is NIC(O),            \-/      , or absent;
L is (CH2)mC02H, or 0

wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3; provided that m may only be 0 if L2 is absent; and an
immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein
LI is OC(O)(CH2 ), or O(CH2)n;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                           \N    0
                      N
L2 is NHC(O), 0                    or absent;
                               0
L is (CH2)mCO 2H, or 6              ;
wherein m is 0, 1, or 2; provided that im may  only be 0 if 1.2 is absent; and an
immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein
L! is OC(0)(CH2), or O(CH2)n;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                                 0
                     -N     N-
L 2 is NH-C(O), 0                  or -absent;
                             N
U is (CI2)mCO 2 HJ, or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3; provided that in may only be 0 if L2 is absent; and a protein.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein
L is OC(0)(CH),       or O(CH)n
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                                              8

                 f-N         N
L is NHC(O), 0                       or absent;
                                0
L is (CH2)mCO 2 H, or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, or 2; provided that m may only be 0 if L2 is absent; and a protein.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
wherein
L! is OC(O)(CH2A, or O(CH2)n;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                      -    \ N-0
L is NHC(O), 0             -4,       or absent;
L is (CHJ2)mCO 2 HJ, or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3; provided that in may only be 0 if L is absent; and a protein
wherein the protein is keyhole limpet hemoevanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected from the
group consisting of
                                                  N--O
                                                              F
                                  NN
            0                  N            N
    I          H                  N
 00                     0                                       and
                                                9

                                               N-O
                            0
                                            la              F
                          N            N
    / N-       N       ON
     0       O
and an immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected from the
group consisting of
                                               N-0
                            O                             'F
                                       N
        0
               H            N
      N        N       0
 0           0      0                                         and
                                               N-O
                                                            F
                                        NN
        0N
 /             H            N
               N       O0
   / N
 0           O
and a protein.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected from the
group consisting of
                                          10

                                        0
                                    N-
                   NF
                N             N
              0
                        NN
    OF
                                          HO
                                            if
                         0
                      N                              F
                                                    N.
                      N
HO aand
                                                               0
                                                            N-
                                          0
                                                                       FI
         O
                      0                   N
       0N
           0
and an imm~unogeni c carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound, selected from the
   ONconsisting of
group
   HOO
                   0                            F
        0         N
              0
HOJ''-
           0

                                           N-O
                         N        N                   F~
                        N
HO                                                      ; and
                                                              N-O
                                           N
                            0            N
                O     N                             N               ''F
       O           N
H0
             0
and a protein.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected from the
group consisting of
                                    N-N
                                                F
                    N
    0         C
HO'k             O
               0
                                           N'0
                          0
                        O         N                   F
    0                     N
HO'                                                     ; and
                                           12

                                                             N- 0
                                            o
                                                                      NF
                                          N            N
     o              N
    HO         N
    HOO
             0
and a protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin,
or ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a conjugate of a compound selected from the
group consisting of
                                                  N'
                               0                  ''
                                          N                '
                        Cr'N
       O
       /       H               N
 O           0         0                                     ;and
                                                  N'N
               O         O
         0      H              N
 O           0
and a protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin,
or ovalbumin.
The invention also provides products formed from the process of contacting the above
compounds with an immunogenic carrier.
                                             13

Another embodiment of the invention is thus a product made by the process of contacting
a Compound of formula I
                                      N-  0
                                       N  -s
                N                                  F
                  N
      L2   L' ---                                    Formula I
wherein:
L1 is OC(O)(CH 2). or O(CH2 );
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                          /--       0
                      -N       N-<
L isNHC(0), 0                         , or absent;
L3 is (CH 2 )mCO   2 H,  or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3; provided that n may only be 0 if L2 is absent; with an
immunogenic carrier.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product nade by the above process of
contacting a Compound of formula I
wherein:
L' is OC(O)(CH2)7      , or 0(C-I 2);
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                    tN         N
L' is NHC(0), 0                         or absent;
L' is (CH2 )miCO   2 H,  or 0
wherein m is 0, 1, or 2; provided that m may only be 0 if L 2 is absent; with a protein.
                                                   14

Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
Compound of formula I
wherein:
LI is OC(O)(CH2)a, or O(CH2)n;
wherein n is 2, or 3;
                                O
                      N     N
L is NHC(O),                      , or absent;
                              0
L is (CH2)m3 CO 2H, or               ;
wherein m is 0, 1, or 2; provided that mn may only be 0 if L2 is absent; with a protein
wherein the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
                                                                        N--O
                                                   0
                                                         ..--  N                   F
                                                   NO
                          N          NN
compound which is O0                         0                                       with a
protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or
ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
                                                                        N- 0
                                                    ND                             F
                                     0                         N
                            O        H             N
                          NN
compound which is 0               0                                                  with a
                                               15

protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or
ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
                                                              N-N
                                            0NN                           F
                      /     0N
compound which is 0                   0                                     with a
protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or
ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
                                                                    N-O
                                                    0
                                                            N                   F
                                               0  t
                          N
compound which is 0                                                               with a
protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or
ovalbumin.
Another embodiment of the invention is a product made by the process of contacting a
compound which is
                                             16

                                                                     N-O,
                                                   0
                                                                              -F
                                                    N-N
                                               N              N
                O         N
                          O
          0            N
 o               0                                                               with a
protein, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, or
ovalbumin.
ABBREVIATIONS
Herein and throughout the application, the following abbreviations may be used.
AMAS                                         N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester
Boc or BOC                                   tert-butoxycarbonyl
BTG                                          bovine thyroglobuilin
Bu 3N                                        tributylamine
DIEA                                         diisopropylethylamine
DCC                                          dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
DMF                                          N,N-dimethyformamide
KLH                                          keyhole limpet hemocyanin
SATA                                         N-succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate
THF                                          tetrahydrofuran
TFA                                          trifluoroacetic acid
18-Cr-6                                       18-Crown-6
Et3N                                         triethylamine
TB DMS                                       t-butyldimethylsilyl
DIC                                          diisopropylearbodiiniide
DMAP                                         N,N-dimethyl-4-aminopyridine
EDC                                           I -ethyl- 3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)
                                             carbodiimidehydrochloride
N IS                                         N-hydroxysuccinimide
                                            17

TFP                                            Tetrafluorophenyl
PNP                                            p-nitrophenyl
TBTU                                           O-(Benzotriazol- 1-yl)-N.N,N',N'
                                               tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate
HOBT                                           N-Hydroxybenzotriazole
DEPBT                                          3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy -1,'
                                               benzotrazi- 4(3H)-one
BOP-Cl                                         Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic
                                               chloride
DTT                                            dithioerythritol
DEFINITIONS
The term "conjugate" refers to any substance formed from the joining together of separate
parts. Representative conjugates in accordance with the present invention include those
formed by the joining together of a small molecule, such as the compounds of Formula I,
and a large molecule, such as a carrier or a polyamine polymer, particularly a protein. In
the conjugate the small molecule maybe joined at one or more active sites on the large
molecule.
The term "hapten" refers to a partial or incomplete antigen. A hapten is a protein-free
substance, which is not capable of stimulating antibody formation, but which does react
with antibodies. The antibodies are formed by coupling a hapten to a high molecular
weight immunogenic carrier, and then injecting this coupled product, i.e., an immunogen,
into a human or animal subject.
The term "immunogen" refers to a substance capable of eliciting, producing, or
generating an immune response in an organism.
An "immunogenic carrier," as used herein, is an immunogenic substance, connonly a
protein, that can join at one or more positions with haptens, thereby enabling the
production of antibodies that can bind specifically with these haptens. Examples of
                                              18

immunogenic carrier substances include, but are not limited to, proteins, glycoproteins,
complex polyamino-polysaceharides, particles, and nucleic acids that are recognized as
foreign and thereby elicit an inununologic response from the host. The polyamino
polysaccharides may be prepared from polysaccharides using any of the conventional
means known for this preparation.
Various protein types may be employed as immunogenic carriers, including without
limitation., albumins, serum proteins, lipoproteins, etc. Illustrative proteins include bovine
serum albumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, egg ovalbumin, bovine thyroglobulin,
fraction V human serum albumin, rabbit albumin, pumpkin seed globulin, diphtheria
toxoid, tetanus toxoid, botilinus toxin, succinylated proteins, and synthetic
poly(aminoacids) such as polylysine.
Immunogenic carriers can also include poly amino-polysaccharides, which are a high
molecular weight polymer built tip by repeated condensations of monosaccharides.
Examples of polysaccharides are starches, glycogen, cellulose, carbohydrate gums such
as gum arabic, agar, and so forth. The polysaccharide also contains poly(amino acid)
residues and/or lipid residues.
The immunogenic carrier can also be a poly(nucleic acid) either alone or conjugated to
one of the above mentioned poly(amino acids) or polysaccharides.
The immunogenic carrier can also include solid particles. The particles are generally at
least about 0.02 microns (pm) and not more than about 100 pm, and usually about 0.05
pum to 10 pm in diameter. The particle can be organic or inorganic, swellable or non
swellable, porous or non-porous, optimally of a density approximating water, generally
from about 0.7 to 1.5 g/mL, and composed of material that can be transparent, partially
transparent, or opaque. The particles can be biological materials such as cells and
microorganisms, including non-limiting examples such as erythrocytes, leukocytes,
lymphocytes, hybridomas, Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli, and viruses.
                                              19

The particles can also be comprised of organic and inorganic polymers, liposomes, latex,
phospholipid vesicles, or lipoproteins.
The term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound or molecule made from a parent
compound by one or more chemical reactions.
The term "analogue" of a chemical compound refers to a chemical compound that
contains a chain of carbon atoms and the same particular functional groups as a reference
compound, but the carbon chain of the analogue is longer or shorter than that of the
reference compound.
A "label," "detector molecule," or "reporter" is any molecule which produces, or can be
induced to produce, a detectable signal. The label can be conjugated to an analyte,
immunogen, antibody, or to another molecule such as a receptor or a molecule that can
bind to a receptor such as a ligand, particularly a hapten or antibody. Non-limiting
examples of labels include radioactive isotopes (e.g., 1251), enzymes (e.g.,  p
galactosidase, peroxidase), enzyme fragments, enzyme substrates, enzyme inhibitors,
coenzymes, catalysts, fluorophores (e.g., rhodamine, fluorescein isothiocyanate or FITC,
or Dylight 649), dyes, chemiluminescers and luminescers (e.g., dioxetanes, luciferin), or
sensitizers.
As used herein, a "spacer" refers to a portion of a chemical structure which connects two
or more substructures such as haptens, carriers, immunogens, labels or binding partners
through a functional linking group. These spacer groups are composed of the atoms
typically present and assembled in ways typically found in organic compounds and so
may be referred to as "organic spacing groups". The chemical building blocks used to
assemble the spacers will be described hereinafter in this application. Among the
preferred spacers are straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated carbon chains. These
carbon chains may also include one or more heteroatoms within the chain, one or more
heteroatoms replacing one or more hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at the
termini of the chains. By "heteroatoms" is meant atoms other than carbon which are
chosen from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur, wherein
                                              20

the nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur atoms may exist in any oxidation state and may
have carbon or other heteroatoms bonded to them. The spacer may also include cyclic or
aromatic groups as part of the chain or as a substitution on one of the atoms in the chain.
The number of atoms in the spacing group is determined by counting the atoms other
than hydrogen. The number of atoms in a chain within a spacing group is determined by
counting the number of atoms other than hydrogen along the shortest route between the
substructures being connected. Preferred chain lengths are between I to 20 atoms.
A "functional linking group" refers to a reactive group that is present on a hapten and
may be used to provide an available reactive site through which the hapten portion may
be coupled to another moiety through formation of a covalent chemical bond to produce a
conjugate of a hapten with another moiety (such as a label or carrier). The hapten may be
linked in this way to a moiety such as biotin to form a competitive binding partner for the
hapten.
Spacer groups may be used to link the hapten to the carrier. Spacers of different lengths
allow one to attach the hapten with differing distances from the carrier for presentation to
the immune system of the animal or human being immunized for optimization of the
antibody formation process. Attachment to different positions in the hapten molecule
allows the opportunity to present specific sites on the hapten to the immune system to
influence antibody recognition. The spacer may contain hydrophilic solubilizing groups
to make the hapten derivative more soluble in aqueous media. Examples of hydrophilic
solubilizing groups include but are not limited to polyoxyalkyloxy groups, for example,
polyethylene glycol chains; hydroxyl, carboxylate and sulfonate groups.
The term "nucleophilic group" or "nucleophile" refers to a species that donates an
electron-pair to form a chemical bond in a reaction. The term "electrophilic group" or
"electrophile" refers to a species that accepts an electron-pair from a nucleophile to form
a chemical bond in a reaction.
                                              21

The term "substituted" refers to substitution of an atom or group of atoms in place of a
hydrogen atom on a carbon atom in any position on the parent molecule. Non limiting
examples of substituents include halogen atoms, amino, hydroxy, carboxy, alkyl, aryl,
heteroalkyl, heteroaryl, cyano, alkoxy, nitro, aldehyde and ketone groups.
The term alkyll" refers to both linear and branched chain radicals of up to 12 carbon
atoms, unless otherwise indicated, and is specifically intended to include radicals having
any egrece or level of saturation. Alkyl includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl,
propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, pentvi, isopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl,
heptyl, octyl, 2,2,4-trimethylpentyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl and dodecyl.
The term "alkenvl" refers to an alkyl group of up to 12 carbon atoms that contains at least
one unsaturation; examples include, but are not limited to vinyl and allyl.
The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic
hydrocarbon ring radical composed of from 3 to 10 carbon atoms. Alkyl substituents
may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include cyclopropyl, 1,1 -dimethyl
cyclobutyl,. 1,2 ,3-trimethlcyclopentyl, cyclohexyl and cyclohexenyl.
The term "heteroatom" refers to a nitrogen atom, an oxygen atom, a phosphorous atom or
a sulfur atom wherein the nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur atoms can exist in any
allowed oxidation states.
The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group that includes one or more heteroatoms
within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more hydrogens of any
carbon atom in the chain, or at termini of the chains.
The term "heterocyclyl" refers to a nonaromatic (i.e. saturated or partially unsaturated)
ring composed of from 3 to 7 carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom selected from N.
o or S.  Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include
tetrahydrofuryl, dihydropyranyl, piperidyl, 2,5-dimethypiperidyl, morpholinyl,
                                              22

piperazinyl, thiomorpholinyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, pyrazolinyl,
imidazolidinyl and imidazolinyl.
The term "hydroxyalkyl" refers to at least one hydroxyl group bonded to any carbon atom
along an alkyl chain.
The term "aminoalkyl" refers to at least one primary or secondary amino group bonded to
any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to at least one alkoxy group bonded to any carbon atom
along an alkyl chain.
The term "polyalkoxyalkyl" refers to long-chain alkoxy compounds and includes
polyethylene glycols of discreet or monodispersed sizes.
The term "thioalkyl" refers to at least one sulfur group bonded to any carbon atom along
an alkyl chain. The sulfur group may be at any oxidation state and includes sulfoxides,
sulfones and sulfates.
The term "carboxyalkyl" refers to at least one carboxylate group bonded to any carbon
atom along an alkyl chain. The term "carboxylate group" includes carboxylic acids and
alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or aralkyl carboxylate esters.
The term "alkylcarbonyl" refers to a group that has a carbonyl group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
The term "heteroarvi" refers to 5- to 7-membered mono- or 8- to I0-membered bicyclic
aromatic ring radicals, any ring of which may consist of from one to four heteroatoms
selected from N, 0 or S where the nitrogen and sulfur atoms can exist in any allowed
oxidation state. Examples include benzimidazolyi, benzothiazolyl, benzothienyl,
                                              23

benzoxazolyl, furyl, imidazolyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl,
pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, quinolinyl, thiazolyl and thienyl.
The term "heteroaralkyl" refers to a C1_6 alkyl group having a heteroaryl substituent.
Examples include furylethyl and 2-quinolinylpropyl.
The term "alkoxy" refers to straight or branched chain radicals of up to 12 carbon atoms,
unless otherwise indicated, bonded to an oxygen atom. Examples include methoxy,
ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.
The term "aryl" refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring radicals containing from 6
to 12 carbons in the ring. Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring.
Examples include phenyl, biphenyl and napththalene.
The term "aralkyl" refers to a C1 6 alky] group containing an aryl substituent. Examples
include benzyl, phenylethyl or 2-naphthylmethyl.
The term "heteroaralkyl" refers to a C1 .6 alkyl group containing a heteroaryl substituent.
Examples include furylimethyl and pyridylpropyl.
The term "aryloxy" refers to an oxygen atom bound to an aryl substituent. Examples
include phenoxy and benzyloxy.
The term "arylalkoxy'" refers to an alkoxy group bound to an aryl substituent. Examples
include phenylmethyl ether.
The term "acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R, where K is alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl
and heteroaralkyl. An "acylating agent" adds the ---C(O)R group to a molecule.
                                              24

The term "sulfonyl" refers to the group -S(O)2a,     where K, is hydrogen, alkyl,
cycloalkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl and heteroaralkyl. A "suifonylating agent"
adds the -S(0)21R group to a molecule.
Spacers bearing reactive functional linking groups for the attachment of haptens to carrier
moieties may be prepared by a wide variety of methods. The spacer may be formed using
a molecule that is differentially functionalized or activated with groups at either end to
allow selective sequential reaction with the hapten and the carrier, but the same reactive
moiety may also be used at both ends. The groups selected for reaction with the hapten
and the functional linking group to be bound to the carrier are determined by the type of
functionality on the hapten and the carrier that the happen is to be bonded with. Spacers
and methods of attachment to haptens and carriers include but are not limited to those
described by Brinkley, M., A., Bioconjugale Chem. 1992, 3:2-13, Hermanson, Greg T.,
Bioconjugate Techniques,.Academic Press, London, Amsterdam, Burlington, MA, USA,
2008 and Thermo Scientific Pierce Crosslinking Technical Handbook: available for
download or hard copy request from Therino Scientific 3747 N Meridian Rd, Rockford,
IL USA 61101, ph 800-874-3723 or at: http://www.piercenet.com/ and references
within. Many differentially activated molecules for formation of spacer groups are
conmnercially available from vendors, for example Therino Scientific.
For haptens bearing an amino group, modes of attachment of the spacer to the hapten
include reaction of the amine on the hapten with a spacer building block bearing an acyl
halide or active ester. "Active esters" are defined as esters that undergo reaction with a
nucleophilic group, for example an amino group, under mild conditions to form a stable
linkage. A stable linkage is defined as one that remains intact under conditions of further
use, for example subsequent synthetic steps, use as an immunogen, or in a biochemical
assay. A preferred example of a stable linkage is an amide bond. Active esters and
methods of formation are described by Benoiton, N.L., in Houben-Weyl, Methods of
Organic Chemistry, Thieme Stuttgart, New York, vol E22 section 3.2:443 and Benoiton,
N.L., Chemistry ofPeptide Synthesis, 'Taylor and Francis, NY, 2006. Preferred active
esters include p-nitrophenyl ester (PNP), N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS) and
                                              25

tetrafluorophenyl ester (TFP). Acyl halides may be prepared by many methods known to
one skilled in the art for example, reaction of the carboxylic acid with thionyl chloride or
oxalyl chloride, see: Fieser, L.F. and Fieser, M. Reagents for OrganicSynthesis, John
Wiley and Sons, NY, 1967 and references within. These may be converted to other active
esters such as p-nitrophenyl esters (PNP) which may also be used in active bi-ftmetional
spacers as described by Wu etal, OrganicLetters, 2004 ,6 (24):4407. N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters may be prepared by reaction of N,N-disuccinimidyl
carbonate (CAS 74124-79-1) with the carboxylic acid of a compound in the presence of
an organic base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent
under anhydrous conditions as described in example 35 of W02012012595 or by using
N-hydroxysuccinimide and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) or other dehydrating agent,
under anhydrous conditions. Tetrafluorophenyl esters (TFP) may be prepared by reaction
of carboxylic acids wih 2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenylitrifluoroacetate in the presence of an
organic base such as triethylanine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent under
anhydrous conditions as reported by Wilbur, et.al, Bioconjugate Chei., 2004,15(1):203.
One skilled in the art will recognize that spacers shown in Table I, among others, can be
obtained using known methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine
optimization of reaction conditions. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a
thiol group on a carrier,
Table I
   O       0                                      0
                         0                                       H
      N-O                                            NO          N
                       O     tti~L                    00Br
    O                                           0          0
              0             H
    0
       NO          0      ^N       ''N 0            0 -O0
                                        o     26         o
                                              26

                          0                     0                  NH
                                                    NOONN
      N-0
                            0                         0
            00
       0O0
                0                                                   0
      NOC O                                         O
          I\   nN)Nl
           0~                                         0
    0                       0P                    0
                          O                                   N  0
     N-0                                      areN
                          0
      N-0                         ScReasonablie           values for niand n
    0
       YH   0                      N
                                             are bieween 1 and 10
                                    0
Direct coupling of the amine on the hapten an I a carboxy lie acid functionality on the
spacer building block in the presence of a coupling agent may also be used as a mode of
attachment. Preferred reagents are those typically used in peptide synthesis. Peptide
coupling reagents include but are not limited to 0-(Benzotriazol- 1-yl)-NNN',N'
tetramethyluronium tetrafluoro borate (TBTU, CAS #125700-67-6), see: Pruhs, S., Org.
Process. Res. Dev. 2006, 10:441; N-Hydroxybcnzotriazole (HOBT, CAS #2592-95-2)
with a carbodiimide dehydrating agent, for example N-N-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
(DCC), diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC), or I -ethyl-3(3
dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimidehydrochloride (EDC), see: Kbnig W., Geiger, R.
Chem. Ber., 1970, 103 (3):788 ; 3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)- 1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one
(DEPBT, CAS#165534-43-0), see: Liu, H. et.al., Chinese Chemical Letters, 2002,
13(7):601; Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic chloride; (BOP-Cl, CAS# 68641-49-6),
 see: Diago-Meseguer, J et.al. Synthesis, 1980, 7:547-51 and others described in detail by
Benoiton in Chenistry of Peptide Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2005, Chapter
                                            27

2, and the technical bulletin provided by Advanced Automated Peptide Protein
Technologies (aapptec), 6309 Shepardsville Rd., Louisville KY 40228, ph 888 692 9111;
ww.aapptec.com.       and references within. These methods create a stable amide linkage
attaching the hapten to the spacer. Examples of spacers that can be obtained using known
methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine optimization of reaction
conditions employing the methods described and cited above are shown, but not limited
to those in Table 2. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a thiol group on a
carrier.
Table 2
    o                                                               0
     N       C0 2 H                 N--I                             N
                                              CH                          e-/ICO2H
    o                              0                                C)
reasonable range for n is
between 1-10
Spacers may also be constructed in a step-wise fashion by sequential attachment of
appropriate chemical groups to the hapten including the step of forming the functional
linking group that is capable of binding to the carrier. See illustrative examples under
General Reaction Schemes.
Additionally, when the hapten has a nucleophilic group, for example a thiol group, an
amino group or a hydroxyl group which will become the point of attachment of the
spacer., the spacer may also be constructed by alkylation of the thiol, amine or hydroxyl
group. Any alkyl group that is appropriately substituted with a moiety capable of
undergoing a substitution reaction, for example, an alkyl halide, or sulfonic acid ester
such as p-Toluenesulfonate, may be used to attach the spacer. Many examples of
alkvlation reactions are known to one skilled in the art and specific examples may be
found in the general chemical literature and optimized through routine experimentation.
A discussion of alkylation reactions with many references can be found in Chapter 10 of
March's A advanced Organic Chemistry, Smith, M.B., and March, J., John Wiley & sons,
                                             28

Inc. NY, 2001. Other linkages may also be employed such as reaction of the nucleophilic
moiety, for example an amine, on the hapten with an isocyanate to form a urea or
reaction with an isothiocyanate to form a thiourea linkage, see: Li, Z., et.aL., PhosAphorus,
Sulfir and Silicon and the Related Elements,.    2003, 1.78(2):293-297. Spacers may be
attached to haptens bearing hydroxyl groups via reaction with isocyanate groups to form
carbamate or urethane linkages. The spacer may be differentially activated with the
isocvanate functional group on one end and a functional linking group capable of reacting
with the carrier, see: Annunziato, M.E., Patel, U.S., Ranade, M. and Palumbo, P.S ,
Bioconjugate Chem., 1993, 4:212-218.
For happens bearing a carboxylic acid group, modes of attachment of a spacer portion to
the hapten include activation of the carboxylic acid group as an acyl halide or active
ester, examples of which are shown in Table 3, preparation of which are described
previously, followed by reaction with an amino (-NH 2 -), hydrazino (-NH-Nit-),
hydrazido (-C(O)-NH-NH 2 -) or hydroxyl group (-OH) on the spacer portion to form an
amide, hydrazide, diacylhydrazine or ester linkage, or direct coupling of the carboxylic
acid group with an amino group on the spacer portion or directly on the carrier with a
peptide coupling reagent and/or carbodiimide dehydrating reagent, described previously,
examples of which are shown in Tables 4 and 5. Procedures found in references cited
previously for formation of activated esters and use of peptide coupling agents may be
employed for atta1chmet of carboxylic acid-bearing haptens to spacer building blocks
and protein carriers with available amino groups utilizing routine optimization of reaction
conditions.
Table 3
              0                0                     0                                   NO2
  Na0S                                             0       -     CO2X       0
               N-OC-            N-O -         F          F
                 \                                           X=CI, Br
              O        00      0              F ~-       Fo
                                              F          F Acyl          PNP
Sulfo NHS and NHS                             T              chloride
                                              TFP
                                               29

Table 4
           N                0                      0        0                N        E
                                                          N     O,-N               BF4
                                ~N~P        ~         N-P-N    0      ~      N
                                   I   EN                                         N(CH3) 2
           OH                N                                               0
HOBT                 DEPT                       BOP-CI2                           N(CHI
                                                                     TBTU
Table
       NCN                              NON                               NC1*
diisopropylearbodiimide        Dicyclohexvlcarbodiimide      -    NON           1-ethyl
(DIC)                          (DCC)                         3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)
                                                             carbodiimide.ICI (EDC)
Other electrophilic groups may be present on the hapten to attach the spacer, for example,
a sulfonyl halide
    0
 -S-CI
    II
or electrophilic phosphorous group, for example:
    0
 J-P-C1
    ORo
See: Malachowski, William P., Coward, James K., Journalof Organic Chemistry. 1994,
59 (25):7616
or:
    O
  -P-ORe
    OR,
Rc is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyl.
See: Aliouane, L., et.al, Tetrahedron Letters, 2011, 52(28):8681.
                                               30

Haptens that bear aldchyde or ketone groups may be attached to spacers using methods
including but not limited to reaction with a hydrazide group H2 N-NH-C(O)- on the spacer
to form an acylhydrazone, see: Chamow, S.M., Kogan, T.P.., Peers, D.H., Hastings, R.C.,
Byrn, R.A. and Askenaszi, A., J. Biol. Chem., 1992, 267(22): 15916. Examples of
bifunctional hydrazide spacer groups that allow attachment to a thiol group on the carrier
are shown in Table 6.
Table 6
         OY               NHNH,
                                                   IN
                                                      0        NHNH 2
    0
Haptens may also contain thiol groups which may be reacted with the carrier provided
that the carrier has been modified to provide a group that may react with the thiol. Carrier
groups may be modified by methods including but not limited to attachment of a group
containing a maleimide functional group by reaction of an amino group on the carrier
with N-Succinimidvi maleimidoacetate., (AMAS, CASH 55750-61-3), Succinimidyl
iodoacetate (CAS# 151199-81-4), or any of the bifunctional spacer groups shown in
Table I to introduce a group which may undergo a reaction resulting in attachment of the
hapten to the carrier.
The functional linking group capable of forming a bond with the carrier may be any
group capable of forming a stable linkage and may be reactive to a number of different
groups on the carrier. The functional linking group may preferably react with an amino
group, a carboxylic acid group or a thiol group on the carrier, or derivative thereof. Non
limiting examples of the functional linking group are a carboxylic acid group, acyl halide,
active ester (as defined previously), isocyanate, isothiocyanate, alkyl halide, amino
group, thiol group, maleimide group, acrylate group (H2C=CH-C(O)-) or vinyl sulfone
group H2 C=CH-S0 2 -) See: Park, J.W., et.al., Bioconjugate Chem. 2012, 23(3): 350. The
functional linking group may be present as part of a differentially activated spacer
                                             31

building block that may be reacted stepwise with the hapten and the resulting hapten
derivative may then be reacted with the carrier. Alternatively, the hapten may be
derivatized with a spacer that bears a precursor group that may be transformed into the
functional linking group by a subsequent reaction. When the functional linking group on
the spacer is an amine or a carboxylic acid group, the coupling reaction with the
carboxylic acid group or amine on the carrier may be carried out directly through the use
of peptide coupling reagents according to procedures in the references cited above for
these reagents.
Particular disulfide groups, for example, pyridyldisulfides, may be used as the functional
linking group on the spacer which may undergo exchange with a thiol group on the
carrier to from a mixed disulfide linkage, see: Ghetie, V., et al., Bioconjugate Chei.m.
1990, 1:24-31 . These spacers may be attached by reaction of the amine-bearing hapten
with an active ester which is attached to a spacer bearing the pyridyidisulfide group,
examples of which include but are not limited to those shown in Table 7.
Table 7
                                           S      N                          S    N
                                        SN
                      1                                   N'O
  Na-O 3 S      N          NH
                                00
                              0                        0                       A
     N                     H                 INN                               N
                   0'                                           0
Most often the carrier is a protein and the c-amino groups of the lysine residues may be
used for attachment, either directly by reaction with an amine-reactive functional linking
group or after derivitization with a thiol-containing group, including N-Succinimidyl S
Acetylthioacetate, (SATA, CAS 76931-93-6), or an analogue thereof, followed by
cleavage of the actetate group with hydroxylamine to expose the thiol group for reaction
                                               32

with the functional linking group on the hapten. Thiol groups may also be introduced into
the carrier by reduction of disulfide bonds within protein carriers with mild reducing
reagents including but not limited to 2-mercaptoethylamine, see: Bilah, M., et.al.,
Bioelectrochemistry, 2010, 80(1):49, phosphine reagents, see: Kirley, T.L., Analytical
Biochemistry. 1989, 180(2):231 or dithioerythritol (DTT, CAS 3483-12-3) Cleland,
W.,Biochem istry, 1964, 3:480-482.
GENERAL REACTION SCHEMES
Representative compounds of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance
with the general synthetic methods described below. Compounds of Formula (I) can be
prepared by methods known to those who are skilled in the art. The following reaction
schemes are only meant to represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant
to be a limit of the invention.
Scheme I
 Paliperidone               N-O                    0
         O          N                  F               n
      N
          N
   OH                                   N'0
                      0
                    r'N
  HO             O
       O      Ol
       06
Compounds of Formula I where L is OC(O)(CH2), L2 is absent, and L3 is CO2           may be
made according to Scheme 1. Reaction of the hapten paliperidone proceeds with a cyclic
anhydride compound, such as succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride, in a solvent such
as pyridine, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 60 'C, for about 48 hours.
Scheme 2
                                             33

                                                             0
                                                       H
 Paliperidone                                                   O
                                            1.I
                                               S       N            ,OHDCC
                           N-O
                                           2. TFA
                                     0
                           NN
          N                                   ./H
                   N;N
   OH
                                                DIEA, diethyl cyanophosphonate
                                                  N- 0
                                        N
                                N
      O     0 0              NO
         O             0
Compounds of Formula I where L is OC(0)(CH2)4,         L 2 is NI-IC(O), and L3 is
       0
 O            may be made according to Scheme 2. Condensation of a suitable boc
protected amino acid, such as glycine, with paliperidone is accomplished using a
dehydrating agent such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The reaction is carried out in an
aprotic solvent, such as dichloromethane, at room temperature, using a base such as NN
dimethyl-4-pyridinamine. Deprotection of the amine group proceeds with trifluoroacetic
acid, flowed by subsequent addition of the maleimide functionality. The maleimide may
be introduced by any method known in the art. For example, reaction with N-maleoyl
substituted alkyl amino acid (as shown in scheme 2) in a solvent such as
dichlorormethane and coupling reagents such as diisopropylethylamine and diethyl
cyanophosphonate gives the maleimide functionalized linker on the happen.
Alternatively, other maleimide functionalizing groups such as 2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-] -yl 2
(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-I H-pyrrol-1-vl)acetate may be used in a solvent such as DMF and
a base, such as tributylamine.
                                            34

The procedures of Scheme 2 may also be used for compounds of Formula I where L' is
O(CH 2).    Paliperidone is instead reacted with an appropriate boc-protected amino alkyl
bromide (such as boc-aminopropyl bromide), 18-Crown-6, and sodium hydride, in a
solvent such as THF, at about room temperature, for about 6 hours. Subsequent removal
of the boc protecting group and installation of the maleimide functionality proceeds as
described in Scheme 2.
Scheme 3
 Paliperidone
                            N'/
      N             N
                                             18-Cr-6. NaH
          N
   OH
                                           N- 0
                                  NF
                      N
  HO              o
              m n
      0
Compounds of Formula I where L' is O(CH2_), L2 is absent, and L3 is (CH2)mCO 2H may
be made according to Scheme 3. Paliperidone is reacted with a CO2H substituted alkyl
bromide in a solvent, such as THF, in the presence of 18-Crown-6 and sodium hydride,
for about I8h.
Scheme 4
                                               35

                                    N                       f-  N      NH
                                     /I             1.     O
                  0
                                                F   DIEA, diethyl cyanophosphonate
                                                    2, TFA
        0         N
   HO
                                                    3-             rn    DIEA
                                                  N'-O
                                 0
                                                              F
                                          NC
                              NI
                            NN
                     0     0
      0   0                                                                           Corn
                                                                  O
                                                   I-N       N4
pounds of Formula I where L is O(CH 2) 1, L 2 is 0                  , and L is
(01 2)mC0 2H   may be made according to Scheme 4. Paliperidone functionalized with a
linker and (O2H, prepared as described in scheme 3, is treated with N+
butoxycarbonylpiperazine, diethyl cyanophosphonate, and a base, such as
diisopropylethylamine. The reaction is carried out in dichloromethane, for about 2 hours
at room temperature. Deprotection of the piperazinyl group is accomplished with
trifluoroacetic anhydride as described in Scheme 2, followed by reaction with an
appropriate anhydride, such as succinic anhydride or maleic anhydride, in the presence of
a suitable base such as diisopropylethylamine. Alternatively, one skilled in the art will
recognize that the deprotected piperazinyl group may be elaborated with a maleimide
functionality, as described in Scheme 2.
Scheme 5
                                             36

                                 r--f     0
                                     ?-NO     S YCH3                          O
       PROTEIN-NH2                               O             PROTEIN-N          SH
                                                                           H
                             2.    H2 N-OH
                                            N-O
                                     NO                 F
                     L20
        0
                 L~ON            N-LL
                                              0                              -F
                                                          ND
       PROTEIN-NH                  0   O-
                          OS                   N
                     0~~         N KA'rn2
Maleimide functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins according to the method
shown in Scheme 5. Activation of protein lysine residues by acylation of the epsilon
nitrogen with N-succininidyl S-acetylthioacetate (SATA) followed by subsequent
hydrolysis of the S-acetyl group with hydroxylamine produces a nucleophilic sulfbydryl
group. Conjugation of the sulfhydryl activated protein with the maleimide derivatized
hapten (prepared as described in general Scheme 2) proceeds via a Michael addition
reaction. Suitable proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include keyhole
limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin.
Scheme 6:
                                            37

                                               N-0
                            0
                                        N                  F        N-OH
                           O0
                                                              DCC/DMF
             H     2_(
                            N                                   F
                                                     N-0
                                   0N            Nii
                  P TN                                            PROTEIN-NH
            HOO
          0
                                      0         N
                                    N N           D
         PROTEINN-'!        L2 ---
                                 L
                   H        m
Carboxylic acid functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins according to the
method shown in Scheme 6. Reaction with N-hydroxysuccinimide and a suitable
coupling agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and a base, such as tributyl amine, in a
solvent such as DMF, at a temperature of about 20 C, for about 18 hrs activates the
carboxylic acid with the leaving group. The activated linker and hapten may then be
conjugated to a protein in a solvent, such as a pH1 7.5 phosphate buffer, at about 20 "C, for
about 2.5 hours. Suitable proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include
keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin.
ANTIBODY PRODUCTION
The conjugates above are useful for the production of antibodies which bind the anti
psychotic drug to which they were generated (paliperidone). These antibodies can be
used in assays to detect the presence and/or amount of the anti-psychotic drug in patient
                                             38

samples. Such detection permits therapeutic drug monitoring enabling all of the benefits
thereof. Detection of levels of anti-psychotic drugs may be useful for many purposes,
including: detection in combination with the detection of other anti-psychotic drugs,
including those selected from the group consisting of risperidone, paliperidone,
quetiapine, olanzapine, and metabolites thereof, such detection permitting the
simultaneous measurement of these anti-psychotic drugs; determination of patient
adherence or compliance with prescribed therapy; use as a decision tool to determine
whether a patient should be converted from an oral anti-psychotic regimen to a long
acting injectable anti-psychotic regimen; use as a decision tool to determine if the dose
level or dosing interval of oral or injectable anti-psychotics should be increased or
decreased to ensure attainment or maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels; use as
an aid in the initiation of anti-psychotic drug therapy by providing evidence of the
attainment of minimum pK levels; use to determine bioequivalence of anti-psychotic
drug in multiple formulations or from multiple sources; use to assess the impact of
polypharnacy and potential drug-drug interactions; and use as an indication that a patient
should be excluded from or included in a clinical trial and as an aid in the subsequent
monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
Having provided the conjugates of the subject invention, which comprise the compounds
herein and an irnmunogenic carrier, antibodies can be generated, e.g., polyclonal,
monoclonal, chimeric, and humanized antibodies, that bind to the anti-psychotic drug.
Such antibodies that are particularly contemplated include monoclonal and polyclonal
antibodies as well as fragments thereof, e.g., recombinant proteins, containing the
antigen-binding domain and/or one or more complementarity determining regions of
these antibodies. Preferably, the antibody will bind to the drug and any desired
pharmacologically active metabolites. By altering the location of the attachment of an
immunogenic carrier in a drug conjugate, selectivity and cross-reactivity with metabolites
and/or related drugs can be engineered into the antibodies. For paliperidone (9
hydroxyrisperidone). cross-reactivity with risperidone or other risperidone metabolites
such as 7-hydroxyrisperidone and N-dealkyirisperidone may or may not be desirable. An
antibody that cross-reacts with risperidone and paliperidone may be desirable, which does
                                               39

not react with 7-hydroxyrisperidone or N-dealkylrisperidone, thus detecting risperidone
and its major pharmacologically active metabolite paliperidone. Alternatively, it may be
desirable to detect the pharmacologically active metabolites, risperidone and
paliperidone, separately, while still not detecting the inactive metabolites., 7
hydroxyrisperidone and N-dealkylrisperidone. Antibodies may be generated that detect
multiple ones of these drugs and/or metabolites, or antibodies may be generated that
detect each separately (thus defining the antibody "specific binding" properties). An
antibody specifically binds one or more compounds when its binding of the one or more
compounds is equimolar or substantially equimolar.
Methods of producing such antibodies comprise inoculating a host with the conjugate
(the compound and the immunogenic carrier being an immunogen) embodying features
of the present invention. Suitable hosts include, but are not limited to, mice, rats,
hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, chickens, donkeys, horses, monkeys, chimpanzees,
orangutans, gorillas, humans, and any species capable of mounting a mature immune
response. The immunization procedures are well established in the art and are set forth in
numerous treatises and publications including "The Immunoassay Handbook", 2nd
Edition, edited by David Wild (Nature Publishing Group, 2000) and the references cited
therein.
Preferably, an immunogen embodying features of the present invention is administered to
a host subject, e.g., an animal or human, in combination with an adjuvant. Suitable
adjuvants include, but are not limited to, Freund's adjuvant, powdered aluminum
hydroxide (alum), aluminum hydroxide together with Bordetella pertussis, and
monophosphoryl lipid A-synthetic trehalose dicorynomycolate (MPL-TDM).
Polyclonal antibodies can be raised in a mammalian host by one or more injections of an
immunogen which can optionally be administered together with an adjuvant. Typically,
an immunogen or a combination of an immunogen and an adjuvant is injected into a
mammalian host by one or multiple subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injections.
Preferably, the immunization program is carried out over at least one week, and more
                                              40

preferably, over two or more weeks. Polyclonal antibodies produced in this manner can
be isolated and purified utilizing methods well know in the art.
Monoclonal antibodies can be produced by the well-established hybridoma methods of
Kohler and Milstein, e.g., Nature 256:495-497 (1975). Hybridoma methods typically
involve immunizing a host or lymphocytes from a host, harvesting the monoclonal
antibody secreting or having the potential to secrete lymphocytes, fusing the lymphocytes
to immortalized cells, and selecting cells that secrete the desired monoclonal antibody.
A host can be immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing
antibodies specific for an immunogen. Alternatively, the lymphocytes can be immunized
in vitro. If human cells are desired, peripheral blood lymphocytes can be used, although
spleen cells or lymphocytes from other mnamnialian sources are preferred.
The lymphocytes can be fused with an immortalized cell line to form hybridoma cells, a
process which can be facilitated by the use of a fusing agent, e.g., polyethylene glycol.
By way of illustration, mutant rodent, bovine, or human mnyeloma cells immortalized by
transformation can be used. Substantially pure populations of hybridoma cells, as
opposed to unfused inmortalized cells, are preferred. Thus, following fusion, the cells
can be grown in a suitable medium that inhibits the growh or survival of unfused,
immortalized cells, for example, by using mutant myeloma cells that lack the enzyme
hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT). In such an instance,
hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine can be added to the medium (HAT medium)
to prevent the growth of HGPRT-deficient cells while permitting hybridomas to grow.
Preferably, immortalized cells fuse efficiently, can be isolated from mixed populations by
selection in a medium such as HAT, and support stable and high-level expression of
antibody following fusion. Preferred immortalized cell lines include myeloma cell lines
available from the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA.
                                              41

Because hybridoma cells typically secrete antibody extracellularly, the culture media can
be assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific for the anti-psychotic drug.
Immunoprecipitation of in vitro binding assays, for example, radiioimmunoassay (RIA)
or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), can be used to measure the binding
specificity of monoclonal antibodies.
Monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridoma cells can be isolated as single clones by
limiting dilution procedures and sub-cultured. Suitable culture media include, but are not
limited to, Dulbecco's Modified Eagile's Medium, RIMI-1640, and polypeptide-free,
polypeptide-reduced, or serum-free media, e.g., Ultra DOMA PF or HL-1, available from
Biowhittaker, Walkersville, MD. Alternatively, the hybridoma cells can be grown in
vivo as ascites.
Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and/or purified from a culture medium or ascites
fluid by conventional immunoglobulin (Ig) purification procedures including, but not
limited to, polypeptide A-SEPHAROSE, hydroxylapatite chromatography, gel
electrophoresis, dialysis, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and affinity chromatography.
Monoclonal antibodies can also be produced by recombinant methods such as are
described in U.S. Patent No. 4,166,452. DNA encoding monoclonal antibodies can be
isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures, e.g., using oligonucleotide probes
that specifically bind to murine heavy and light antibody chain genes, preferably to probe
DNA isolated from monoclonal antibody hybridoma cells lines secreting antibodies
specific for anti-psychotic drugs.
IMM UNOASSAYS
The antibodies thus produced can be used in immunoassays to recognize/bind to the anti
psychotic drug, thereby detecting the presence and/or amount of the drug in a patient
sample. Preferably, the assay format is a competitive immunoassay format. Such an
assay format and other assays are described, among other places, in Hampton et al.
                                            42

(Serological Methods, A Laboratory Manual, APS Press, St. Paul, MN 1990) and
Maddox et al. (J. Exp. Med. 158:12111, 1983).
A reagent kit can also be provided comprising an antibody as described above. A
representative reagent kit may comprise an antibody that binds to the anti-psychotic drug,
paliperidone, a complex comprising an analog of an anti-psychotic drug or a derivative
thereof coupled to a labeling moiety, and may optionally also comprise one or more
calibrators comprising a known amount of an anti-psychotic drug or a related standard.
As noted above, reagent kits may comprise calibrators and/or control materials which
comprise a known amount of the analyte to be measured. The concentration of the
analyze can be calculated by comparing results obtained for a sample with resulted
obtained for a standard. A calibration curve can be constructed and used for relating the
sets of results and for determining the concentration of an analyte in a sample.
Any sample that is suspected of containing an analyze, e.g., an anti-psychotic drug, can be
analyzed in accordance with the methods of the presently preferred embodiments. The
sample can be pretreated if desired and can be prepared in any convenient medium that
does not interfere with the assay. Preferably, the sample comprises an aqueous medium
such as a body fluid from a host, most preferably plasma or serum.
Copending applications entitled "Haptens of Aripiprazole" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD3265USPSP, first named inventor: Remnmerie), "Haptens of Olanzapine" (Attorney
Docket No. PRD3266USPSP, first named inventor: Remmerie), "Haptens of
Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3267USPSP, first named inventor: Remmerie),
"Haptens of Quetiapine" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3268USPSP, first named inventor:
Remmerie), "Haptens of Risperidone and Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD3269USlSP, first named inventor: Remmerie), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole Haptens
and Use Thereof7 (Attorney Docket No. CDS5128USPSP, first named inventor:
Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Olanzapine Haptens and Use Thereof (Attorney Docket
No. CDS5 I 32USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Paliperidone
                                             43

Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDS5126USPSP, first named inventor:
Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Quetiapine Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5 I 34USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Risperidone
Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDS513OUSPSP., first named inventor:
Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole and Use Thereof7 (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5129USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Olanzapine and Use
Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5133USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko),
"Antibodies to Paliperidone and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS5127LUSPSP,
first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies to Quetiapine and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5 I35USPSP, first named inventor: Hryhorenko), "Antibodies
to Risperidone and Use Thereof' (Attorney Docket No. CDS513IUSPSP, first named
inventor: Hryhorenko), all filed concurrently herewith are all incorporated herein by
reference in their entireties.
EXAMPLES
Representative compounds of the present invention can be synthesized in accordance
with the general synthetic methods described below. Compounds of Formula (I) can be
prepared by methods known to those who are skilled in the art. The following examples
are only meant to represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant to be a
limit of the invention,
Example 1
4-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d jisoxazol-3-yl)piperidii-1-yl)e-thy)4cthyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahvdro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)-4-oxo butanoic acid
                                       N- 0
                     0
                   N           N                  F
      0
                 0
 HO            0
              HO
                                             44

Paliperidone (lOg, 23.45 mmol) was dissolved in pyridine (100 mL) together with N,N
dimethyl-4-pyridinamine (0,5 g; 4,09 mmol) and succinic anhydride (18.3 g; 182.86
nnol). The mixture was stirred under an argon atmosphere for 4h at 60 'C and for 48h
at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated and dissolved in
dichloromethane / methanol (100 mL /10 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous phase
was extracted five times with dichloromethane /methanol (100 mL/10 mL). The organic
layers were combined, dried over Na2SO 4 and evaporated under vacuum. 'The residue
was purified by silica gel chromatography (gradient elution with chloroform/ethanol
80/20 to 70/30). The product was dissolved in isopropanol (50 mL) and the resulting
precipitate was filtered and washed with isopropanol (10 mL). The precipitate was dried
in vacuo to give the title compound as a white solid. ESI-MS (M+J) 528. 'H NMR:
(DMSO-d 6 , 360 MHz): 6 ppm 1.75-2.75 (i, 23H), 6 3.5-4.0 (i, 311),      5.74 (m, 1H), 6
7.28 (td, J=9.15, 2.20 Hz, 1H), 6 7.69 (dd, J=8.96,201 Hz, 1), 6 8.02 (dd, J=8.78, 5.12
Hz, IH1).
Example 2
Step A
3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahvdro-41-1-pyrido[1, 2-a]pyrinidin-9-yi 3-pivalamidopropanoate
                                           N- 0
                         0
                                                      F
                       N
        H                         .N
           N   YO
      0          0
A solution of Paliperidone (1.0 g, 2.34 mmol) in dichloromethane (20 mL) was treated
with Boc-b-Ala-OH (443.65 ng, 2.34 mmol), dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (483,79 mg,
2.34 mmol) and N.N-dimethyl-4-pyridinamine (14.32 ig, 0.117 immol). The reaction
was stirred at room temperature under argon atmosphere. After 18h, the reaction mixture
was poured into an aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution (20 mL) and the
aqueous layer extracted with dichloromethane (three times 20 mL). The combined
                                             45

organic layers were dried over MgSO 4, filtered and concentrated. The residue was
purified by silica gel chromatography elutionn with dichloromethane/methanol (95/5) to
give the title compound. ESI-MS (M1) 598.
Step B
3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-I -yl)ethyli)-'-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-yi 3-(3-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-IH-pyrrol-1
yl)propanamido)propanoate
                                                   N'0
                                       O                      F
                   NN        0F
       N         H                        N
        NN                 O
 o            0          0
A solution of 3-( 2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[dj isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin -1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4
oxo-6,7,8 ,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1 ,'-a]pvrimidin-9-yl 3 -pivalamidopropanoate,
prepared as described in Step A, (901.5 mg. 1.15 mmol) in dichloromethane (20 mL) and
trifluoroacetic acid (5.7 mL) was stirred for Ih at room temperature. To this mixture was
carefully added a solution of N-maleoyl-3-aminopropionic acid (233.8 mg, 1.38 mmol),
diisopropylethylamine (13.94 mL), diethyl cyanophosphonate (306.57 gL, 1.81 mnoi)
and dichloromethane (2 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred for Ih at room temperature
under argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture was poured into water (20 muL) and the
aqueous layer extracted with dichloronethane (three times 20 nL). The combined
organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO4, filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture was
purified on HPLC to give the title compound. EST-MS (M+l) 649.
Example 3
Step A
N-(3-((3-(2-(4-(6-f-luorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3 -yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo
6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-41--pyrido[ 1,2-a]pyrimi din-9-vl)oxv)propyl)pivalamide
                                              46

                                             N-0
                                                 r~       F
                          N          N
                          N
      0
A solution of paliperidone (746.26 mg, 1,75 mmol) in TH F (15 mL) was treated with 3
(Boc-arnio)propyl bromide (500 mg, 2.10 mmol), 18-Crown-6 (231.25 mg, 0.874 mmol)
and sodium hydride (60 w/w %, 139.97 mg, 3.5 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 6h. The solvent was removed under vacuum, dissolved in
dichloromethane / water (50 ml / 50 mL) and the aqueous layer extracted with
dichloromethane (three times 50 mL). The combined organic layers were dried over
Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated to give the title compound, which was used without
further purification in the next step.
Step B
9-(3-aminopropoxy)-3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2
methyli-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one
                                         N-O
                      0
                                N                     F
                     N
 H2N,_           O
A solution of N-(3-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2
methyl-4-oxo-6 .7,8,9-tetrahydro-41--pyrido[1, 2 -a]pyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)propyl)pivalamide,
prepared as described in Step A, (1 .482 g, 2,54 mmol) in dichloromethane (10 ml) and
trifluoroacetic acid (5 mL) was stirred for Ih at room temperature. The reaction mixture
was purified on a Porapak CX column to give the title compound which was used without
further purification in the next step.
Step C
                                                47

3-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro- I H-pyrrol-1I-yl)-N-3(3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[dIisoxazol-3
yl)piperidin--I l)ethyl)2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9
yl)oxy)propyl)propanamide
                                                  NOC)
                                 0
                                                             F
                  NNO
  o            O
 A solution of 9-(3-aminopropoxy)-3-(2-(4-(6-fliuorobenzo[dj isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1
yl)ethyl)-2-methlv-6,7, 8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one, prepared as
described in Step B, (0.303 g, 0.627 mmol) in dichloromethane (5 mL), under argon, was
treated with diisopropylethylamine (218.54 pL, 1,25 mmol), N-Maleoyl-3
aminopropionic acid (163.88 mg 0.940 mmol) and diethyl cyanophosphonate (159.19 pL,
0.940 mmol). After 18h, the reaction mixture was poured into an aqueous saturated
sodium bicarbonate solution (20 mL) and the aqueous layer extracted with
dichloromethane (three times 20 mL). The combined organic layers were dried over
Na2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture was purified by HPLC to give the
title compound. ESI-MS (M-I1) 635.
Example 4
6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yi)piperidin-I-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)hexanoic acid
                                             N-0
                                      N                 F
      0                     N
          00
 HO
A solution of paliperidone (1.0 g, 2.34 mmol) in THF (15 nL), under argon, was treated
with 18-Crown-6 (309.88 mg, 1.17 mmiol), ethyl 6-bromohexanoate (628.76 pL, 3.52
                                             48

mnol) and sodium hydride (60 w/w %, 937.80 mg, 23.45 mmol). After 18h, the reaction
mixture was poured into an aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution (20 mL), and
the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (three times 20 mL). The aqueous
layer was acidified with acetic acid and extracted with 2-methyl THF (three times 20
nL). The combined organic 2-methyl THF layers were dried over Na 2SO 4, filtered and
concentrated. The residue was purified by HPLC to give the title compound.        ESI-MS
(M+1) 541. 'H NMR: (CDCl3, 360 MHz): 6 ppmin 1.35-2.00 (m, 11H), 6 2.10-2.30 (in,
8H), 6 2.40-2.80 (m, 8H), 6 3.20-4.00 (in, 5H), 6 4.24-4.30 (m, 1H), 6 7.07 (td, J=8.97,
1.83 Hz, IH), 6 7.24 (d, J=1.83 Hz, iH), 6 7.76 (dd, J=8.60., 4.94 Hz, iH.
Example 5
Step A
tert-butyl 4-(6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3 -yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4
oxo-6,7 8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido [1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)hexanoyl)piperazine- 1
carboxylate
                                                        N'0
                                       0
                                    N ON                            F
                0                      N
                   N             0
   0 YN,
      0
A solution of Example 4 (200 mg, 0.37 mmol) in dichloromethane (10 mL), under argon,
was treated with Nt-butoxycarbonylpiperazine (89.57 mg., 0.48 mmol) and
diisopropylethylamine (77.42 pLi, 0.44 mmol). To the stirring solution, diethyl
cyanophosphonate (72.06 pL, 0.43 mrnmol) was added. After stirring for two hours at
room temperature, the reaction mixture was poured into water (20 mL) and the aqueous
layer extracted with dichloroiethane (three times 20 mL). The combined organic layers
weres dried over Na2 SO4, filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture was used without
further purification in the next step. (408 mg, ESI-MS (M+1) 709)
                                              49

Step B
3-(2-(4-( 6-fluorobenzol1d] isoxazolI1-3-yl)piperidin. I -A)ethyl)--methyl-9-((6-oxo-6
(piperazin-1 -vi)hexyl)oxy)-6i7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one
                                                      N'-O
                                                          N N    F
                              O              N
 HN
A solution of tert-butyl 4-6-((3-2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-y)piperidin- I
yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[ 1,2-a]pyrimidin-9
yl)oxy)hexanoyl)piperazine- I-carboxylate, prepared as described in Step A, (408 mg,
0.58 mmiol) in dichloromethane (5 mL), under argon, was treated with trifluoroacetic acid
(435.62 pL, 5.8 mmiol). After stirring for 72h at room temperature, the reaction mixture
was poured into an aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution (5 mL), and the
aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane (three times 5 ml). The combined
organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO 4, filtered and concentrated. The crude product was
used in the next step without further purification. (ESI-MS (M+l) 609)
Step C
4-(4-(6-(1 (3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yi)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo
6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4-I-pyrido [1,2-ajpyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)hexanoyl)piperazin- I -yl)-4
oxobutanoic acid
                                                                   N- 0
                                               0
                          O                   N
                       N
                  N
    0
    HOO
               0
                                                50O

A solution of 3-( 2-(4-(6-fluoro benzo[dj isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-9
((6-oxo-6-(piperazin- 1-yl)hexylI)oxy)-6,7, 8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido [1,2-ajpyrimidin-4
one, prepared as described in Step B, (239 mg., 0.39 mmol) in dichloromethane (5 mL),
under argon, was treated with succinic anhydride (43.15 mg, 0.43 mmol) and
diisopropylethylamine (68.35 L, 0.39 mmol). After stirring for 2h at room temperature,
the reaction mixture was poured into water (5 mL), and the aqueous layer was extracted
with dichloromethane/methanol (95/5, three times 5 mL). The combined organic layers
were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by HPLC
and triturated with diisopropylether, to give the title compound. (ESI-MS (M+1) 709);
 H NMR: (CDC 3, 360 MHz): 6 ppm 110-2.80 (mn,31H), 6 320-4.00 (mn,13H), 6 4.24
4.30 (i,  1H), 6 7.07 (td, J=8.97, 1.83 Hz, lH), 6 7.24 (d, J=1.83 Hz, 1H), 6 7.76 (dd,
J=8.60, 4,94 Hz, 1H)
Example 6
3-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihvdro-IH-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(3-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3
yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)2-methyil-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9
yl)oxy)propyl)propanamide - keyhole limpet hemocyanin           conjugate
To a 4.22 mL solution of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KIH, 18.0 mg, 0.18           noles) in
100mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, pH 7.4 was added 83.2 1iL of a DMF
solution of N-succinimidyI-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA, 25 mg/m,         2.1 mg, 9.0 pimoles).
The resulting solution was incubated at 20 'C for 1 hour on a roller mixer. The reaction
was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using I 00mM phosphate buffer,         0 .4 6 M sodium
chloride, 5mM1 EDTA, pH 6.0. To 9.37 mL of KLH-SATA (17.1 mg, 0.171 pioles) was
added 937 gL of 2.5M Hydroxylamine, 50mM EDTA, pH 7.0. The resulting solution
was incubated at 20 "C for 40 minutes on a roller mixer. The reaction was used as such
in conjugation reaction with maleimide-activated hapten.
To the KLH-SH from step 1 (1. 3mL, 0.171 gmoles) was added 770 L of a DMF
solution of 3-(2,5-dioxo-2,-dihvdro-IH-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(3-((3-(2-(4-(6
flu orobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahvdro-4H
                                              51

pyrido [1 ,2-a]pyrimidin-9-vl)oxy)propyl)propanamide (prepared as described in Example
3, 10 mg/mL, 12. 1 moles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 4 hours at
20 'C on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 gm syringe filter then
purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium
chloride, at pH 7.4.
Example 7
6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)etil)-2-methyli-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)hexanoic acid- bovine thyroglobulin
conjugate
A solution of 6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo [d]isoxazol -3-yl)piperidin-I -yl)ethyl)-2-methyl
4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahvdro-4H-pyrido[1 ,2 -a]pyrimidin-9-vl)oxy)hexanoic acid (prepared as
described in Example 4, 5.0 mg, 9.3 moless, N-hydroxysuccinimide (NIS, 3.9 mg, 34.2
pmoles) and NN-dicyclohexylcarbodiiimide (DCC, 7.1 mg, 34.2 pmoles) in 300 gL of
DMF and 3 pL tributylamine was allowed to stir for 18 hours at 20 "C. An 30 pL aliquot
(30 pL, 9.3pmol) of the resultant solution was added to 1 52 mL of a solution of bovine
thyroglobulin (BTG, 7.6 mg, 0.011 pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5. The
resulting cloudy mixture was incubated at 20 'C for 3 hours on a roller mixer. The
reaction was filtered through a 0.45 pm syringe filter, followed by purification on a
Sephadex G-25 column using I0OmM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium chloride, at pH
7.4.
Example 8
4-(4-(6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-y)ethyi)-2-methyi-4-oxo
6,7,8,9-tetra hydro-41--pyrido[l;.2-a]pyrimidin-9-yl)oxy)hexanovl)piperazin- 1-yI)-4
oxobutanoic acid     keyhole limpet hemocyanin - conjugate
A solution of 4-(4-(6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yi)piperidin-1-yI)ethyl)-2
methyl-4-oxo-6, 7,8,9-tetrahydro-4Hl-pyrido[1, 2 -a]pyrimidin-9
yl)oxy)hexanovl)piperazin-1-yl)-4-oxobutanoic acid (prepared as described in example 5,
                                              52

10.6 mg, 15.0 roless, N-hydroxysuccinimide (NIIS, 6.4 mg, 55.5 puoles) and NN
dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC , 11.5 mg, 55.5 moles) in 400 pL of DNIF and 4 pL of
tributylamine was allowed to stir for 18 hours at 20 C. An 81     L aliquot (3.0 gmoles) of
of the resulting solution was added to 2.75 mL of a solution of keyhole limpet
hemocyanin (KLH, 12.0 mg, 0.12 moles) in 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium
chloride, at pH 7.4. The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated at 20 'C for 2.5 hours on
a roller mixer. 'The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 pm syringe filter then purified on
a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer., 0.46M sodium chloride, at pH
 7.4.
Example 9
4-(4-(6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-4-oxo
6,7.8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-vl)oxy)hexanoyl)piperazin      -1 -yi)-4
oxobutanoic acid - bovine thyroglobulin - conjugate
A solution of 4-(4-(6-((3-(2-(4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin- 1-yi)ethyl)-2
inethyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4--pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9
yl)oxy)hexanoyl)piperazin-I -vl)-4-oxobutanoic acid (prepared as described in example 5,
17.1 mug, 24.1 pmoles), N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS, 10.3 mng, 89.3 pmoles) and N,N
dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC, 18.4 mug, 89.3 pmoles) in 600 pL of DMF and 6 pL of
tributylamine was allowed to stir for 18 hours at 20 "C. A 462 pL aliquot (18.4 jamoles)
of the resulting solution was added to 3.0 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG
15.0 mg, 0.023    moles) in 100 mM of pH 7.5 phosphate buffer. The resulting cloudy
mixture was incubated at 20 'C for 2.5 hours on a roller mixer. The reaction was filtered
through a 0.45 pm syringe filter then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM
phosphate buffer, 0. 14 M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
Example 10
Competitive Immunoassay for Paliperidone

Following a series of immunizations with paliperidone/risperidone, immunogens', mouse
tail bleeds were tested for reactivity using an ELISA. Hybridonla supernatants were also
tested, and the ELISA data shown in'Tables I and 2 below shows reactivity of several
hybridomas (fusion partner was NSO cells). As shown in'fable 2, reactivity of
hybridomas 2A5 and 5G I I was seen.
Table I
                     BM\w
                                                                              tE         i              i                  i Iz i % i          i               ...........
                                                                                                                                                               ......
                         MN
 ......................................
                                    &HU LOUT =4                            tam 4.11MV                           fUN 11--" AillnW"LUE RR          i MI '*I
                                                                                                                 2Va....                      A.....
                                                                                                                                                 4" -A-1-kKn,
                                                                                                                                                           1:1,
                                                               ....
                                                                 ......    ....................        j   .......
         .............                 mo, g     &1"'0  1  g--mm      I    g  lm         I  &,-sm       I      Sk.  "ku    I    I ggggs I &-m  1 2     1 S W
                                                                                                       A.....   UN ....      .                           Umv
                                                                                                                                                       I...
                                                E            'nm
                                                 Liz a,                                                     ------- ---      IM           Iw       I'm
'Table 2
                         Plate 1
     Dilution ..................     1                   2                                    3
                        .......................
                       ........................
                        .......................
         ne a t ........................
                         .......................
                       ........................
                        .......................       I C4
                                                      ---------------
                                                  .......................                6 E6
                       ........................
                        .......................
                       ........................
                        .......................   ......
                                                  -
                                                  ......      ......
         neat ........................
                        .......................   ----                                    7A7
                                                     2A5---%.................................................
                                                  .......................
                       ........................                                       .................................
                                                                   .....................................................
                                                                    ................................................
                                                                   .................................................
                                                                  .................................................
                        .......
                        .......................
                       ........................     4  t.:)10
                                                    .................                                     ................
                                                                  .................................................
                        .......................
                       ........................                   .................................................
                                                                   .................................................
                                                                   ................................
                        .......................
                       ........................                     ................................................
                                                                  .................................................
         ne a t *********************           ...3 B 7 .................................................
                                                ....
                                                .....                                                  ..................
                       ........................                   .................................................
                                                                                                           ...............
                                                                                                           ...............
                        .............
         ne a t ........................
                        .......................                                                    ..    ................
                                                                   .................................................
                                                                  ................................
                       ........................
         ne a t ...................
                        ...................
                        .......................
                       ........................ ....               .................................................
                                                                  .................................................
                        .......................
                       ...................        .......................
                                                ....
                                                  .....
                                                    r.      ..       .........................
                                                                     ................................................
                        ...............
         ne a t ........................
                        .......................                   .................................................
                      ........................
                       .........................                                  ....................................
                                                                   .................................................
                      .......................
                       ........................
                                           .......                 ...............................
                                                                          ..........................      ................
                                                                                                        ;...............
                                                                           ...........................................
                                                                                                           ...........................
     DilUtiom                        1                   2                                    3
                             0:00.77---22'
                                 .. ... 0.038
         ne at::.........................
                       .....
                       ........................
                       ........................                                                       0.0309
         neat:::::::::::::::O::    007Z
                       ........................
                      .........................     3.9563                                            0.1163
                       ........................
                      .........................                   .................................................
                                   ..........                      XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
                                                                  ..............................
                                                                  ................................        X
                                                                                                          X .0 .
                                              ....
                       ........................
                      .........................                   .................................................
                       ........................
                       .......................                 0.0753
                                                                   .................................................    8:
         neat:.::::     ....     .                                ..............................
                                                                  ..............................
                              ... 1 0. 113 9 .................................................                      .8
                       ........................
                        .......................                                                       ...................
                                                                   .......................................        ..........
         neat ........................              0.  0  19  3  ................           .......
                                                                   ...............................       I        -2
                                                                                                          X........     3.
                        .......................                   .................................................
         neat ........................
                        .......................     0.2503 .................................................
                                                                                                      Mama
                                                                           ................
                                                                    ................
                                                                     .....................
         ne a t                                        0 .0 8 6 ..............................
                                                                    ..............................        ................
                                                                                                  54

After clones were identified via ELISA reactivity, competition ELISAs were run to
approximate affinity and cross-reactivity with similar compounds. Figs. I and 2 show the
ELISA cross-reactivity results from hybridoma subclone 5_9. Data shows reactivity to
risperidone, as well as its metabolites paliperidone and 7-hydroxyrisperidone.
Supernatants were also tested by competition ELISA to determine if the signals were
specific to either risperidone or paliperidone. Fig. 3 shows the results from hybridoma
subelone 2A5. Data shows reactivity to both risperidone and paliperidone.
Fig. 4 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow assay device in
which the capture antibody, risperidone/paliperidone clone 5-9, was deposited on a chip
along with a detection conjugate consisting of risperidone conjugated to a fluorophore.
In this competitive format as show in Fig. 4, a low level of analyte (paliperidone) results
in high signal, whereas a high level of analyte (paliperidone) results in low signal. The
amount of paliperidone in the sample can be calculated from the loss of fluorescence
compared to a control sample with no drug present. A typical dose response curve
generated with risperidone/paliperidone clone 5-9 is shown in Fig. 5,

                                        CLAIMS
1. A compound selected from the group consisting of:
                                             N
                           0N                         F
        O
                         N       NNK
      /     0N
                       H;
                   N
                         N
         NN                                      NN-0
    N 'N         0
                                                 N
                              0
                               NN
                   0    CN
  HO         N
      Q    Q                                            ;and
                                             56

                                                    N- 0
                                          0          1
                                          O       N      F
                       O          PN
                       0                  N
   H0              N
    HOO
              0
wherein:
n is 2 or 3; and
m is 0, 1, 2 or 3.
2. The compound of claim 1, which is
                                          N    -0
                                     N
                           N
         0
       N                 O
                         C
wherein:
n is 2 or 3; and
m is 0, 1, 2 or 3.
3.      The compound of claim 1, which is
                                         N
                      N                           F
        rNN        qN
      N 'N 0
                                            57

wherein:
n is 2 or 3; and
m is 0, 1, 2 or 3.
4.      The compound of claim 2 which is
                                               N
                          N 0         NF
                          N
            OH
 0            0       0
5.      The compound of claim 3 which is
                               N                     F
                                      N              F
                             OoN               N'O
     /           H           N
     N
 o            O
6.      The compound of claim 1, which is
                                                 N-0
                               0
                                          N.F
                            N
                     0         N
                   HN
       O        N
wherein:
n is 2 or 3; and
m is 0, 1, 2 or 3.
                                              58

7.     The compound of claim 1, which is
                                                            N.-O
                                          NN        N                  F
                      0                 N
                         00
     0              N
    HOO
            0
8.     A conjugate of a compound of any one of claims I to 7 and an immunogenic carrier.
9.     The conjugate of claim 8, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a protein.
10.    The conjugate of claim 9, wherein the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine
thyroglobulin, or ovalbumin.
11.    A conjugate of a compound of claim 2 and an immunogenic carrier.
12.    A conjugate of a compound of claim 3 and an immunogenic carrier.
13.    A conjugate of a compound of claim 4 and an immunogenic carrier.
14.    A conjugate of a compound of claim 5 and an immunogenic carrier.
15.    A conjugate of a compound of claim 6 and an immunogenic carrier.
16.    A conjugate of a compound of claim 7 and an immunogenic carrier.
                                             59

17.     The conjugate of any one of claims 8 to 16, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a
protein.
18.     The conjugate of claim 17, wherein the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine
thyroglobulin, or ovalbumin.
19.     A product made by the process of contacting the compound of any one of claims I to 7
with an immunogenic carrier.
20.     The product of claim 19, wherein the immunogenic carrier is a protein.
21.     The product of claim 20, wherein said protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine
thyroglobulin, or ovalbumin.
                                               60

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
