ABSTRACT
A prefabricated modular silo for storage of bulk solids, the modular silo comprising: a
top module comprising a first opening with a closure for receiving bulk solids, a bottom
module comprising downwardly convergent walls comprising an outlet for allowing
solids to be released from the silo; one or more intermediate modules comprising
upstanding walls to extend between said top and bottom modules, said intermediate
modules being adapted to be positioned in between said top and bottom modules; and
a fastening arrangement for fastening said one or more intermediate modules to said
top and/or bottom module to define an enclosed internal space for storage of bulk
solids.

   110   100
   130B
   130A
         150
FIGURE 1

                                             1
                                     MODULAR SILO
TECHNICAL FIELD
This invention relates generally to gravity flow storage silos, vessels, bins and the like,
for bulk particulate solids.
BACKGROUND
Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to be taken
as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form part of the
common general knowledge.
A typical prior art silo comprises a vertical cylinder to which a converging hopper is
affixed for discharging stored granular material contained in the silo. The converging
hopper is usually positioned in a spaced relationship relative to an underlying surface
on which the silo is supported. Typically silos are supported on a frame that is adapted
to withstand the weight of the silo laden with grains or any other bulk solid material.
One of the issues associated with larger silos such as silos having a height of greater
than 1800mm is that they can be difficult to transport. Typically, larger silos are made
from galvanized material and are usually heavy and pre-fabricated off-site. As a result,
at any given time, a limited number of units (usually no more than two units) can be
transported over larger distances on the tray of a typical truck.
Another issue associated with larger galvanised silos currently known in the art is that
inspite of galvanisation these silos are susceptible to corrosion. These silos are
typically installed in open fields as a result of which the galvanized metal sheeting in
these silos is exposed to harsh outdoor conditions.
Yet another issue associated with currently known metallic silos is that the overall
storage capacity of the prefabricated silos cannot be easily upgraded and typically
farmers need to purchase a new silo every time they have additional storage
requirements.

                                              2
In view of the above, it is desirable to provide a silo that addresses at least some of
the aforementioned shortcomings of the prior art.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
In an aspect, the invention provides a prefabricated modular silo for storage of bulk
solids, the modular silo comprising: a top module comprising a first opening with a
closure for receiving bulk solids, a bottom module comprising downwardly convergent
walls comprising an outlet for allowing solids to be released from the silo; one or more
intermediate modules comprising upstanding walls to extend between said top and
bottom modules, said intermediate modules being adapted to be positioned in
between said top and bottom modules; and a fastening arrangement for fastening said
one or more intermediate modules to said top and bottom module to define an internal
space for storage of bulk solids.
In an embodiment, the volume of the modular silo is adjustable by varying the number
of intermediate modules positioned in between said top and bottom modules.
In an embodiment, the top module comprises upwardly convergent top walls and a
downwardly dependent wall for overlapping and interconnecting with one of said
intermediate modules.
In an embodiment, the bottom module further comprises an upwardly dependent
upright wall for overlapping and interconnecting with one of said intermediate modules.
In an embodiment, the fastening arrangement comprises: a first plurality of fasteners
for fastening an upper portion of said intermediate module to the top module; and a
second plurality of fasteners for fastening a lower portion of said intermediate module
to the bottom module.
Preferably, the first plurality of fasteners fasten the upper portion of the intermediate
module to the downwardly dependent upright wall of the top module.
Preferably, the second plurality of fasteners fasten the lower portion of the
intermediate module to the bottom module.

                                             3
In a transportable configuration, the bottom module may be inverted to position the
upstanding wall of the bottom module onto a supporting surface of a transport
assembly and wherein the top module can be stacked upon the inverted bottom
module.
Preferably, the intermediate modules can be stacked upon the top module for
transporting said silo.
In an embodiment, the angle of inclination of the top wall of the top module relative to
a vertical axis is less than or equal to angle of the downwardly convergent walls of the
bottom module for allowing the top module to be stacked above the inverted bottom
module in the transportable configuration.
In an embodiment, an upstanding lower section of the top module defines an opening
for receiving an upper section of one of said intermediate modules such that at least
a portion of the lower section of the top module overlaps with a portion of the upper
section of the intermediate module.
In an embodiment, a lower section of one of said intermediate modules defines an
opening for receiving an upper section of the bottom module such that at least a portion
of the lower section of the intermediate module overlaps with a portion of the upper
section of the bottom module.
In an     embodiment,      the   bottom   module     comprises  a  shoulder   extending
circumferentially about an outer wall of the bottom module to support the bottom
module on a supporting structure below said bottom module.
In an embodiment, the modular silo comprises at least a first intermediate module and
a second intermediate module wherein each of said intermediate module comprises
an in-use upper section and an in-use lower section such that one of said in-use upper
or lower sections of a first intermediate module can be telescopically received into the
other of said in-use upper or lower sections of the second intermediate module.

                                            4
In an embodiment, the top module and/or the intermediate module and/or the bottom
module comprises polyethylene or polyethylene composite material.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method of assembling a modular silo
comprising the steps of:
        positioning a top module having a first opening with a closure for receiving bulk
solids in a spaced apart relationship relative to a bottom module having downwardly
convergent walls comprising an outlet for allowing solids to be released from the silo,
        positioning one or more intermediate modules in between said top and bottom
modules; and
       fastening edge portions of upstanding wall portions of said one or more
intermediate modules to the top module and/or bottom module.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method of transporting a modular silo
comprising the steps of:
        (1) inverting a bottom module of the silo to position convergent walls of the
bottom module to extend in an upwardly direction relative to a supporting surface;
        (2) positioning or stacking a top module above the inverted bottom module from
step (1) such that at least a part of the convergent walls of the bottom module are
received in an internal space defined by side walls of the top module.
In an embodiment, the method further comprises the additional step of positioning or
tacking one or more intermediate modules above the bottom module and/or the top
module.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those
skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be

                                             5
regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way.
The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a modular silo 100 in an assembled configuration in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 2 is a sectional view (frontal) of the modular silo 100.
Figure 3 is an exploded view of the individual modules ie. top module 110, intermediate
module 130 and bottom module 120 that can be used for constructing the modular silo
100.
Figure 4 is a sectional view of the modules ie. top module 110, intermediate module
130 and bottom module 120 stacked in a transportable configuration.
Figure 5 is a perspective view of the stacked modules 110, 130 and 120 in a tacked
configuration being transported on a standard truck.
Figure 6 illustrates the modules ie. top module 110, bottom module 120 and
intermediate module 130 in a partially assembled configuration.
Figure 7 illustrates the modules ie. top module 110, bottom module 120 and
intermediate module 130 in yet another intermediate assembled configuration.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Referring to Figures 1 to 4, a prefabricated modular silo 100 and its various modular
parts in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention have been illustrated.
The modular silo 100 is useful for storage of bulk solids such as grains. The modular
silo 100 comprises a top module 110 having a first opening 112 with a closure for
receiving bulk solids, a bottom module 120 comprising downwardly convergent walls
126 and an outlet 122 for allowing solids to be released from the silo. The silo also
includes two intermediate modules 130A and 130B comprising upstanding walls 133
to extend between said top and bottom modules. The intermediate modules 130 are
adapted to be positioned in between the top module 110 and the bottom module 120.
A fastening arrangement is also provided for fastening the intermediate modules 130A
and 130B to the top module 110 and the bottom module 120 respectively to define an
enclosed internal space for storage of the bulk solids.

                                            6
The modular configuration of the silo 100 allows a plurality of the intermediate modules
130 to be fastened to each other and be positioned in between the top module 110
and the bottom module 120. Such an arrangement allows the overall volume of the
silo 100 to be easily adjusted by the end user. The modular and adjustable
configuration of the silo 100 provides several other advantages. The end user may
easily upgrade/upsize or downgrade/downsize the silo 100 without discarding all the
modular parts of their silo 100 by installing or removing any one or more of the
intermediate modules 130 in between the top module 110 and the bottom module 120.
Turning to Figure 3, detailed drawings for each of the top module 110, bottom module
120 and intermediate module 130 have been shown. In the present embodiment, each
of the intermediate modules 130 A and 130B has an identical configuration and has
been generally represented by reference numeral 130 in Figure 3. However, it will be
understood that minor variations between intermediate modules positioned between
the top module 110 and the bottom module 130 may be introduced without departing
from the spirit and scope of the invention described herein.
The following passages will described the manner in which each of the top module
110 and the bottom module 120 are interconnected with the intermediate modules
130A and 130B during installation to provide the silo 100.
The top module 110 comprises upwardly convergent top walls 114 inclined at an angle
of approximately 27 degrees. The top module 110 also comprises downwardly
dependent walls 116 inclined at a much greater angle of less than 90 degrees. A lower
portion or section 118 of the downwardly dependent wall 116 overlaps with an upper
section 132 of the intermediate module 130 and allows a first plurality of fasteners
such as fastening bolts to be used for fastening the lower section 118 of the top module
110 with the upper section of any one of the intermediate modules 130.
The bottom module 120 comprises downwardly convergent bottom walls 126 with an
outlet 126 positioned at the convergent end of the bottom module 120. The
downwardly convergent walls are angled at 60 degrees relative to a vertical axis of the
silo. The angle of convergence of the bottom module 120 is an important consideration
and in at least some instances depends on the granular characteristics of the bulk
solids stored in the silo 100. Therefore, the angle of the downwardly convergent walls

                                             7
126 may be varied without departing from the scope of the invention described herein.
The bottom module 120 also comprises an upwardly dependent upright wall 123
extending from the convergent walls 126. The upright wall 123 forms an in-use upper
section of the bottom module 120 that is adapted to overlap and become fastened with
a lower section 134 of the intermediate module. A second plurality of fasteners
consisting of fastening bolts for fastening the overlapping portions of the upright wall
123 with the lower section 134.
It is also important to note that each of intermediate modules 130A and 130b may be
fastened to each other along adjacent edge portions to allow a plurality of said
intermediate modules 130A and 130B to be fastened and positioned in between the
top module 110 and the bottom module 120.
The following passages refer to Figures 4 to 7 and illustrate some of the advantages
associated with the modular silo 100 during transportation of the knocked-down or
unassembled modular silo 100. One of the issues associated with larger prior art silos
is that these prior art silos are prefabricated (usually using metal sheeting) and
transported on trucks. The typical dimensional restrictions on carrying loads on a truck
in Australia requires the load positioned on the tray of the truck be no wider 3.5m and
no higher than 4.6m. In at least some embodiments, the modular silo 100 addresses
these requirements by providing a modular silo 100 that can be knocked down and
into respective modules and conveniently stacked for being easily transported.
In a transportable configuration, the bottom module 120 is inverted as shown in Figure
4 to position the upstanding wall 123 of the bottom module 120 onto a supporting
surface of a tray (T) on a truck. Once the bottom module 120 has been positioned in
the inverted configuration, the top module 110 can be stacked upon the inverted
bottom module 120. The angle of inclination (45 degrees) of the top wall 114 of the
top module 110 relative to a vertical axis is less than the angle (60 degrees) of the
downwardly convergent walls 126 of the bottom module 120 for allowing the top
module 110 to be stacked above the inverted bottom module 120 in the transportable
configuration. The diameter of the lower section 118 of the top module 110 is slightly
larger than the diameter of the upstanding wall section 123 of the bottom module 120.
Such an arrangement allows the top module 110 to be easily stacked above the

                                             8
inverted base module 120. The intermediate modules 130A and 130B can be stacked
above the top module 110 as shown clearly in Figure 4. The stackable configuration
of the top module 110 above the inverted bottom module 120 in combination with the
stackability of the intermediate modules 130 over the top module provides a significant
advantage in that the overall height of the modules 110, 120 and 130 in the stacked
configuration for transporting does not exceed 4.6m. Similarly the overall diameter of
the stacked modules does not exceed 3.5m. Such a configuration allows upto 4
stacked silo units 100 to be positioned on top a standard truck.
The stackable and modular configuration of the silos 100 also allows these silos to be
easily installed on site once the stacked modules 110, 120 and 130 for each silo 100
have been transported to a desired location. Typical installation is carried out on a
large concrete pad (P). Initial installation involves setting up the supporting structure
150 that is used for positioning the bottom module 120 in a spaced configuration away
from the pad (P). Specifically, the outlet 122 is positioned in a spaced relationship
relative to the pad for easily accessing the outlet 122. Foot plates 152 are used for
fastening supporting legs 154 of the support structure 150. The supporting legs 154
may also be braced using bracing members 156 for stabilizing the support structure
150.
The second step during installation involves lifting the top module 110 by using a crane
and fastening an intermediate module 130 below the top module 110 (shown in Figure
7). Once these modules (110 and 130) have been fastened together, they are
positioned above the base module 120 mounted on the support structure 150 as
shown in Figure 7. Such a modular arrangement allows 2 to 3 installers to install a silo
100 within six to eight hours. In comparison, prior art silos fabricated from metallic
sheets can require several days for installation.
In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. The term "comprises" and its
variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of" is used throughout in an inclusive
sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features.

                                          9
It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or
described since the means herein described comprises preferred forms of putting the
invention into effect.
The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the
proper scope of the appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the
art.

                                            10
CLAIMS
1.      A prefabricated modular silo for storage of bulk solids, the modular silo
comprising:
        a top module comprising a first opening with a closure for receiving bulk solids,
        a bottom module comprising downwardly convergent walls comprising an outlet
for allowing solids to be released from the silo;
        one or more intermediate modules comprising upstanding walls to extend
between said top and bottom modules, said intermediate modules being adapted to
be positioned in between said top and bottom modules; and
        a fastening arrangement for fastening said one or more intermediate modules
to said top and/or bottom module to define an enclosed internal space for storage of
bulk solids.
2.      A prefabricated modular silo in accordance with claim 1 wherein the volume of
the modular silo is adjustable by varying the number of intermediate modules
positioned in between said top and bottom modules.
3.      A prefabricated modular silo in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
wherein the top module comprises upwardly convergent top walls and a downwardly
dependent upright wall for overlapping and interconnecting with one of said
intermediate modules.
4.      A prefabricated modular silo in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
wherein the bottom module further comprises an upwardly dependent upright wall for
overlapping and interconnecting with one of said intermediate modules.

                                        11
5.    A prefabricated modular silo in accordance with claim 4 wherein in a
transportable configuration, the bottom module can be inverted to position the
upstanding wall of the bottom module onto a supporting surface of a transport
assembly and wherein the top module can be stacked upon the inverted bottom
module.

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                110      100
                130B
                130A
                         150
                120
              FIGURE 1

<removed-date>                      112
<removed-apn>
              110
                                               100
              130A
              130B
                120
                                         150
                                       156
                                         154
                122                      152
                      FIGURE 2

                                    112
<removed-date>
                      114
              110                                     116
<removed-apn>
                                                      118
                                       132
              130
                              133
                                          134
                            124
              123
                    120
                                                126
                                          122
                            FIGURE 3

<removed-date>
                                           100
<removed-apn>
                    110
         130B
                          120
        130A
                T               FIGURE 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 5
                100

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                130B
              110                        120
                                130A
                    FIGURE 6
                                   120
                          110
                         130
                    FIGURE 7

