                                          ABSTRACT
        Macular degeneration, closed head injury, stroke, irritable bowel disease, and
reperfusion injury are all associated with biological injury due to reactive oxygen species,
probably due to focal iron overload in many instances. The present invention provides
methods and pharmaceutical compositions for treating these diseases and conditions using
desferrithiocin analogs of Formula (I). In certain embodiments, the analogs include a
polyether moiety at the 4'-position of the phenyl ring of the compound.
                                           R4
                                  R3                   N       R8 Rg
                                            5
                                                       0    Ry
                                                         6
                                                (I)

    WO 2013/090750                                                         PCT/US2012/069795
                 USES OF 4'-DESFERRITHIOCIN ANALOGS
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S.
provisional patent application, U.S.S.N. 61/576,920, filed December 16, 2011, which is
incorporated herein by reference.
                                  GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
[0002]          This invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number
R37DK049108 awarded by National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
of the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]          Iron metabolism in primates is characterized by a highly efficient recycling
process. Brittenham, "Disorders of Iron Metabolism: Iron Deficiency and Overload" In
Hematology: Basic Principlesand Practice; 3rd ed.; Hoffman et al., Eds.; Churchill
Livingstone: New York, 2000; 397-428. Consequently, there is no specific mechanism for
eliminating this transition metal. Because of the lack of an iron clearance mechanism, the
introduction of "excess iron" into this closed metabolic loop often leads to chronic iron
overload and can ultimately lead to biological damage (e.g., peroxidative tissue damage).
There are a number of ways in which excess iron is introduced, including a high-iron diet,
acute iron ingestion, or malabsorption of the metal. Conrad et al. "Iron Absorption and
Transport" Am. J. Med. Sci. 1999, 318:213-229; Lieu et al. "The Roles of Iron in Health and
Disease" Mol. Aspects Med. 2001, 22:1-87. In each of these situations, a subject can be
treated by phlebotomy to reduce iron levels. However, for iron-overload syndromes resulting
from chronic transfusion therapy, e.g., aplastic anemia and thalassemia (Olivieri et al. "Iron
chelating Therapy and the Treatment of Thalassemia" Blood 1997, 89:739-761; Vichinsky,
"Current Issues with Blood Transfusions in Sickle Cell Disease" Semin. Hematol. 2001,
38:14-22; Kersten et al. "Long-Term Treatment of Transfusional Iron Overload with the Oral
Iron Chelator Deferiprone (Ll): A Dutch Multicenter Trial" Ann. Hematol. 1996, 73:247-252),
phlebotomy is not an option. In these secondary iron overload syndromes, the origin of the
excess iron is the transfused red blood cells. Since removing the red blood cells to remedy
                                                1

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
the iron overload would be counterproductive, an alternative method of removing iron is
chelation therapy.
[0004]          Although considerable effort has been invested in the development of new
therapeutics for managing iron overload resulting from thalassemia, particularly therapeutics
that can be administered orally, desferrioxamine B, a hexacoordinate hydroxamate iron
chelator produced by Streptomyces pilosus, is still the drug of choice. However,
desferrioxamine B is not ideal for chelation therapy because iron is removed with a low
efficiency. In addition, the oral activity of desferrioxamine B is marginal, thereby requiring
parenteral administration, which can result in poor patient compliance, particularly for
patients in need of long-term chelation therapy.
[0005]          In recent years, a substantial number of synthetic metal chelators have been
studied as potential orally active therapeutic agents, e.g., pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone
(PIH), hydroxypyridones and N, N'-bis-(2-hydroxybenzylethylenediamine)-N, N'- diacetic
acid (HBED); however, these synthetic chelators have not yet demonstrated the desired
properties for an ideal metal chelator therapuetic (e.g., effective chelation, suitable oral
activity, and acceptable toxicity). Siderophores including enterobactin and rhodotorulic acid
have also been studied. However, both enterobactin and rhodotorulic acid exhibit
unacceptable toxicity, and neither demonstrated measurable oral activity. In general, although
a large number of siderophores and synthetic iron chelators have been developed, most have
been abandoned because their properties are not suitable for use in treating chronic iron
overload.
[0006]          The thiazoline-based siderophore desferrithiocin, isolated from Streptomyces
antibioticus, has also been studied. Desferrithiocin analogs, including desazadesferrithiocin
and desferrithiocin polyether analogs, have been investigated as orally active therapeutic
agents for treating iron overload. The work on such analogs is described in International PCT
Applications, PCT/US99/19691, filed August 31, 1999; PCT/US2003/028304, filed
September 9, 2003; PCT/US2006/010945, filed March 22, 2006; and PCT/US2008/003433,
filed March 14, 2008; each of which is incorporated herein by reference. These analogs have
been found useful in treating diseases associated with global iron overload, such as that
resulting from chronic transfusion therapy used to treat thalassemia and other transfusion
dependent anemias. Phase 2 clinical trials studying the safety and efficacy of a
desferrithiocin analog in iron overload patients are ongoing.
[0007]          Although not typically associated with iron overload, diseases including
macular degeneration, stroke, irritable bowel disease, closed head injury, and reperfusion
                                                 2

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
injury are all diseases associated with significant morbidity and mortality. For instance,
macular degeneration results in the loss of central vision and is a major cause of blindness
and visual impairment in older adults. Subjects with macular degeneration frequently cannot
read or recognize faces due to their visual impairment. Stroke is caused by a lack of blood
flow to an area of the brain and depending on the area of the brain affected can result in the
inability to move limbs on one side of the body or can affect speech or vision. Reperfusion
injury is due to oxidative stress in ischemic tissue after blood flow has been restored.
Irritable bowel disease (IBD) is a functional bowel disease characterized by abdominal pain
and discomfort, bloating, diarrhea, and/or constipation in the absence of any detectable cause.
Although IBD does not lead to more serious problems in most patients, it is a source of
chronic pain and fatigue for patients who suffer with this condition. And finally closed head
injury is the leading cause of death in children under 4 years of age and is the most common
cause of physical disability and cognitive impairment in young people. All of these diseases
need better treatments including new approaches to their treatment.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]           The present invention stems from the recognition that the pathogenesis of
various diseases, including macular degeneration, closed head injury, irritable bowel disease
(IBD), stroke, reperfusion injury, and other diseases and conditions, involves free iron and
the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), including superoxide anion, hydrogen
peroxide, hypochlorous acid, and hydroxyl radicals, and other longer lived, free radicals.
Such radicals are now realized to be important contributors to many diseases including
macular degeneration, head injury, IBD, stroke, and reperfusion injury. As appreciated in the
art, free iron contributes to the formation of reactive oxygen species. For example, Fe+2 ions
in biological systems react with oxygen species to produce highly reactive hydroxyl radicals
via the Fenton reaction (see scheme below). The hydroxyl radical is a highly effective
oxidizing agent, reacting at a diffusion-controlled rate with most organic species, such as
nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids. Furthermore, superoxide anions or a biological reductant
(e.g., ascorbic acid) can reduce the resulting Fe*3 ion back to Fe+2 for continued peroxide
reduction, thus a problematic cycle.
                     Fe(II) + H2 0 2     .             Fe(Ill) + HO' + HO
                       Fe(Ill) + %O    -           *     Fe(II) + H2 0 2
                                                 3

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
Therefore, diseases or conditions that lead to bleeding and/or an inflammatory response
involve the possibility that reactive oxygen species will come in contact with Fe±2 ions to
produce highly reactive and damaging hydroxyl radicals. That is, the iron released from red
blood cells react with oxygen species produced by inflammatory cells such as neutrophils to
produce hydroxyl radicals that cause cell and tissue injury. The solution, therefore, is the
same for conditions of focal iron overload (e.g., closed head injury, hemorrhagic stroke, IBD)
as it is for global iron overload-chelation and removal of the unmanaged iron.
[0009]           Various desferrithiocin analogs, including desferrithiocin polyether analogs,
have been developed that effectively chelate and remove iron from biological systems. See
International PCT Applications, PCT/US99/19691, filed August 31, 1999;
PCT/US2003/028304, filed September 9, 2003; PCT/US2006/010945, filed March 22, 2006;
PCT/US2008/003433, filed March 14, 2008; PCT/US2010/002336, filed August 25, 2010;
each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Therefore, the present invention applies
the use of these analogs, which have been previously only suggested for use in the treatment
of global metal overload, to diseases and conditions associated with focal iron overload, such
as, but not limited to, macular degeneration, stroke, IBD, closed head injury, and reperfusion
injury. In certain embodiments, the desferrithiocin analog useful in the present invention is
of Formula (I):
                                           R4
                                        R              N      R
                                    SRR                             9
                                           R5       S
                                                       R6   R7 O
                                                (I)
wherein R 1-R9 are as defined here. In certain embodiments, desferrithiocin analogs with a
polyether moiety at the 4'-position of the phenyl ring are used in the present invention (i.e.,
R 2 is a polyether moiety). Such analogs have been found to be useful in treating diseases or
conditions associated with focal iron overload, for example, where iron has been introduced
into an organ, tissue, or space by bleeding or through an inflammatory response. In certain
embodiments, such analogs have been found in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and therefore
may be useful in treating neurological diseases such as closed head injury or stroke. In
certain embodiments, such analogs have been found to penetrate into the eye and may be
                                                4

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
useful in treating ophthalmologic diseases such as macular degeneration. All of these
diseases are associated with free radical damage resulting from unmanaged or free iron in the
respective tissue or organ. Therefore, the chelation and removal of the free iron in these
tissues and organs would be effective in preventing or treating each of these diseases.
[0010]           Based on this recognition the present invention provides methods of treating
and preventing diseases and conditions associated with focal iron overload and
pharmaceutical compositions for use in treating such diseases and conditions. The invention
provides new uses for previously known compounds in the treatment of diseases and
conditions associated with focal iron overload. The invention also provides kits including
compounds and compositions found useful in treatment of such disease and conditions.
[0011]           In one aspect, the invention provides methods of preventing or treating
macular degeneration by administering to a subject an effective amount of a compound of
Formula (I) to prevent or treat macular degeneration. Compounds of Formula (I) have been
found to get into the eye and chelate and remove iron that is thought to contribute to the
generation of reactive oxygen species in the eye that cause biological injury. Such reactive
oxygen species are particularly detrimental in the retina of the eye. The present invention
also provides pharmaceutical compositions suitable for ocular administration and uses of the
compounds of Formula (I) and compositions thereof for the treatment of macular
degeneration. In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition for ocular
administration is in the form of an eyedrop. The compound of Formula (I) or a composition
thereof may also be administered systemically for the treatment of macular degeneration.
[0012]           In another aspect, the invention provides methods of removing iron from
tissues or organs that have been bled into or otherwise have focal iron overload. For example,
methods for the treatment of head injury, including closed head injury, are provided. Closed
head injuries that may be treated by the inventive methods and compositions may result from
any number of causes including falls, blasts, sports injuries, accidents including vehicular
accidents, and assaults. In certain embodiments, the inventive method comprises
administering to a subject an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I) to sequester
iron resulting from a hemorrhage or vascular compromise in the head. In certain
embodiments, the subject has suffered from a closed head injury. In other embodiments, the
subject has suffered from or is at risk of suffering from a stroke (e.g., a hemorrhagic stroke).
The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of head
injury and uses of the compounds of Formula (I) and compositions thereof for the treatment
of head injury. In certain embodiments for the treatment of head injury, the compound of
                                                 5

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
Formula (I) or a composition thereof is administered systemically (e.g., orally or
parenterally).
[0013]           In another aspect, the invention provides methods for the treatment of stroke,
particularly hemorrhagic stroke. Such methods include administering a compound of Formula
(I) to a subject at risk of having a stroke or having had a stroke. In certain embodiments, the
method comprises administering to a subject who has had or is at risk of having a stroke an
effective amount of a compound of Formula (I). Without wishing to be bound by a particular
theory, the administered compound is thought to sequester iron resulting from hemorrhage or
vascular compromise thereby preventing or at least lessening tissue damage caused by
reactive oxygen species. Such reactive oxygen species may be generated by free iron ions
resulting from the bleed in the brain. In certain embodiments, the subject has suffered from a
hemorrhagic stroke. In other embodiments, the subject is at risk of having a hemorrhagic
stroke. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of
stroke and uses of the compounds of Formula (I) and compositions thereof for the treatment
of stroke. In certain embodiments for the treatment of stroke, the compound of Formula (I)
or a composition thereof is administered systemically (e.g., orally or parenterally).
[0014]           In another aspect, the invention provides methods for preventing or lessening
reperfusion injury. Reperfusion injury is caused by reactive oxygen species that are
generated when the blood supply returns to a tissue after a period of ischemia. Compounds
of Formula (I) or compositions thereof are administered to a subject at risk of reperfusion
injury to prevent the formation of reactive oxygen species or inactivate free radical species.
Ischemia may result from a number of causes including stroke, myocardial infarction,
infarction of other tissues or organs, surgery (e.g., cardiac surgery), and organ donation and
transplantation. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions for the
prevention and treatment of reperfusion injury as well as the uses of compounds of Formula
(I) and compositions thereof for the prevention and treatment of reperfusion injury. The
compounds of Formula (I) or compositions thereof may be administered locally or
systemically in the prevention or treatment of reperfusion injury.
[0015]           In yet another aspect, the present invention provides methods of treating
irritable bowel disease (IBD). Reactive oxygen species have been found important in the
pathogenesis of IBD; therefore, as described above for the treatment of reperfusion injury,
any compound, composition, or treatment that chelates and removes iron and/or quenches
free radicals would be useful in the treatment of IBD. In certain embodiments, the method
comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I) or a
                                                 6

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
composition thereof to treat IBD. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical
compositions for the treatment of IBD and the uses of the compounds of Formula (I) and
compositions thereof for the treatment of IBD. The compounds of Formula (I) or
compositions thereof may be administered locally (e.g., rectally) or systemically in the
treatment of IBD.
[0016]         The present invention also provides kits with the compound of Formula (I) or
compositions thereof for use in the treatment of macular degeneration, head injury (e.g.,
closed head injury), stroke (e.g., hemorrhagic stroke), reperfusion injury, and IBD. Such kits
may include one or more unit dosage forms of the compound or composition to be
administered to a subject. In certain embodiments, the kit may include enough unit dosage
forms for a course of treatment or for a particular time period (e.g., a week, 10 days, 14 days,
a month). The kits may also include packaging information describing the use or prescribing
information for the subject or a health care professional. Such information may be required
by a regulatory agency such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The kit may
also optionally include a device for administration of the compound or composition, for
example, a dropper for ocular administration or a syringe for parenteral administration.
[0017]         The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
accompanying Detailed Description, Examples, Claims, and Figures. Other features, objects,
and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and claims.
[0018]         The references, web pages, scientific journal articles, patent applications, and
issued patents cited in this application are incorporated herein by reference.
                                          DEFINITIONS
[0019]         Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in
more detail below. For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified in
accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry
and Physics, 75th Ed., inside cover, and specific functional groups are generally defined as
described therein. Additionally, general principles of organic chemistry, as well as specific
functional moieties and reactivity, are described in OrganicChemistry, Thomas Sorrell,
University Science Books, Sausalito, 1999; Smith and March March'sAdvanced Organic
Chemistry, 5h Edition, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 2001; Larock, Comprehensive
Organic Transformations,VCH Publishers, Inc., New York, 1989; Carruthers, Some Modern
Methods of Organic Synthesis, 3d Edition, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1987.
                                                7

     WO 2013/090750                                                                                                PCT/US2012/069795
[0020]                  The compounds of the present invention may exist in particular geometric or
stereoisomeric forms. The present invention contemplates all such compounds, including
cis- and trans-isomers, R- and S-enantiomers, diastereomers, (D)-isomers, (L)-isomers, the
racemic mixtures thereof, and other mixtures thereof, as falling within the scope of the
invention.
[0021]                  Where an isomer/enantiomer is preferred, it may, in some embodiments, be
provided substantially free of the corresponding enantiomer, and may also be referred to as
"optically enriched" or "enantiomerically enriched." "Optically enriched" and
"enantiomerically enriched," as used herein, means that a provided compound is made up of a
significantly greater proportion of one enantiomer. In certain embodiments, a compound of
the present invention is made up of at least about 70% by weight of a preferred enantiomer.
In certain embodiments, a compound of the present invention is made up of at least about
80% by weight of a preferred enantiomer. In certain embodiments, a compound of the
present invention is made up of at least about 90% by weight of a preferred enantiomer. In
other embodiments the compound is made up of at least about 95%, 98%, or 99% by weight
of a preferred enantiomer. Preferred enantiomers may be isolated from racemic mixtures by
any method known to those skilled in the art, including chiral high pressure liquid
chromatography (HPLC) and the formation and crystallization of chiral salts or prepared by
asymmetric syntheses. See, for example, Jacques et al., Enantiomers,Racemates and
Resolutions (Wiley Interscience, New York, 1981); Wilen et al., Tetrahedron33:2725 (1977);
Eliel, Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds (McGraw-Hill, NY, 1962); Wilen, Tables of
Resolving Agents and OpticalResolutions p. 268 (E.L. Eliel, Ed., Univ. of Notre Dame Press,
Notre Dame, IN 1972).
[0022]                  Unless otherwise stated, structures depicted herein are also meant to include
compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For
example, compounds having the depicted structures that differ only in the replacement of
                                                                                                              13
hydrogen by deuterium or tritium, or the replacement of a carbon by                                              C or 14C are within the
scope of this invention. Such compounds are useful, for example, as analytical tools, as
probes in biological assays, or as therapeutic agents in accordance with the present invention.
[0023]                  When a range of values is listed, it is intended to encompass each value and
sub-range within the range. For example "C1 4_ " is intended to encompass, C 1, C 2, C 3, C 4, C 5 ,
C 6 , C 1 _6 , C 1 _5 , C 1 _4 , C 1 _3 , C 1- 2 , C 2-6, C2-5 , C 2 _4 , C 2 -3 , C 3 _6 , C 3 _5 , C 3 _4 , C4_6 , C 4 _5 , and C5 -6.
[0024]                  The terms "purified," "substantially purified," and "isolated" as used herein
refer to a compound useful in the present invention being free of other, dissimilar compounds
                                                                       8

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
with which the compound is normally associated in its natural state, so that the compound
comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 50%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.9% of the mass, by weight, of a given sample or composition. In one
embodiment, these terms refer to the compound comprising at least 95%, 98%, 99%, or
99.9% of the mass, by weight, of a given sample or composition.
[0025]            The term "acyl," as used herein, refers to a group having the general formula
-C(=O)Rxl, -C(=O)ORxl, -C(=O)-O-C(=O)Rxl, -C(=O)SRxl, -C(=O)N(Rxl)                  2 , -C(=S)R' ,
-C(=S)N(Rxl)    2 , and -C(=S)S(Rxl), -C(=NRx )Rxl, -C(=NRx )ORxl, -C(=NRxl)SRxl, and
-C(=NRx )N(Rxl )2, wherein Rxl is hydrogen; halogen; substituted or unsubstituted hydroxyl;
substituted or unsubstituted thiol; substituted or unsubstituted amino; substituted or
unsubstituted acyl, cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
aliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched
heteroaliphatic; cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched alkyl;
cyclic or acyclic, substituted or unsubstituted, branched or unbranched alkenyl; substituted or
unsubstituted alkynyl; substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
heteroaryl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy, heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy,
aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy,
heteroarylthioxy, mono- or di- aliphaticamino, mono- or di- heteroaliphaticamino, mono
or di- alkylamino, mono- or di- heteroalkylamino, mono- or di- arylamino, or mono- or di
heteroarylamino; or two Rxl groups taken together form a 5- to 6- membered heterocyclic
ring. Exemplary acyl groups include aldehydes (-CHO), carboxylic acids (-CO2 H), ketones,
acyl halides, esters, amides, imines, carbonates, carbamates, and ureas. Acyl substituents
include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents described herein, that result in the
formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic,
heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro,
hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino,
arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted).
[0026]            The term "acyloxy" refers to a "substituted hydroxyl" of the formula (-OR'),
wherein R' is an optionally substituted acyl group, as defined herein, and the oxygen moiety
is directly attached to the parent molecule.
                                                 9

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
[0027]           The term "aliphatic," as used herein, includes both saturated and unsaturated,
nonaromatic, straight chain (i.e., unbranched), branched, acyclic, and cyclic (i.e., carbocyclic)
hydrocarbons, which are optionally substituted with one or more functional groups. As will
be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, "aliphatic" is intended herein to include, but
is not limited to, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, and cycloalkynyl moieties.
Thus, as used herein, the term "alkyl" includes straight, branched and cyclic alkyl groups.
An analogous convention applies to other generic terms such as "alkenyl", "alkynyl", and the
like. Furthermore, as used herein, the terms "alkyl", "alkenyl", "alkynyl", and the like
encompass both substituted and unsubstituted groups. In certain embodiments, as used herein,
"aliphatic" is used to indicate those aliphatic groups (cyclic, acyclic, substituted,
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched) having 1-20 carbon atoms. Aliphatic group
substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents described herein, that result
in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic,
heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro,
hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino,
arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted).
[0028]           The term "alkyl," as used herein, refers to saturated, straight- or branched
chain hydrocarbon radicals derived from a hydrocarbon moiety containing between one and
twenty carbon atoms by removal of a single hydrogen atom. In some embodiments, the alkyl
group employed in the invention contains 1-20 carbon atoms. In another embodiment, the
alkyl group employed contains 1-15 carbon atoms. In another embodiment, the alkyl group
employed contains 1-10 carbon atoms. In another embodiment, the alkyl group employed
contains 1-8 carbon atoms. In another embodiment, the alkyl group employed contains 1-5
carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl radicals include, but are not limited to, methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, iso-butyl, sec-butyl, sec-pentyl, iso-pentyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl,
neopentyl, n-hexyl, sec-hexyl, n-heptyl, n-octyl, n-decyl, n-undecyl, dodecyl, and the like,
which may bear one or more substituents. Alkyl group substituents include, but are not
limited to, any of the substituents described herein, that result in the formation of a stable
moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl,
acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo,
aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino,
                                                 10

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted).
[0029]          The term "alkenyl," as used herein, denotes a monovalent group derived from
a straight- or branched-chain hydrocarbon moiety having at least one carbon-carbon double
bond by the removal of a single hydrogen atom. In certain embodiments, the alkenyl group
employed in the invention contains 2-20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the alkenyl
group employed in the invention contains 2-15 carbon atoms. In another embodiment, the
alkenyl group employed contains 2-10 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments, the alkenyl
group contains 2-8 carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments, the alkenyl group contains 2-5
carbons. Alkenyl groups include, for example, ethenyl, propenyl, butenyl, 1-methyl-2
buten-1-yl, and the like, which may bear one or more substituents. Alkenyl group
substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents described herein, that result
in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic,
heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro,
hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino,
arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted).
[0030]          The term "alkynyl," as used herein, refers to a monovalent group derived from
a straight- or branched-chain hydrocarbon having at least one carbon-carbon triple bond by
the removal of a single hydrogen atom. In certain embodiments, the alkynyl group employed
in the invention contains 2-20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the alkynyl group
employed in the invention contains 2-15 carbon atoms. In another embodiment, the alkynyl
group employed contains 2-10 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments, the alkynyl group
contains 2-8 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments, the alkynyl group contains 2-5
carbon atoms. Representative alkynyl groups include, but are not limited to, ethynyl, 2
propynyl (propargyl), 1-propynyl, and the like, which may bear one or more substituents.
Alkynyl group substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents described
herein, that result in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano,
amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino,
                                                 11

    WO 2013/090750                                                                  PCT/US2012/069795
heteroalkylamino, arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy,
heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy, heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy,
heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy,
and the like, each of which may or may not be further substituted).
[0031]              Exemplary carbon atom substituents include, but are not limited to, halogen,
CN, -NO 2 , -N 3 , -SO 2 H, -SO 3 H, -OH, -OR", -ON(Rb) 2, -N(Re) 2 , -N(Rb)3±X-,
N(OR")Re, -SH, -SR-, -SSRc, -C(=O)Raa -CO 2 H, -CHO, -C(ORcc) 2, -CO 2 R",l
OC(=O)Raa, -OCO 2R", -C(=O)N(R')2, -OC(=O)N(R b)2, -NReC(=O)R", -NR'CO2R",
NR bC(=O)N(R b)2, -C(=NR           b)R-,    -C(=NR')OR", -OC(=NR')R", -OC(=NR')OR",
                bbb                 bb       bb                     b                   bb        aa
C(=NR')N(R')2, -OC(=NR                )N(R')2, -NRbbC(=NR        )N(R')2, -C(=O)NR         SO 2 R",
NR'SO2Raa, -SO 2N(Rb) 2 , -SO 2Raa, -SO 2OR", -OSO 2R", -S(=O)R", -OS(=O)R",
Si(R"aa)3, -OSi(R")3 -C(=S)N(Rbb)2, -C(=0)SR", -C(=S)SR"a,                 -SC(=S)SR"a,  -SC(=0)SR",
-OC(=O)SR", -SC(=O)OR", -SC(=O)R", -P(=0) 2R", -OP(=0) 2R", -P(=O)(R") 2,
OP(=O)(Raa) 2 , -OP(=O)(ORcc) 2, -P(=0) 2N(R b)2, -OP(=0) 2N(R b)2, -P(=O)(NR b)2,
OP(=O)(NR')2, -NReP(=O)(OR")2, -NR bP(=O)(NR')2, -P(Rc) 2 , -P(Rc) 3 , -OP(Rcc) 2 ,
OP(Rcc) 3 , -B(R")    2, -B(ORcc) 2 , -BR"(ORcc), C 1 _1  0 alkyl, C 1 _1
                                                                        0 perhaloalkyl, C 2 -i0 alkenyl,
C2-10 alkynyl, C 3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14 aryl, and 5-14
membered heteroaryl, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl,
and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 R d groups;
          or two geminal hydrogens on a carbon atom are replaced with the group =O, =S,
=NN(R b)2, =NNR'C(=O)R", =NNR bC(=O)ORaa, =NNR bS(=0) 2R", =NR b, or =NORcc;
          each instance of R' is, independently, selected from C 1 _1o alkyl, C 1 _1o perhaloalkyl,
C 2 -i0 alkenyl, C 2 -i0 alkynyl, C 3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14 aryl, and
5-14 membered heteroaryl, or two R' groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered
heterocyclyl or 5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
or 5 R d groups;
          each instance of R      is, independently, selected from hydrogen, -OH, -OR", -N(Rcc) 2,
-CN, -C(=O)R", -C(=O)N(Rcc) 2, -CO 2 R", -SO 2 R", -C(=NRcc)OR", -C(=NRcc)N(Rcc) 2 ,
SO 2 N(Rcc) 2 , -SO 2Rcc, -SO 2ORcc, -SOR", -C(=S)N(Rcc) 2, -C(=O)SRcc, -C(=S)SRcc,
P(=0) 2 R", -P(=O)(R") 2, -P(=0) 2 N(Rcc) 2 , -P(=O)(NRcc) 2, C1-10 alkyl, C1-10 perhaloalkyl, C2
10 alkenyl, C2-10 alkynyl, C 3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14 aryl, and 5
14 membered heteroaryl, or two R             groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered heterocyclyl
or 5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carbocyclyl,
                                                     12

    WO 2013/090750                                                                        PCT/US2012/069795
heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 Rdd
groups;
         each instance of R" is, independently, selected from hydrogen, C 1 _ 0 alkyl, C1 _10
perhaloalkyl, C2-io alkenyl, C 2 -io alkynyl, C3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl,
C6-  4 aryl, and 5-14 membered heteroaryl, or two R" groups are joined to form a 3-14
membered heterocyclyl or 5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl,
alkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1,
2,3, 4, or 5 R d groups;
         each instance of R d is, independently, selected from halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -N 3 ,
SO 2 H, -SO 3 H, -OH, -ORee, -ON(R )2, -N(R )2, -N(R )3*X-, -N(OR )R', -SH, -SRee,
SSR, -C(=O)R-, -CO 2 H, -CO 2 R-, -OC(=O)R-, -OCO 2Ree, -C(=O)N(Rff) 2 ,
OC(=O)N(R )2, -NR C(=O)Ree, -NRfCO 2 R , -NR C(=O)N(R )2, -C(=NR )OR ,
OC(=NR )R , -OC(=NR )OR                 , -C(=NR )N(R )2, -OC(=NR )N(R )2,
NR C(=NR )N(R ) 2 ,-NR SO 2R , -SO 2N(Rf)2, -SO 2 R-, -SO 2ORee, -OSO 2Ree, -S(=O)R",
-Si(R)    3 , -OSi(Ree) 3 , -C(=S)N(R)      2, -C(=O)SRee,      -C(=S)SRee, -SC(=S)SRee, -P(=0) 2 R",
P(=O)(R") 2 , -OP(=O)(R")         2, -OP(=O)(OR")       2, C 1 _- alkyl, C1 _- perhaloalkyl, C2- 6 alkenyl, C2
6 alkynyl, C3- 10   carbocyclyl, 3-10 membered heterocyclyl, C6 -10 aryl, 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and
heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 R99 groups, or two geminal R d
substituents can be joined to form =0 or =S;
         each instance of R" is, independently, selected from C1 _6 alkyl, C 14_ perhaloalkyl, C2
6 alkenyl, C2- 6   alkynyl, C3- 10 carbocyclyl, C6- 10 aryl, 3-10 membered heterocyclyl, and 3-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl,
and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 R99 groups;
         each instance of Rf is, independently, selected from hydrogen, C1 _6 alkyl, C1 _6
perhaloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-10 membered heterocyclyl, C6 _
10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, or two R groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered
heterocyclyl or 5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
or 5 R99 groups; and
         each instance of R99 is, independently, halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -N 3 , -SO              2 H, -SO    3 H,
OH, -OC 1 6_ alkyl, -ON(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2 , -N(C      1 _6 alkyl) 2 , -N(C  1 _6 alkyl) 3*X-, -NH(C 1 _6
alkyl) 2*X-, -NH 2(C 1 _6 alkyl) X-, -NH 3*X-, -N(OC 1 _6 alkyl)(C 1 _6 alkyl), -N(OH)(C               1 _6 alkyl),
-NH(OH), -SH, -SC         1 6_ alkyl, -SS(C     _ alkyl), -C(=O)(C
                                              1 6                        1_
                                                                          6  alkyl), -CO 2H, -C0 2(C1 _6 alkyl),
                                                        13

    WO 2013/090750                                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
-OC(=O)(C         1_
                   6 alkyl), -OC0     2(C1 _
                                           6  alkyl), -C(=O)NH 2 , -C(=O)N(C          1 _6 alkyl) 2,
OC(=O)NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), -NHC(=O)( C 1 _ alkyl), -N(C                     1_
                                                                          6 alkyl)C(=O)( C 1 6 alkyl),
NHCO 2 (C 1 _6 alkyl), -NHC(=O)N(C             1_6 alkyl) 2 , -NHC(=O)NH(C         1_
                                                                                    6 alkyl), -NHC(=O)NH 2,
C(=NH)O(C 1_6 alkyl),-OC(=NH)(C1-6 alkyl), -OC(=NH)OC1-6 alkyl, -C(=NH)N(C1-6
alkyl) 2 , -C(=NH)NH(C1_ 6 alkyl), -C(=NH)NH                  2 , -OC(=NH)N(C1-6      alkyl) 2 , -OC(NH)NH(C        1 _
6 alkyl), -OC(NH)NH 2, -NHC(NH)N(C                  1_
                                                     6 alkyl) 2 , -NHC(=NH)NH          2, -NHSO 2 (C1 _  6  alkyl),
SO 2N(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2 , -SO 2NH(C 1_6 alkyl), -SO 2NH 2,-SO 2C1 _- alkyl, -S0               2 0C 1 _
                                                                                                   6 alkyl,
OS0 2C1 _- alkyl, -SOCi          6 alkyl, -Si(C 1 _- alkyl) 3, -OSi(C 1 _6 alkyl) 3 -C(=S)N(C 1_6 alkyl) 2 ,
C(=S)NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), C(=S)NH 2, -C(=O)S(C                1 6_   alkyl), -C(=S)SC    _
                                                                                    1 6  alkyl, -SC(=S)SC      1_
                                                                                                                6
alkyl, -P(=0) 2 (C1 _- alkyl), -P(=O)(C1-6 alkyl) 2 , -OP(=O)(C1-6 alkyl) 2 , -OP(=O)(OC1-6
alkyl) 2 , C 1 _6 alkyl, C 1 _6 perhaloalkyl, C2- 6 alkenyl, C2- 6 alkynyl, C 3 _10 carbocyclyl, C6 _10 aryl,
3-10 membered heterocyclyl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl; or two geminal R99 substituents
can be joined to form =0 or =S; wherein X- is a counterion.
[0032]               The term "amino," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (-NH2 ). A
"substituted amino" refers either to a mono-substituted amine (-NHRh) of a disubstitued
amine (-NRh2 ), wherein the Rh substituent is any substituent as described herein that results in
the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., a suitable amino protecting group; aliphatic, alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, amino, nitro, hydroxyl,
thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino,
heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted). In certain embodiments, the Rh substituents of the di
substituted amino group(-NRh2) form a 5- to 6-membered heterocyclic ring.
[0033]               The term "alkoxy" refers to a "substituted hydroxyl" of the formula (-OR),
wherein R' is an optionally substituted alkyl group as defined herein, and the oxygen moiety
is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0034]               The term "alkylthioxy" refers to a "substituted thiol" of the formula (-SR),
wherein R' is an optionally substituted alkyl group as defined herein, and the sulfur moiety is
directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0035]               The term "alkylamino" refers to a "substituted amino" of the formula (-NRh2),
wherein Rh is, independently, a hydrogen or an optionally substituted alkyl group as defined
herein, and the nitrogen moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
                                                          14

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
[0036]          The term "aryl," as used herein, refer to stable aromatic mono- or polycyclic
ring system having 3-20 ring atoms, of which all the ring atoms are carbon, and which may
be substituted or unsubstituted. In certain embodiments of the present invention, "aryl" refers
to a mono, bi, or tricyclic C 4-C 20 aromatic ring system having one, two, or three aromatic
rings which include, but not limited to, phenyl, biphenyl, naphthyl, and the like, which may
bear one or more substituents. Aryl substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the
substituents described herein, that result in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic,
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, oxo, imino,
thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino,
heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl,
arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy, heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy,
aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy,
heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or may not be further substituted).
[0037]          The term "arylalkyl," as used herein, refers to an aryl substituted alkyl group,
wherein the terms "aryl" and "alkyl" are defined herein, and wherein the aryl group is
attached to the alkyl group, which in turn is attached to the parent molecule. An exemplary
arylalkyl group is benzyl.
[0038]          The term "aryloxy" refers to a "substituted hydroxyl" of the formula (-OR'),
wherein R' is an optionally substituted aryl group as defined herein, and the oxygen moiety is
directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0039]          The term "arylamino," refers to a "substituted amino" of the formula (-NRh2 ),
wherein Rh is, independently, a hydrogen or an optionally substituted aryl group as defined
herein, and the nitrogen moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0040]          The term "arylthioxy" refers to a "substituted thiol" of the formula (-SR'),
wherein R' is an optionally substituted aryl group as defined herein, and the sulfur moiety is
directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0041]          The term "azido," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (-N).
[0042]          The term "cyano," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (-CN).
[0043]          The terms "halo" and "halogen" as used herein refer to an atom selected from
fluorine (fluoro, -F), chlorine (chloro, -Cl), bromine (bromo, -Br), and iodine (iodo, -I).
[0044]          The term "heteroaliphatic," as used herein, refers to an aliphatic moiety, as
defined herein, which includes both saturated and unsaturated, nonaromatic, straight chain
(i.e., unbranched), branched, acyclic, cyclic (i.e., heterocyclic), or polycyclic hydrocarbons,
which are optionally substituted with one or more functional groups, and that contain one or
                                                 15

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
more oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, or silicon atoms, e.g., in place of carbon atoms.
In certain embodiments, heteroaliphatic moieties are substituted by independent replacement
of one or more of the hydrogen atoms thereon with one or more substituents. As will be
appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, "heteroaliphatic" is intended herein to include,
but is not limited to, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, heterocycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkenyl, and heterocycloalkynyl moieties. Thus, the term "heteroaliphatic"
includes the terms "heteroalkyl," "heteroalkenyl", "heteroalkynyl", and the like. Furthermore,
as used herein, the terms "heteroalkyl", "heteroalkenyl", "heteroalkynyl", and the like
encompass both substituted and unsubstituted groups. In certain embodiments, as used herein,
"heteroaliphatic" is used to indicate those heteroaliphatic groups (cyclic, acyclic, substituted,
unsubstituted, branched or unbranched) having 1-20 carbon atoms. Heteroaliphatic group
substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents described herein, that result
in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic,
heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano,
amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino,
heteroalkylamino, arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy,
heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy, heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy,
heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy,
and the like, each of which may or may not be further substituted).
[0045]          The term "heteroalkyl," as used herein, refers to an alkyl moiety, as defined
herein, which contain one or more oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, or silicon atoms, e.g.,
in place of carbon atoms.
[0046]          The term "heteroalkenyl," as used herein, refers to an alkenyl moiety, as
defined herein, which contain one or more oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, or silicon
atoms, e.g., in place of carbon atoms.
[0047]          The term "heteroalkynyl," as used herein, refers to an alkynyl moiety, as
defined herein, which contain one or more oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, or silicon
atoms, e.g., in place of carbon atoms.
[0048]          The term "heteroalkylamino" refers to a "substituted amino" of the formula (
NRh2 ), wherein Rh is, independently, a hydrogen or an optionally substituted heteroalkyl
group, as defined herein, and the nitrogen moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0049]          The term "heteroalkyloxy" refers to a "substituted hydroxyl" of the formula (
OR'), wherein R' is an optionally substituted heteroalkyl group, as defined herein, and the
oxygen moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
                                                 16

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
[0050]           The term "heteroalkylthioxy" refers to a "substituted thiol" of the formula (
SR), wherein R' is an optionally substituted heteroalkyl group, as defined herein, and the
sulfur moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0051]           The term "heterocyclic," "heterocycles," or "heterocyclyl," as used herein,
refers to a cyclic heteroaliphatic group. A heterocyclic group refers to a non-aromatic,
partially unsaturated or fully saturated, 3- to 12-membered ring system, which includes
single rings of 3 to 8 atoms in size, and bi- and tri-cyclic ring systems which may include
aromatic five- or six-membered aryl or heteroaryl groups fused to a non-aromatic ring.
These heterocyclic rings include those having from one to three heteroatoms independently
selected from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, in which the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may
optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. In certain
embodiments, the term heterocyclic refers to a non-aromatic 5-, 6-, or 7-membered ring or
polycyclic group wherein at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from 0, S, and N
(wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized), and the remaining
ring atoms are carbon, the radical being joined to the rest of the molecule via any of the ring
atoms. Heterocyclyl groups include, but are not limited to, a bi- or tri-cyclic group,
comprising fused five, six, or seven-membered rings having between one and three
heteroatoms independently selected from the oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, wherein (i) each
5-membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds, each 6-membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds,
and each 7-membered ring has 0 to 3 double bonds, (ii) the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms
may be optionally oxidized, (iii) the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized, and
(iv) any of the above heterocyclic rings may be fused to an aryl or heteroaryl ring.
Exemplary heterocycles include azacyclopropanyl, azacyclobutanyl, 1,3-diazatidinyl,
piperidinyl, piperazinyl, azocanyl, thiaranyl, thietanyl, tetrahydrothiophenyl, dithiolanyl,
thiacyclohexanyl, oxiranyl, oxetanyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropuranyl, dioxanyl,
oxathiolanyl, morpholinyl, thioxanyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, and the like, which may bear one
or more substituents. Substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents
described herein, that result in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl,
alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, oxo, imino,
thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino,
heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl,
arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy, heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy,
aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy,
heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or may not be further substituted).
                                                17

    WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
[0052]           The term "heteroaryl," as used herein, refer to stable aromatic mono- or
polycyclic ring system having 3-20 ring atoms, of which one ring atom is selected from S, 0,
and N; zero, one, or two ring atoms are additional heteroatoms independently selected from S,
0, and N; and the remaining ring atoms are carbon, the radical being joined to the rest of the
molecule via any of the ring atoms. Exemplary heteroaryls include, but are not limited to
pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazinyl,
tetrazinyl, pyyrolizinyl, indolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, benzoimidazolyl, indazolyl,
quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinolizinyl, cinnolinyl, quinazolynyl, phthalazinyl, naphthridinyl,
quinoxalinyl, thiophenyl, thianaphthenyl, furanyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiazolyl, thiazolynyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolynyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiaziolyl, oxadiaziolyl, and the like,
which may bear one or more substituents. Heteroaryl substituents include, but are not limited
to, any of the substituents described herein, that result in the formation of a stable moiety
(e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl,
sulfinyl, sulfonyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol,
halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino,
heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted).
[0053]           The term "heteroarylene," as used herein, refers to a biradical derived from an
heteroaryl group, as defined herein, by removal of two hydrogen atoms. Heteroarylene
groups may be substituted or unsubstituted. Additionally, heteroarylene groups may be
incorporated as a linker group into an alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
heteroalkenylene, or heteroalkynylene group, as defined herein. Heteroarylene group
substituents include, but are not limited to, any of the substituents described herein, that result
in the formation of a stable moiety (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic,
heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro,
hydroxyl, thiol, halo, aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino,
arylamino, heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy, alkylthioxy,
heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each of which may or
may not be further substituted).
                                                 18

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
[0054]           The term "heteroarylamino" refers to a "substituted amino" of the (-NRh2 ),
wherein Rh is, independently, a hydrogen or an optionally substituted heteroaryl group, as
defined herein, and the nitrogen moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0055]           The term "heteroaryloxy" refers to a "substituted hydroxyl" of the formula (
OR'), wherein R' is an optionally substituted heteroaryl group, as defined herein, and the
oxygen moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0056]           The term "heteroarylthioxy" refers to a "substituted thiol" of the formula (
SR), wherein R' is an optionally substituted heteroaryl group, as defined herein, and the
sulfur moiety is directly attached to the parent molecule.
[0057]           The term "hydroxy," or "hydroxyl," as used herein, refers to a group of the
formula (-OH). A "substituted hydroxyl" refers to a group of the formula (-OR'), wherein R'
can be any substituent which results in a stable moiety (e.g., a suitable hydroxyl protecting
group; aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl,
nitro, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, and the like, each of which may or may not be further substituted).
[0058]           The term "imino," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (=NR'),
wherein R' corresponds to hydrogen or any substituent as described herein, that results in the
formation of a stable moiety (for example, a suitable amino protecting group; aliphatic, alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, acyl, amino, hydroxyl,
alkylaryl, arylalkyl, and the like, each of which may or may not be further substituted). In
certain embodiments, imino refers to =NH wherein R' is hydrogen.
[0059]           The term "isocyano," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (-NC).
[0060]           The term "nitro," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (-NO2).
[0061]           The term "oxo," as used herein, refers to a group of the formula (=O).
[0062]           The term "stable moiety," as used herein, preferably refers to a moiety which
possess stability sufficient to allow manufacture, and which maintains its integrity for a
sufficient period of time to be useful for the purposes detailed herein.
[0063]           A "protecting group," as used herein, is well known in the art and include
those described in detail in Greene's Protective Groups in OrganicSynthesis, P. G. M. Wuts
and T. W. Greene, 4h edition, Wiley-Interscience, 2006, the entirety of which is incorporated
herein by reference. Suitable amino-protecting groups include methyl carbamate, ethyl
carbamante, 9-fluorenylmethyl carbamate (Fmoc), 9-(2-sulfo)fluorenylmethyl carbamate, 9
(2,7-dibromo)fluoroenylmethyl carbamate, 2,7-di-t-butyl-[9-(10,1 0-dioxo- 10,10,10,10
tetrahydrothioxanthyl)]methyl carbamate (DBD-Tmoc), 4-methoxyphenacyl carbamate
(Phenoc), 2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbamate (Troc), 2-trimethylsilylethyl carbamate (Teoc), 2
                                                 19

    WO 2013/090750                                                      PCT/US2012/069795
phenylethyl carbamate (hZ), 1-(1-adamantyl)-1-methylethyl carbamate (Adpoc), 1,1
dimethyl-2-haloethyl carbamate, 1,1-dimethyl-2,2-dibromoethyl carbamate (DB-t-BOC),
1,1-dimethyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbamate (TCBOC), 1-methyl-1-(4-biphenylyl)ethyl
carbamate (Bpoc), 1-(3,5-di-t-butylphenyl)-1-methylethyl carbamate (t-Bumeoc), 2-(2'
and 4'-pyridyl)ethyl carbamate (Pyoc), 2-(NN-dicyclohexylcarboxamido)ethyl carbamate,
t-butyl carbamate (BOC), 1-adamantyl carbamate (Adoc), vinyl carbamate (Voc), allyl
carbamate (Alloc), 1-isopropylallyl carbamate (Ipaoc), cinnamyl carbamate (Coc), 4
nitrocinnamyl carbamate (Noc), 8-quinolyl carbamate, N-hydroxypiperidinyl carbamate,
alkyldithio carbamate, benzyl carbamate (Cbz), p-methoxybenzyl carbamate (Moz), p
nitobenzyl carbamate, p-bromobenzyl carbamate, p-chlorobenzyl carbamate, 2,4
dichlorobenzyl carbamate, 4-methylsulfinylbenzyl carbamate (Msz), 9-anthrylmethyl
carbamate, diphenylmethyl carbamate, 2-methylthioethyl carbamate, 2-methylsulfonylethyl
carbamate, 2-(p-toluenesulfonyl)ethyl carbamate, [2-(1,3-dithianyl)]methyl carbamate
(Dmoc), 4-methylthiophenyl carbamate (Mtpc), 2,4-dimethylthiophenyl carbamate (Bmpc),
2-phosphonioethyl carbamate (Peoc), 2-triphenylphosphonioisopropyl carbamate (Ppoc),
1, 1-dimethyl-2-cyanoethyl carbamate, m-chloro-p-acyloxybenzyl carbamate, p
(dihydroxyboryl)benzyl carbamate, 5-benzisoxazolylmethyl carbamate, 2-(trifluoromethyl)
6-chromonylmethyl carbamate (Teroc), m-nitrophenyl carbamate, 3,5-dimethoxybenzyl
carbamate, o-nitrobenzyl carbamate, 3,4-dimethoxy-6-nitrobenzyl carbamate, phenyl(o
nitrophenyl)methyl carbamate, phenothiazinyl-(10)-carbonyl derivative, N'-p
toluenesulfonylaminocarbonyl derivative, N'-phenylaminothiocarbonyl derivative, t-amyl
carbamate, S-benzyl thiocarbamate, p-cyanobenzyl carbamate, cyclobutyl carbamate,
cyclohexyl carbamate, cyclopentyl carbamate, cyclopropylmethyl carbamate, p
decyloxybenzyl carbamate, 2,2-dimethoxycarbonylvinyl carbamate, o-(NN
dimethylcarboxamido)benzyl carbamate, 1,1-dimethyl-3-(NN-dimethylcarboxamido)propyl
carbamate, 1,1-dimethylpropynyl carbamate, di(2-pyridyl)methyl carbamate, 2
furanylmethyl carbamate, 2-iodoethyl carbamate, isoborynl carbamate, isobutyl carbamate,
isonicotinyl carbamate, p-(p'-methoxyphenylazo)benzyl carbamate, 1-methylcyclobutyl
carbamate, 1-methylcyclohexyl carbamate, 1-methyl-1-cyclopropylmethyl carbamate, 1
methyl-1-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl carbamate, 1-methyl-1-(p-phenylazophenyl)ethyl
carbamate, 1-methyl-1-phenylethyl carbamate, 1-methyl-1-(4-pyridyl)ethyl carbamate,
phenyl carbamate, p-(phenylazo)benzyl carbamate, 2,4,6-tri-t-butylphenyl carbamate, 4
(trimethylammonium)benzyl carbamate, 2,4,6-trimethylbenzyl carbamate, formamide,
acetamide, chloroacetamide, trichloroacetamide, trifluoroacetamide, phenylacetamide, 3
                                            20

    WO 2013/090750                                                    PCT/US2012/069795
phenylpropanamide, picolinamide, 3-pyridylcarboxamide, N-benzoylphenylalanyl derivative,
benzamide, p-phenylbenzamide, o-nitophenylacetamide, o-nitrophenoxyacetamide,
acetoacetamide, (N'-dithiobenzyloxycarbonylamino)acetamide,   3 -(p
hydroxyphenyl)propanamide, 3-(o-nitrophenyl)propanamide, 2-methyl-2-(o
nitrophenoxy)propanamide, 2-methyl-2-(o-phenylazophenoxy)propanamide, 4
chlorobutanamide, 3-methyl-3-nitrobutanamide, o-nitrocinnamide, N-acetylmethionine
derivative, o-nitrobenzamide, o-(benzoyloxymethyl)benzamide, 4,5-diphenyl-3-oxazolin
2-one, N-phthalimide, N-dithiasuccinimide (Dts), N-2,3-diphenylmaleimide, N-2,5
dimethylpyrrole, N-1,1,4,4-tetramethyldisilylazacyclopentane adduct (STABASE), 5
substituted 1,3-dimethyl-1,3,5-triazacyclohexan-2-one, 5-substituted 1,3-dibenzyl-1,3,5
triazacyclohexan-2-one, 1-substituted 3,5-dinitro-4-pyridone, N-methylamine, N
allylamine, N-[2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy]methylamine (SEM), N-3-acetoxypropylamine, N
(1-isopropyl-4-nitro-2-oxo-3-pyroolin-3-yl)amine, quaternary ammonium salts, N
benzylamine, N-di(4-methoxyphenyl)methylamine, N-5-dibenzosuberylamine, N
triphenylmethylamine (Tr), N-[(4-methoxyphenyl)diphenylmethyl]amine (MMTr), N-9
phenylfluorenylamine (PhF), N-2,7-dichloro-9-fluorenylmethyleneamine, N
ferrocenylmethylamino (Fcm), N-2-picolylamino N'-oxide, N-1,1
dimethylthiomethyleneamine, N-benzylideneamine, N-p-methoxybenzylideneamine, N
diphenylmethyleneamine, N-[(2-pyridyl)mesityl]methyleneamine, N-(N',N'
dimethylaminomethylene)amine, N,N'-isopropylidenediamine, N-p-nitrobenzylideneamine,
N-salicylideneamine, N-5-chlorosalicylideneamine, N-(5-chloro-2
hydroxyphenyl)phenylmethyleneamine, N-cyclohexylideneamine, N-(5,5-dimethyl-3-oxo
1-cyclohexenyl)amine, N-borane derivative, N-diphenylborinic acid derivative, N
[phenyl(pentacarbonylchromium- or tungsten)carbonyl]amine, N-copper chelate, N-zinc
chelate, N-nitroamine, N-nitrosoamine, amine N-oxide, diphenylphosphinamide (Dpp),
dimethylthiophosphinamide (Mpt), diphenylthiophosphinamide (Ppt), dialkyl
phosphoramidates, dibenzyl phosphoramidate, diphenyl phosphoramidate,
benzenesulfenamide, o-nitrobenzenesulfenamide (Nps), 2,4-dinitrobenzenesulfenamide,
pentachlorobenzenesulfenamide, 2-nitro-4-methoxybenzenesulfenamide,
triphenylmethylsulfenamide, 3-nitropyridinesulfenamide (Npys), p-toluenesulfonamide (Ts),
benzenesulfonamide, 2,3,6,-trimethyl-4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mtr), 2,4,6
trimethoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mtb), 2,6-dimethyl-4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Pme),
2,3,5,6-tetramethyl-4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mte), 4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide
(Mbs), 2,4,6-trimethylbenzenesulfonamide (Mts), 2,6-dimethoxy-4
                                             21

    WO 2013/090750                                                         PCT/US2012/069795
methylbenzenesulfonamide (iMds), 2,2,5,7,8-pentamethylchroman-6-sulfonamide (Pme),
methanesulfonamide (Ms), 0 -trimethylsilylethanesulfonamide (SES), 9
anthracenesulfonamide, 4-(4',8'-dimethoxynaphthylmethyl)benzenesulfonamide (DNMBS),
benzylsulfonamide, trifluoromethylsulfonamide, and phenacylsulfonamide.
[0064]          A "suitable hydroxyl protecting group" as used herein, is well known in the art
and includes those described in detail in Greene (1999). Suitable hydroxyl protecting groups
include methyl, methoxylmethyl (MOM), methylthiomethyl (MTM), t-butylthiomethyl,
(phenyldimethylsilyl)methoxymethyl (SMOM), benzyloxymethyl (BOM), p
methoxybenzyloxymethyl (PMBM), (4-methoxyphenoxy)methyl (p-AOM), guaiacolmethyl
(GUM), t-butoxymethyl, 4-pentenyloxymethyl (POM), siloxymethyl, 2
methoxyethoxymethyl (MEM), 2,2,2-trichloroethoxymethyl, bis(2-chloroethoxy)methyl, 2
(trimethylsilyl)ethoxymethyl (SEMOR), tetrahydropyranyl (THP), 3
bromotetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrothiopyranyl, 1-methoxycyclohexyl, 4
methoxytetrahydropyranyl (MTHP), 4-methoxytetrahydrothiopyranyl, 4
methoxytetrahydrothiopyranyl S,S-dioxide, 1-[(2-chloro-4-methyl)phenyl]-4
methoxypiperidin-4-yl (CTMP), 1,4-dioxan-2-yl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothiofuranyl,
2,3,3a,4,5,6,7,7a-octahydro-7,8,8-trimethyl-4,7-methanobenzofuran-2-yl,        1-ethoxyethyl,
1-(2-chloroethoxy)ethyl, 1-methyl-1-methoxyethyl, 1-methyl-1-benzyloxyethyl, 1
methyl-1-benzyloxy-2-fluoroethyl, 2,2,2-trichloroethyl, 2-trimethylsilylethyl, 2
(phenylselenyl)ethyl, t-butyl, allyl, p-chlorophenyl, p-methoxyphenyl, 2,4-dinitrophenyl,
benzyl, p-methoxybenzyl, 3,4-dimethoxybenzyl, o-nitrobenzyl, p-nitrobenzyl, p-halobenzyl,
2,6-dichlorobenzyl, p-cyanobenzyl, p-phenylbenzyl, 2-picolyl, 4-picolyl, 3-methyl-2
picolyl N-oxido, diphenylmethyl, p,p'-dinitrobenzhydryl, 5-dibenzosuberyl, triphenylmethyl,
 a -naphthyldiphenylmethyl, p-methoxyphenyldiphenylmethyl, di(p
methoxyphenyl)phenylmethyl, tri(p-methoxyphenyl)methyl, 4-(4'
bromophenacyloxyphenyl)diphenylmethyl, 4,4',4"-tris(4,5
dichlorophthalimidophenyl)methyl, 4,4',4"-tris(levulinoyloxyphenyl)methyl, 4,4',4"
tris(benzoyloxyphenyl)methyl, 3-(imidazol-1-yl)bis(4',4"-dimethoxyphenyl)methyl, 1,1
bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-l'-pyrenylmethyl, 9-anthryl, 9-(9-phenyl)xanthenyl, 9-(9-phenyl
10-oxo)anthryl, 1,3-benzodithiolan-2-yl, benzisothiazolyl S,S-dioxido, trimethylsilyl
(TMS), triethylsilyl (TES), triisopropylsilyl (TIPS), dimethylisopropylsilyl (IPDMS),
diethylisopropylsilyl (DEIPS), dimethylthexylsilyl, t-butyldimethylsilyl (TBDMS), t
butyldiphenylsilyl (TBDPS), tribenzylsilyl, tri-p-xylylsilyl, triphenylsilyl,
                                               22

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
diphenylmethylsilyl (DPMS), t-butylmethoxyphenylsilyl (TBMPS), formate, benzoylformate,
acetate, chloroacetate, dichloroacetate, trichloroacetate, trifluoroacetate, methoxyacetate,
triphenylmethoxyacetate, phenoxyacetate, p-chlorophenoxyacetate, 3-phenylpropionate, 4
oxopentanoate (levulinate), 4,4-(ethylenedithio)pentanoate (levulinoyldithioacetal), pivaloate,
adamantoate, crotonate, 4-methoxycrotonate, benzoate, p-phenylbenzoate, 2,4,6
trimethylbenzoate (mesitoate), alkyl methyl carbonate, 9-fluorenylmethyl carbonate (Fmoc),
alkyl ethyl carbonate, alkyl 2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate (Troc), 2-(trimethylsilyl)ethyl
carbonate (TMSEC), 2-(phenylsulfonyl) ethyl carbonate (Psec), 2-(triphenylphosphonio)
ethyl carbonate (Peoc), alkyl isobutyl carbonate, alkyl vinyl carbonate alkyl allyl carbonate,
alkyl p-nitrophenyl carbonate, alkyl benzyl carbonate, alkyl p-methoxybenzyl carbonate,
alkyl 3,4-dimethoxybenzyl carbonate, alkyl o-nitrobenzyl carbonate, alkyl p-nitrobenzyl
carbonate, alkyl S-benzyl thiocarbonate, 4-ethoxy-1-napththyl carbonate, methyl
dithiocarbonate, 2-iodobenzoate, 4-azidobutyrate, 4-nitro-4-methylpentanoate, o
(dibromomethyl)benzoate, 2-formylbenzenesulfonate, 2-(methylthiomethoxy)ethyl, 4
(methylthiomethoxy)butyrate, 2-(methylthiomethoxymethyl)benzoate, 2,6-dichloro-4
methylphenoxyacetate, 2,6-dichloro-4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenoxyacetate, 2,4
bis(1,1-dimethylpropyl)phenoxyacetate, chlorodiphenylacetate, isobutyrate, monosuccinoate,
(E)-2-methyl-2-butenoate, o-(methoxycarbonyl)benzoate, a -naphthoate, nitrate, alkyl
N,N,N',N'-tetramethylphosphorodiamidate, alkyl N-phenylcarbamate, borate,
dimethylphosphinothioyl, alkyl 2,4-dinitrophenylsulfenate, sulfate, methanesulfonate
(mesylate), benzylsulfonate, and tosylate (Ts). For protecting 1,2- or 1,3-diols, the
protecting groups include methylene acetal, ethylidene acetal, 1-t-butylethylidene ketal, 1
phenylethylidene ketal, (4-methoxyphenyl)ethylidene acetal, 2,2,2-trichloroethylidene acetal,
acetonide, cyclopentylidene ketal, cyclohexylidene ketal, cycloheptylidene ketal, benzylidene
acetal, p-methoxybenzylidene acetal, 2,4-dimethoxybenzylidene ketal, 3,4
dimethoxybenzylidene acetal, 2-nitrobenzylidene acetal, methoxymethylene acetal,
ethoxymethylene acetal, dimethoxymethylene ortho ester, 1-methoxyethylidene ortho ester,
1-ethoxyethylidine ortho ester, 1,2-dimethoxyethylidene ortho ester, a
methoxybenzylidene ortho ester, 1-(NN-dimethylamino)ethylidene derivative, a -(N,N'
dimethylamino)benzylidene derivative, 2-oxacyclopentylidene ortho ester, di-t-butylsilylene
group (DTBS), 1,3-(1,1,3,3-tetraisopropyldisiloxanylidene) derivative (TIPDS), tetra-t
butoxydisiloxane-1,3-diylidene derivative (TBDS), cyclic carbonates, cyclic boronates, ethyl
boronate, and phenyl boronate.
                                                23

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
[0065]           As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to those
salts which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with
the tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response
and the like, and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. Pharmaceutically
acceptable salts are well known in the art. For example, Berge et al., describe
pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail in J. PharmaceuticalSciences, 1977, 66, 1-19,
incorporated herein by reference. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this
invention include those derived from suitable inorganic and organic acids and bases.
Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable, nontoxic acid addition salts are salts of an amino
group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric
acid, sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic acid, oxalic acid,
maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid or by using other methods
used in the art such as ion exchange. Other pharmaceutically acceptable salts include adipate,
alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bisulfate, borate, butyrate,
camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate, dodecylsulfate,
ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate, glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate, gluconate,
hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate, lactobionate,
lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate, maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2
naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate,
persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate,
sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate, undecanoate, valerate salts, and the like.
Salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium
and N*(CI 4 alkyl) 4 salts. Representative alkali or alkaline earth metal salts include sodium,
lithium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and the like. Further pharmaceutically acceptable
salts include, when appropriate, nontoxic ammonium, quaternary ammonium, and amine
cations formed using counterions such as halide, hydroxide, carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate,
nitrate, loweralkyl sulfonate, and aryl sulfonate.
[0066]           The term "subject," as used herein, refers to any animal. In certain
embodiments, the subject is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the term "subject", as used
herein, refers to a human (e.g., a man, a woman, or a child). The human may be of either sex
and may be at any stage of development. In certain embodiments, the subject has been
diagnosed with the condition or disease to be treated (e.g., macular degeneration, stroke, IBD,
closed head injury). In other embodiments, the subject is at risk of developing the condition
or disease. In certain embodiments, the subject is an experimental animal (e.g., mouse, rat,
                                                 24

    WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
dog, primate). The experimental animal may be genetically engineered. In certain
embodiments, the subject is a domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat, bird, horse, cow, goat,
sheep).
[0067]          The terms "administer," "administering," or "administration," as used herein
refers to implanting, absorbing, ingesting, injecting, or inhaling a compound of Formula (I)
or a pharmaceutical composition thereof.
[0068]          As used herein, the terms "treatment," "treat," and "treating" refer to reversing,
alleviating, delaying the onset of, or inhibiting the progress of a disease or disorder, or one or
more signs or symptoms thereof, described herein. In some embodiments, treatment may be
administered after one or more signs or symptoms have developed or have been observed. In
other embodiments, treatment may be administered in the absence of signs or symptoms of
the disease or condition. For example, treatment may be administered to a susceptible
individual prior to the onset of symptoms (e.g., in light of a history of symptoms and/or in
light of genetic or other susceptibility factors). Treatment may also be continued after
symptoms have resolved, for example to delay or prevent recurrence.
[0069]          The terms "effective amount" and "therapeutically effective amount," as used
herein, refer to the amount or concentration of an inventive compound, that, when
administered to a subject, is effective to at least partially treat a condition from which the
subject is suffering (e.g., chronic inflammatory disease, autoimmune disease, dry eye
syndrome, fibrosis, scar formation, angiogenesis, viral infection, malaria, ischemic damage,
transplant and implant rejection, neurodegenerative disease, or a cosmetic indication).
[0070]          The term "focal iron overload" refers to any disease or condition that involves
the accumulation of unmanaged iron in a tissue or organ. Focal iron overload typically
involves less than the subject's whole body but may involve more than one organ or tissue.
Unmanaged iron in any tissue or organ is typically undesired and can be the focus of the
treatments of the present invention. The treatment may involve the removal of as much iron
as possible from the tissue or organ or may only involve the removal of excess iron.
Examples of disease and conditions associated with focal iron overload include, but are not
limited to, macular degeneration, IBD, reperfusion injury, stroke including hemorrhagic
stroke, and closed head injury; however, any disease or condition of focal iron overload may
be treated as described herein. In certain embodiments, the term "focal iron overload" does
not include diseases or conditions associated with global iron overload (e.g., global iron
overload associated with chronic transfusion therapy, hereditary hemochromatosis, etc.). The
                                                 25

    WO 2013/090750                                                         PCT/US2012/069795
treatment of focal iron overload may be systemic or local administration of an effective
amount of a compound of Formula (I).
[0071]          The term "reactive oxygen species" or "ROS" refers to molecules or ions
formed by the incomplete reduction of oxygen. Reactive oxygen species include superoxide
anion (02' ), peroxides such as hydrogen peroxide (H 20 2 ), hydroxyl radical (H0), and
hypochlorous acid (HClO). These molecules are typically chemically reactive. Reactive
oxygen species may be formed by any number of mechanisms (e.g. enzymatically, by
ionizing radiation, by reaction oxygen with a metal). In certain embodiments, the reactive
                                                                                   ±2
oxygen species are formed by the reduction of oxygen by an iron ion such as Fe'.
[0072]          The term "closed head injury" refers to any injury to the head that does not
penetrate the skull. Closed head injuries may result from falls, blasts, accidents including
vehicular accidents, and assaults. Closed head injuries can lead to hemorrhage or brain
swelling, which can result in increased intracranial pressure, which can in turn lead to
permanent brain damage or even death. Various types of closed head injury include
concussions, brain contusions, diffuse axonal injury, and hematomas.
[0073]          The term "tautomer" refers to a particular isomer of a compound in which a
hydrogen and double bond have changed position with respect to the other atoms of the
molecule. For a pair of tautomers to exist there must be a mechanism for interconversion.
Examples of tautomers include keto-enol forms, imine-enamine forms, amide-imino alcohol
forms, amidine-aminidine forms, nitroso-oxime forms, thio ketone-enethiol forms, N-nitroso
hydroxyazo forms, nitro-aci-nitro forms, lactam-lactim forms, ketene-ynol forms, enamine
enamine forms, and pyridione-hydroxypyridine forms.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0074]          Figure] shows representative colons from rats treated with desferrioxamine
(DFO) (20 mg/kg) IV and sterile water (control) 30 minutes before the 4% acetic acid. Each
colon is positioned such that the cecum is on the right and the rectum is on the left.
[0075]          Figure 2 is a bar graph showing the concentration of Deferitrin, (S)-4'-(HO)
DADFT-PE (IV-A), and (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A) in plasma at various time points
after a 300 imol/kg oral (po) dose of each compound in rats.
[0076]          Figure 3 is a bar graph showing the concentration of Deferitrin, (S)-4'-(HO)
DADFT-PE (IV-A), and (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A) in plasma at various time points
after a 300 imol/kg subcutaneous (sc) dose of each compound in rats.
                                              26

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
[0077]          Figure 4 shows the correlation between plasma concentration and
concentration in the eye for (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A) administered 300 [tmol/kg
subcutaneously (SC) in perfused rats.
[0078]          Figure 5 shows the correlation between plasma concentration and
concentration in the eye for (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A) administered 300 [tmol/kg
subcutaneously (SC) in non-perfused rats.
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0079]          Various desferrithiocin analogs have been described for use in the treatment of
global iron overload resulting from transfusion therapy, high-iron diet, acute iron ingestion,
or malabsorption. Such analogs have now been discovered to be useful in treating or
preventing diseases and conditions associated with focal iron overload, where the local
concentration of iron in a particular tissue or organ contributes to the pathological process.
For instance, the unmanaged Fe' 2 ions in a tissue or organ may result in the production of
hydroxyl radicals or other reactive oxygen species that lead to tissue or cell damage.
Therefore, desferrithiocin analogs of Formula (I), particularly those with a polyether moiety
at the 4'-position of the phenyl ring, are expected to be useful in the treatment of macular
degeneration, closed head injury, reperfusion injury, and stroke. Without wishing to be
bound by any particular theory, the compounds of Formula (I) are thought to chelate iron and
prevent it from participating in the generation of reactive oxygen species. The compounds of
Formula (I) may also act as free radical scavenger thereby limiting the damage of reactive
oxygen species or other radicals. The invention, therefore, provides methods of treating and
preventing disease and conditions associated with focal iron overload, as well as
pharmaceutical compositions and kits useful in the inventive methods.
Useful Compounds
[0080]          Desferrithiocin analogs of Formula (I) are expected to be useful in preventing
and treating diseases and conditions associated with iron overload, particularly focal iron
overload. Such analogs have been previously described in International PCT Applications,
PCT/US2006/010945, filed March 22, 2006, W02006/017626, and PCT/US2010/002336,
filed August 25, 2010, published as W02011/028255; and U.S. Patent Application, U.S.S.N.
11/973,001, filed October 4, 2007,published as US2008/0214630; each of which is
incorporated herein by reference. Compounds with a polyether moiety at the 4'-position of
                                                27

    WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
the phenyl ring are expected to be particularly useful in the methods and compositions of the
present invention.
[0081]              In certain embodiments, compounds useful in the present invention are of
Formula (I):
                                     R)                   N      R
                                             R5       S
                                                                 0
                                                          R6  R7
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR   12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof.
[0082]              In compounds of Formula (I), R1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl. In certain
embodiments, R 1 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 1 is C1 -C6 alkyl. In certain
embodiments, R1 is methyl. In certain embodiments, R 1 is ethyl. In certain embodiments, R1
is propyl. In certain embodiments, R1 is acyl. In certain embodiments, R1 is acetyl.
[0083]              In compounds of Formula (I), R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH2)n-O1x
[(CH 2)n-O]y-R'. In certain embodiments, R 2 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 2 is C 1
C 6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 2 is methyl. In certain embodiments, R 2 is ethyl. In
certain embodiments, R 2 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-[(CH 2 )n
                                                 28

     WO 2013/090750                                                                 PCT/US2012/069795
O]y-R'. In certain embodiments, R 2 is -[(CH 2) 2-O]-CH 3. In certain embodiments, R 2 is
[(CH 2) 2-O] 2-CH 3. In certain embodiments, R 2 is -[(CH       2 )2 -O] 3 -CH 3. In certain
embodiments, R 2 is -[(CH 2) 2-O] 4-CH 3. In certain embodiments, R 2 is -[(CH 2) 2-O] 5-CH 3.
[0084]             In compounds of Formula (I), n is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive. In certain
embodiments, n is 2. In certain embodiments, n is 3. In certain embodiments, n is 4. In
certain embodiments, n is 5.
[0085]             In compounds of Formula (I), x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive.        In certain
embodiments, x is 1. In certain embodiments, x is 2. In certain embodiments, x is 3. In
certain embodiments, x is 4. In certain embodiments, x is 5.
[0086]             In compounds of Formula (I), y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive. In certain
embodiments, y is 0. In certain embodiments, y is 1. In certain embodiments, y is 2. In
certain embodiments, y is 3. In certain embodiments, y is 4. In certain embodiments, y is 5.
[0087]             In compounds of Formula (I), R' is alkyl. In certain embodiments, R' is C 1-C 6
alkyl. In certain embodiments, R' is methyl. In certain embodiments, R' is ethyl. In certain
embodiments, R' is propyl.
[0088]             In compounds of Formula (I), R 3 is each independently hydrogen, alkyl,
arylalkyl, or -ORio.       In certain embodiments, R 3 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 3 is
C 1 -C6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 3 is methyl. In certain embodiments, R 3 is ethyl. In
certain embodiments, R 3 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R 3 is -OH.             In certain
embodiments, R 3 is -OCH 3.
[0089]             In compounds of Formula (I), R 4 is each independently hydrogen, alkyl,
arylalkyl, or -ORio.       In certain embodiments, R 4 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 4 is
C 1-C6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 4 is methyl. In certain embodiments, R 4 is ethyl. In
certain embodiments, R 4 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R 4 is -OH.             In certain
embodiments, R 4 is -OCH 3.
[0090]             In compounds of Formula (I), R5 is each independently hydrogen, alkyl,
arylalkyl, or -ORio.       In certain embodiments, R 5 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 5 is
C 1-C6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 5 is methyl. In certain embodiments, R 5 is ethyl. In
certain embodiments, R 5 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R 5 is -OH.             In certain
embodiments, R 5 is -OCH 3.
[0091]             In certain embodiments, R 3, R 4 , and R 5 are all hydrogen. In certain
embodiments, at least one of R 3, R 4 , and R 5 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, at least two
of R 3 , R 4 , and R 5 are hydrogen.
                                                  29

    WO 2013/090750                                                        PCT/US2012/069795
[0092]          In compounds of Formula (I), R6 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR    12. In
certain embodiments, R 6 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R6 is halogen. In certain
embodiments, R 6 is CI-C 6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 6 is methyl. In certain
embodiments, R6 is ethyl. In certain embodiments, R6 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R6
is -OH. In certain embodiments, R6 is -OCH 3.
[0093]          In compounds of Formula (I), R 7 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR   12. In
certain embodiments, R 7 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 7 is halogen. In certain
embodiments, R 7 is CI-C 6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 7 is methyl. In certain
embodiments, R 7 is ethyl. In certain embodiments, R 7 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R 7
is -OH. In certain embodiments, R 7 is -OCH 3.
[0094]          In certain embodiments, both R6 and R 7 are hydrogen. In certain
embodiments, at least one of R6 and R 7 is hydrogen.
[0095]          In compounds of Formula (I), R8 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR    12. In
certain embodiments, R 8 is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 8 is halogen. In certain
embodiments, R8 is CI-C 6 alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 8 is methyl. In certain
embodiments, R8 is ethyl. In certain embodiments, R8 is propyl. In certain embodiments, R8
is -OH. In certain embodiments, R8 is -OCH 3.
[0096]          In compounds of Formula (I), R 9 is -OR,, or -SRI 1 , wherein RII is hydrogen
or alkyl. In certain embodiments, R 9 is -OH. In certain embodiments, R 9 is -OCH 3. In
certain embodiments, R 9 is -OCH 2CH 3. In certain embodiments, R 9 is -OCH(CH 3) 2. In
certain embodiments, R 9 is -SCH 3. In certain embodiments, R 9 is -SCH 2CH 3. In certain
embodiments, R 9 is -SCH 2CH 2CH 3. In certain embodiments, R 9 is -SCH(CH 3) 2. In certain
embodiments, R 9 is -SCH 2CH(CH 3) 2. In certain embodiments, RII is hydrogen. In certain
embodiments, RII is CI-C 6 alkyl.
[0097]          In certain embodiments, R6 is hydrogen, R 7 is hydrogen, and R 8 is methyl.
[0098]          In certain embodiments, R 3 is hydrogen, R4 is hydrogen, R5 is hydrogen, R6 is
hydrogen, R 7 is hydrogen, and R 8 is methyl.
[0099]          In certain embodiments, R1 is hydrogen, R 3 is hydrogen, R 4 is hydrogen, R5 is
hydrogen, R 6 is hydrogen, R 7 is hydrogen, and R 8 is methyl.
[00100]         In certain embodiments, R1 is hydrogen, R 3 is hydrogen, R 4 is hydrogen, R5 is
hydrogen, R 6 is hydrogen, R 7 is hydrogen, R8 is methyl, and R 9 is -OH.
[00101]         The compounds of Formula (I) may be provided in various salts forms. In
certain embodiments, when R 9 is -OH, the compound may be provided as a carboxylate salt
with a positively charged counterion. In certain embodiments, the counterion is betaine,
                                               30

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
choline hydroxide, diethanolamine, diethylamine, ethanolamine, hydroxyethylmorpholine, 4
(2-hydroxyethyl morpholine), 1-(2-hydroxyethyl pyrrolidine), 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-piperidine,
1,2-EDSA, HCl, H2 SO 4 , MSA, p-TSA, hydroxyethyl pyrroldine, imidazone, lysine (e.g., L
lysine), arginine (e.g., L-arginine), histidine (e.g., L-histidine) N-methyl-D-glucamine
(NMG), N, N'-dibenzyl-ethylenediamine, N, N'-diethyl-ethanolamine, triethanolamine,
tromethamine, calcium (e.g., Ca(OH) 2), magnesium (e.g., Mg(OH) 2 , magnesium acetate),
potassium (e.g., KOH, potassium 2-ethylhexanoate), sodium (e.g., NaOH, sodium acetate,
sodium 2-ethylhexanoate), zinc (e.g., Zn(OH) 2 , zinc acetate), Zn(OH) 2/Mg(OH) 2 , EDA, or
piperazine. In certain embodiments, the counterion is lysine. In certain embodiments, the
counterion is N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMG). In certain embodiments, the counterion is
tromethamine. In certain embodiments, the counterion is calcium. In certain embodiments,
the counterion is magnesium. In certain embodiments, the counterion is potassium. In
certain embodiments, the counterion is sodium, In certain embodiments, the counterion is
zinc. In certain embodiments, the counterion is piperzine. In certain embodiments, the
counterion is MgOH*. In certain embodiments, the counterion is ZnOH*.
[00102]         In certain embodiments, a polymorph of a salt of a compound of Formula (I)
is provided. In certain embodiments, a polymorph of a magnesium salt of a compound of
Formula (I) is provided. In certain embodiments, a polymorph of a MgOH* salt of a
compound of Formula (I) is provided. In certain embodiments, a polymorph of a salt of a
carboxylate compound of Formula (I), wherein R 9 is -OH, is provided. In certain
embodiments, a polymorph of a magnesium salt of a carboxylate compound of Formula (I),
wherein R 9 is -OH, is provided. In certain embodiments, a polymorph of a MgOH* salt of a
carboxylate compound of Formula (I), wherein R 9 is -OH, is provided.
[00103]         In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (III):
                                             R4
                              R     0                    R
                                                 N      N
                                   R3                     N     \\R  Rg
                                             R5       S
                                                                   0
                                                         R6    R7
                                                (III).
                                                 31

   WO 2013/090750                                                     PCT/US2012/069795
[00104]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (III-A):
                                           O            OH
                                  0Ol' ,
                            OCH3                   /        N    CH
                                                         S      CO2H
                                            (III-A).
[00105]       In certain embodiments, a salt of a compound of Formula (III-A) is provided.
In certain embodiments, a magnesium hydroxide salt of Formula (III-A) is provided as
shown in Formula (III-A'):
                                                                MgOH*
                                                       OH
                           OCH 3                     -     N     H
                                                       S      C2
                                           (III-A').
[00106]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (III-B):
                                                       OH
                              r O -,O
                           OCH 3                 /          N  ICH3
                                                        S      CO 2Me
                                            (III-B).
[00107]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (III-C):
                                 O -OH
                            OCH 3                  /        N .%CH3
                                                         S      CO2Et
                                            (III-C).
[00108]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (IV-A):
                                   O --    O            OH
                                      OCH3                 'N ,*CH3
                                                         S      CO2H
                                            (IV-A).
                                              32

   WO 2013/090750                                                     PCT/US2012/069795
[00109]       In certain embodiments, a salt of a compound of Formula (IV-A) is provided.
In certain embodiments, a magnesium hydroxide salt of Formula (IV-A) is provided as
shown in Formula (IV-A'):
                                                     OH        MgOH*
                               O       O
                           O      OCH 3                -N   ,,CH 3
                                                     S        CO2
                                          (IV-A').
[00110]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (IV-B):
                                         O            OH
                           O       OCH 3                  N
                                                      S        CO 2Me
                                           (IV-B).
[00111]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (IV-C):
                              r O    -, O     I       OH N         H
                            O '     OCH3                  N .CH3
                                                      S        CO2Et
                                           (IV-C).
[00112]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (V-A):
                                H3 CO           OH
                                                    N
                                                    S      CO2H
                                            (V-A).
[00113]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (V-B):
                               H3CO             OH
                                                             2 Me
                                                SiiCO
                                            (V-B).
[00114]       In certain embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) is of Formula (V-C):
                                H3CO    (       OH
                                                SQ        CO2 Et
                                            (V-C).
                                             33

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
Treatment of MacularDegeneration
[00115]         In one aspect, the invention provides methods and pharmaceutical
compositions for the treatment of macular degeneration. Without wishing to be bound by a
particular theory, the compounds of Formula (I) are able to get into the eye as shown in
Figures 4 and 5. The compounds of Formula (I) are then able to chelate and remove iron
                                      2
from the eye thereby preventing Fe      from forming and generating reactive oxygen species.
The local accumulation of iron is thought to contribute to macular degeneration. Therefore,
the removal of iron from the eye (including the retina) can prevent and treat macular
degeneration.
[00116]         In the treatment of macular degeneration, the compound of Formula (I) or a
pharmaceutical composition thereof may be administered systemically or ocularly. In certain
embodiments, the compound or composition is administered orally. In other embodiments,
the compond or composition is administered to the eye using eyedrops or an ointment
suitable for ocular administration.
[00117]         The subject being treated for macular degeneration may be any type of animal.
In certain embodiments, the animal is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the animal is a
human. In certain embodiments, the animal is a domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat, pig,
cow). In certain embodiments, the animal is a research animal (e.g., mice, rat, dog, primate).
[00118]         The exact amount of the compound of Formula (I) required to treat or prevent
macular degeneration will vary from subject to subject, depending on the species, age, and
general condition of the subject, the particular agent being administered, its mode of
administration, and the like. The compound is preferably formulated in a dosage unit form
for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. It will be understood, however, that the
total daily dosage will be decided by a physician within the scope of sound medical judgment.
The specific therapeutically effective dose level for any particular subject will depend upon a
variety of factors including the severity of the macular degeneration; the specific compound
be administered; the age, body weight, general health, sex, and diet of the subject; the time of
administration, route of administration, and rate of excretion of the particular compound
being administered; the duration of the treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental
with the particular compound being administered; and like factors well known in the medical
arts. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage of the compound of Formula (I) for the
treatment of macular degeneration in a subject may range from 0.01 mg/kg to 200 mg/kg per
unit dosage. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg.
In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 50 mg/kg. In certain
                                                34

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg. In certain embodiments,
the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily
dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the compound or a
composition thereof may be administered once a day to multiple times per day. In certain
embodiments, a fraction of the daily dose is administered once, twice, three times, or four
times daily. In other embodiments, the compound of a composition thereof is administered
every other day, every third day, every week, every other week, or every month.
Treatment of Head Injury
[00119]         The compounds of Formula (I) and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are
expected to be useful in the treatment of head injury, particularly those involving bleeding
into the brain or other parts of the central nervous system. Without wishing to be bound by
any particular theory, the compounds of Formula (I) are thought to chelate the iron from red
blood cells the blood resulting from the head injury, thereby preventing iron ions from
generating reactive oxygen species. In the case of head injury resulting in bleeding into the
central nervous system where the vasculature has been compromised a compound being used
may or may not have the ability to cross the blood brain barrier. In certain embodiments, the
compound being used to treat a head injury in a subject is able to cross the blood brain
barrier. In other embodiments, the compounds is not able to cross the blood brain barrier.
Certain compounds of Formula (I) have been found in the CSF after systemic administration
(po and sc).
[00120]         Head injuries come in various forms and results from various causes. In
certain embodiments, the injury is an injury to the head that penetrates the skull. In other
embodiments, the head injury being treated is a closed head injury, which does penetrate the
skull. Closed head injuries results from a variety of causes including accidents including
vehicular accidents, falls, and assaults. Types of closed head injuries include concussions,
brain contusions, diffuse axonal injury, and hemtoma. In certain embodiments, the closed
head injury being treated in the present invention include closed head injuries that result in
blood outside the blood vessels of the brain.
The local accumulation of iron from the bleeding is thought to contribute to after effects of
closed head injury. By assisting the clearance of iron from the brain the effects of the bleed
are minimized.
[00121]         In the treatment of closed head injury, the compound of Formula (I) or a
pharmaceutical composition thereof may be administered systemically, for example,
                                                35

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
parenterally or orally. In certain embodiments, the compound or composition is administered
orally. In other embodiments, the compound or composition is administered parenterally
(e.g., intravenously).
[00122]         The subject being treated for a head injury may be any type of animal. In
certain embodiments, the animal is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the animal is a
human. In certain embodiments, the animal is a domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat, pig,
cow). In certain embodiments, the animal is a research animal (e.g., mice, rat, dog, primate).
[00123]         The exact amount of the compound of Formula (I) required to treat a head
injury will vary from subject to subject, depending on the species, age, and general condition
of the subject, the particular agent being administered, its mode of administration, and the
like. The compound is preferably formulated in a dosage unit form for ease of administration
and uniformity of dosage. It will be understood, however, that the total daily dose will be
decided by a physician using sound medical judgment. The specific therapeutically effective
dose level for any particular subject will depend upon a variety of factors including the
severity of the head injury; the specific compound be administered; the age, body weight,
general health, sex, and diet of the subject; the time of administration, route of administration,
and rate of excretion of the particular compound being administered; the duration of the
treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental with the particular compound being
administered; and like factors well known in the medical arts. In certain embodiments, the
daily dosage of the compound of Formula (I) for the treatment of a head injury in a subject
may range from 0.01 mg/kg to 200 mg/kg per unit dosage. In certain embodiments, the daily
dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage
ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 50 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from
0.1 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to
10 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg. In
certain embodiments, the compound or a composition thereof may be administered once a
day to multiple times per day. In certain embodiments, a fraction of the daily dose is
administered once, twice, three times, or four times daily. In other embodiments, the
compound of a composition thereof is administered every other day, every third day, every
week, every other week, or every month. In certain embodiments, the inventive treatment is
stopped once the head injury is resolved, or it is thought the inventive treatment would no
longer be beneficial. In certain embodiments, the treatment is stopped once the bleeding has
been resolved in a subject with a head injury.
                                                36

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
Treatment of Stroke
[00124]         The present invention also provides for the treatment of stroke. The inventive
treatment typically leads to a better and/or faster recovery from stroke. The stroke being
treated may be either a ischemic stroke or a hemorrhagic stroke. In the treatment of an
ischemic stroke, a compound of Formula (I) or composition thereof is administered to a
subject to prevent or minimize the damage due to reperfusion injury after the blood supply to
the affected part of the brain is restore. The compound is thought to prevent the generation of
reactive oxygen species by either chelating iron responsible for the generation of such species
and/or quenching such radical species when they do occur. In hemorrhagic stroke, the
compound is thought to work by similar mechanisms although the sequestering of iron from
the blood in the brain is probably the predominate mechanism by which the inventive
treatment works. The mechanism of action of the compound of Formula (I) is similar to that
in the treatment of head injury.
[00125]         The compound being used in the treatment may have the ability to cross the
blood brain barrier. In certain embodiments, the compound has the ability to cross the blood
brain barrier. In other embodiments, the compound does not have the ability to cross the
blood brain barrier. In certain embodiments, when the subject has been diagnosed with an
ischemic stroke, the compound used in the treatment can pass through the blood brain barrier.
[00126]         The present invention may be useful in treating a subject after the subject has
been diagnosed with having a stroke, or a subject who is susceptible to having a stroke may
be administered a compound of Formula (I) or composition thereof to prevent or minimize
the stroke's effects. In certain embodiments, the compound is administered as quickly as
possible after a subject has been diagnosed with having a stroke. In certain embodiments, the
compound is administered to the subject while the stroke is still occurring. In certain
embodiments, the compound or a composition thereof is administered to a subject who has a
history of strokes or is susceptible to having a stroke because of the subject's underlying
medical condition. The compound or composition thereof may be administered once or
multiple times in the treatment of stroke.
[00127]         In the treatment of stroke the compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutical
composition thereof may be administered systemically, for example, parenterally or orally.
In certain embodiments, the compound or composition is administered orally. In other
embodiments, the compound or composition is administered parenterally (e.g.,
intravenously).
                                                37

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
[00128]         The subject being treated for stroke may be any type of animal. In certain
embodiments, the animal is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the animal is a human. In
certain embodiments, the animal is a domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat, pig, cow). In
certain embodiments, the animal is a research animal (e.g., mice, rat, dog, primate).
[00129]         The exact amount of the compound of Formula (I) required to treat a stroke
will vary from subject to subject, depending on the species, age, and general condition of the
subject, the particular agent being administered, its mode of administration, and the like.
The compound is preferably formulated in a dosage unit form for ease of administration and
uniformity of dosage. It will be understood, however, that the total daily dose will be decided
by a physician using sound medical judgment. The specific therapeutically effective dose
level for any particular subject will depend upon a variety of factors including the severity of
the stroke; the specific compound be administered; the age, body weight, general health, sex,
and diet of the subject; the time of administration, route of administration, and rate of
excretion of the particular compound being administered; the duration of the treatment; drugs
used in combination or coincidental with the particular compound being administered; and
like factors well known in the medical arts. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage of the
compound of Formula (I) for the treatment of a stroke in a subject may range from 0.01
mg/kg to 200 mg/kg per unit dosage. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from
0.1 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to
50 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg. In
certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg. In certain
embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg. In certain embodiments,
the compound or a composition thereof may be administered once a day to multiple times per
day. In certain embodiments, a fraction of the daily dose is administered once, twice, three
times, or four times daily. In other embodiments, the compound or a composition thereof is
administered every other day, every third day, every week, every other week, or every month.
Typically the compound or composition thereof is not administered after it is no longer
thought to be beneficial, for example, when all the bleeding has been cleared in a
hemorrhagic stroke.
Treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Disease
[00130]         Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in the pathogenesis of
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Grisham et al., "Neutophil-mediated mucosal injury.
Role of reactive oxygen metabolites" Dig. Dis. Sci. 33:6S-15S, 1988; Allgayer "Clinical
                                               38

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
relevance of oxygen radicals in inflammatory bowel disease-facts and fashion" Klin.
Wochenschr. 69:1001-1003, 1991; Ymamada et al. "Role of neutrophil-derived oxidants in
the pathogenesis of intestinal inflammation" Klin. Wocheschr. 69:988-944, 1991; Babbs,
"Oxygen radicals in ulcerative colitis" Free Radic. Biol. Med. 13:169-181, 1992. The present
invention provides for the treatment of IBD. DFO, an iron chelator, has been discovered to
prevent acetic acid-induced colitis in rats, an animal model of IBD. See Figure 1 and
Example 2. See, also, Bergeron et al., "Prevention of Acetic Acid-Induced Colitis by
Desferrithiocin Analogs in a Rat Model" Digestive Diseases and Sciences, 48(2):399-407,
February 2003. The compounds used in the inventive treatment are thought to prevent or
eliminate the generation of reactive oxygen species or other longer-lived, more stable radicals
that may be responsible for the tissue damage and inflammation seen in subjects with IBD.
Another possible mechanism of action of the compounds useful in the invention is the
chelation of metal, such as iron, which may contribute to the generation of reactive oxygen
species, such as hydroxyl radicals and hydrogen peroxide, that cause cell damage.
[00131]           The present invention may be useful in treating a subject diagnosed with IBD.
The treatment may be used to treat the subject long term or may be used to treat a subject
with a fare up of IBD. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I) or
composition thereof is administered to a subject in need thereof to treat IBD. In certain
embodiments, treatment with a compound of Formula (I) leads to reduced levels of reactive
oxygen species in the intestines, specifically the intestinal mucosa. The compound or
composition thereof may be administered to a subject once or multiple times in the treatment
of IBD.
[00132]           In the treatment of IBD, the compound of Formula (I) or a pharmaceutical
composition thereof may be administered systemically, for example, parenterally or orally.
In certain embodiments, the compound or composition is administered orally. In other
embodiments, the compound or composition is administered parenterally (e.g.,
intravenously). In certain embodiments, the compound or a composition is administered
rectally.
[00133]           The subject being treated for IBD may be any type of animal. In certain
embodiments, the animal is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the animal is a human. In
certain embodiments, the animal is a domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat, pig, cow). In
certain embodiments, the animal is a research animal (e.g., mice, rat, dog, primate). In
certain embodiments, the animal is used in animal model of IBD (e.g., acetic acid-induced
colitis in rats; see Fedorak et al., "Misoprostol provides a colonic mucosal protective effect
                                                 39

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
during acetic acid-induced colitis in rats" Gastroenterology98:615-625, 1990; MacPherson
et al., "Experimental production of diffuse colitis in rats" Digestion 17:135-150, 1978).
[00134]         The exact amount of the compound of Formula (I) required to treat JBD will
vary from subject to subject, depending on the species, age, and general condition of the
subject, the particular agent being administered, its mode of administration, and the like.
The compound is preferably formulated in a dosage unit form for ease of administration and
uniformity of dosage. The total daily dose will be decided by a physician using sound
medical judgment. The specific therapeutically effective dose level for any particular subject
will depend upon a variety of factors including the severity of JBD; the specific compound be
administered; the age, body weight, general health, sex, and diet of the subject; the time of
administration, route of administration, and rate of excretion of the particular compound
being administered; the duration of the treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental
with the particular compound being administered; and like factors well known in the medical
arts. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage of the compound of Formula (I) for the
prevention or treatment of reperfusion injury in a subject may range from 0.01 mg/kg to 200
mg/kg per unit dosage. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to
100 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 50 mg/kg. In
certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg. In certain
embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg. In certain embodiments,
the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the compound
or a composition thereof may be administered once a day to multiple times per day. In
certain embodiments, a fraction of the daily dose is administered once, twice, three times, or
four times daily. In other embodiments, the compound or a composition thereof is
administered every other day, every third day, every week, every other week, or every month.
Treatment of Reperfusion Injury
[00135]         The present invention also provides for the treatment of reperfusion injury.
Reperfusion injury may occur in any area of the body where the blood supply has been
compromised. In certain embodiments, the reperfusion injury being treated occurs in the
heart. In other embodiments, the reperfusion injury occurs in the brain, for example, as
discussed above in the context of a stroke The inventive treatment minimizes reperfusion
injury once the blood supply to the affects organ or tissue is restored. In the treatment or
prevention of reperfusion injury, a compound of Formula (I) or composition thereof is
administered to a subject who is suffering from ischemia of a tissue or organ. The compound
                                              40

    WO 2013/090750                                                         PCT/US2012/069795
of Formula (I) is thought to prevent the generation of reactive oxygen species by either
chelating iron responsible for the generation of such species and/or quenching such radical
species when they do occur.
[00136]         The present invention may be useful in treating a subject after the subject has
been diagnosed with ischemia of a particular organ or tissue. A therapeutically effective
amount of a compound of Formula (I) or composition thereof is administered to a subject to
prevent or minimize reperfusion injury. In certain embodiments, the compound is
administered as quickly as possible after a subject has been diagnosed with ischemia. In
certain embodiments, the compound is administered to the subject at risk of ischemia. In
certain embodiments, the compound or a composition thereof is administered to a subject
who is about to undergo a procedure that may lead to ischemia of an organ or tissue (e.g.,
cardiac surgery). In certain embodiments, the compound or a compositon thereof is used to
prevent reperfusion injury in a transplanted organ. In certain embodiments, the compound or
composition thereof is used to perfuse an isolated organ being prepared for donation. The
compound or composition thereof may be administered to a subject once or multiple times in
the treatment of reperfusion injury.
[00137]         In the prevention or treatment of reperfusion injury, the compound of Formula
(I) or a pharmaceutical composition thereof may be administered systemically, for example,
parenterally or orally. In certain embodiments, the compound or composition is administered
orally. In other embodiments, the compound or composition is administered parenterally
(e.g., intravenously). In certain embodiments, the compound or a composition is
administered locally to the organ or tissue suffering from ischemia.
[00138]         The subject being treated for reperfusion injury may be any type of animal. In
certain embodiments, the animal is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the animal is a
human. In certain embodiments, the animal is a domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat, pig,
cow). In certain embodiments, the animal is a research animal (e.g., mice, rat, dog, primate).
[00139]         The exact amount of the compound of Formula (I) required to prevent or treat
reperfusion injury will vary from subject to subject, depending on the species, age, and
general condition of the subject, the particular agent being administered, its mode of
administration, and the like. The compound is preferably formulated in a dosage unit form
for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. It will be understood, however, that the
total daily dose will be decided by a physician using sound medical judgment. The specific
therapeutically effective dose level for any particular subject will depend upon a variety of
factors including the severity of the reperfusion injury; the specific compound be
                                               41

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
administered; the age, body weight, general health, sex, and diet of the subject; the time of
administration, route of administration, and rate of excretion of the particular compound
being administered; the duration of the treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental
with the particular compound being administered; and like factors well known in the medical
arts. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage of the compound of Formula (I) for the
prevention or treatment of reperfusion injury in a subject may range from 0.01 mg/kg to 200
mg/kg per unit dosage. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to
100 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 50 mg/kg. In
certain embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg. In certain
embodiments, the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg. In certain embodiments,
the daily dosage ranges from 0.1 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the compound
or a composition thereof may be administered once a day to multiple times per day. In other
embodiments, the compound or a composition thereof is administered every other day, every
third day, every week, every other week, or every month. Typically the compound or
composition thereof is not administered after it is no longer thought to be beneficial, for
example, when the risk of reperfusion injury is over.
PharmaceuticalCompositions
[00140]          The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions of Formula
(I) for the treatment of macular degeneration, closed head injury, stroke, IBD, and
reperfusion injury. After formulation with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient in a desired dosage, the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention can be
administered to humans and other animals orally, rectally, parenterally, intracisternally,
intraperitoneally, topically, bucally, ocularly, or the like, depending on the disease or
condition being treated. In certain embodiments, an agent of the invention may be
administered orally or parenterally at dosage levels sufficient to deliver from about 0.001
mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg, about 0.001 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 0.01 mg/kg to
about 100 mg/kg, from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, preferably from about 0.1
mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, preferably from about 0.5 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg, from about
0.01 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, from about 0.1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, and more preferably
from about 1 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, of subject body weight per day, one or more times a
day, to obtain the desired therapeutic effect. The desired dosage may be delivered three times
a day, two times a day, once a day, every other day, every third day, every week, every two
weeks, every three weeks, or every four weeks. In certain embodiments, the desired dosage
                                                42

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
may be delivered using multiple administrations (e.g., two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, or more administrations). In certain
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I) is administered at a dose that is below the dose at
which the agent causes non-specific effects. In certain embodiments, a compound of
Formula (I) is administered at a dose that does not cause generalized immunosuppression in a
subject.
[00141]          Liquid dosage forms for oral and parenteral administration include, but are not
limited to, pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions,
syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the active agents, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert
diluents commonly used in the art such as, for example, water or other solvents, solubilizing
agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate,
benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, dimethylformamide,
oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor, and sesame oils), glycerol,
tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan, and
mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as
wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening, flavoring, and perfuming
agents. In certain embodiments for parenteral administration, agents of the invention are
mixed with solubilizing agents such CREMOPHOR EL® (polyethoxylated castor oil),
alcohols, oils, modified oils, glycols, polysorbates, cyclodextrins, polymers, and
combinations thereof.
[00142]          Injectable preparations, for example, sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous
suspensions, may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or
wetting agents and suspending agents. Sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile
injectable solution, suspension or emulsion in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or
solvent, for example, as a solution in 1,3-butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and
solvents that may be employed are water, Ringer's solution, U.S.P. and isotonic sodium
chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or
suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including
synthetic mono- or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid are used in the
preparation of injectables.
[00143]          Injectable formulations can be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a
bacterial-retaining filter, or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid
compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable
medium prior to use.
                                                43

    WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
[00144]          Compositions for rectal or vaginal administration are preferably suppositories
which can be prepared by mixing the compounds of this invention with suitable non-irritating
excipients or carriers such as cocoa butter, polyethylene glycol, or a suppository wax which
are solid at ambient temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the
rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active agent.
[00145]          Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules, tablets, pills,
powders, and granules. In such solid dosage forms, the active agent is mixed with at least
one inert, pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or
dicalcium phosphate and/or a) fillers or extenders such as starches, lactose, sucrose, glucose,
mannitol, and silicic acid, b) binders such as, for example, carboxymethylcellulose, alginates,
gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidinone, sucrose, and acacia, c) humectants such as glycerol, d)
disintegrating agents such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate, potato or tapioca starch, alginic
acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate, e) solution retarding agents such as paraffin, f)
absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds, g) wetting agents such as,
for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate, h) absorbents such as kaolin and
bentonite clay, and i) lubricants such as talc, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid
polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules,
tablets and pills, the dosage form may also comprise buffering agents.
[00146]          Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft
and hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high
molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like. The solid dosage forms of tablets,
dragees, capsules, pills, and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric
coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may
optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the
active ingredient(s) only, or preferentially, in a certain part of the intestinal tract, optionally,
in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include
polymeric substances and waxes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed
as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar
as well as high molecular weight polethylene glycols and the like.
[00147]          The active agents can also be in micro-encapsulated form with one or more
excipients as noted above. The solid dosage forms of tablets, dragees, capsules, pills, and
granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings, release controlling
coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. In such solid
dosage forms the active agent may be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose,
                                                 44

   WO 2013/090750                                                               PCT/US2012/069795
lactose or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise, as is normal practice, additional
substances other than inert diluents, e.g., tableting lubricants and other tableting aids such a
magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. In the case of capsules, tablets, and pills,
the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents. They may optionally contain
opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the active ingredient(s)
only, or preferentially, in a certain part of the intestinal tract, optionally, in a delayed manner.
Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and
waxes.
[00148]         Formulations suitable for topical administration include liquid or semi-liquid
preparations such as liniments, lotions, gels, applicants, oil-in-water or water-in-oil emulsions
such as creams, ointments, or pastes; or solutions or suspensions such as drops. Formulations
for topical administration to the skin surface can be prepared by dispersing the drug with a
dermatologically acceptable carrier such as a lotion, cream, ointment, or soap. Useful
carriers are capable of forming a film or layer over the skin to localize application and inhibit
removal. For topical administration to internal tissue surfaces, the agent can be dispersed in a
liquid tissue adhesive or other substance known to enhance adsorption to a tissue surface.
For example, hydroxypropylcellulose or fibrinogen/thrombin solutions can be used to
advantage. Alternatively, tissue-coating solutions, such as pectin-containing formulations
can be used. Ophthalmic formulation, ear drops, and eye drops are also contemplated as
being within the scope of this invention. Additionally, the present invention contemplates the
use of transdermal patches, which have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery
of an agent to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispensing the
agent in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of
the agent across the skin. The rate can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling
membrane or by dispersing the agent in a polymer matrix or gel.
[00149]         Additionally, the carrier for a topical formulation can be in the form of a
hydroalcoholic system (e.g., liquids and gels), an anhydrous oil or silicone based system, or
an emulsion system, including, but not limited to, oil-in-water, water-in-oil, water-in-oil-in
water, and oil-in-water-in-silicone emulsions. The emulsions can cover a broad range of
consistencies including thin lotions (which can also be suitable for spray or aerosol delivery),
creamy lotions, light creams, heavy creams, and the like. The emulsions can also include
microemulsion systems. Other suitable topical carriers include anhydrous solids and
semisolids (such as gels and sticks); and aqueous based mousse systems.
                                                 45

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
[00150]          It will also be appreciated that the compounds of Formula (I) and
pharmaceutical compositions thereof can be employed in combination therapies, that is, the
compounds and pharmaceutical compositions can be administered concurrently with, prior to,
or subsequent to, one or more other desired therapeutics or medical procedures. The
particular combination of therapies (therapeutics or procedures) to employ in a combination
regimen will take into account compatibility of the desired therapeutics and/or procedures
and the desired therapeutic effect to be achieved. It will also be appreciated that the therapies
employed may achieve a desired effect for the same disorder, or they may achieve different
effects (e.g., control of any adverse effects).
[00151]          In still another aspect, the present invention also provides a pharmaceutical
pack or kit comprising one or more containers filled with one or more of the ingredients of
the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention, and in certain embodiments,
includes an additional approved therapeutic agent for use as a combination therapy.
Optionally associated with such container(s) can be a notice in the form prescribed by a
governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use, or sale of pharmaceutical products,
which notice reflects approval by the agency of manufacture, use, or sale for human
administration.
                                             EXAMPLES
[00152]          In order that the invention described herein may be more fully understood, the
following examples are set forth. It should be understood that these examples are for
illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting this invention in any manner.
Example 1. Preparation of sample solutions
Synthesis of the Desferrithioncin(DFT)Analogs
[00153]          The desferrithiocin (DFT) analogs and salts thereof useful in the present
invention can be prepared from readily available starting materials using methods known in
the art. For example, (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A) and (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-PE (IV-A)
may be synthesized using methods described in International PCT Applications,
PCT/US2006/010945, filed March 22, 2006, published as WO 2006/107626,
PCT/US2010/002336, filed August 25, 2010, published as W02011/028255, and U.S. Patent
Application, U.S.S.N. 11/973,001, filed October 4, 2007, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                  46

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
Preparationof sample solutions containing monosodium salts of the DFT analogs
[00154]         The DFT analogs useful in the inventive methods were converted from the
free acid form to the monosodium salt form. Water followed by one equivalent of sodium
hydroxide was added to the DFT analog as a free acid. The resulting slurry was vortexed or
sonicated until the DFT analog went into solution. More water was added, and the solution
was vortexed or sonicated again. The formed yellow solution, having a pH about 7, was used
as a sample solution in the following Examples. It is preferred that a fresh sample solution of
the DFT analog is made shortly before the solution is used in an assay.
Example 2. Prevention of acetic acid-induced colitis by deferrithiocin analogs in a rat
model
[00155]         Induction of colitis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-350 g) were anesthetized
with sodium pentobarbital, 55 mg/kg intraperitoneally. The abdomen was shaved and
prepared for surgery. A midline incision was made, and the cecum and proximal colon were
exteriorized. A reversible suture was placed at the junction of the cecum and proximal colon.
The colon was rinsed with saline (10 ml), and the fluid and intestinal contents were gently
expressed out the rectum. A gum-based rectal plug was inserted. The compound of interest,
or distilled water in the control animals (2 ml), was injected intracolonically just distal to the
ligature. The cecum and proximal colon were returned to the abdominal cavity; the
compound was allowed to remain in the gut for 30 min. Then, the cecum and proximal colon
were exteriorized again. The rectal plug was removed, and the drug was gently expressed out
of the colon. Acetic acid (4%, 2 ml) was injected into the proximal colon over a 15- to 20-sec
time period. The acid was allowed to remain in the gut until 1 min had passed (ie, 40-45 sec
after the end of the acid administration). The no-acid control rats received distilled water (2
ml), which was administered in the same manner as was the acetic acid. Air (10 ml) was then
injected into the proximal colon to expel the acid or water. The cecal/proximal colon ligature
was removed, the gut was returned to the abdominal cavity, and the incisions were closed.
The animals were allowed to recover overnight and were killed 24 hr later. The entire length
of the colon was removed and assessed for damage both densitometrically and biochemically.
[00156]         Quantitationof acetic acid-inducedcolitis. Gross damage was quantitated
using Photoshop-based image analysis (version 5.0, Adobe Systems, Mountain View,
California, USA) on an Apple iMac computer. The Magic Wand tool in the Select menu of
Photoshop was used to place the cursor on an area of obvious damage. The tolerance level of
the Magic Wand tool was set at 30. The damaged areas were automatically selected by using
                                               47

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
the Similar command in the Select menu. Then, the Eyedropper tool was used to determine
the range of the damage in the highlighted areas. Individual colon images were copied to a
blank Photoshop page. The MagicWand tool, with a tolerance set to 100, was used to select
all of the pixels in the colon sample. Then, the Histogram tool, which generates a graph in
which each vertical line represents the number of pixels associated with a brightness level,
was selected in the Image menu. The Red channel was then selected; the darker (damaged
areas) appear on the left side of the histogram and the lighter (normal) areas are on the right
side. The cursor was then placed on the histogram, the color range determined in an earlier
step was selected, and the number of pixels encompassing that range and the percent damage
were quantitated automatically.
[00157]          Collection of Chelator Tissue Distribution Samples from Rodents. Male
Sprague-Dawley rats (250-350 g) were given the chelators orally at a dose of 300 pmol/kg.
At times 0.5, 1, 2, 4 and 8 h after dosing (n = 3) rats per time point, the animals were
euthanized by exposure to CO 2 gas. Blood was obtained via cardiac puncture into
vacutainers containing sodium citrate. The blood was centrifuged, and the plasma was
separated for analysis. The liver, heart, pancreas, and kidneys were removed from the
animals and frozen.
Example 3. Concentration of DFT analogs in rat plasma after PO (oral) and SC
(subcutaneous) dose
[00158]          Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-350 g) were given a single s.c. injection or an
oral dose of the monosodium salt of deferitin, (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A), or (S)-4'
(HO)-DADFT-PE (IV-A) at a dose of 300 pimol/kg. At times 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours (n = 3)
rats per time point, the animals were euthanized by exposure to C02 gas. Blood was
obtained via cardiac puncture into vacutainers containing sodium citrate. The blood was
centrifuged, and the plasma was separated for analysis. See Figures 2 and 3.
Example 4. Concentration of DFT analogs in rat plasma and cerebrospinal fluid after
PO (oral) or SC (subcutaneous) dose
[00159]          Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (450-500 g) were used. The rats were not
fasted. A sample solution of a monosodium salt of (S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-norPE (III-A) or
(S)-4'-(HO)-DADFT-PE (IV-A) was administered to the rats at an oral or subcutaneous dose
of 300 imol/kg. Concentrations of the DFT analogs in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of
the rats were measured at 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, and 8 hours post administration.
                                               48

    WO 2013/090750                                                        PCT/US2012/069795
Example 5. Concentration of DFT analogs in rat plasma and eyes after subcutaneous
dose
Rats were not perfused
[00160]          Rats were anesthetized with ketamine/xylazine about 50 minutes after dosing.
Blood of the rats was collected via cardiac puncture into vacutainer tubes containing buffered
sodium citrate one hour post dose. The rats' eyes were removed. Any extraneous tissue was
trimmed and discarded. The eyes were frozen. The entire eye was then processed and
assessed for the concentration of the DFT analog. The whole blood was centrifuged, and the
plasma was separated and frozen until the concentration of the DFT analog was determined.
Rats were perfused with saline
[00161]          Rats were anesthetized with ketamine/xylazine about 50 minutes after dosing.
Blood of the rats was collected via cardiac puncture into vacutainer tubes containing buffered
sodium citrate one hour post dose. The rats' abdomen and thorax were opened, and a portion
of the sternum/ribs was removed. A 19-gauge needle was inserted into the left ventricle of the
rats, and the right atrium was cut. About 100 ml of saline was perfused transcardially for five
minutes. The perfusion was stopped, and the rats' eyes were removed. Any extraneous tissue
was trimmed and discarded. The eyes were frozen. The entire eye was then processed and
assessed for the concentration of the DFT analog. The whole blood was centrifuged, and the
plasma was separated and frozen until the concentration of the DFT analog was determined.
                                              49

     WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
Table 1. Concentration of DFT analogs in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of rats
treated with the DFT analogs at a PO dose of 300 gmol/kg
  DFT                        Time          Concentration in plasma     Concentration in cerebrospinal
             LogPapp          (h)                   ( M)                             fluid
 analog
                              0.5                 142 ±57                         2.14 ±1.01
                               1                    64 ±7                            trace
 IV-A          -1.10           2                   32 ±20                            trace
                               4                   2 ±0.5                            trace
                               8                     trace                           trace
                              0.5                 424 ±60                         8.07 ±3.09
                               1                  219 ±19                         5.70 ±2.74
 III-A         -0.89           2                    30 ±5                 2.32 (only 1 out 3 animals
                                                                              showed anything)
                               4                   2 ±0.4                            0 0
                               8                     trace                           0    0
Table 2. Concentration of DFT analogs in the plasma and eyes of rats treated with the
DFT analogs at a SC dose of 300 gmol/kg*
                                     Non-perfused                            Perfused with saline
  DFT                   Concentration in Concentration in the Concentration in Concentration in the
       anlg LogPapp          plsm                   eye                plsaeye
 analog                      plasma         (nmol/g wet weight         plasma           (nmol/g wet weight
                                                of the eye)                                 of the eye)
  III-A       -0.89         218 ± 16             25.8 6.0             218 ± 51               17.2 ± 5.5
  V-A         -0.89         701 ± 32             37.8 ± 4.3           663 ± 42               29.7 ± 4.3
*The rats were anesthetized about 50 minutes after dose. The non-perfused rates were killed
by exposure to CO 2 one hour post dose. The remaining rats were perfused transcardially one
hour post dose with about 100 ml of saline for 5 minutes.
[00162]            The foregoing written specification is considered to be sufficient to enable one
skilled in the art to practice the present invention. The present invention is not to be limited in
scope by the examples provided, since the examples are intended as a single illustration of
one aspect of the invention and other functionally equivalent embodiments are within the
scope of the invention. Various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and
described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing
description and fall within the scope of the claims. The advantages and objects of the present
invention are not necessarily encompassed by each embodiment of the invention.
[00163]            All publications, patent applications, and patents mentioned herein are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety for disclosure of the teachings relevant to the
present invention, as if each individual publication, patent application, or patent was
                                                  50

   WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In case of the present
specification and a document incorporated by reference including conflicting disclosure, the
present specification shall control.
What is claimed is:
                                               51

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
                                               CLAIMS
1.      A method of treating macular degeneration in a subject comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of Formula (I):
                                             R4
                                     R3)                N      R
                                             3                      R9
                                             R5       S
                                                        R6   R7 O
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR     1  or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof       R1
is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is -[(CH 2).-O]x-[(CH 2 ).-O]y-R' or alkyl;
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 9 is -OR     1 ;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 1 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
                                                 52

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, or hydrate thereof.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III):
                                            R4
                                                N        N       R
                                  R3)                       N      8 R9
                                            R5S
                                                            R6 R7 O
                                                (III).
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein R9 is -OR       1  .
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein R9 is -OH.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein R8 is -CH 3.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein R6 and R 7 are each hydrogen.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
8.      The method of claim 1, wherein R 1 , R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
9.       The method of claim 1, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2 to 4; and x is I to 4.
10.     The method of claim 1, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 3; and R' is -CH 3.
11.     The method of claim 1, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 2; and R' is -CH 3.
                                                 53

    WO 2013/090750                                                   PCT/US2012/069795
12.    The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-A):
                                          O          OH
                                 O'
                           OCH3                  /       N   CH
                                                      S      CO2H
                                          (III-A).
13.    The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-B):
                                         O           OH
                                 O"
                          OCH 3                /         N  ICH3
                                                     S      CO 2Me
                                          (III-B).
14.    The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-C):
                                                     OH
                                 O
                           OCH 3                   -   ,N   %CH3
                                                      S     CO2Et
                                          (III-C).
15.    The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-A):
                                 O       O,          OH
                                    OCH3                'N .CH3
                                                      S      CO2H
                                          (IV-A).
16.    The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-B):
                                        O    1       OH
                          O        OCH 3 IN                CH 3
                                                     S      CO 2Me
                                          (IV-B).
                                            54

    WO 2013/090750                                                          PCT/US2012/069795
17.     The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-C):
                                     Ol
                                      0    , O     I        OH N      CH
                              O    '    O C H3                 N-    C H3
                                                            S       CO2Et
                                                (IV-C).
18.     The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-A):
                                   H3 CO             OH
                                                          N
                                                       SI      CO2H
                                                 (V-A).
19.     The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-B):
                                  H3CO               OH
                                                     SiiCO2Me
                                                 (V-B).
20.     The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-C):
                                   H3CO              OH
                                                      S .      CO2Et
                                                 (V-C).
21.     A method of treating a closed head injury in a subject comprising administering to the
subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I):
                                             R4
                             R2   OOR1
                                 R3                         N       R8   R
                                                                         R9
                                             R5         S
                                                            R6    R7 0
                                                   (I)
                                                  55

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof.
22.     The compound of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III):
                                             R4
                                 R2                   0R
                                                  NN
                                     R3                  N    \\R   Rg
                                             R5        S
                                                                 0
                                                         R6  R7
                                                 (III).
23.     The method of claim 21, wherein R 9 is -OR,,.
24.     The method of claim 21, wherein R 9 is -OH.
25.     The method of claim 21, wherein R8 is -CH 3.
26.     The method of claim 21, wherein R6 and R 7 are each hydrogen.
27.     The method of claim 21, wherein R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
                                                  56

    WO 2013/090750                                                         PCT/US2012/069795
28.    The method of claim 21, wherein R 1, R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
29.    The method of claim 21, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2 to 4; and x is I to 4.
30.    The method of claim 21, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 3; and R' is
CH 3.
31.    The method of claim 21, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 2; and R' is
CH 3.
32.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-A):
                                             I          OH
                            r    O -,o
                           OCH3                  /         N  \CH3
                                                        S     CO2H
                                         (III-A).
33.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-B):
                                O      O    1         OH
                          OCH 3                    -      N  \CH 3
                                                       S     CO 2Me
                                          (III-B).
34.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-C):
                                        O    I          OH
                              r O -
                           OCH 3                 /        N .CH3
                                                        S     CO2Et
                                          (II-C).
                                            57

    WO 2013/090750                                                   PCT/US2012/069795
35.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-A):
                                 O      O,           OH
                                   OCH 3                'N .CH 3
                                                      S       CO 2 H
                                         (IV-A).
36.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-B):
                                           O        OH
                                O OCH 3                ON     CH3
                                                     S        CO 2Me
                                         (IV-B).
37.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-C):
                              r O   -, O     I       OH N         H
                           O *-OCH3
                                                         -NC CH3
                                                     S        CO2Et
                                         (IV-C).
38.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-A):
                               H3 CO           OH
                                                   N
                                                S'        CO2H
                                          (V-A).
39.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-B):
                               H3CO            OH
                                                            2 Me
                                               SiiCO
                                          (V-B).
                                            58

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
40.    The method of claim 21, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-C):
                                      H3CO         OH
                                                          CO2Et
                                               (V-C).
41.    The method of claim 21, wherein the closed head injury is a concussion.
42.    The method of claim 21, wherein the closed head injury is a brain contusion.
43.    The method of claim 21, wherein the closed head injury is associated with diffuse
axonal injury.
44.    The method of claim 21, wherein the closed head injury is an intracranial hematoma.
45.    A method of treating stroke in a subject comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I):
                                           R4
                                R2   OOR1
                                    R3                 N      R8
                                           3                      R9
                                           R5        S
                                                       R6   R7 0
                                                 (I)
wherein:
       R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
       R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
       R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
       R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
       R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
       RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
       RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
       R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
                                                59

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof.
46.     The compound of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III):
                                            R4
                                  R3)
                                                          N    \R 8
                                                          N       8 R9
                                            R5R                 7
                                                          R6  R7 O
                                                (III).
47.     The method of claim 45, wherein R 9 is -OR,,.
48.     The method of claim 45, wherein R 9 is -OH.
49.     The method of claim 45, wherein R8 is -CH 3.
50.      The method of claim 45, wherein R 6 and R 7 are each hydrogen.
51.     The method of claim 45, wherein R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
52.     The method of claim 45, wherein R 1 , R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
53.      The method of claim 45, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2 to 4; and x is 1 to 4.
54.     The method of claim 45, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 3; and R' is
CH 3.
                                                 60

    WO 2013/090750                                                       PCT/US2012/069795
55.    The method of claim 45, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 2; and R' is
CH 3.
56.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-A):
                                          O           OH
                                 0Ol' ,
                           OCH3                   /        N   CH
                                                       S      CO2H
                                           (III-A).
57.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-B):
                                          O 1         OH
                          OCH 3                     -     N  \CH 3
                                                      S      CO 2Me
                                           (III-B).
58.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-C):
                                O        O,           OH
                           OCH 3                /         N   CH3
                                                      S      CO2Et.
                                           (III-C).
59.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-A):
                                  0 -
                                  O       O           OH
                           O    ,,, OCH3                 'N    CH3
                                                       S      CO2H
                                           (IV-A).
60.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-B):
                                        O             OH
                          O         OCH 3                 N
                                                      S      CO 2Me
                                           (IV-B).
                                             61

    WO 2013/090750                                                     PCT/US2012/069795
61.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-C):
                                 O 0O                H
                           O   '    OCH3             ' N-  C H3
                                                   S      CO2Et
                                         (IV-C).
62.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-A):
                               H3 CO          OH
                                                 N
                                              SI       CO2H
                                          (V-A).
63.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-B):
                               H3CO          OH
                                              SiiCO2Me
                                          (V-B).
64.    The method of claim 45, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-C):
                               H3CO           OH
                                              S .      CO2Et
                                          (V-C).
65.    The method of claim 45, wherein the stroke is a hemorrhagic stroke.
66.    The method of claim 45, wherein the stroke is an ischemic stroke.
                                           62

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
67.     A method of treating irritable bowel disease in a subject comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I):
                                             R4
                                     R3)                N       R
                                             3                      R9
                                             R5R               7
                                                        R6   R7 O
                                                   (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof.
68.     The compound of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III):
                                             R4
                                                        N     \R 8
                                     R3)                          8 R9
                                             R5R               7
                                                        R6   R7 O
                                                 (III).
                                                  63

    WO 2013/090750                                                         PCT/US2012/069795
69.    The method of claim 67, wherein R 9 is -OR,,.
70.    The method of claim 67, wherein R 9 is -OH.
71.    The method of claim 67, wherein R8 is -CH 3.
72.     The method of claim 67, wherein R 6 and R 7 are each hydrogen.
73.    The method of claim 67, wherein R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
74.    The method of claim 67, wherein R 1, R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
75.     The method of claim 67, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]-R'; n is 2 to 4; and x is 1 to 4.
76.    The method of claim 67, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 3; and R' is
CH 3.
77.    The method of claim 67, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 2; and R' is
CH 3.
78.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-A):
                                         O              OH
                                  O'
                            OCH3                  /        N   CH
                                                        S     CO2H
                                         (III-A).
79.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-B):
                                O      O     1        OH
                           OCH 3                    -     N  \CH 3
                                                       S     CO 2Me
                                         (III-B).
                                             64

    WO 2013/090750                                                   PCT/US2012/069795
80.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-C):
                                O -     O            OH
                           OCH 3                  -    ,N .%CH 3
                                                     S     CO2Et
                                         (III-C).
81.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-A):
                                 O       O,          OH
                                    OCH3               'N .,CH3
                                                     S      CO2H
                                          (IV-A).
82.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-B):
                                       O     1      OH
                          O        OCH 3                N  CH 3
                                                    S      CO 2Me
                                          (IV-B).
83.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-C):
                                O             I     OH
                           O       OCH3                 N  CH3
                                                     S     CO2Et
                                          (IV-C).
84.    The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-A):
                               H3 CO           OH
                                                  N
                                                    SCO2H
                                           (V-A).
                                            65

    WO 2013/090750                                                            PCT/US2012/069795
85.     The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-B):
                                      H3CO         OH
                                                          CO 2 Me
                                                (V-B).
86.     The method of claim 67, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-C):
                                      H3CO          OH
                                                    S .    CO2Et
                                                (V-C).
87.     A method of treating reperfusion injury in a subject, comprising administering to the
subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I):
                                             R4
                                 R21-10OR1
                                     R3                  N      R8  R
                                             R5        S
                                                         R6  R7 O
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
                                                 66

    WO 2013/090750                                                           PCT/US2012/069795
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof.
88.     The compound of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III):
                                            R4
                             R2                      0R
                                  R3)                     N    \\    Rg
                                            R5        S
                                                                  0
                                                          R6  R7
                                                (III).
89.     The method of claim 87, wherein R 9 is -OR,,.
90.     The method of claim 87, wherein R 9 is -OH.
91.     The method of claim 87, wherein R8 is -CH 3.
92.      The method of claim 87, wherein R 6 and R 7 are each hydrogen.
93.     The method of claim 87, wherein R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
94.     The method of claim 87, wherein R 1 , R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each hydrogen.
95.      The method of claim 87, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]-R'; n is 2 to 4; and x is 1 to 4.
96.     The method of claim 87, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 3; and R' is
CH 3.
97.     The method of claim 87, wherein R 2 is -[(CH 2)n-O]x-R'; n is 2; x is 2; and R' is
CH 3.
                                                 67

    WO 2013/090750                                                   PCT/US2012/069795
98.    The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-A):
                                          O           OH
                                 0Ol' ,
                           OCH3                   /        N  CH
                                                       S      CO2H
                                           (III-A).
99.    The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-B):
                                        O             OH
                                0 ,
                                Ol"
                          OCH 3                 /         N  ICH3
                                                      S      CO 2Me
                                           (III-B).
100.   The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (III-C):
                                  O
                                0OH
                           OCH 3                    -   ,N   %CH3
                                                       S     CO2Et
                                           (III-C).
101.   The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-A):
                                  O       O,          OH
                                     OCH3                'N .CH3
                                                       S      CO2H
                                           (IV-A).
102.   The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-B):
                                        O     1       OH
                          O         OCH 3                 N  CH 3
                                                      S      CO 2Me
                                           (IV-B).
                                             68

   WO 2013/090750                                                        PCT/US2012/069795
103.  The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (IV-C):
                                 O 0O                      H
                          O    '    O C H3                 ' N-   C H3
                                                         S       CO2Et
                                            (IV-C).
104.  The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-A):
                               H3 CO             OH
                                                       N
                                                   SI        CO2H
                                             (V-A).
105.  The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-B):
                              H3CO              OH
                                                 SiiCO2Me
                                             (V-B).
106.  The method of claim 87, wherein the compound is of the Formula (V-C):
                               H3CO              OH
                                                 S .         CO2Et
                                             (V-C).
107.  A pharmaceutical composition for use in treating macular degeneration comprising a
compound of Formula (I):
                                         R4
                         R21-10N                         R1
                              R3                          N       R8   R
                                         R5           S                R
                                                          R6    R7
                                               (I)
                                              69

   WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof, and
optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
108.    A pharmaceutical composition for use in treating a closed head injury comprising a
compound of Formula (I):
                                             R4
                                          R             N       R
                                      SRR                            9
                                             R5R               7
                                                        R6   R7 O
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR     1 or -SRI;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
                                                 70

   WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof, and
optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
109.    A pharmaceutical composition for use in treating stroke comprising a compound of
Formula (I):
                                             R4
                                   R2                   N      RR
                                      R3)N                        RgR
                                             R5       S
                                                          R6 R7 O
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof, and
optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                                 71

   WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
110.    A pharmaceutical composition for use in treating irritable bowel disease comprising a
compound of Formula (I):
                                            R4
                                 R2   OOR1
                                     R3                 N      R8
                                            R5R               7
                                                        R6  R7 O
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                                 72

   WO 2013/090750                                                             PCT/US2012/069795
111.    A pharmaceutical composition for use in treating reperfusion injury comprising a
compound of Formula (I):
                                             R4
                                          R             N       R
                                      SRR                            9
                                             R5R               7
                                                        R6   R7 O
                                                  (I)
wherein:
        R 1 is hydrogen, alkyl, or acyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen, alkyl, or -[(CH 2 )n-O]x-[(CH 2)n-O]y-R';
        R 3 , R 4 , and R5 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, arylalkyl, or -ORio;
        R 6 , R 7 , and R8 are each independently hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, or -OR  12 ;
        R 9 is -OR, 1 or -SR11;
        RIO is hydrogen, alkyl , or acyl;
        RII is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
        R' is alkyl;
        each occurrence of n is independently an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive;
        x is an integer from 1 to 8, inclusive; and
        y is an integer from 0 to 8, inclusive;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, tautomer, solvate, hydrate, or polymorph thereof, and
optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                                 73

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
