                                     ABSTRACT
The present disclosure provides, inter alia, Thraustochyrium and relevant methods
and reagents, including engineered regulatory sequences from and/or operative in
Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium. selectable markers useful for engineering
microorganisms such as Thraustochytrids, means for mutagenizing microorganisms,
novel strains produced by mutagenesis, and methods and compositions related to
production of particular compounds in microorganisms.

                                               1
                 ENGINEERING THRAUSTOCHYTRID MICROORGANISMS
                         Cross-Reference to Related Applications
   [0001]         The present application claims benefit of, and           priority to, U.S.
 5 provisional application Ser. No. 61/449,848, filed March 7, 2011, the entire contents of
   which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
   [0001a]        The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number 2015252107, which is in turn a divisional application of Australian
   Patent Application No. 2012226528, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
10 herein by reference.
                                      Sequence Listing
   [0002]         The present specification makes reference to a Sequence Listing
   (entitled "SequenceListing.txt," created on March 7, 2012 and 108 kilobytes) as
   disclosed in the international application as filed. The entire contents of the Sequence
15 Listing are herein incorporated by reference.
                                        Technical Field
   [0003] This invention relates to genetically altered Thraustochytrids that can provide
   useful sources of compounds and agents.
20
                                         Background
   [0004]         Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) have long been recognized as
   having beneficial effects on health. The primary source for nutritional supplements is
   oil from fish species that have high concentrations of PUFA, such as anchovy,
25 sardine, salmon, menhaden, herring, and tuna. However, lack of reliability of sources,
   and variability in the quality and/or quantity of PUFA isolated from fish mean there
   remains a need for alternative sources of PUFA.
   [0005]         Thraustochytrids are aquatic, eukaryotic microorganisms with the
   capacity to produce useful products, including PUFA and antioxidants (Carmona et
30 al., Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 67(4):884-888, 2003). These organisms are found
   worldwide in oceans and estuaries. Thraustochytrids are able to use a wide range of
   carbon and nitrogen sources for growth, indicating a potential for industrial cultivation
   with inexpensive nutrients.

                                           1a
  [0006]        There remains a need for improved sources of PUFA and other useful
  compounds.
  [0006a]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to
5 herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a
  part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
                                            Summary
 [0007]       The present invention encompasses the appreciation of certain problems with
 available sources of PUFA and other useful compounds and agents. The present invention
 encompasses the recognition that genetically altered Thraustochytrids, whether by classical
 mutagenesis or otherwise, can provide useful sources of PUFA and other compounds and
 agents.
 [0008]       The present invention provides, in various embodiments, systems for genetically
 engineering Thraustochytrids, as well as genetically engineered Thraustochytrids that find
 various uses (e.g., PUFA production and/or biofuel production).
 [0009]       In certain embodiments, the invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules
 comprising a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium gene element, such as a Thraustochytrid
 or Thraustochyrium promoter or terminator. Exemplary promoters in provided isolated
 nucleic acid molecules include, but are not limited to, a tubulin promoter (e.g., nucleic acid
                                               92    95                99
 sequences having at least 80%, 85%, 90%,         %,    %, 97%, 98%,      %, or higher sequence
 identity to SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO: 10), a A5 elongase promoter (e.g., nucleic acid
 sequences having at least 80% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 19), and a A4 desaturase
 promoter (e.g., nucleic acid sequences having at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 92%, 95%, 97%,
 98%, 99%, or higher sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:24). Exemplary terminators in
 provided isolated nucleic acids molecules include, but are not limited to, a tubulin terminator
                                                8     85    9     92                98    99
 (e.g., nucleic acid sequences having at least    0%,    %,   0%,    %, 95%, 97%,      %,    %, or
 higher sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:14 or SEQ ID NO:16).
 [0010]       In some embodiments, provided are isolated nucleic acid molecules comprising a
 heterologous sequence operably linked to a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium gene
 promoter and a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium gene terminator. In some
 embodiments, the heterologous sequence encodes a polypeptide. In some embodiments,
 provided isolated nucleic acid molecules further comprise a zeocin resistance gene.
 [0011]       In certain embodiments, provided are host cells comprising one or more provided
 isolated nucleic acids.
 [0012]       In certain embodiments, provided are methods of mutagenizing cells of a
 microorganism (e.g., Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium) comprising steps of: culturing
 cells of the microorganism on a medium, the medium comprising zeocin at a concentration
                                             2

WO 2012/120375                                                           PCT/IB2012/000528
 at which zeocin kills 60-80% of the cells and isolating a subpopulation of cells that survive
 cultivation, thereby mutagenizing cells of a microorganism.
 [0013]      In certain embodiments, provided are Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cells
 that contain one or more modifications to one or more genes encoding an enzyme
 polypeptide or part of an enzyme polyeptide complex involved in the PUFA biosynthetic
 pathway of Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium. In some embodiments, the one or
 modifications increase production of one or more PUFA by the modified cell as compared
 with a reference Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell when the modified and reference
 cells are cultured under comparable conditions. In some embodiments, the enzyme
 polypeptide or enzyme polypeptide complexes are selected from the group consisting of
 fatty acid synthase (FAS), A5 elongase, A12 elongase, A4 desaturase, and polyketide PUFA
 synthase (PKS). In some embodiments, the one or more PUFA are selected from the group
 consisting of alpha-linolenic acid ("ALA"), arachidonic acid ("ARA"), docosahexaenoic
 acid ("DHA"), docosapentaenoic acid ("DPA"), eicosopentaenoic acid ("EPA"), gamma
 linolenic acid ("GLA"), and linoleic acid ("LA"). In some embodiments, the enzyme or
 enzyme complexes are selected from the group consisting of polyketide PUFA synthase
 (PKS), A9 desaturase, elongase, and omega-3 desaturase.
 [0014]      In certain embodiments, provided are methods for transforming a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell comprising the steps of: (a) providing a competent
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell; (b) delivering a recombinant nucleic acid into the
 competent Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell, wherein the recombinant nucleic acid
 comprises a selectable marker; and (c) culturing the competent Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cell in a culturing medium containing a selection agent that reduces
 growth of cells without the selectable marker. In some embodiments, the selectable marker
 is an antibiotic resistance gene. In some embodiments, the selection agent is an antibiotic.
 For example, the antibiotic may be zeocin. In some embodiments, zeocin is present at a
 concentration greater than 50 pg/mL (e.g., about 100 pg/mL).
 [0015]      In some embodiments of provided methods for transforming a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cell, the recombinant nucleic acid further comprises a gene expression
 cassette distinct from the selectable marker.
                                             3

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0016]       In some embodiments, provided methods for transforming a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cell further comprise a step of isolating a competent Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cell containing the selectable marker.
 [0017]       In some embodiments, the step of delivering comprises biolistic delivery of
 particles coated with the recombinant nucleic acid. For example, particles comprising gold
 particles may be used in biolistic delivery.
 [0018]       In some embodiments, the culturing medium contains a level of salt between a
 lower salt concentration and an upper salt concentration. In some embodiments, the lower
 concentration is about 1, about 2, about 3, about 4, about 5, about 6, about 7, about 8, about
 9, about 10, about 12, about 15, about 17, about 18, anout 19, or about 20 g/L. In some
 embodiments, the upper salt concentration is about 20, about 22, about 25, about 27, about
 30, about 32, about 35, about 37, about 40, about 45, about 50, about 55, about 60, about 65,
 or about 70 g/L. In some embodiments, the salt concentration is between about 3 g/L and
 about 70 g/L; between about 5 g/L and about 60 g/L; 10 g/L and about 40 g/L of salt (e.g.,
 between about 15 g/L and about 35 g/L salt, or between about 18 g/L and about 35 g/L salt;
 or between about 9 g/L and about 18 g/L). In some embodiments, the salt is or comprises a
 salt selected from the group consisting of sodium salts (e.g., sea salt, sodium chloride, table
 salt, sodium sulfate, etc), potassium salts, and combinations thereof. In some embodiments,
 the salt is or comprises a non-chloride salt. In some embodiments, the salt is or comprises a
 non-chloride sodium salt.
 [0019]       In certain embodiments, provided are Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cells
 competent for genetic transformation.
 [0020]       In certain embodiments, provided are Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cells
 transformed with a recombinant nucleic acid.
 [0021]       In certain embodiments, provided are methods of culturing Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cells, the method comprising: growing a culture comprising
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cells under a first set of conditions under which
 biomass increases (and optionally other features increase or decrease as well); shifting the
 first set of culture conditions to a second set of conditions in which lipid productivity
 increases, wherein the shifting comprises one or more of: (a) decreasing oxygen
 concentrations from a first oxygen concentration to a second oxygen concentration; (b)
                                               4

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 increasing C:N ratio from a first C:N ratio to a second C:N ratio; (c) decreasing temperature
 from a first temperature to a second temperature; and combinations thereof.
 [0022]      In certain embodiments, provided are methods of providing a PUFA, the method
 comprising: providing a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell that is modified as
 compared with a reference Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell in that the modified
 cell contains one or more genetic modifications that increase production of one or more
 PUFA by the modified cell as compared with the reference cell when the modified and
 reference cells are cultured under comparable conditions; and culturing the modified
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell under conditions and for a time sufficient to
 achieve production of the one or more PUFA.
 [0023]      In some embodiments, the step of providing comprises providing a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell containing at least one engineered Thraustochytrid
 or Thraustochytrium promoter.
 [0024]      In some embodiments, the step of providing comprises providing a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell containing at least one engineered Thraustochytrid
 or Thraustochytrium terminator.
 [0025]      In some embodiments, the step of providing comprises providing a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell that is modified with respect to a reference
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell in that the modified Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cell contains at least one expressed heterologous polypeptide. In some
 embodiments, the at least one heterologous protein is expressed from a gene that is operably
 linked with an engineered Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium promoter, an engineered
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium terminator, or both. In some embodiments, the at least
 one heterologous polypeptide comprises at least one heterologous PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptide.
 [0026]      In some embodiments, the genetic modification comprises at least one nucleotide
 mutation that increases expression or activity of PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide. In some
 embodiments, the PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide whose expression or activity is increased
 is an endogenous PUFA production polypeptide. In some embodiments, the PUFA
 production polypeptide whose expression or activity is increased is a heterologous PUFA
 biosynthesis polypeptide.
                                             5

WO 2012/120375                                                                 PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0027]          In certain embodiments, provided are engineered Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cells that express a heterologous PUFA production polypeptide.
 [0028]          In certain embodiments, provided are engineered Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cells that produce at least one PUFA at a level at least 36% higher than a
 non-engineered Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell when the engineered and non
 engineered cells are cultured under comparable conditions.
 [0029]          In certain embodiments, provided are compositions comprising: at least one
 PUFA; and one or more components of a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell that
 contains an antibiotic resistance gene or is progeny of a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cell that contains an antibiotic resistance gene. In some embodiments,
 the antibiotic resistance gene is a zeocin resistance gene.
 [0030]          In certain embodiments, provided are compositions comprising: at least one
 PUFA; and one or more components of (a) a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell that
 has been cultured in or on a medium comprising zeocin at a concentration at which zeocin
 kills 6 0 - 8 0 % of the cells, or (b) a progeny of a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell that
 has been cultured in or on a medium comprising zeocin at a concentration at which zeocin
 kills 60-80% of the cells.
 [0031]          Details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
 accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages
 of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
 All cited patents, patent applications, and references (including references to public
 sequence database entries) are incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes.
                                    Brief Description of the Drawings
 [0032]          Fig. 1 shows a representation of the putative biosynthetic pathways of PUFA in
 Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18 ("ONC-T18", ATCC accession no.: PTA-6245;
 International Patent Application No. PCT/1B2006/003977, the entire contents of which are
 herein incorporated by reference). FAS, fatty acid synthase; EL, elongase; A8, A8
 desaturase; A5, A5 desaturase; A4, A4 desaturase; o3, omega-3 desaturase; C14:0, myristic
 acid; C 16:0, palmitic acid; C16:ln-7, palmitoleic acid; C18:0, stearic acid; C18:ln-7, cis
 vaccenic acid; C18:ln-9, oleic acid; C18:2n-6 (LA), linoleic acid; C18:3n-3 (ALA), a
 linolenic acid; C18:3n-6 (GLA), 7-linolenic acid; C18:4n-3 (STA), stearidonic acid; C20:2n
                                                  6

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 6 (EDA), eicosadienoic acid; C20:3n-6 (DGLA), dihomo-7-linolenic acid; C20:4n-3 (ETA),
 eicosatetraenoic acid; C20:3n-3 (ETE), eicosatetraenoic acid; C20:4n-6 (ARA), arachidonic
 acid; C20:5n-3 (EPA), eicosapentaenoic acid; C22:4n-6 (DTA), docosatetraenoic acid;
 C22:5n-3 (DPA), docosapentaenoic acid; C22:5n-6, docosapentaenoic acid; C22:6n-3
 (DHA), docosahexaenoic acid; and PKS, polyketide PUFA synthase. n-6 denotes the
 omega-6 PUFA biosynthetic pathway and n-3 denotes the omega-3 PUFA biosynthetic
 pathway.
 [0033]      Fig. 2 is a schematic representation of the generation of the gene expression
 vector pd4DPZ 1.
 [0034]      Fig. 3 is a schematic representation of the generation of the gene expression
 vector pd5EPZ 1.
 [0035]      Fig. 4 is a schematic representation of the generation of the gene expression
 vector pd5EPrsGFP 1 as well as the constructs of the intermediate plasmid produced by the
 processes.
 [0036]      Fig. 5 is a schematic illustration of the generation of the gene expression vector
 p341PZ40T.
 [0037]      Fig. 6 is a schematic illustration of the generation of the gene expression vector
 p341PZ347T.
 [0038]      Fig. 7 is a schematic illustration of the generation of the gene expression vector
 p341PZ713T.
 [0039]      Fig. 8 is a schematic illustration of the generation of the gene expression vector
 p701PZ40T.
 [0040]      Fig. 9 is a schematic illustration of the generation of the gene expression vector
 p341PsmRsGFP40T.
 [0041]      Fig. 10 is a schematic illustration of the generation of the gene expression vector
 pD4DPZ 18S as well as the constructs of the intermediate plasmid produced by the
 processes.
 [0042]      Fig. 11 is a schematic representation of the generation of the gene expression
 vector p341PZ5EpEx and the constructs of the intermediate plasmids produced by the
 processes.
 [0043]      Fig. 12 illustrates effects of antibiotic zeocin on the growth and colony numbers
 of ONC-T18 at various salinities in the growth medium ONC-T18-GMO plates. Results
                                                7

WO 2012/120375                                                                   PCT/IB2012/000528
 indicate that ONC-T18 grew faster and produced more colonies under higher salinity (e.g.
 35g/L artificial sea salt) in ONC-T18-GM0 medium than under lower salinity (e.g., 8.5g/L
 artificial sea salt). At the median salinity (e.g., 18g/L artificial sea salt), zeocin, at the
 concentration 30 pg/mL, could completely inhibit the growth of ONC-T18 in ONC-T18
 GMO agar plates.
 [0044]       Fig. 13 illustrates zeocin resistance of ONC-T 18 strains transformed with the
 plasmid DNAs in which the zeocin resistance gene is driven under various ONC-T 18 gene
 promoter and terminators, in the agar plates of growth medium (ONC-T18-GMO). Results
 show that all of ONC-T 18 transformant strains are resistant to antibiotic zeocin, but not the
 wild type ONC-T18 strains. Some transformant strains are highly resistant to zeocin (e.g.,
 5000 pg/mL).
 [0045]       Fig. 14 illustrates the detection of the transgene of the zeocin resistance gene in
 the zeocin-resistant strains transformed. The zeocin gene specific DNA fragments were
 amplified from the genomic DNA of each transformant strain with PCR technique using
 zeocin resistant gene specific primers.
 [0046]       Fig.15 illustrates the growth rates of the wild type and various transformed ONC
 T18 strains in the agar plates of the growth medium (ONC-T18-GMO) containing sea salt at
 the concentration of 18g/L or 35g/L. One pL of the cell suspensions was spotted on the
 ONC-T 18-GMO agar plates and the diameters of the colonies were measured daily.
 [0047]       Fig. 16 illustrates the biomass productivity of the wild type and various
 transformed ONC-T18 strains in liquid growth medium (ONC-T18-GMO) containing
 artificial sea salt at the concentration of 18g/L or 35g/L. Results shows that at the lower
 salinity, all strains tested produced more biomass than at a higher salinity.
 [0048]       Fig. 17 illustrates DHA productivities of the wild type and various transformed
 ONC-T18 strains in the liquid growth medium (ONC-T18-GMO) containing artificial sea
 salt at the concentration of 18g/L or 35g/L. Results show that DHA productivities of the
 transformed strains differentiated in a broad range; most strains produced high DHA yield in
 lower salinity than at higher salinity, and high DHA yield production strains can be isolated
 from screening single colony cultures.
 [0049]       Fig. 18 illustrates the fatty acid profiles and total lipid productivities of the
 transformed strains that grew in liquid ONC-T18-GMO media having various salinities.
 This figure illustrates the stability of the ble transgene in ONC-T18 strains transformed.
                                                 8

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0050]       Fig. 19 illustrates a comparison of biomass, lipid, and DHA productivities of a
 mutagenized ONC-T 18 strain and a parental strain.
                                             Definitions
 [0051]       Competent: The term "competent," as used herein in reference to a cell, refers to
 the ability of the cell to take up extracellular genetic material. A cell may be competent
 naturally and/or induced artificially (e.g., in a laboratory) to be competent. In some
 embodiments, competent cells are able to take up extracellular genetic material when the
 extracellular genetic material is introduced by a particular method, e.g., a particular method
 of transformation. For example, a cell may be competent for one method of transformation,
 but not for another. Alternatively or additionally, a cell may be competent for more than
 one method of transformation. Competent cells may be obtained from any of a variety of
 sources. For example, they may be isolated from nature, prepared in the laboratory, and/or
 bought commercially. In some embodiments, the competence of a cell is transient. In some
 embodiments, the competence of a cell is permanent.
 [0052]       Component: The term "component," when used herein in reference to a cell,
 means any part of a cell, such as a structure, part of a structure, macromolecular complex,
 and/or molecule contained in the cell, including, but not limited to, cell membranes, cell
 walls, cellular nuclei, cystosol, genetic material (e.g., chromosomes), cellular organelles, or
 any part of or biomolecule contained in any of the aforementioned components. Organelles
 typically contained in a cell may differ depending on the cell type. For example, some
 organelles are present only in eukaryotic cells. Some organelles are only present in plant
 cells, and some are only present in animal cells. Non-limiting examples of types of
 organelles are cellular nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts, peroxisomes, lysosomes,
 vacuoles, Golgi apparatus, endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, and centrosomes. Non
 limiting examples of biomolecules contained in a cell include, but are not limited to, nucleic
 acids (e.g., DNA and/or RNA), polypeptides (e.g., proteins), nucleo-protein complexes,
 lipids, and phospholipids. Some cells may contain exogenous genetic material (e.g.,
 material that has been introduced into the cell by the hand of man). Such exogenous
 material is included in this definition. Some cells may have extracellular components such
 as extracellular capsules, flagella, or fimbria (pili). These extracellular components are also
 included in this definition.
                                                9

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0053]      Engineered: In general, the term "engineered" refers to the aspect of having
 been manipulated by the hand of man. For example, a polynucleotide is considered to be
 "engineered" when two or more sequences, that are not linked together in that order in
 nature, are manipulated by the hand of man to be directly linked to one another in the
 engineered polynucleotide. For example, in some embodiments of the present invention, an
 engineered polynucleotide comprises a regulatory sequence that is found in nature in
 operative association with a first coding sequence but not in operative association with a
 second coding sequence, is linked by the hand of man so that it is operatively associated
 with the second coding sequence. To give but one specific example that is described herein,
 in some embodiments of the present invention, a Thraustochytrium A4 desaturase promoter
 is linked to nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide other than a Thraustochytrium A4
 desaturase polypeptide. Comparably, a cell or organism is considered to be "engineered" if
 it has been manipulated so that its genetic information is altered (e.g., new genetic material
 not previously present has been introduced, for example by transformation, mating, or other
 mechanism, or previously present genetic material is altered or removed, for example by
 substitution or deletion mutation). As is common practice and is understood by those in the
 art, progeny of an engineered polynucleotide or cell are typically still referred to as
 "engineered" even though the actual manipulation was performed on a prior entity.
 [0054]       Genetic modification: The term "genetic modification", as used herein, refers to
 to a manipulation by the hand of man through the use of genetic engineering. The term
 "genetic modifications" encompasses any types of changes to the genetic material of a cell,
 including changes to the nucleotide (e.g., DNA or RNA) sequence of the genetic material of
 the cell and chemical modifications to the genetic material of the cell (e.g., modifications
 such as methylation that may affect the expression of a genetic locus). Cells or organisms
 that are manipulated in such a manner are said to be "genetically modified" or "transgenic".
 For example, the term "transgenic cell", as used herein, refers to a cell whose DNA contains
 an exogenous nucleic acid not originally present in the non-transgenic cell. A transgenic
 cell may be derived or regenerated from a transformed cell or derived from a transgenic cell.
 Exemplary transgenic cells in the context of the present invention include, but are not
 limited to, transgenic Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cells. Transgenic cells typically
 express DNA sequences that confer to the cells characteristics different from that of native,
                                             10

WO 2012/120375                                                                PCT/IB2012/000528
 non-transgenic cells of the same strain. Progeny of transgenic cells are typically considered
 transgenic as well.
 [0055]       Heterologous: The term "heterologous", as used herein to refer to nucleic acids
 (e.g., nucleic acids including regulatory sequences and/or genes) or polypeptides, refers to a
 nucleic acid or polypeptide that is artificially introduced into a cell and/or does not naturally
 occur in the cell in which it is present. In some embodiments, a heterologous nucleic acid
 has a nucleotide sequence that is identical to that of a nucleic acid naturally present in the
 cell. For example, in some embodiments, a Thraustochytrid host cell is engineered to
 include a nucleic acid having a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium regulatory sequence.
 Although the Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium regulatory sequence may naturally occur
 in the host cell, the introduced nucleic acid is heterologous according to the present
 disclosure. In many embodiments a heterogous nucleic acid has a nucleotide sequence that
 is different from that of any nucleic acid that is naturally present in the cell. In some
 embodiments, a nucleic acid that is heterologous to a particular cell has a nucleic acid
 sequence that is identical to that of a nucleic acid that is naturally found in a source
 organism that is different from the cell into which the heterologous nucleic acid is
 introduced.
 [0056]       Host cell: As used herein, the "host cell" is a cell that is manipulated according to
 the present disclosure. For example, in some embodiments, a host cell is manipulated such
 that its production of one or more PUFA is increased (e.g., via PUFA increasing
 modification). A "modified host cell", as used herein, is any host cell which has been
 modified, engineered, or manipulated in accordance with the present disclosure as compared
 with an otherwise identical parental cell, and/or as compared with a particular reference cell
 (e.g., a wild type cell). In some embodiments, the modified host cell has at least one (and
 optionally more than one) modification that results in increased production of PUFA or
 other cellular materials (e.g., at least one PUFA increasing modification) by the modified
 host cell as compared with the parent or reference cell.
 [0057]       Introduce: The term "introduce", as used herein with reference to introduction of
 a nucleic acid into a cell or organism is intended to have its broadest meaning and to
 encompass introduction, for example by transformation methods (e.g., calcium-chloride
 mediated transformation, electroporation, particle bombardment), and also introduction by
                                               11

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 other methods including transduction, conjugation, and mating. In some embodiments, a
 vector is utilized to introduce a nucleic acid into a cell or organism.
 [0058]        Isolated: The term "isolated", as used herein, means that the isolated entity has
 been separated from at least one component with which it was previously associated. When
 most other components have been removed, the isolated entity is "purified" or
 "concentrated". Isolation and/or purification and/or concentration may be performed using
 any techniques known in the art including, for example, fractionation, extraction,
 precipitation, or other separation.
 [0059]      Operably linked: The term "operably linked", as used herein, refers to a
 relationship between two nucleic acid sequences wherein the expression of one of the
 nucleic acid sequences is controlled by, regulated by or modulated by the other nucleic acid
 sequence. In some embodiments, a nucleic acid sequence that is operably linked to a second
 nucleic acid sequence is covalently linked, either directly or indirectly, to such second
 sequence, although any effective three-dimensional association is acceptable. A single
 nucleic acid sequence can be operably linked to multiple other sequences. For example, a
 single promoter can direct transcription of multiple RNA species.
 [0060]      Polypeptide: The term "polypeptide", as used herein, generally has its art
 recognized meaning of a polymer of at least three amino acids. However, the term is also
 used to refer to specific functional classes of polypeptides, such as, for example, desaturases,
 elongases, etc. For each such class, the present specification provides several examples of
 known sequences of such polypeptides. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate,
 however, that the term "polypeptide" is intended to be sufficiently general as to encompass
 not only polypeptides having the complete sequence recited herein (or in a reference or
 database specifically mentioned herein), but also to encompass polypeptides that represent
 functional fragments (i.e., fragments retaining at least one activity) of such complete
 polypeptides. Moreover, those of ordinary skill in the art understand that protein sequences
 generally tolerate some substitution without destroying activity. Thus, any polypeptide that
 retains activity and shares at least about 30-40% overall sequence identity, often greater than
 about 50%, 60%, 70%, or 80%, and further usually including at least one region of much
 higher identity, often greater than 90% or even 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% in one or
 more highly conserved regions, usually encompassing at least 3-4 and often up to 20 or
 more amino acids, with another polypeptide of the same class, is encompassed within the
                                              12

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 relevant term "polypeptide" as used herein. Other regions of similarity and/or identity can
 be determined by those of ordinary skill in the art by analysis of the sequences of various
 polypeptides described herein. As is known by those of ordinary skill in the art, a variety of
 strategies are known, and tools are available, for performing comparisons of amino acid or
 nucleotide sequences in order to assess degrees of identity and/or similarity. These
 strategies include, for example, manual alignment, computer assisted sequence alignment
 and combinations thereof. A number of algorithms (which are generally computer
 implemented) for performing sequence alignment are widely available, or can be produced
 by one of skill in the art. Representative algorithms include, e.g., the local homology
 algorithm of Smith and Waterman (Adv. Appl. Math., 1981, 2: 482); the homology
 alignment algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch (J. Mol. Biol., 1970, 48: 443); the search for
 similarity method of Pearson and Lipman (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA), 1988, 85: 2444);
 and/or by computerized implementations of these algorithms (e.g., GAP, BESTFIT,
 FASTA, and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Release 7.0, Genetics
 Computer Group, 575 Science Dr., Madison, Wis.). Readily available computer programs
 incorporating such algorithms include, for example, BLASTN, BLASTP, Gapped BLAST,
 PILEUP, CLUSTALW, etc. When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST programs, default
 parameters of the respective programs may be used. Alternatively, the practitioner may use
 non-default parameters depending on his or her experimental and/or other requirements (see
 for example, the Web site having URL www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov).
 [0061]      PUFA biosynthetic pathway: A "PUFA biosynthetic pathway" is a biosynthetic
 pathway that produces PUFA and/or PUFA precursors.
 [0062]      PUFA biosynthesispolypeptide: The term "PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide" as
 used herein, refers to polypeptides involved in the production of a PUFA such as, but not
 limited to alpha linolenic acid ("ALA"), arachidonic acid ("ARA"), docosahexanenoic acid
 ("DHA"), docosapentaenoic acid ("DPA"), eicosapentaenoic acid ("EPA"), , gamma
 linolenic acid ("GLA"), linoleic acid ("LA") and/or linolenic acid. In some embodiments,
 PUFA biosynthesis polypeptides are enzymes that catalyze particular steps in a synthesis
 pathway that ultimately produces a PUFA. In some embodiments, a PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptide is a fatty acid synthase. In some embodiments, PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptides catalyze elongation of a fatty acid. In some embodiments, PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptides catalyze desaturation of a fatty acid. In some embodiments, the term "PUFA
                                             13

WO 2012/120375                                                                PCT/IB2012/000528
 biosynthesis polypeptide" may also encompass polypeptides that do not themselves catalyze
 synthetic reactions, but that regulate expression and/or activity of other polypeptides that do
 so. PUFA biosynthesis polypeptides include, for example, fatty acid synthase polypeptides,
 elongase polypeptides, A9 desaturase polypeptides, A12 desaturase polypeptides, A6
 desaturase polypeptides, A8 desaturase polypeptides, A5 desaturase polypeptides, A4
 desaturase polypeptides, and o3 desaturase polypeptides.
 [0063]       PUFA increasingmodification: A "PUFA increasing modification", as used
 herein, refers to a modification of a host cell that increases its production of at least one
 PUFA. In some embodiments, such increased production results in a level of PUFA that is
 at least 1%-1000% higher than wild type, e.g., about 1%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%,
 35%, 4 0 %,45 %, 5 0 %,5 5 %, 60%, 65%,     70 %,7 5
                                                      %, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 110%,
 120%, 130%, 140%, 150%, 160%, 170%, 180%, 190%, 200%, 210%, 220%, 230%, 240%,
 250%, 260%, 270%, 280%, 290%, 300%, 310%, 320%, 330%, 340%, 350%, 360%, 370%,
 380%, 390%, 400%, 410%, 420%, 430%, 440%, 450%, 460%, 470%, 480%, 490%, 500%,
 550%, 600%, 650%, 700%, 750%, 800%, 850%, 900%, 950, 1000% higher than that of the
 parent cell into which the modification was introduced, and/or than that of a particular
 reference cell (e.g., a wild type cell). In some embodiments, a PUFA increasing
 modification increases expression or activity of one or more PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptides. In some embodiments, a PUFA increasing modification decreases expression
 or activity of one or more polypeptides that interferes with expression or activity of a PUFA
 biosynthesis polypeptide, including for example, by competing with the PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptide for access to a substrate. In some embodiments, a PUFA increasing
 modification comprises introduction of a heterologous nucleic acid into a host cell. In some
 embodiments, a PUFA increasing modification increases overall levels of fatty acid in a cell.
 In some embodiments, a PUFA increasing modification increases overall level of one or
 more particular PUFA in a cell, with or without increasing overall levels of fatty acid in the
 cell. In some embodiments, a PUFA increasing modification increases levels of PUFA
 including but not limited to ALA, ARA, DHA, DPA, EPA, GLA, and/or LA.
 [0064]       Progeny: The term "progeny," when used herein in reference to a cell, means a
 cell that arises from another cell (the "parent cell") (e.g., by cell division or budding) such
 that the "progeny cell" contains at least some of the genetic material of the parent cell. In
 some embodiments, the progeny cell contains all of genetic material of the parent cell. In
                                               14

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 some embodiments, the progeny cell does not contain all of the genetic material of the
 parent cell. In some embodiments, the progeny cell contains some genetic material in
 addition to the genetic material of the parent cell. In some such embodiments, the additional
 genetic material is heterologous to the strain or species of the cell. The term "progeny" is
 meant to encompass not only direct progeny of a parent cell (e.g. cells that result from one
 division of or budding from a parent cell), but all indirect progeny of a parent cell (e.g., cells
 that result from more than one cycle of division of or budding from a parent cell). Thus, a
 given parent cell may have many cellular progeny, even though that cell may generate only
 a limited number of (e.g., two) cells in each cycle of division or budding. The term
 "progeny" is also meant to encompass cells that have undergone one or more manipulations
 by the hand of man (e.g., genetically manipulated or genetically engineered). Thus, for
 example, when a parent cell line is genetically manipulated or genetically engineered, all of
 the cells that arise therefrom are considered progeny of the cell line. All of the progeny of
 those progeny are also considered progeny of the parent cell line, and so on.
 [0065]       Promoteror Promoterelement: As used herein, the terms "promoter" and
 "promoter element" refer to a polynucleotide that regulates expression of a selected
 polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the promoter, and that effects expression of the
 selected polynucleotide sequence in cells. The term "Thraustochytrium promoter", as used
 herein, refers to a promoter that functions in a Thraustochytrium cell. The term
 "Thraustochytrid promoter", as used herein, refers to a promoter that functions in a
 Thraustochytrid cell.
 [0066]       Reference cell: The phrase "reference cell", as used herein, refers to a cell that is
 normal with respect to at least one characteristic for comparison purposes. For example, a
 reference cell for comparing against a genetically engineered cell can be a cell that is not
 genetically engineered. In some embodiments, a reference cell contains no genetic
 modifications. In some embodiments, a reference cell is a cell of a wild type strain. In
 some embodiments, a reference cell contains some genetic modifications characteristic of a
 particular strain against which it is being compared, but does not contain one or more
 genetic modifications characteristic of the particular strain against which it is being
 compared. For example, such a reference cell would be useful for evaluating the effect of
 the one or more genetic modifications that it does not contain. Thus, for example, the term
 "reference Thraustochytrium cell" (or "reference Thraustochytrid cell") means a
                                              15

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 Thraustochytrium cell (or Thraustochytrid cell) of the same or similar strain as the cell to
 which it is being compared, except that the reference Thraustochytrium cell (or reference
 Thraustochytrid cell) lacks one or more characteristics (e.g., one or more genetic
 modifications) of a Thraustochytrium cell (or Thraustochytrid cell) against which the
 reference Thraustochytrium cell (or reference Thraustochytrid cell) is being compared.
 [0067]       Selectable marker: The phrase "selectable marker," as used herein, refers either
 to a nucleotide sequence, e.g., a gene, that encodes a product (protein) that allows for
 selection, or to the gene product (e.g., protein) itself. The term "selectable marker" is used
 herein as it is generally understood in the art and refers to a marker whose presence within a
 cell or organism confers a significant growth or survival advantage or disadvantage on the
 cell or organism under certain defined culture conditions (selective conditions). For
 example, the conditions may be the presence or absence of a particular compound or a
 particular environmental condition such as increased temperature, increased radiation,
 presence of a compound that is toxic in the absence of the marker, etc. The presence or
 absence of such compound(s) or environmental condition(s) is referred to as a "selective
 condition" or "selective conditions." By "growth advantage" is meant either enhanced
 viability (e.g., cells or organisms with the growth advantage have an increased life span, on
 average, relative to otherwise identical cells), increased rate of proliferation (also referred to
 herein as "growth rate") relative to otherwise identical cells or organisms, or both. In
 general, a population of cells having a growth advantage will exhibit fewer dead or
 nonviable cells and/or a greater rate of cell proliferation that a population of otherwise
 identical cells lacking the growth advantage. Although typically a selectable marker will
 confer a growth advantage on a cell, certain selectable markers confer a growth
 disadvantage on a cell, e.g., they make the cell more susceptible to the deleterious effects of
 certain compounds or environmental conditions than otherwise identical cells not expressing
 the marker. Antibiotic resistance markers are a non-limiting example of a class of selectable
 marker that can be used to select cells that express the marker. In the presence of an
 appropriate concentration of antibiotic (selective conditions), such a marker confers a
 growth advantage on a cell that expresses the marker. Thus cells that express the antibiotic
 resistance marker are able to survive and/or proliferate in the presence of the antibiotic while
 cells that do not express the antibiotic resistance marker are not able to survive and/or are
 unable to proliferate in the presence of the antibiotic. For example, a selectable marker of
                                               16

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 this type that is commonly used in plant cells is the NPTII protein, which encodes a protein
 that provides resistance against the antibiotic kanamycin. Additional selectable markers
 include proteins that confer resistance against carbenecillin (e.g., p-lactamases), proteins that
 confer resistance against gentamicin, hygronycin, etc.). A second non-limiting class of
 selectable markers are nutritional markers. Such markers are generally enzymes that
 function in a biosynthetic pathway to produce a compound that is needed for cell growth or
 survival. In general, under nonselective conditions the required compound is present in the
 environment or is produced by an alternative pathway in the cell. Under selective
 conditions, functioning of the biosynthetic pathway, in which the marker is involved, is
 needed to produce the compound.
 [0068]      Selection agent: The phrase "selection agent," as used herein refers to an agent
 that introduces a selective pressure on a cell or populations of cells either in favor of or
 against the cell or population of cells that bear a selectable marker. For example, in certain
 embodiments, the selection agent is an antibiotic and the selectable marker is an antibiotic
 resistance gene. In certain exemplary embodiments, zeocin is used as the selection agent.
 [0069]      Source organism: A "source organism", as used herein, is an organism that
 naturally contains or produces a polynucleotide, polypeptide, or other compound (e.g., a
 heterologous nucleic acid) that is to be introduced in accordance with the present invention
 into a recipient or host cell. In some embodiments, the particular source organism to be
 selected is not essential to the practice of the present disclosure. Relevant considerations
 may include, for example, how closely related the potential source and host organisms are in
 evolution, or how related the source organism is with other source organisms from which
 sequences of other relevant nucleic acids and/or polypeptides have been selected. Where a
 plurality of different heterologous nucleic acids are to be introduced into and/or expressed
 by a host cell, different sequences may be from different source organisms, or from the same
 source organism. To give but one example, in some cases, individual polypeptides may
 represent individual subunits of a complex protein activity and/or may be required to work
 in concert with other polypeptides in order to achieve the goals of the present disclosure. In
 some embodiments, it will often be desirable for such polypeptides to be from the same
 source organism, and/or to be sufficiently related to function appropriately when expressed
 together in a host cell. In some embodiments, such polypeptides may be from different,
 even unrelated source organisms. It will further be understood that, where a heterologous
                                               17

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 polypeptide is to be expressed in a host cell, it will often be desirable to utilize nucleic acid
 sequences encoding the polypeptide that have been adjusted to accommodate codon
 preferences of the host cell and/or to link the encoding sequences with regulatory elements
 active in the host cell. For example, when the host cell is a Thraustochytriumcell, it will
 often be desirable to alter the gene sequence encoding a given polypeptide such that it
 conforms more closely to the codon preferences of such a cell. In certain embodiments, a
 gene sequence encoding a given polypeptide is optimized even when such a gene sequence
 is derived from the host cell itself (and thus is not heterologous). For example, a gene
 sequence encoding a polypeptide of interest may not be codon optimized for expression in a
 given host cell even though such a gene sequence is isolated from the host cell strain. In
 such embodiments, the gene sequence may be further optimized to account for codon
 preferences of the host cell. Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of host cell
 codon preferences and will be able to employ the methods and compositions disclosed
 herein to optimize expression of a given polypeptide in the host cell.
 [0070]        Substrate: A "substrate" as used herein to describe substrates of an enzyme,
 refers to any entity that can be modified by activity of the enzyme.
 [0071]        Terminator: As used herein, the term "terminator" refers to a polynucleotide that
 abrogates expression of a selected polynucleotide sequence operably linked to the terminator
 in cells. In some embodiments, a terminator sequence is downstream of a stop codon in a
 gene. The term "Thraustochytrium terminator", as used herein, refers to a terminator that
 functions in a Thraustochytrium cell. The term "Thraustochytrid terminator", as used
 herein, refers to a terminator that functions in a Thraustochytrid cell.
 [0072]        Transformation: The term "transformation," as used herein refers to a process by
 which an exogenous nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a vector or recombinant nucleic acid
 molecule) is introduced into a recipient cell or microorganism. The exogenous nucleic acid
 molecule may or may not be integrated into (i.e., covalently linked to) chromosomal DNA
 making up the genome of the host cell or microorganism. For example, the exogenous
 polynucleotide may be maintained on an episomal element, such as a plasmid. Alternatively
 or additionally, the exogenous polynucleotide may become integrated into a chromosome so
 that it is inherited by daughter cells through chromosome replication. Methods for
 transformation include, but are not limited to, calcium phosphate precipitation; Ca2
 treatment; fusion of recipient cells with bacterial protoplasts containing the recombinant
                                              18

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 nucleic acid; treatment of the recipient cells with liposomes containing the recombinant
 nucleic acid; DEAE dextran; fusion using polyethylene glycol (PEG); electroporation;
 magnetoporation; biolistic delivery; retroviral infection; lipofection; and micro-injection of
 DNA directly into cells. In some circumstances, an exogenous nucleic acid is introduced in
 to a cell by mating with another cell. For example, in S. cerevisiae, cells mate with one
 another.
 [0073]       Transformed: The term "transformed," as used in reference to cells, refers to
 cells that have undergone "transformation" as described herein such that the cells carry
 exogenous genetic material (e.g., a recombinant nucleic acid). The term "transformed" can
 also or alternatively be used to refer to microorganisms, strains of microorganisms, tissues,
 organisms, etc.
                    Detailed Description of Certain Particular Embodiments
 [0074]       As described herein, the present invention provides a variety of reagents and
 methods related to the production of PUFA and/or to the modification of Thraustochytrids.
 In general, the invention relates to modification of Thraustochytrid host cells, and in
 particular to engineering Thraustochytrids, particularly to increase their production of
 compounds of interest (e.g., PUFA). The present invention encompasses identification of
 certain Thraustochystrium sp. genetic regulatory elements, as well as the development of
 methodologies for mutagenesis of Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium. In certain
 embodiments, the invention further provides engineered Thraustochytrium sp. strains, and
 products produced from and with them. Certain details of particular embodiments of these
 and other aspects of the present invention are discussed in more detail below.
 Host cells
 [0075]       As noted, the present invention provides reagents and methodologies for the
 manipulation of host cells.
 [0076]       In general, identified reagents (e.g., regulatory elements, vectors, selectable
 markers, mutagenic agents, etc.) and methodologies (including, for example, methods of
 mutagenizing) may be utilized together with any appropriate host cell. Those of ordinary
 skill in the art, having read the present disclosure and therefore having such reagents in
                                               19

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 hand, will readily be able to identify appropriate host cells in which such elements are
 active.
 [0077]      In some embodiments, host cells for use in accordance with the present invention
 are Thraustochytrid cells. In some embodiments, host cells are members of the order
 Thraustochytriales. In some embodmients, host cells are members of the
 Thraustochytriaceae subclass. In some embodiments, host cells are members of a genus
 selected from the group consisting of Thraustochytrium, Ulkenia, Schizochytrium,
 Aurantiochytrium, Aplanochytrium, Botryochytrium, Japonochytrium, Oblongichytrium,
 Parietichytrium,and Sicyoidochytrium. In some embodiments, host cells are not of the
 genus Schizochytrium.
 [0078]      In some embodiments, host cells utilized in accordance with the present
 invention are members of the genus Thraustochytrium. In some embodiments, a host cell is
 a Thraustochytrium cell from one of the following species: Thraustochytrium aggregatum,
 Thraustochytrium aureum, Thraustochytrium gaertnerium, Thraustochytrium kinnei,
 Thraustochytrium motivum, Thraustochytrium multirudimentale, Thraustochytrium
 pachydermum, Thraustochytrium roseum, Thraustochytrium sp. 1.3A4. 1, Thraustochytrium
 sp. ATCC 26185, Thraustochytrium sp. BL13, Thraustochytrium sp. BL14,
 Thraustochytrium sp. BL2, Thraustochytrium sp. BL3, Thraustochytrium sp. BL4,
 Thraustochytrium sp. BL5, Thraustochytrium sp. BL6, Thraustochytrium sp. BL7,
 Thraustochytrium sp. BL8, Thraustochytrium sp. BL9, Thraustochytrium sp. BP3.2.2,
 Thraustochytrium sp. BP3.3.3, Thraustochytrium sp. caudivorum, Thraustochytrium sp.
 CHN-1, Thraustochytrium sp. FJN-10, Thraustochytrium sp. HK1, Thraustochytrium sp.
 HK1O, Thraustochytrium sp. HK5, Thraustochytrium sp. HK8, Thraustochytrium sp.
 HK8a, Thraustochytrium sp. KK17-3, Thraustochytrium sp. KL1, Thraustochytrium sp.
 KL2, Thraustochytrium sp. KL2a, Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T 18, Thraustochytrium sp.
 PJA1O.2, Thraustochytrium sp. TR1.4, Thraustochytrium sp. TRR2, Thraustochytrium
 striatum, or Thraustochytrium visurgense.
 [0079]      In some embodiments, host cells used in accordance with the present invention
 are members of the genus Schizochytrium. In some embodiments, a host cell is a
 Thraustochytrium cell from one of the following species: Schizochytrium limacinum,
 Schizochytrium mangrovei, Schizochytrium minutum, Schizochytrium sp. (ATCC 20111),
 Schizochytrium sp. (ATCC 20888), Schizochytrium sp. BR2.1.2, Schizochytrium sp.
                                             20

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 BUCAAA 032, Schizochytrium sp. BUCAAA 093, Schizochytrium sp. BUCACD 152,
 Schizochytrium sp. BUCARA 021, Schizochytrium sp. BUCHAO 113, Schizochytrium sp.
 BURABQ 133, Schizochytrium sp. BURARM 801, Schizochytrium sp. BURARM 802,
 Schizochytrium sp. FJU-512, Schizochytrium sp. KH105, Schizochytrium sp. KR-5,
 Schizochytrium sp. PJ1O.4, Schizochytrium sp. SEK 210, Schizochytrium sp. SEK 345,
 Schizochytrium sp. SEK 346, Schizochytrium sp. SR21, or Schizochytrium sp. TIO01.
 [0080]       In certain embodiments, a host cell is a Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T 18 cell.
 ONC-T18 is a marine Thraustochytrium originally isolated from the leaves of salt marsh
 grasses in Advocate Harbor, Bay of Fundy, Nova Scotia, Canada. ONC-T 18 is described in
 U.S. Pat. Pub. 2009/0117194, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In
 some embodiments, a Thraustochytrium cell has an 18s rRNA sequence that is at least 97%,
 98%, 99%, 99.1%, 99.2%, 99.3%, 99.4%, 99.5%, 99.6%, 99.7%, 99.8%, 99.9% or more
 (e.g., including 100%) identical to SEQ ID NO:68. In some embodiments, a host cell is a
 Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18 cell from cells deposited under ATCC strain accession
 number PTA-6245.
 EngineeringMicroorganisms
 [0081]       The present disclosure provides, inter alia, regulatory elements, selectable
 markers, methods for mutagenesis, and transformation methods for manipulation of
 microorganisms such as Thraustochytrids. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill
 in the art after consideration of the present disclosure, the tools provided herein can be used
 alone and in various combinations to implement any desired genetic modification. For
 example, in certain embodiments, provided transformation methods are used to introduce
 nucleic acid molecules encoding one or more genes. Nucleic acid molecules can include
 promoter, terminator, or selectable marker sequences provided herein, or a combination
 thereof. In certain embodiments, provided methods of mutagenesis are used to generate
 strains (e.g., Thraustochytrid strains) having desired properties. Such strains may also be
 transformed (e.g., with nucleic acids including one or more regulatory elements provided
 herein).
          Gene Expression
 [0082]       The present disclosure encompasses compositions and methods for engineering
 microorganisms. In certain embodiments, the present disclosure provides compositions and
                                              21

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 methods for engineering Thraustochytrids (e.g., Thraustochytrium). "Engineered" cells
 include cells that have been modified (e.g., by introduction of an exogenous nucleic acid)
 and progeny thereof that retain the modification.
 [0083]      In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides nucleic acids that include
 regulatory sequences from Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium. Gene expression in
 eukaryotes often requires regulatory sequences that are species-specific, or that function in
 organisms that are closely related. The availability of regulatory sequences from
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium allows genes of interest to be expressed in
 Thraustochytrids. In some embodiments, regulatory sequences include promoter sequences.
 In some embodiments, regulatory sequences include terminator sequences.
 [0084]      The present disclosure provides an isolated nucleic acid including a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium promoter. In some embodiments, a nucleic acid
 provided herein includes a Thraustochytrium A4 desaturase gene promoter. A sequence of
 an exemplary A4 desaturase gene promoter is shown in SEQ ID NO:24. In some
 embodiments, a nucleic acid provided herein includes a Thraustochytrium A5 elongase gene
 promoter. A sequence of an exemplary A5 elongase gene promoter is shown in SEQ ID
 NO:19. A Thraustochytrium A5 elongase gene promoter is a strong promoter in
 Thraustochytrids (e.g., Thraustochytrium). In some embodiments, a nucleic acid provided
 herein includes a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium tubulin gene promoter. Sequences of
 exemplary Thraustochytrium tubulin gene promoters are shown in SEQ ID NOs:6 and 10.
 [0085]      In some embodiments, an isolated nucleic acid including a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytriumpromoter provided herein is a cassette, e.g., an expression cassette. In
 some embodiments, an isolated nucleic acid including a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytriumpromoter provided herein is a vector, e.g., an expression vector.
 [0086]      In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides a cell engineered to
 include a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium gene promoter. In some embodiments, a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium cell is engineered to include a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytriumpromoter, e.g., a Thraustochytrium A4 desaturase gene promoter, a
 Thraustochytrium A5 elongase gene promoter, or a Thraustochytrium tubulin gene promoter.
 [0087]      The present disclosure provides an isolated nucleic acid including a
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium gene terminator. In some embodiments, a nucleic acid
 provided herein includes a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium tubulin gene terminator.
                                            22

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 Sequences of exemplary Thraustochytrium tubulin gene terminators are shown in SEQ ID
 NOs:14 and 18.
 [0088]       In some embodiments, an isolated nucleic acid including a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium gene terminator provided herein is a cassette, e.g., an expression cassette.
 In some embodiments, an isolated nucleic acid including a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium gene terminator provided herein is a vector, e.g., an expression vector.
 [0089]       In some embodiments, provided isolated nucleic acids include one or more gene
 regulatory elements. In some such embodiments, included gene regulatory elements
 facilitate inducible gene regulation. Non-limiting examples of inducible systems that may
 be employed in combination with provided nucleic acids include tetracycline-inducible
 systems, ethanol inducible systems, and chemically inducible gene expressions systems.
 (See, e.g. Park and Morschhauser (2005), Li et al. (2005), and Jepson et al. (1998), the
 entire contents of each of which are incorporated by reference herein).
 [0090]       Nucleic acids having regulatory sequences provided herein may be operably
 linked to a heterologous sequence, such as a gene encoding a heterologous polypeptide. For
 example, in some embodiments, provided are gene expression cassettes that typically
 comprise a Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium gene promoter operably linked to
 heterologous nucleic acid sequence, which is operably linked to a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium gene terminator. In some embodiments, the heterologous nucleic acid
 sequence comprises at least part of a coding sequence in a gene, e.g., the heterologous
 nucleic acid sequence encodes a gene product such as a polypeptide or RNA. In some
 embodiments, provided gene expression cassettes further comprise a selection marker (e.g.,
 a zeocin resistance gene such as Sh ble, or any other selection marker discussed herein).
 [0091]       Molecular biology and DNA manipulation procedures can generally be
 performed according to Sambrook et al. or Ausubel et al. (Sambrook J, Fritsch E F, Maniatis
 T (eds). 1989. Molecular Cloning. A Laboratory Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
 Press: New York; Ausubel F M, Brent R, Kingston R E, Moore D D, Seidman J G, Smith J
 A, Struhl K (eds). 1998. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology. Wiley: New York).
          Mutagenesis
 [0092]       In another aspect, the present disclosure provides agents and/or methods for
 mutagenizing microorganisms, as well as strains and/or cells produced by mutagenesis. For
 example, as described herein, it has been discovered that antiobiotics such as bleomycins,
                                              23

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 phleomycins, and/or tallysomycins can be used to mutagenize microorganisms. The
 availability of such effective mutagens for microorganisms such as Thraustochytrids (e.g.,
 Thraustochytrium) allows for the development of strains having desired features. In
 particular, the present disclosure demonstrates that zeocin (phleomycin D1) can be used to
 mutagenize microorganisms such as Thraustochytrids (e.g., Thraustochytrium).
 [0093]       The antibiotic zeocin is a basic, water soluble, copper-chelated glycopeptide
 from culture broth of a Streptomyces verticillus mutant (InvivoGen, San Diego, CA, USA).
 Zeocin is a member of the phleomycin group of antibiotics, which are glycopeptides that
 have been widely used as potent antitumor agents against lymphomas, head and neck
 cancers and testicular cancer (Umezawa et al., New antibiotics, bleomycin A and B, Journal
 of Antibiot., (1966)19:200-209; Sikic et al., Bleomycin Chemotherapy, Academic Press,
 Orlando, Florida, (1985)). It is generally believed that the molecular mode of action of these
 antibiotics is related to their ability to bind DNA by intercalation of their planar bithiazole
 containing moiety and cleave DNA resulting single strand break or double strand break that
 causes cell death (Povirk et al., Nucleic Acids Research, (1977) 4:3573-3580). Because of
 their toxicity toward a broad spectrum of cell types, this group of antibiotics is employed as
 drugs for positive selection. The present disclosure encompasses the discovery that zeocin is
 a useful mutagen for industrial microbial strain improvement. Additionally, it is shown
 herein that at certain concentrations at which zeocin kills most treated cells, surviving cells
 have increased mutation frequency. The ability to produce cells with increased mutation
 frequency allows for easier selection and isolation of mutagenized strains.
 [0094]       In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and/or methods
 for mutagenizing Thraustochytrid cells. In some embodiments, the present disclosure
 provides systems and methods for mutagenizing cells selected from the group consisting of
 Thraustochytrium cells, Ulkenia cells, Schizochytrium cells, Aurantiochytrium cells,
 Aplanochytrium cells, Botryochytriumcells, Japanochytriumcells, Oblongichytriumcells,
 Parietichytriumcells, Sicyoidochytrium cells, fungi of Mortierella,heterotrophically grown
 algae (e.g., a species of the genus Crypthecodinium). In some particular embodiments, the
 present invention provides systems and/or reagents for mutagenesis of ONC-T 18.
 [0095]       In certain exemplary embodiments, a microorganism is mutagenized by
 application to a suitable solid medium (e.g., agar medium) comprising a relevant antibiotic
 (e.g., zeocin), wherein the antibiotic is present at a concentration below the concentration at
                                                24

WO 2012/120375                                                                PCT/IB2012/000528
 which it exhibits complete or nearly complete inhibition of cell growth. Microorganisms
 used for these methods do not carry a zeocin resistance gene (e.g., Sh ble). In some
 embodiments, the antibiotic (e.g., zeocin) is used for mutagenesis at a concentration below
 the concentration at which it kills at least 8 5%, 9 0%, 95%, or 100% of cells of that type. In
 some embodiments, antibiotic (e.g., zeocin) is used for mutagenesis at a concentration above
 the concentration at which it kills 30%, 40%, 50%, or 60% of cells of that type. In some
 embodiments, antibiotic (e.g., zeocin) is used for mutation. In some embodiments,
 antibiotic is used at a concentration and under conditions at which it increases mutation
 frequency in cells exposed to it above that of spontaneous mutation observed for the cells.
 In some embodiments, antibiotic is used at a concentration and under conditions at which it
 inhibits growth or kills 60-80% of cells of that type.
 [0096]       ONC-T 18 cells are highly sensitive to zeocin at a concentration of 100       g/mL
 (see Example 3). Thus, in some embodiments, zeocin is used for mutagenesis at a
 concentration below 100 g/mL (e.g., at 90, 85, 80, 75, 70, 65, 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35, or
 30 g/mL). In some embodiments, zeocin is used for mutagenesis at a concentration of about
 50 g/mL. In some embodiments, medium in which cells are mutagenized with zeocin has a
 salt concentration of 18 g/L or less. Mutagenized cells may show morphology changes
 relative to cells grown at lower concentrations or in the absence of the mutagen. To give but
 a few examples, in some embodiments, mutagenized cells show altered growth rate, color,
 and/or total or specific lipid amount.
 [0097]       In certain exemplary methods of mutagenesis, cells (e.g., Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium cells) are spread onto a solid medium containing antibiotic (e.g., zeocin)
 at a concentration of 40-60 g/mL. Colonies emerging under these conditions after at least 4
 days (e.g., 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 days) are isolated. Isolated cells can be tested for a desired
 feature resulting from mutagenesis. For example, cells from mutagenized colonies can be
 compared to reference cells (e.g., parental cells) to detect a change in a feature, such as
 biomass and/or lipid productivity.
 [0098]       The present disclosure provides microorganisms (e.g., Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochytrium isolated by antibiotic (e.g., zeocin) mutagenesis. In some embodiments, a
 microbial strain (e.g., a Thraustochytrium strain) isolated by antibiotic (e.g., zeocin)
 mutagenesis produces at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% more total lipids than a parental
 or reference strain. In some embodiments, a Thraustochytrid strain isolated by zeocin
                                               25

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 mutagenesis produces at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% more ALA, ARA, DHA, DPA,
 EPA, GLA, and/or LA, or a combination thereof, than a parental strain. In some
 embodiments, a Thraustochytrid strain isolated by zeocin mutagenesis produces at least
 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% more ARA, DHA, EPA, or a combination thereof, than a
 parental strain.
 [0099]       One particular strain of ONC-T 18 isolated by zeocin mutagenesis produces about
 36% more DHA than its parental strain.
         Selection
 [0100]       The present disclosure provides methods for selecting microorganisms such as
 Thraustochytrids (e.g., Thraustochytrium). Such methods may be used in conjunction with
 and/or as a part of, for example, transformation methods as described herein in order
 genetically manipulate the microorganisms.
 [0101]       Generally, in provided selection methods, a selection agent is used to favor
 growth of microorganisms bearing a selectable marker suitable for the selection agent over
 microorganisms that do not bear the selectable marker. Typically the selection agent
 inhibits, reduces, and/or slows growth of microorganisms that do not bear the selection
 marker. During selection, microorganisms are typically cultivated in growth medium as
 described herein, except that the growth medium is supplemented with the selection agent
 ("selection medium").
 [0102]       In certain selection methods of the present disclosure, microorganisms are
 cultivated in selection medium for a period of time sufficient to allow the culture to become
 comprised predominantly of cells that bear the selection marker. That is, during the period
 of growth in selection medium, cells that do not bear the selection marker do not grow and
 are overtaken in the culture by cells that do bear the selection marker. In some
 embodiments, microrganisms are cultivated in selection medium for between I to 15 days, 1
 to 12 days, or 1 to 9 days. In certain embodiments, microorganisms are cultivated in
 selection medium for a period of time longer than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 days and/or
 shorter than 50, 45, 40, 35, 30, 25, 20, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, or 10 days. In certain exemplary
 embodiments, microorganisms are cultivated in selection medium for between about 3 and
 about 5 days, or between about 5 and about 10 days, etc. In some embodiments,
 microorganisms are kept in selection medium after selection. In some embodiments,
                                             26

WO 2012/120375                                                                PCT/IB2012/000528
 microorganisms are transferred to a medium without a selection agent for at least a period of
 time, e.g., during a recovery phase.
 [0103]       In some embodiments, the selectable marker is removed after the cells have been
 grown for a period of time in selection medium. Removal of the selectable marker may be
 performed immediately after the period of time the cells are grown in selection medium,
 after a "recovery period" during which the cells are grown in medium without a selection
 agent, or later (e.g., after the cells have been stored for a period of time, after the cells have
 been frozen and then thawed). Methods of genetically engineering cells such that
 introduced genetic elements (e.g., selectable markers) can later be removed are well known
 in the art. Such methods typically employ the use of recombinase polypeptides, which
 typically recognize particular nucleotide sequenes ("recognition sites" or "recognition
 sequences"). For example, a selectable marker can be engineered into a Thraustochytrid or
 Thraustochyrium cell with recognition sites for a particular recombinase flanking the
 selectable marker. When deletion of the selectable marker is desired, the cells can be
 exposed to an appropriate recombinase (that is, a recombinase that recognizes the
 recognition sites flanking the selectable marker), which perform a homologous
 recombination reaction on the recognition sites, resulting in deletion or inversion of the
 nucleic acid sequence between the regognition sites.
 [0104]       In some embodiments, the selection agent is or comprises an antibiotic and the
 selection marker is or comprises a resistance gene for the antibiotic.
 [0105]       In some embodiments, a combination of selection agents is used and/or a
 combination of selection markers is used.
 [0106]       In certain exemplary embodiments, a microorganism undergoes selection by
 application to a suitable medium comprising zeocin, wherein the zeocin is present at a
 concentration above a threshold concentration.
 [0107]       The threshold concentration may correspond approximately to a concentration at
 which zeocin exhibits complete or nearly complete inhibition of growth of cells that do not
 contain a zeocin resistance gene. In some embodiments, the threshold concentration is at or
 above the concentration at which zeocin kills at least 85%, 90%, or 100% of cells of that
 type that do not contain a zeocin resistance gene. In some embodiments, the threshold
 concentration may vary depending on culture conditions (e.g., salt concentration, type of
 culture medium, culture temperature, liquid or solid culture, etc.). In many embodiments,
                                               27

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 the threshold concentration is above 50 pg/mL. In some embodiments, the threshold
 concentration is at or above 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160,
 170, 180, 190, or 200 pg/mL. In some embodiments, the threshold concentration is at or
 about 100 pg/mL.
 [0108]       In some embodiments, the antibiotic resistance gene is or comprises a
 phleomycin, belomycin and/or tallysomycin resistance gene. In some embodiments, the
 antibiotic resistance gene is or comprises a gene (e.g., the ble gene) from S. hidustanus.
 [0109]       In some embodiments, the salt concentration of the medium used during
 selection differs from a salt concentration typically used in medium used for cultivation of
 the microrganism without selection. In some embodiments, the salt concentration in the
 medium used during selection is approximately the same as a salt concentration typically
 used in medium used for cultivation of the microorganism without selection. In certain
 exemplary embodiments, the salt concentration is between about 10 g/L and about 40 g/L,
 between about 15 g/L and about 35 g/L, and/or between about 18 g/L and about 35 g/L. In
 some embodiments, the salt concentration is about 18 g/L. In some embodiments, the salt
 concentration is about 35 g/L.
 [0110]       In some embodiments, a zeocin concentration at or above 30 pg/mL is used when
 the culture medium has a salt concentration of about 18 g/L. In some embodiments, a
 zeocin concentration at or above 100 pg/mL is used when the culture medium has a salt
 concentration of about 35 g/L.
 [0111]       In certain exemplary embodiments, the suitable medium used during selection is
 a solid medium. When a solid medium is used, microorganisms may be spread out (e.g.,
 using an inoculation loop, a cell spreader, beads, or other mechanisms for spreading) on a
 planar surface of the solid medium such that single-cell colonies may be allowed to grow.
 [0112]       Single-cell colonies may be picked and cultivated to obtain larger and/or
 sufficient quantities for analysis (e.g., transgene analysis, analysis of growth characteristics,
 analysis of lipid profile, etc.) and/or production of compounds as described herein.
 Alternatively or additionally, single-cell colonies and/or cultures obtained therefrom may be
 stored (e.g., by freezing in an appropriate freezing medium) for later use.
         Transformation
 [0113]       The present disclosure provides methods for transforming Thraustochytrid (e.g.,
 Thraustochytrium)cells. Such methods generally comprise steps of providing a competent
                                               28

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 Thraustochytrid cell; delivering a heterologous (e.g., recombinant or engineered) nucleic
 acid into the competent cell, wherein the recombinant nucleic acid comprises a selectable
 marker; and culturing the competent cell in a culturing medium containing a selection agent
 that reduces growth of cells without the selectable marker.
 [0114]       Thraustochytrid cells competent for genetic transformation are provided by the
 present disclosure. In certain exemplary embodiments, competent cells are of the strain
 ONC-T18. Such competent cells may be provided by any of a variety of methods, a non
 limiting example of which is described in greater detail in Example 5. In methods of
 preparing competent cells such as the one described in Example 5, competent cells are
 obtained by inoculating solid or liquid medium with inoculum from a desired strain of
 Thraustochytrid or Thraustochytrium and allowing the cells to grow, supplying fresh culture
 media as necessary. Preparation of competent cells typically involves one or more phases of
 growth in a liquid medium followed by centrifugation of the cells and resuspension of the
 cells in sterile liquid to a desired cell density. Competent cells may be prepared fresh as
 needed for experiments, and/or they may be prepared and then stored (e.g., frozen) for future
 use.
 [0115]       In some embodiments, cells are grown in flasks (e.g., of volumes of 250 mL, 500
 mL, or IL).
 [0116]       In some embodiments, cells are grown in a nitrogen-source-rich medium. To
 give but one example, in some embodiments, cells are grown in a medium with high levels
 of peptone. In some such embodiments, cells are grown in a medium comprising at least 5
 25 g/L of peptone (or other nitrogen source).
 [0117]       In some embodiments, cells are grown in high levels of dissolved oxygen. In
 some embodiments, cells are agitated during growth, e.g., at about 100 to about 500, or
 about 125 to about 400, or at about 150 to about 300 rpm.
 [0118]       In some embodiments, cells are mutagenized during vegetative propagation. In
 some embodiments, cells are mutagenized during vigorous vegetative propagation. In some
 embodiments, cells are not mutagenized during the zoospore stages.
 [0119]       The heterologous (e.g., recombinant, synthesized (whether chemically or
 biologically), and/or engineered in that its nucleic acid sequence was selected by the hand of
 man) nucleic acid may be a DNA, an RNA, an RNA:DNA hybrid, or any suitable derivative
 thereof. In many embodiments, the recombinant nucleic acid is delivered as part of a vector.
                                               29

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 Any of a variety of vectors may be suitable for use in accordance with methods of the
 disclosure including, but not limited to, plasmids, cosmids, BACs (bacterial artificial
 chromosomes), YACs (yeast artificial chromosomes), and viral vectors. In some
 embodiments, the heterologous DNA may be or comprise chemically synthesized
 polynucleotides. In some embodiments, the heterologous DNA may comprise
 enzymatically synthesized polynucleotides. In some embodiments, heterologous DNA is or
 comprises a polymerase chain reaction ("PCR") product.
 [0120]       Recombinant or engineered nucleic acids typically comprise a selection marker
 for use in selection methods as described herein. Typically, the selection marker comprises
 a gene expression cassette that allows expression of a gene product that, when present in a
 cell, allows growth of the cell in selection medium containing a selection agent at or above a
 threshold concentration as described herein. For example, in embodiments wherein an
 antibiotic is used as a selection agent, the selection marker comprises a gene expression
 cassette for expressing a corresponding antibiotic resistance gene.
 [0121]       In some embodiments, recombinant or engineered nucleic acids further comprise
 one or more additional gene expression cassettes for expression one or more desirable gene
 products. Representative one or more desirable gene products may include, for example, a
 polypeptide that has commercial value, and/or may be a polypeptide (e.g., an enzyme
 polypeptide or other biosynthetic pathway component) that is important for the synthesis of
 one or more downstream products (e.g., compounds such as PUFA) that have commercial
 value. Alternatively or additionally, a desirable gene product may confer certain desirable
 characteristics to the microrganism (e.g., suitability for growth in a particular set of
 conditions; suitability for growth in large-scale production methods, etc.). Alternatively or
 additionally, a desirable gene product may be one that allows labeling of cells that have been
 transformed. Alternatively or additionally, in some embodiments, cells are engineered to
 produce elevated levels of one or more biofuels, drugs, vaccines, antibodies, lipids,
 resolvins, neuroprotectins, pharmaceutical compounds, polypeptides, etc.
 [0122]       Elements that are typically contained in a gene expression cassette have been
 described herein, e.g., a promoter or other gene regulatory element that drives expression of
 the gene, the gene to be expressed, and a terminator sequence that works in the
 microorganism to be transformed. The gene to be expressed may be referred to as a
 "transgene." The transgene may in some embodiments be a heterologous gene, e.g., one that
                                              30

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 is not normally present in the microorganism. Either or both the selection marker and the
 additional gene expression cassette may include such a heterologous gene.
 [0123]       Accordingly, vectors suitable for use in accordance with methods of the
 disclosure include gene expression vectors.
 [0124]       In some embodiments, one recombinant nucleic acid is delivered into a
 microorganism. For example, a microorganism may be transformed with one plasmid
 construct comprising a recombinant nucleic aid.
 [0125]       In some embodiments, more than one recombinant nucleic acid is delivered into
 a microorganism. For example, a combination of plasmid constructs (each plasmid
 construct comprising a recombinant nucleic acid) may be delivered into a microorganism.
 In some such embodiments, a combination of selection agents and selection markers is used
 to select for presence of the combination of desired recombinant nucleic acids.
 [0126]       Any of a variety of methods for introducing genetic material (e.g., genetic
 material comprising a recombinant nucleic acid) into a cell may be suitable for use in
 accordance with transformation methods of the present disclosure. Introduction methods
 include, but are not limited to, calcium phosphate precipitation; Ca2 treatment; fusion of
 recipient cells with bacterial protoplasts containing the recombinant nucleic acid; treatment
 of the recipient cells with liposomes containing the recombinant nucleic acid; DEAE
 dextran; fusion using polyethylene glycol (PEG); electroporation; magnetoporation; biolistic
 delivery; retroviral infection; lipofection; and micro-injection of DNA directly into cells.
 [0127]       In certain exemplary embodiments, a biolistic delivery method (also known as
 "gene cannon," "particle bombardment," and "micro-projectile" method) is used. In such
 embodiments, a biolistic device accelerates particles coated with the recombinant nucleic
 acid to speeds sufficient to penetrate cell membranes (and/or cell walls, if present). In some
 embodiments, the particles comprise or consist of gold particles. Methods for biolistic
 delivery of genetic material are known in the art, and equipment and reagents for performing
 such biolistic deliveries are commercially available. See, e.g., Sanford et al., Part. Sci.
 Technol. 5:27 (1987), Sanford, J. C., Trends Biotech. 6:299 (1988), Sanford, J. C., Physiol.
 Plant 79:206 (1990), and Klein et al., Biotechnology 10:268 (1992), the entire contents of
 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                              31

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0128]      In some embodiments, nucleic acids are delivered using a method such as
 Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, protoplast transformation, etc, as would be known
 and understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.
 [0129]      After delivery of a heterologous (e.g., recombinant or engineered) nucleic acid,
 cells are cultured in a medium containing a selection agent that reduces growth of cells
 without the selectable marker, as described herein in the "Selection" section. Cells that are
 selected (e.g., exhibit presence of the selectable marker and therefore of the recombinant
 nucleic acid) can be stored, analyzed, and/or grown in larger quantities as desired.
 [0130]      In certain exemplary embodiments, transformed cells are subject to one or more
 analyses to confirm presence of the recombinant nucleic acid. For example, a PCR analysis
 may be used to confirm presence of a genetic element, e.g., a transgene and/or a selectable
 marker, that is part of the recombinant nucleic acid.
 EngineeredStrains
 [0131]      The present disclosure provides, inter alia, regulatory sequences, transformation
 methods, methods of mutagenesis, and genetic selection methods that enable manipulation
 of certain microorganisms such as Thraustochytrids. The compositions and methods
 provided herein can be used to engineer microorganisms (e.g., Thraustochytrids) for any of a
 number of applications. As noted above, regulatory sequences and selectable markers
 provided herein can be used to express any polypeptide of interest in an organism in which
 the sequences and/or selectable markers are operable (e.g., in Thraustochytrids). In some
 embodiments a polypeptide from a different organism is expressed. In some embodiments,
 a polypeptide from the host cell is expressed (e.g., overexpressed).
 [0132]      In some embodiments, microorganisms are engineered to have increased
 production of a compound of interest. In some embodiments, microorganisms are
 engineered to have increased production of a fatty acid, an antioxidant, resolvins and/or
 protectins. Alternatively or additionally, in some embodiments, cells are engineered to
 produce elevated levels of one or more biofuels, drugs, vaccines, antibodies, lipids,
 resolvins, neuroprotectins, pharmaceutical compounds, polypeptides, etc.
 [0133]      The present disclosure provides Thraustochytrid microorganisms (e.g.,
 Thraustochytrium)that are engineered to have increased production of PUFA. That is, the
 present disclosure provides engineered Thraustochytrid cells including a PUFA increasing
                                             32

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 modification. In some embodiments, such microorganisms are engineered to have altered
 (e.g., increased or decreased) expression of a PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide.
 [0134]       As depicted in Fig. 1, PUFA biosynthesis in ONC-T18 involves generation of
 fatty acids such as myristic acid (C14:0) and stearic acid (C18:0) by the fatty acid synthase
 (FAS) enzyme complex, followed by a series of enzymatic reactions on such fatty acids.
 Each of these reactions is typically catalyzed by either a desaturase (which removes
 hydrogen atoms to create a carbon-carbon double bond) or an elongase (which lengthen fatty
 acids by adding two carbon atoms to the fatty acid's carboxylic acid end). The polyketide
 PUFA synthase (PKS) complex also generates DHA in ONC-T 18. PUFA biosynthesis in
 ONC-T18 appears to have at least two intersecting biosynthetic pathways: the omega-6 and
 the omega-3 PUFA biosynthetic pathways. Conversion of omega-6 fatty acids to omega-3
 fatty acids can be catalyzed by omega-3 desaturase. Thus, as depicted in Fig. 1, a variety of
 fatty acids are produced at various points in the pathway.
 [0135]       In some embodiments, expression of one or more genes encoding enzyme
 polypeptides in the pathway is regulated to increase production of particular PUFA and/or
 other fatty acids as desired. For example, expression of the FAS gene may be
 downregulated to increase PUFA production. Downregulation of expression of the A5
 elongase, A4 desaturase, and/or any of the PKS genes may increase EPA production and/or
 PUFA production. Downregulation of expression of any one of the PKS genes may increase
 ARA production. Upregulation of expression of any of the the PKS genes may increase
 DHA production. Upregulation of expression the A12 elongase gene may increase ARA and
 EPA production.
 [0136]       In some embodiments, expression of one or more genes encoding enzyme
 polypeptides in the pathway is regulated to produce biofuels. For example, downregulation
 of expression of any of the PKS, A9 desaturase, elongase, and omega-3 desaturase genes,
 and/or upregulation of FAS gene expression may increase production of short chain lipids
 for use as biofuel stocks.
 [0137]       In some embodiments, alteration (e.g., downregulation or upregulation) of gene
 expression of a pathway component is accomplished by generating a gene knockout by, e.g.,
 homologous recombination. Typically, a linearized DNA construct is introduced into cells
 using any of a variety of techniques including, but not limited to, biolistic projectile DNA
                                             33

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 delivery. In some embodiments, the frequency of homologous recombination in ONC-T18
 is greater than about 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%.
 [0138]       In some embodiments alteration (e.g., downregulation or upregulation) of gene
 expression of a pathway component is accomplished by mutagenesis of one or more gene
 targets.
 [0139]       In some embodiments, engineered microorganisms provided herein can produce
 a lipid fraction comprising n-3 DHA, EPA and n-6 DPA at greater than about 4.0 g /L of
 medium. In some embodiments, microorganisms provided herein can produce a lipid
 composition comprising n-3 DHA, EPA and n-6 DPA at greater than about 20.0 g/L of
 medium. In some embodiments, microorganisms can produce a lipid composition
 comprising n-3 DHA, EPA and n-6 DPA at greater than about 14.0 g/L of medium. In some
 embodiments, microorganisms can produce from about 1.5 g/L to about 5.0 g/L (e.g., about
 4.6 g/L) of the n-3 DHA, from about 0.5 g/L to about 1.5 g/L (e.g., about 0.22 g/L) of the n
 3 EPA, and from about 0.5 g/L to about 1.5 g/L of the n-6 DPA. In some embodiments,
 engineered microorganisms provided herein can produce a lipid composition comprising n-3
 DHA, EPA, n-6 DPA, or ARA at a yield up to about 120 g/L, which corresponds to more
 than about 75% of total lipids. In some embodiments, engineered microorganisms provided
 herein can produce a lipid composition comprising short chain fatty acids (typically C12
 C18 fatty acids) at a yield up to about 128 g/L, which corresponds to more than about 8 0%
 of total lipids. Furthermore, the microorganism can produce a lipid fraction comprising
 myristic, myristoleic, pentadecanoic, palmitic, palmitoleic, stearic oleic, linoleic, alpha
 linolenic, gamma-linolenic, eicosadienoic, arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic, docosahexanoic,
 and docosapentaenoic acids greater than 300 mg/g or even 800 mg/g of cellular biomass. In
 some embodiments, the microorganism can also produce a fraction comprising between 44.3
 and 57 mg/g myristic acid (equal to 1134.5 to 1458.1 mg/L), 0.5 to 0.65 mg/g myristoleic
 acid (equal to 13.3 to 16.63 mg/L), 33.5 to 34.6 mg/g, pentadecanoic acid (equal to 856.9 to
 885.1 mg/L), 121.9 and 165.1 mg/g palmitic acid (equal to 3118.2 to 4923.3 mg/L), 7.9 to
 28.5 mg/g palmitoleic acid (equal to 202.1 to 729 mg /L), 4.38 to 5.9 mg/g stearic acid
 (equal to 112 to 151 mg/L), 6.94 to 9.9 mg/g oleic acid (equal to 177.5 to 253.2 mg/L), 0.4
 to 1.3 mg/g linoleic acid (equal to 11.26 to 33.3 mg/L), 0.5 to 1.0 mg/g eicosadienoic acid
 (equal to 12.8 to 25.6 mg/L), 0.4 to 0.5 mg/g arachidonic acid (equal to 10.2 to 13 mg/L), 75
 to 100 mg/g docosahexanoic acid (equal to 1918 to 2560 mg/L), 1.9 to 6 mg/g
                                             34

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 eicosapenatenoic acid (equal to 48.6 to 153.5 mg/L) and 17.1 to 33.7 mg/g docosapentaenoic
 acid (equal to 437.4 to 862.1 mg/L), having a total fatty acid content within the cellular
 biomass of between 301 to 800 mg/g (equal to 7700 to 20,209 mg/L).
 Fermentationand Production
 [0140]       Certain methods of the invention include or can be used in conjunction with steps
 of culturing a microorganism (e.g., a Thraustochytrid, e.g., a Thraustochytrium sp.).
 Cultivation methods for Thraustochytrids have been described, e.g., in U.S. Patent
 Publication US2009/0117194A 1, the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by
 reference. Typically, microorganisms are grown in a growth medium (also known as
 "culture medium"). Any of a variety of media may be suitable for use in accordance with
 selection methods of the present invention. Typically the medium supplies various
 nutritional components, including a carbon source and a nitrogen source, for the
 microorganism.
 [0141]       Microorganisms provided herein can be cultivated under conditions that increase
 biomass and/or production of a compound of interest. Thraustochytrids are typically
 cultured in saline media. For example, Thraustochytrids can be cultured in medium having
 a salt concentration between about 2.0 - 50.0 g/L. In some embodiments, Thraustochytrids
 are cultured in media having a salt concentration between about 2-35 g/L. In some
 embodiments, Thraustochytrids are cultured in a medium having a salt concentration
 between about 18-35 g/L. It has been found under certain circumstances that
 Thraustochytrids grow well in low salt conditions. In some embodiments, Thraustochytrids
 are cultured in a medium having a salt concentration between about 5-20 g/L. In some
 embodiments, Thraustochytrids are cultured in a medium having a salt concentration
 between about 5-15 g/L. Culture media may or may not include NaCl. Culture media may
 or may not include addition of NaCl. In some embodiments, a medium contains artificial
 sea salt, e.g., INSTANT OCEAN TM , Aquaria, Inc. Culture media may or may not include
 natural or artificial seawater. In some embodiments, a medium contains natural or artificial
 seawater, e.g., from about 2% to 100% seawater.
 [0142]       Chloride ions may cause corrosion of the fermentor or other downstream
 processing equipment. In some embodiments, the chloride concentration in culture media is
 reduced. In some embodiments, culture media include non-chloride-containing sodium salts
                                            35

WO 2012/120375                                                                   PCT/IB2012/000528
 (e.g., sodium sulfate) as a source of sodium. For example, a significant portion of the total
 sodium may be supplied by non-chloride salts such that less than about 100%, 75%, 50%, or
 25% of the total sodium in culture media is supplied by sodium chloride.
 [0143]      In some embodiments, culture media have chloride concentrations of less than
 about 3 g/L, 500 mg/L, 250 mg/L, or 120 mg/L. In some embodiments, culture media have
 chloride concentrations of between about 60 mg/L and 120 mg/L.
 [0144]      Examples of non-chloride sodium salts suitable for use in accordance with the
 present invention include, but are not limited to, soda ash (a mixture of sodium carbonate
 and sodium oxide), sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium sulfate, and mixtures
 thereof. See, e.g., US Pat. Nos. 5,340,742 and 6,607,900, the entire contents of each of
 which are incorporated by reference herein.
 [0145]      Media for Thraustochytrid culture can include any of a variety of carbon sources.
  Examples of carbon sources include fatty acids; lipids; glycerols; triglycerols;
 carbohydrates such as glucose, starch, celluloses, hemicelluloses, fructose, dextrose, xylose,
 lactulose, galactose, maltotriose, maltose, lactose, glycogen, gelatin, starch (corn or wheat),
 acetate, m-inositol (derived from corn steep liquor), galacturonic acid (derived from pectin),
 L-fucose (derived from galactose), gentiobiose, glucosamine, alpha-D-glucose-1-phosphate
 (derived from glucose), cellobiose, dextrin, and alpha-cyclodextrin (derived from starch);
 sucrose (from molasses);polyols such as maltitol, erythritol, adonitol and oleic acids such as
 glycerol and tween 80; amino sugars such as N-acetyl-D-galactosamine, N-acetyl-D
 glucosamine and N-acetyl-beta-D-mannosamine; and any kind of biomass or waste stream.
 [0146]      In some embodiments, media include carbon sources at a concentration of about
 5 g/L to about 200 g/ L. In some embodiments, media have a C:N (carbon to nitrogen ratio)
 ratio between about 1:1 and about 40:1. In some embodiments in which two-phase cultures
 are used, media have a C:N ratio of between about 1:1 to about 5:1 for the first phase, then
 about 1:1 to about 1:~0 (i.e., no or nearly no nitrogen) in the second phase.
 [0147]      Media for Thraustochytrids culture can include any of a variety of nitrogen
 sources. Exemplary nitrogen sources include ammonium solutions (e.g., NH 4 in H 2 0),
 ammonium or amine salts (e.g., (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 , (NH 4 )3 PO 4 , NH 4NO 3 , NH 4 00CH2 CH 3
 (NH 4Ac), peptone, tryptone, yeast extract, malt extract, fish meal, sodium glutamate, soy
 extract, casamino acids and distiller grains. Concentrations of nitrogen sources in suitable
 media typically range between about 1 g/L and about 25 g/L.
                                             36

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0148]      In some embodiments, media include a phosphate, such as potassium phosphate
 or sodium-phosphate. Inorganic salts and trace nutrients in media can include ammonium
 sulfate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium orthovanadate, potassium chromate, sodium molybdate,
 selenous acid, nickel sulfate, copper sulfate, zinc sulfate, cobalt chloride, iron chloride,
 manganese chloride calcium chloride, and EDTA. Vitamins such as pyridoxine
 hydrochloride, thiamine hydrochloride, calcium pantothenate, p-aminobenzoic acid,
 riboflavin, nicotinic acid, biotin, folic acid and vitamin B12 can be included.
 [0149]      For example, a suitable medium might be comprised of between about 11 and
 about 13 g/L (e.g., about 12 g/L) sodium sulfate, between about 0.45 and about 0.55 g/L
 (e.g., about 0.5 g/L) KCl, between about 1.8 and about 2.2 g/L (e.g., about 2 g/L)
 MgSO 4 -7H 2 0, between about 0.3 and about 0.4 g/L (e.g., about 0.35 g/L) Hodag K-60
 antifoam, between about 0.60 and about 0.70 g/L (e.g. about 0.65 g/L) K2 SO 4 , between
 about 0.9 and about 1.1 g/L (e.g., about 1.0 g/L) KH 2 PO 4 , between about 0.95 and about 1.1
 g/L (e.g., about 1 g/L) (NH 4 )2 SO 4 , between about 0.15 and about 0.19 (e.g., about 0.17 g/L)
 CaCl 2-H20, between about 2 and about 10 g/L (e.g., about 4.5 g/L) 95 DE corn syrup (solids
 basis), between about 2.7 and about 3.3 mg/L (e.g., about 3 mg/mL) MnCl 2-4H 20, between
 about 2.7 and about 3.3 mg/L (e.g., about 3 mg/mL) ZnSO4-7H 20, between about 0.035 and
 about 0.045 mg/L (e.g., about 0.04 mg/L) CoCl 2 -6H 2 0, between about 0 and about 0.045
 mg/L (e.g., about 0.04 mg/L) Na2MoO4-2H 2 0), between about 1.8 and about 2.2 mg/L (e.g.,
 about 2 mg/L) CuSO 4 -5H 2 0, between about 1.8 and about 2.2 mg/L (e.g., about 2 mg/L)
 NiSO 4-6H 20, between about 9 and about 11 mg/L (e.g., about 10 mg/L) FeSO 4 -7H 20,
 between about 4 and about 15 mg/L (e.g., about 9.5 mh/L) thiamine, between about 0.05 and
 about 0.25 mg/L (e.g., about 0.15 mg/L) vitamin B12, between about 1.3 and about 5.1 (e.g.,
 about 3.2 mg.L) calcium pantothenate, and about 28% NH40H solution.
 [0150]      The pH of medium is adjusted to between 3.0 and 10.0 using acid or base where
 appropriate, and/or using the nitrogen source. In some embodiments, medium is adjusted to
 have a between pH 4.0 and 6.5. Medium can be sterilized.
 [0151]      In some embodiments, a medium used for culture of a microorganism is a liquid
 medium. In some embodiments, a medium used for culture of a microorganism is a solid
 medium. In addition to carbon and nitrogen sources as discussed herein, a solid medium
 may contain one or more components (e.g., agar or agarose) that provide structural support
 and/or allow the medium to be in solid form.
                                               37

WO 2012/120375                                                                  PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0152]      Cells can be cultivated for anywhere from 1-60 days. In some embodiments,
 cultivation is carried out for 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1 days, or less. In
 some embodiments, cultivation is carried out at temperatures between 4 to 30'C., e.g., 18 to
 280 C. In some embodiments, cultivation includes aeration-shaking culture, shaking culture,
 stationary culture, batch culture, semi-continuous culture, continuous culture, rolling batch
 culture, or wave culture, or the like. Cultivation can be carried out using a conventional
 agitation-fermenter, a bubble column fermenter (batch or continuous cultures), a wave
 fermentor, etc.
 [0153]      In some embodiments, cultures are aerated by shaking. In some embodiments,
 shaking ranges from 100 to 1000 rpm, e.g., from 350 to 600 rpm, from 1000 and 450 rpm.
 In some embodiments, cultures are aerated differently (e.g., using different shaking speeds)
 during biomass-producing phases as they are during lipid-producing phases. For example, in
 some embodiments, cultures are aerated by shaking at a speed between about 150 and about
 350 rpm during biomass phases and at a speed between about 30 and about 120 rpm during
 lipid-producing phases. Alternatively or additionally, shaking speeds may vary depending
 on the type of culture vessel (e.g., shape or size of flask).
 [0154]      In some embodiments, the level of dissolved oxygen (DO) is higher during the
 biomass production phase than it is during the lipid production phase, e.g., DO levels are
 reduced during the lipid production phase. In some embodiments, the level of dissolved
 oxygen is reduced below saturation; in some embodiments, the level of dissolved oxygen is
 reduced to a very low, or even undetectable, level.
 [0155]      It has been discovered that production of desirable lipids can be enhanced by
 culturing cells in according to methods that involve a shift of one or more culture conditions
 in order to obtain higher quantities of desirable compounds. In some embodiments, cells are
 cultured first under conditions that maximize biomass, followed by a shift of one or more
 culture conditions to conditions that favor lipid productivity. Conditions that are shifted can
 include oxygen concentration, C:N ratio, temperature, and combinations thereof. In certain
 embodiments, a two-stage culture is performed in which a first stage favors biomass
 production (e.g., using conditions of high oxygen (e.g., generally or relative to the second
 stage), low C:N ratio, and ambient temperature), followed by a second stage that favors lipid
 production (e.g., in which oxygen is decreased, C:N ratio is increased, and temperature is
 decreased). That is, in some embodiments, the present invention provides methods that
                                              38

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 involve culturing cells under a first set of conditions that includes one or more conditions
 selected from the group consisting of a first oxygen concentration, a first C:N ratio, a first
 temperature, and combinations thereof. Culturing under this first set of conditions continues
 for a first time period, the duration of which may vary. At the end of the first time period
 (which is not necessarily a discrete point in time), one or more conditions are altered so that
 cells are cultured under a second set of conditions that includes one or more conditions
 selected from the group consisting of a sexond oxygen concentration, a second C:N ratio, a
 second temperature, and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, some conditions are
 changed at the end of the first time period, and some are maintained until the end of a
 second time period at which time one or more conditions may be changed again, and/or one
 or more conditions may be changed for a first time. In some embodiments, the first C:N
 ratio in within the range of about 2:1 to about 1:1; and the first temperature is within the
 range of about 10 to about 30 'C. In some embodiments, the second C:N ratio is about 1:~0;
 and the second temperature is within the range of about 15 to about 30 C .
 [0156]        In some embodiments, a shift from a first condition to a second condition is
 performed and/or occurs gradually; in some embodiments, the shift from a first condition to
 a second condition is performed and/or occurs abruptly.
 [0157]        In some embodiments of culture methods provided herein, oxygen concentration
 is shifted (e.g., decreased) during cultivation in a number of possible ways including, for
 example, by shifting the intensity of aeration.
 [0158]        In some embodiments of culture methods provided herein, temperature is shifted
 (e.g., decreased) during cultivation by at least 2'C. In some embodiments, temperature is
 shifted by 3C, 4'C, 50 C, 6'C, 7'C, 8'C, 9'C, or 10 C. In some embodiments, temperature
 is shifted from about 25'C to about 20'C.
 [0159]        Cells' productivity for compounds of interest can be evaluated by any available
 method(s).
 Products
 [0160]        PUFA and other compounds produced according to the present disclosure can be
 utilized in any of a variety of applications, for example exploiting their biological or
 nutritional properties. In some embodiments of the present disclosure, compounds are used
 in pharmaceuticals, food supplements, animal feed additives, cosmetics, etc. Compounds
                                              39

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 produced in accordance with the present disclosure may also be used as intermediates in the
 production of other compounds.
 [0161]       It will be appreciated that, in some embodiments of the present disclosure, PUFA
 and/or other compounds produced by manipulated cells as described herein are incorporated
 into a final product (e.g., food or feed supplement, infant formula, pharmaceutical, etc.) in
 the context of the host cell. For example, host cells may be lyophilized, freeze dried, frozen,
 pasteurized, or otherwise inactivated, and then whole cells may be incorporated into or used
 as the final product. In some embodiments, a host cell (whether or not dried) may be further
 processed prior to incorporation in the product (e.g., via lysis, sonication, bead milling,
 pressure treatment, freeze-thawing, pulsed field electrophoresis (PFE) to separate
 components, and/or enzyme treatment, or combinations thereof; in some embodiments, at
 least two or more such processes are utilized). Lysed cells can be extracted into an oil using
 an appropriate solvent and refined using well known processes. In some embodiments, a
 final product incorporates only a portion of the host cell (e.g., fractionated by size,
 solubility), separated from the whole. For example, in some embodiments of the disclosure,
 lipids are isolated from the host cells and are incorporated into or used as the final product.
 Lipids containing PUFA can be extracted using supercritical fluid extraction, or extraction
 with one or more solvents (e.g., acetone, chloroform, isopropanol, hexane, methylene
 chloride, or methanol). In some embodiments, lipids are concentrated by any of a variety of
 methods, such as urea complexation, column chromatography, and/or supercritical fluid
 fractionation. Techniques for concentration of solvent-extracted lipids include hydrolysis
 (e.g., using base, acid, or enzymatic hydrolysis), further extraction, acidification,
 crystallization, filtration, and combinations thereof (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. Pub. 2009/0117194).
 [0162]       In some embodiments of the present disclosure, one or more produced PUFA
 and/or other compounds are incorporated into a component of food or feed (e.g., a food
 supplement). Types of food products into which compounds can be incorporated according
 to the present disclosure are not particularly limited, and include beverages such as milk,
 water, sports drinks, energy drinks, teas, and juices; confections such as jellies and biscuits;
 fat-containing foods and beverages such as dairy products; processed food products such as
 soft rice (or porridge); infant formulae; breakfast cereals; or the like. In some embodiments,
 one or more produced compounds is incorporated into a dietary supplement, such as for
 example a multivitamin. In certain embodiments, a PUFA compound produced according to
                                               40

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 the present disclosure is included in a dietary supplement and may be directly incorporated
 into a component of food or feed (e.g., a food supplement).
 [0163]      Examples of feedstuffs into which compounds produced in accordance with the
 present disclosure may be incorporated include, for instance, pet foods such as cat foods,
 dog foods and the like, feeds for aquarium fish, cultured fish or crustaceans, etc., feed for
 farm-raised animals (including livestock and fish or crustaceans raised in aquaculture).
 Food or feed material into which the compound(s) produced in accordance with the present
 disclosure is incorporated is preferably palatable to the organism which is the intended
 recipient. This food or feed material may have any physical properties currently known for
 a food material (e.g., solid, liquid, soft).
 [0164]      In some embodiments, one or more produced compounds (e.g., PUFA) is
 incorporated into a pharmaceutical. Examples of such pharmaceuticals include, for instance,
 various types of tablets, capsules, drinkable agents, etc. In some embodiments, the
 pharmaceutical is suitable for topical application. Dosage forms are not particularly limited,
 and include capsules, oils, granula, granula subtilae, pulveres, tabellae, pilulae, trochisci, or
 the like. Oils and oil-filled capsules may provide additional advantages both because of
 their lack of ingredient decomposition during manufacturing, and because PUFA-containing
 lipid droplets may be readily incorporated into oil-based formulations.
 [0165]      Pharmaceuticals according to the present disclosure may be prepared according
 to techniques established in the art including, for example, the common procedure as
 described in the United States Pharmacopoeia, for example.
 [0166]      Compounds produced according to the present disclosure (whether isolated or in
 the context of cells) may be incorporated into products as described herein by combinations
 with any of a variety of agents. For instance, such compounds may be combined with one or
 more binders or fillers. In some embodiments, inventive products will include one or more
 chelating agents, pigments, salts, surfactants, moisturizers, viscosity modifiers, thickeners,
 emollients, fragrances, preservatives, etc., and combinations thereof.
                                              41

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
                                            Examples
 Example 1: Isolation and identification of promoter and terminator sequences
 [0167]       This example describes identification and isolation of certain exemplary gene
 expression promoter and terminator nucleic acid sequences from ONC-T 18.
 [0168]       Ocean Nutrition Canada Limited has largely sequenced the genome of ONC-T 18
 using both shot-gun sequencing and pyrosequencing (GS-20; 454) techniques. Among other
 things, the present disclosure provides analysis of such sequence information, for example
 utilizing publicly available EST (expressed sequence tag) collection information (Huang et
 al., 2008), the functional annotation of and/or bioinformatics software (e.g., Kodon package
 available from Applied Maths and/or one or more algorithms such as BLAST). To provide
 tools for expression of homologous and heterologous genes (e.g., genes involved in lipid and
 fatty acid biosynthesis within Thraustochytrid microbes), house-keeping tubulin gene
 promoters and terminators and desaturase and elongase promoters were cloned from
 genomic DNA of Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T 18 using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
 techniques.
 [0169]       1. Isolation and identification of a tubulin gene promoter #701.
 Oligonucleotide primers #52 (SEQ ID NO: 1) and #53 (SEQ ID NO: 2) were designed based
 on the Thraustochytriumsp. ONC-T 18 genomic sequence data using the bioinformatics
 software package Kodon (Applied Maths). Oligonucleotide primers were synthesized and
 purchased from Invitrogen (California, USA).
 [0170]       Genomic DNA of ONC-T 18 was extracted from cells cultured in the growth
 medium (ONC-T18-GMO) at 25 'C for 36 hours in a shaker incubator with constant
 agitation at 150 rpm. Cells of 50 mL cultures were harvested by centrifugation for 5 min at
 room temperature at 4300 rpm in a Sorvall Super T21 centrifuge with the rotor ST-H750
 with the adapter Sorvall #00436. Genomic DNA was isolated from the cells using the
 Ultraclean Microbial DNA Isolation kit (MO BIO Laboratories, Inc, Solana Beach,
 California) following the manufacturer's protocol.
 [0171]       The components of the growth medium ONC-T18-GMO are: 5 g/L yeast extract
 (RM668, HiMedia labs), 5 g/L soy peptone (RM007, HiMedia labs), 10 g/L D(+)-glucose
 (CERELOSE TM Dextrose 020010, Corn Products International), 35 g/L artificial sea salt
                                             42

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 (INSTANT OCEANTM, Aquaria, Inc.), 1.25 mg/L trace elements (5 g/L NaH 2 PO 4 .H 2 0, 3.15
 g/L FeC 13-6H 20, 4.36 g/L Na2EDTA-2 H 2 0, 0.6125 mg/L CuSO 4 -5 H2 0, 0.0597g/L
 Na2MoO 4-2 H20, 0.022 g/L ZnSO4-7H 2 O, 0.01g/L CoC12-6H 20, 0.18 g/L MnC12-4H 20, 13
 pg/L H2SeO 3, 2.7 mg/L NiSO4-6H 2 0, 1.84 mg/L Na 3VO 4 and 1.94 mg/L K2 CrO4 ) and 1.25
 mg/L vitamins (1 mg/L vitamin B12, 1 mg/L biotin, 0.20 g/L thiamine HCl).
 [0172]      The tubulin gene promoter #701 including the partial open reading frame
 sequence was amplified from genomic DNA of ONC-T 18 using the following PCR
 conditions: 94'C for 1 minute, 94'C for 30 seconds and 68'C for 6 minutes and repeated for
 30 cycles, and 72'C for 10 minutes. PCR was carried out in a 50 pL reaction mixture
 containing 2.5 units TaKaRa LA Taq TM DNA Polymerase (TAKARA BIO INC., Shiga,
 Japan), 1 X LA PCR Buffer II, dNTP Mixture (0.40 mM each), 225 ilg of the template
 genomic DNA, 0.20 pM primer #52 and 0.20 pM primer #53.
 [0173]      PCR products were resolved in 0.8% agarose gel for electrophoresis at 65
 voltages for 60 minutes. Bands with the expected sizes were cut out with a razor blade and
 DNAs were extracted and purified with QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia,
 California) as per manufacturer's protocol.
 [0174]      The purified DNA fragments were cloned into pT7Blue-3 vector using Perfectly
 Blunt@ Cloning Kits (Novagen, San Diego, California) as per manufacturer's protocol.
 Positive clones were screened using direct colony PCR method. Briefly, transformed
 Escherichiacoli colonies were picked with toothpicks and swirled in a 20 PL PCR reaction
 mixture containing following components: Taq DNA polymerase (Sigma), 1 X PRC buffer,
 2.5 mM MgCl 2 , dNTPs mixture (0.20 mM each), 0.25 pM primer # 62 (SEQ ID NO: 3) and
 0.25 pM primer #63 (SEQ ID NO:4) in a 200 pL PCR tube, respectively. Meanwhile
 colonies were also streaked on a reference plate for the isolation of plasmid DNAs.
 [0175]      The PCR was carried out under the following conditions: 94'C for 3 minute for
 one cycle; 94'C for 1 minute, 53'C for 2 minutes and 72'C for 4 minutes, and repeated for
 30 cycles; and 72'C for 10 minutes. PCR products were differentiated in 0.8% agarose gel.
 Colonies from which a PCR product of the expected size was amplified were considered to
 be positive colonies.
 [0176]      Plasmid DNA of the positive clone JZ2-17-10 was isolated from the bacterial E.
 coli cells of 3 mL culture using Zyppy TM Plasmid Miniprep Kit (Zymo Research Corp.,
 Orange, California). Its insert was sequenced using the forward primer # 62 (SEQ ID NO:3)
                                           43

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 and the reverse primer #63 (SEQ ID NO: 4). The resulting sequences were assembled and
 analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied Maths) and algorithms
 BLAST. The nucleotide sequence of the insert from the clone JZ2-17-10 is 724 base pairs
 long (SEQ ID NO: 5). The 498 nucleotides upstream of the putative translation start code
 ATG of a partial putative tubulin gene open-reading frame (ORF) was determined to be a
 putative gene expression promoter (sequence #701; SEQ ID NO: 6) based on analyses using
 various bioinformatics software. Typical gene promoter elements were identified within this
 sequence. A search for sequences homologous to this putative promoter sequence #701
 (SEQ ID NO: 6) was performed in various databases of the GenBank including the database
 of the patent sequences using The Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) (Altschul et
 al., 1990). No sequence homologous to this unique promoter sequence #701 was found.
 The 5'-end partial sequence of the ORF has the greatest homology to Chlamydomonas
 reinhardtiibeta tubulin 2 (TUB2) gene (GenBank accession No.: XM_001693945) in a
 BLAST search.
 [0177]      The identified promoter sequence is 498 nucleotides long and contains a -10
 Pribnow-Schaller box (AGGAAGACT) at the position 444, and a -35 box at position 424
 (CTGACG), a putative transcription start site at position 459, and a putative transcription
 factor binding site AAGGTAGA at position 468.
 [0178]      2. Isolation and identification of a tubulin gene promoter #341.
 Oligonucleotide primers #54 (SEQ ID NO: 7) and #55 (SEQ ID NO: 8) were designed based
 on Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18 genomic sequence data using the bioinformatics
 software package Kodon (Applied Maths). Oligonucleotide primers were synthesized and
 purchased from Invitrogen (California, USA).
 [0179]      The tubulin gene promoter #34 1, including the downstream partial open reading
 sequence, was amplified from the genomic DNA of ONC-T 18 by PCR using the same
 conditions as described for the isolation of the tubulin gene promoter #70 1. The purified
 DNA fragment amplified was cloned into pT7Blue-3 vector using Perfectly Blunt@ Cloning
 Kits (Novagen, San Diego, California) as per manufacturer's protocol. The plasmid DNA of
 the positive clone JZ2-17-14 was isolated from E. coli cells of 3 mL culture using Zyppy T M
 Plasmid Miniprep Kit (Zymo Research Corp., Orange, California).
                                            44

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0180]      The insert of the recombinant plasmid DNA was sequenced using the forward
 primer # 62 (SEQ ID NO:3) and the reverse primer #63 (SEQ ID NO:4). The resulting
 sequences were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon
 (Applied Maths) and algorithms BLAST. The insert nucleotide sequence of the clone JZ2
 17-14 is 1115 base pairs long (SEQ ID NO:9). A partial ORF of a tubulin gene located at
 the 3'-end sequence of the insert, has been identified. The upstream sequence of the putative
 translation start code ATG of the ORF is considered as the putative promoter #341 (SEQ ID
 NO:10).
 [0181]      A search for sequences homologous to the tubulin gene promoter #341 (SEQ ID
 NO:10) was performed in various Genbank databases including the database of patent
 sequences using The Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) (Altschul et al., 1990).
 No sequence homologous to this unique tubulin gene promoter #341 sequence was found.
 The 5'-end sequence of the putative partial ORF has the greatest homology to
 Chlamydomonas reinhardtiialpha tubulin 2 (TUA2) gene (GenBank accession No.:
 5728641) in a BLAST search.
 [0182]      This 1104 nucleotide long promoter sequence contains a -10 box
 (CGCTAAAAT) at position 542, and -35 box (TTCACG) at position 518, the putative
 transcription start site at position 557 and the putative transcription factor binding site
 GCTAAAAT at position 543 as well as a -10 box (TAGTAGATT) at position 143, and -35
 box (TTGCTC) at position 125, the putative transcription start site at position 158 and the
 putative transcription factor binding sites ATTTTGTA at position 149 and TTTTGTAA at
 position 150.
 [0183]      3. Isolation and identification of a tubulin gene terminator #347.
 Oligonucleotide primers #58 (SEQ ID NO: 11) and #59 (SEQ ID NO: 12) were designed
 based on genomic sequence data of ONC-T 18 using bioinformatics software package Kodon
 (Applied Maths). The oligonucleotide primers were synthesized and purchased from the
 company Invitrogen (California, USA).
 [0184]      The tubulin gene terminator #347 was amplified from genomic DNA of ONC
 T18 with PCR using the same conditions as described for the isolation of the tubulin gene
 promoter #341. The purified DNA fragment was cloned into pT7Blue-3 vector using
 Perfectly Blunt* Cloning Kits (Novagen, San Diego, California) as per manufacturer's
                                              45

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 protocol. The plasmid DNA of the positive clone JZ2-17-22 was isolated from the bacterial
 E. coli cells of 3 mL culture using the Zyppy TM Plasmid Miniprep Kit (ZYMO RESEARCH
 CORP., Orange, California).
 [0185]       The insert of the recombinant plasmid DNA was sequenced using the forward
 primer # 62 (SEQ ID NO:3) and the reverse primer #63 (SEQ ID NO:4). The resulting
 sequences were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon
 (Applied Maths) and algorithms BLAST. The insert of the nucleotide sequence of the clone
 JZ2-17-22 is 727 base pairs long (SEQ ID NO:13). The 5'-end sequence of the insert has
 been identified as a putative partial ORF that contains a putative gene translational stop
 codon TAA. The downstream sequence of the stop codon TAA is considered as the putative
 tubulin gene terminator #347 (SEQ ID NO:14).
 [0186]       A search for sequences homologous to the tubulin gene terminator #347
 sequence (SEQ ID NO:14) was performed in various databases of the Genbank including the
 database of the patent sequences using The Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST)
 (Altschul et al., 1990). No homologous sequence of this unique tubulin gene terminator
 #347 sequence was found. The partial sequence of the putative ORF has the greatest
 homologue to Ceratopterisrichardiialpha tubulin gene (GenBank accession No.:
 XM_001691824) in a BLAST search.
 [0187]       The 590 nucleotide long terminator sequence contains a putative polyadenalytion
 signal sequence AAAACAAAAA functioning for the termination of transcription by RNA
 polymerase.
 [0188]       4. Isolation and identification of a tubulin gene terminator #713.
 Oligonucleotide primers #60 (SEQ ID NO: 15) and #61 (SEQ ID NO: 16) were designed
 based on genomic sequence data of ONC-T 18 using bioinformatics software package Kodon
 (Applied Maths). The oligonucleotide primers were synthesized and purchased from
 Invitrogen (California, USA).
 [0189]       The tubulin gene terminator #713 was amplified from the genomic DNA of
 ONC-T18 with PCR using the same conditions as described for the isolation of the tubulin
 gene promoter #34 1. The purified DNA fragment was cloned into pT7Blue-3 vector using
 Perfectly Blunt@ Cloning Kits (Novagen, San Diego, California) as per manufacturer's
 protocol. The plasmid DNA of the positive clone JZ2-22-9 was isolated from the bacterial
                                             46

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 E. coli cells of 3 mL culture using Zyppy TM Plasmid Miniprep Kit (Zymo Research Corp.,
 Orange, California).
 [0190]       The insert of the recombinant plasmid DNA was sequenced using the forward
 primer # 62 (SEQ ID NO:3) and the reverse primer #63 (SEQ ID NO:4). The resulting
 sequences were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon
 (Applied Maths) and algorithms BLAST. The insert of the nucleotide sequence of the clone
 JZ2-22-9 is 869 base pairs long (SEQ ID NO:17). The 5'-end sequence of the insert has
 been identified as a putative partial ORF that contains a putative gene translational stop
 codon TAA. The downstream sequence of the stop codon TAA is considered as the putative
 tubulin gene terminator #347 (SEQ ID NO:18).
 [0191]       A search for a sequence homologous to the tubulin gene terminator #713
 sequence (SEQ ID NO:18) was performed in various databases of the Genbank including the
 database of the patent sequences using The Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST)
 (Altschul et al., 1990). No sequence homologous to this unique tubulin gene terminator
 #713 sequence was found. The partial sequence of the putative ORF has the greatest
 homology to Cyanophoraparadoxabeta 1 tubulin (tubBi) gene (GenBank accession No.:
 AF092952) in a BLAST search.
 [0192]       The 640 nucleotide long terminator sequence (SEQ ID NO:14) contains a
 putative polyadenalytion signal sequence CATAAA functioning for the termination of
 transcription by message RNA polymerases.
 [0193]       5. Isolation and identification of a A5 elongase gene (PCT/1B2007/004553)
 promoter sequence (SEQ ID NO: 19). Based on the genomic sequence data of ONC-T18
 using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied Maths), the oligonucleotide primer
 #3 (SEQ ID NO: 20) in which a restriction enzyme site XbaI was added at its 5'-end for the
 convenience of downstream molecular cloning, and primer #4 (SEQ ID NO: 21) in which a
 restriction enzyme site NcoI was added at its 5'-end, were designed. The oligonucleotide
 primers were synthesized and purchased from Invitrogen (California, USA). The A5
 elongase gene promoter was amplified from the genomic DNA of ONC-T 18 with PCR,
 precipitated, digested with the restriction enzymes XhoI and NcoI, agarose-gel-purified and
 cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of the vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen
 Corporation, California). The insert of the positive clone JZ1-57-7 was sequenced using
                                             47

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 primer #14 (SEQ ID NO:22) and primer #15 (SEQ ID NO:23). The resulting sequences
 were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied
 Maths) and algorithms BLAST. The insert of the nucleotide sequence of the clone JZ1-57-7
 is 950 base pair long (SEQ ID NO: 19) and has been identified as the A5 elongase gene
 promoter (SEQ ID NO:19) of ONC-T 18.
 [0194]        This 950 nucleotide long promoter sequence (SEQ ID NO:19) contains a -10 box
 (TGCCAGACT) at position 113, -35 box (TTTTCT) at position 91, a putative transcription
 start site at position 128 and putative transcription factor binding sites CTCCTTTT,
 TTTCTTTT, TTCTTTTT and TTGCTCCT at position 87, 92, 93 and 131 as well as a -10
 box (AGTTCTGAT) at position 444, a -35 box (TTTCCG) at position 419, and a putative
 transcription start site at position 459.
 [0195]        A search for sequences homologous to the A5 elongase gene promoter sequence
 (SEQ ID NO:19) was performed in various databases of the Genbank including the database
 of the patent sequences using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) (Altschul et
 al., 1990). No sequence homologous to the A5 elongase gene promoter sequence (SEQ ID
 NO:19) was found.
 [0196]        6. Isolation and identification of a A4 desaturase gene (PCT/1B2007/004553)
 promoter sequence (SEQ ID NO:24). The oligonucleotide primer #1 (SEQ ID NO: 25) in
 which an restriction enzyme site XhoI was added at its 5'-end for the convenience of
 downstream molecular cloning and primer #2 (SEQ ID NO: 26) in which an restriction
 enzyme site NcoI was added at its 5'-end, were employed for the isolation of the A4
 desaturase gene promoter sequence (SEQ ID NO:24). The DNA fragment of A4 desaturase
 gene promoter was amplified using PCR, precipitated, digested with the restriction enzymes
 XhoI and NcoI, agarose-gel-purified and cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of the
 vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen Corporation, California) digested with the same restriction
 enzymes and gel-purified. The insert of a positive clone JZ1-57-1 was sequenced using the
 primer #14 (SEQ ID NO:22) and primer #15 (SEQ ID NO:23). The resulting sequences
 were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied
 Maths) and algorithms BLAST. The insert of the nucleotide sequence of the clone JZ1-57-1
 is 1216 base pairs long (SEQ ID NO: 24) and has been identified as the A4 desaturase gene
 promoter (SEQ ID NO:24) of ONC-T18.
                                              48

WO 2012/120375                                                                PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0197]       This 1216 nucleotide long promoter sequence (SEQ ID NO:24) contains a -10
 box (GCGTATTAT) at position 58, -35 box (CTACAG) at position 34, the putative
 transcription start site at position 73 and a putative transcription factor binding sites
 TTATATTT and TTTTCGCA at positions 63 and 69 as well as a -10 box (CGTCATCCT)
 at the position 1038, -35 box (TGGACG) at position 1014, and a putative transcription start
 site at position 1053.
 [0198]       A search for sequences homologous to the A4 desaturase gene promoter sequence
 (SEQ ID NO:24) was performed in various databases of the Genbank including the database
 of the patent sequences using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) (Altschul et
 al., 1990). No sequence homologous to the A4 desaturase gene promoter (SEQ ID NO: 15)
 was found.
 Example 2: Nucleic Acid Constructs
 [0199]       This example describes the construction of the Thraustochytrid-specific gene
 expression vectors.
 [0200]       1. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vectors pD4DPZ1 (SEQ ID NO:30;
 Fig. 2) and pE5PZl (SEQ ID NO:31; Fig. 3). Promoter DNA fragments of the A4
 desaturase and A5 elongase genes of ONC-T 18 were amplified with PCR using the genomic
 DNA of ONC-T 18 as the template and TaKaRa LA Taq T M DNA polymerase (TAKARA
 BIO INC., Shiga, Japan). Primer #1 (SEQ ID NO: 25) bearing the restriction enzyme site
 XhoI at its 5'-end, and primer #2 (SEQ ID NO: 26) embracing the restriction enzyme site
 NcoI at its 5 '-end were utilized for the amplification of the A4 desaturase gene promoter
 (SEQ ID NO:24). Primer #3 (SEQ ID NO: 20) bearing the restriction enzyme site XbaI at
 its 5'-end and primer #4 (SEQ ID NO: 21) containing the restriction enzyme site NcoI at its
 5'-end were employed for the amplification of the A5 elongase promoter (SEQ ID NO:19).
 PCR reactions were carried out in a volume of 50 pL reaction mix containing 2.5 units
 TaKaRa LA Taq TM DNA Polymerase (TAKARA BIO INC., Shiga, Japan), 1 X LA PCR
 Buffer II, dNTP Mixture (0.40 mM each), 225 ilg of the genomic DNA template, 0.20 PM
 primers [primer pairs, #1 (SEQ ID NO: 25) and #2 (SEQ ID NO: 26) for amplification of
 the A4 desaturase gene promoter, and #3 (SEQ ID NO: 20) and #4 (SEQ ID NO: 21) for
 amplification of the A5 elongase promoter] under the following conditions: 94'C for 30
                                              49

WO 2012/120375                                                           PCT/IB2012/000528
 seconds for one cycle, 98'C for 10 seconds and 55'C for 5 seconds, 72'C for 2 minutes for
 30 cycles.
 [0201]       The PCR products were precipitated following these procedures: added nuclease
 free ddH20 to a total volume 200 pL, then added 20 pL 3M NaAc (pH 5.2) and 440 PL
 100% ethanol and mixed by briefly vortexing, incubated in ice for 1 hours, centrifuged at
 full speed with a desktop centrifuge for 10 minutes, discarded the supernatant, added 500 PL
 75% ethanol and centrifuged for 2 minutes at full speed, discarded the supernatant and
 vacuum-dried the DNA pellets for about 10 minutes. The PCR products of the A4
 desaturase gene promoter were digested with restriction enzymes NcoI (10 units) and XhoI
 (10 units) in a volume of 25 pL reaction mixture containing IX NEBuffer 2 and 1 X BSA;
 (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA) at 37 'C for 2 hours. PCR products of the A5
 elongase gene promoter were digested with restriction enzymes NcoI (10 units) and XbaI (10
 units) in the same conditions. The digested PCR products were resolved in 0. 8 % agarose gel
 for electrophoresis at 88 voltages for 45 minutes. The DNA bands of the PCR products
 were cut out with a razor blade from the agarose gel and the DNAs were extracted and
 purified with QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, California) as per the
 manufacturer's protocol. The resulting A4 desaturase gene promoter DNA fragment with
 the enzyme-specific sticky ends was ligated into the corresponding restriction sites NcoI and
 XhoI of the vector pSV40/Zeo2 digested with the same restriction enzymes and agarose-gel
 purified, to yield the vector pD4DPZ1 (SEQ ID NO:30; Fig. 2). The resulting A5 elongase
 gene promoter DNA fragment with the enzyme-specific sticky ends, was ligated into the
 restriction sites of the vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen Corporation, California) digested with
 NcoI and NheI restriction enzymes and agarose-gel-purified, to yield the vector pE5PZl
 (SEQ ID NO:31; Fig. 3). The ligation reactions were carried out in a volume of 10 PL
 reaction mix containing 1X ligation buffer, the insert and vector DNAs (3:1 molar ratio) and
 0.5 unit T4 DNA ligase (Invitrogen, California) at the ambient temperature for 12 hours.
 Then the ligated DNAs were transformed into the E. coli Top 10 competent cells (Invitrogen
 Corporation, California). The plasmid DNAs of three colonies of the transformants were
 isolated from 3 mL bacterial cultures using Zyppy TM Plasmid Miniprep Kit (Zymo Research
 Corp., Orange, California). The integrity of the clones was preliminarily tested with
 restriction enzyme digestions using enzymes XhoI and NotI for A5 elongase gene promoter
 construct, and enzymes NcoI and XhoI for A4 desaturase gene promoter construct. The
                                            50

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 inserts of the preliminarily identified positive clones JZ1-57-1 of A4 desaturase gene
 promoter vector, and JZ1-57-7 of A5 elongase gene promoter vector were thoroughly
 sequenced using the primer #14 (SEQ ID NO:22) and primer #15 (SEQ ID NO:23). The
 resulting vector pD4DPZl (SEQ ID NO: 30; Fig. 2) contains the ble gene from
 Streptoalloteichushidustanus, flanked by A4 desaturase gene promoter of ONC-T 18 and the
 SV40 terminator. The resulting vector pE5PZl (SEQ ID NO:31; Fig. 3) also contains the
 ble gene flanked by A5 elongase gene promoter of ONC-T 18 and the SV40 terminator.
 [0202]       The present invention therefore provides, among other things, vectors comprising
 a Thraustochytrium promoter operatively linked to a heterologous gene. In some
 embodiments, such vectors include, for example, a terminator, one or more replication
 origins, and one or more detectable or selectable markers.
 [0203]       2. Generation of green fluorescent protein (GFP) marker gene expression
 vector (SEQ ID NO:32; Fig. 4). For preparing the template plasmid DNA of GFP gene, the
 bacterial stock of E. coli containing the plasmid pCD3-327 [GenBank accession No.
 U70496; (Davis and Vierstra, 1998)] was purchased from the Arabidopsis Deposit Center
 (Ohio, USA). The bacteria were streaked in the LB agar plate containing 100 pg/mL
 ampicillin. A single colony was inoculated in 3 mL LB medium containing 100 pg/mL
 ampicillin and grown overnight. The plasmid DNA from the cultured bacteria was isolated
 using Ultraclean Microbial Miniprep DNA Isolation kit (MO BIO Laboratories, Inc, Solana
 Beach, California) as per the manufacturer's protocol.
 [0204]       The GFP gene DNA fragment was amplified with PCR using TaKaRa PrimeStar
 Taq T M DNA Polymerase (TAKARA BIO INC., Shiga, Japan), the template plasmid pCD3
 327 DNA and primer pairs #5 (SEQ ID NO:33) bearing the restriction enzyme site XhoI at
 its 5'-end and #6 (SEQ ID NO:34). Then the PCR products were precipitated with ethanol
 and digested with restriction enzyme XhoI and gel-purified. The gel-purified DNA was
 ligated into the restriction enzyme sites XhoI and BsaAI of the backbone of the vector
 pE5PZl plasmid DNA (SEQ ID NO:31; Fig. 3) digested with XhoI and BsaAI enzymes and
 gel purified, to replace the ble gene with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) marker gene
 and yield the expression vector pE5PRsGFP 1 (SEQ ID NO:32; Fig. 4) in which the GFP
 gene is flanked by A5 elongase gene promoter of ONC-T 18 and the SV40 terminator.
                                              51

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0205]      The present invention therefore provides, among other things, vectors comprising
 a Thraustochytrium promoter operatively linked to a heterologous gene. In some
 embodiments, such vectors include, for example, a terminator, one or more replication
 origins, and one or more detectable or selectable markers. In light of the description
 provided herein of a plurality of such vectors, and sequence information with regard to
 certain elements such as promoters and/or terminators sufficient to permit linkage of
 elements (e.g., promoters, terminators) having such sequences to other elements, those of
 ordinary skill in the art, reading the present disclosure, would be well enabled to make and
 use a wide range of different individual vector constructs, for example by combining
 provided sequences with any of a variety of known other elements, often according to
 known techniques.
 [0206]      3. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vectors p341PZ40T (SEQ ID
 NO:35; Fig. 5). To construct the vector p341PZ40T (SEQ ID NO:35; Fig. 5) which
 contains the ble gene from Streptoalloteichushidustanus, flanked by the tubulin gene
 promoter #341 of ONC-T18 and SV40 terminator, the DNA fragment of the tubulin gene
 promoter #341 was amplified with PCR using the primer pairs #66 (SEQ ID NO:36) and
 #67 (SEQ ID NO:37), and the template plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-17-14 described in
 Example 1. The 5'-end sequence of primer #66 (SEQ ID NO:36) is complementary to a
 small region of an intermediate vector derived from vector pT7Blue-3 (Novagen,
 Gibbstown, NJ, USA), and its 3'-end is complementary to the minus-strand of the 5'-end of
 the tubulin gene promoter #341 of ONC-T18. The 5'-end sequence of primer #67 (SEQ ID
 NO:37) is complementary to the plus-strand of the 5'-end sequence of the open reading
 frame of the ble gene and its 3'-end is complementary to the plus-strand of the 3'-end of the
 tubulin gene promoter #341 of ONC-T18.
 [0207]      The DNA fragment of the ble gene ORF including SV40 terminator located at its
 3'-end was also amplified with PCR using the primer pairs #68 (SEQ ID NO:38) and #71
 (SEQ ID NO:39), and the plasmid template DNA of the vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen,
 California). The 5'-end sequence of primer #68 (SEQ ID NO:38) is complementary to the
 minus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of the tubulin gene promoter #341 of ONC-T18 and its
 3'-end sequence is complementary to the minus-strand of the 5'-end of the ble gene ORF.
 The 5'-end sequence of primer #71 (SEQ ID NO:39) is complementary to a small region of
                                              52

WO 2012/120375                                                          PCT/IB2012/000528
 an intermediate vector derived from vector pT7Blue-3 and its 3'-end sequence is
 complementary to the plus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of SV40 terminator.
 [0208]      The PCR reactions were carried out in a volume of 50 pL reaction mix
 containing 2.5 units TaKaRa PrimeStarTaqTM DNA Polymerase (Takara Bio Inc., Shiga,
 Japan), 1 X PrimerStarPCR Buffer, dNTP Mixture (0.40 mM each), 1 ilg of the template
 plasmid DNA, 0.20 pM of each primer of the primer pairs. The PCR conditions, 98'C for
 10 seconds and 55'C for 5 seconds and 72'C for 2 minutes, for 30 cycles, were employed.
 The PCR products of the tubulin gene promoter #341 and ble gene ORF were resolved in
 0.8% agarose gel for electrophoresis at 65 voltages for 60 minutes. The bands with the right
 sizes were cut out with a razor blade and their DNAs were extracted and purified with
 QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, California) as per manufacturer's protocol.
 Then the gel-purified PCR products were mixed in similar molar ratios, which were used as
 the DNA templates for the extension PCR to fuse the tubulin gene promoter #341, the ble
 gene ORF including SV40 terminator together (Higuchi, Krummel, and Saiki, 1988; Zhang,
 Wege, and Jeske, 2001). The extension PCR was carried out in a volume of 50 pL reaction
 mix using TaKaRa PrimeStar Taq TM DNA Polymerase (Takara Bio Inc., Shiga, Japan),
  ~100 ng of the template DNA of the mixed PCR products, and the primer pairs #66 (SEQ ID
 NO:36) and #71 (SEQ ID NO:39) (0.20 pM each). The PCR conditions, 98'C for 10
 seconds, 50'C for 5 minutes and 72'C for 3 minutes for 6 cycles; and 98'C for 10 seconds,
 50'C for 5 seconds and 72'C for 3 and a half minutes for 25 cycles, were employed. The
 PCR product containing ONC-T 18-specific ble gene expression cassette was gel purified
 with QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, California) as per manufacturer's
 protocol, and cloned into an intermediate vector derived from vector pT7Blue-3 (Novagen,
 Gibbstown, NJ, USA) using extension PCR (Higuchi, Krummel, and Saiki, 1988; Zhang,
 Wege, and Jeske, 2001). The extension PCR was carried out in a volume of 50 pL PCR
 reaction mix containing 2.5 units TaKaRa PrimeStarTaqTM DNA Polymerase (Takara Bio
 Inc., Shiga, Japan), 1 X PrimerStarPCR Buffer, dNTP Mixture (0.40 mM each), 200 ng
 DNA of the gel purified PCR product containing the ONC-T18-specific ble gene expression
 cassette and 600 ng plasmid DNA of an intermediate vector linearized with the restriction
 enzyme HindIII. The PCR conditions, 98'C for 10 seconds, 60'C for 5 seconds and 72'C for
 5 and a half minutes for 30 cycles, were employed. Afterward the template plasmid DNA
 was destroyed by the restriction enzyme digestion of DpnI which specifically digested the
                                            53

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 methylated plasmid DNA isolated from some bacterial strains. This digestion was carried
 out in a reaction volume of 150 pL containing 50 pL extension PCR products, 30 unit DpnI
 and 1X restriction enzyme reaction buffer 4 (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA) at
 37'C for 2 hours. After digestion, the DpnI enzyme was inactivated by incubation at 80'C
 for 20 minutes. Then added sterilized water in the digestion mixture up to 350 PL and
 further desalted and concentrated the DNA to ~100 ng/pL using the column Microcon (YM
 100, Millipore Corporate, Billerica, MA). One pL of the desalted DNA was used to
 transform the Top 10 E. coli competent cells (Invitrogen, California, USA) using the
 electroporator (Eppendorf 5210) set up at 1890 voltages as well as the electroporation
 cuvettes of 1 mm gap (Eppendorf, NY, USA). Positive colonies were preliminarily screened
 with the direct colony PCR as described in Example 1 using the primer pairs #64 (SEQ ID
 NO:40) and #65 (SEQ ID NO:41). The insert of the positive clone JZ2-53-10 was
 completely sequenced using forward and reverse primers as well as internal primers #15
 (SEQ ID NO:23), #16 (SEQ ID NO:42), #54 (SEQ ID NO: 7), #64 (SEQ ID NO:40), #65
 (SEQ ID NO:41) and #85 (SEQ ID NO:43). The resulting sequences were assembled and
 analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied Maths) and the integrity of
 the cloned insert was confirmed. The resulting ble gene expression vector was named
 p341PZST (SEQ ID NO:35; Fig. 5), in which the ble gene is flanked by the tubulin gene
 promoter #341 of ONC-T18 and SV40 terminator.
 [0209]      The present invention therefore provides, among other things, vectors comprising
 a Thraustochytrium promoter operatively linked to a heterologous gene. In some
 embodiments, such vectors include, for example, a terminator, one or more replication
 origins, and one or more detectable or selectable markers. In light of the description
 provided herein of a plurality of such vectors, and sequence information with regard to
 certain elements such as promoters and/or terminators sufficient to permit linkage of
 elements (e.g., promoters, terminators) having such sequences to other elements, those of
 ordinary skill in the art, reading the present disclosure, would be well enabled to make and
 use a wide range of different individual vector constructs, for example by combining
 provided sequences with any of a variety of known other elements, often according to
 known techniques.
                                              54

WO 2012/120375                                                          PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0210]      4. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vectors p341PZ347T (SEQ ID
 NO:44; Fig. 6). To construct the vector p341PZ347T (SEQ ID NO:44; Fig. 6) which
 contains the ble gene from Streptoalloteichushidustanus, flanked by the tubulin gene
 promoter #341 and a tubulin gene terminator #347 of ONC-T18, the DNA fragment of the
 tubulin gene promoter #341 was amplified with PCR using the primer pairs #66 (SEQ ID
 NO:36) and #67 (SEQ ID NO:37), and the template plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-17-14
 described in Example 1.
 [0211]      The DNA fragment of the ble gene ORF was also amplified with PCR using
 primer pairs #68 (SEQ ID NO:38) and #72 (SEQ ID NO:45), and the plasmid template DNA
 of vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen, California). The 5'-end sequence of primer #72 (SEQ ID
 NO:45) is complementary to the plus-strand of the 5'-end sequence of the tubulin gene
 terminator #347.
 [0212]      The DNA fragment of the tubulin gene terminator #347 was amplified with PCR
 using primer pairs #73 (SEQ ID NO:46) and #74 (SEQ ID NO:47), and the template plasmid
 DNA of clone JZ2-17-22, described in Example 1. The 5'-end sequence of the primer #73
 (SEQ ID NO:46) is complementary to the minus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of the open
 reading frame of the ble gene and its 3'-end is complementary to the minus-strand of the 5'
 end of the tubulin gene terminator #347 of ONC-T18. The 5'-end sequence of the primer
 #74 (SEQ ID NO:47) is complementary to a small region of an intermediate vector derived
 from the vector pT7Blue-3 and its 3'-end is complementary to the plus-strand of the 3'-end
 of the Thraustochytrium sp. tubulin gene terminator #347.
 [0213]      The PCRs were carried out exactly as described in Example 2, section 3. The
 PCR products were gel purified with QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia,
 California) as per manufacturer's protocol. The gel-purified PCR products of the tubulin
 gene promoter #341, ble gene ORF and tubulin gene terminator #347, were mixed in similar
 molar ratios, which were used as DNA templates for the extension PCR to fuse the tubulin
 gene promoter #341, the ble gene ORF and the tubulin gene terminator #347 together. The
 extension PCR was carried out using primer pairs #66 (SEQ ID NO: 36) and #74 (SEQ ID
 NO: 47), 0.20 pM each, as described in Example 2, section 3. The fusion PCR product was
 gel purified with the QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, California) as per
 manufacturer's protocol, and cloned into an intermediate vector derived from vector
 pT7blue-3 using extension PCR as described in Example 2, section 3. The extension PCR
                                            55

WO 2012/120375                                                           PCT/IB2012/000528
 products were transformed into Top10 E. coli competent cells (Invitrogen, California, USA)
 with electroporation. The positive colonies were initially screened with colony PCR method
 using primer pairs #64 (SEQ ID NO: 40) and #65 (SEQ ID NO:41), primer pairs #16 (SEQ
 ID NO:42) and #59 (SEQ ID NO:12), and primer pairs #54 (SEQ ID NO:7) and #15 (SEQ
 ID NO:23). The insert of the positive clone JZ2-69-2a was completely sequenced using
 forward and reverse primers as well as internal primers #15 (SEQ ID NO:23), #16 (SEQ ID
 NO:42), #54 (SEQ ID NO: 7), #59 (SEQ ID NO:12), #63 (SEQ ID NO:4), #64 (SEQ ID
 NO:40), #65 (SEQ ID NO:41), and #85 (SEQ ID NO: 43). The resulting sequences were
 assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied Maths) and
 the integrity of the cloned insert was confirmed. The resulting ble gene expression vector
 was named to p341PZ347T (SEQ ID NO:44; Fig. 6) in which the ble gene is flanked by the
 tubulin gene promoter #341 of ONC-T18 and terminator #347.
 [0214]       The present invention therefore provides, among other things, vectors comprising
 Thraustochytriumpromoters and terminators operatively linked to a heterologous gene (e.g.,
 so that the promoter is upstream of the gene and the terminator is downstream). In some
 embodiments, such vectors include, for example, one or more replication origins, and one or
 more detectable or selectable markers. The present invention therefore provides, among
 other things, vectors comprising a Thraustochytrium promoter operatively linked to a
 heterologous gene. In some embodiments, such vectors include, for example, a terminator,
 one or more replication origins, and one or more detectable or selectable markers.
 [0215]       5. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vector p341P713T (SEQ ID
 NO:48; Fig. 7). To construct vector p341PZ713T (SEQ ID NO:48; Fig. 7) which contains
 the ble gene from S. hidustanus, flanked by tubulin gene promoter #341 and tubulin gene
 terminator #713 of ONC-T18, the DNA fragment of tubulin gene promoter #341 was
 amplified with PCR using primer pair #66 (SEQ ID NO:36) and #67 (SEQ ID NO:37), and
 the template plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-17-14 described in Example 1.
 [0216]       The DNA fragment of the ble gene ORF was amplified with PCR using primer
 pair #68 (SEQ ID NO:38) and #75 (SEQ ID NO:49), and the plasmid template DNA of the
 vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen, California). The 5'-end sequence of the primer #75 (SEQ ID
 NO:49) is complementary to the plus-strand of the 5'-end sequence of the tubulin gene
 terminator #713.
                                             56

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0217]       The DNA fragment of tubulin gene terminator #713 was amplified with PCR
 using the primer pair #76 (SEQ ID NO:50) and #77 (SEQ ID NO:51), and the template
 plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-22-9 described in Example 1. The 5'-end sequence of the
 primer #76 (SEQ ID NO:50) is complementary to the minus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of
 the ble gene ORF and its 3'-end complementary to the minus-strand of the 5'-end of tubulin
 gene terminator #713 ONC-T18. The 5'-end sequence of the primer #77 (SEQ ID NO:51) is
 complementary to a small region of an intermediate vector derived from vector pT7blue-3
 and its 3'-end complementary to the plus-strand of the 3'-end of the tubulin gene terminator
 #713 of ONC-T18.
 [0218]       The PCR products of the tubulin gene promoter #341, ble gene ORF and tubulin
 gene terminator #713, were gel-purified, mixed in similar molar ratios, and used as the DNA
 template for extension PCR using the primer pairs #66 (SEQ ID NO:36) and #77 (SEQ ID
 NO:51) to fuse the tubulin gene promoter #341, the ble gene ORF and tubulin gene
 terminator #713 together. The fused PCR product was gel purified with QlAquick Gel
 Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, California), and cloned into an HindIII-linearized
 intermediate vector derived from vector pT7blue-3 using a second extension PCR. One
 microliter (~100 ig) extension PCR product DNAs were used to transform Top10 E. coli
 competent cells (Invitrogen, California, USA) with electroporation. Positive colonies were
 initially screened with colony PCR using primer pair #64 (SEQ ID NO:40) and #65 (SEQ ID
 NO.41), primer pair #16 (SEQ ID NO:42) and #77 (SEQ ID NO:51), and primer pair #54
 (SEQ ID NO:7) and #15 (SEQ ID NO:23). The insert of the positive clone JZ2-69-2b was
 completely sequenced using forward and reverse primers as well as internal primers #15
 (SEQ ID NO:23), #16 (SEQ ID NO:42), #54 (SEQ ID NO: 7), #63 (SEQ ID NO:4), #64
 (SEQ ID NO:40), #65 (SEQ ID NO:41), and #85 (SEQ ID NO:43). The resulting sequences
 were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied
 Maths), and the integrity of the cloned insert was confirmed. Resulting ble gene expression
 vector was named to p341PZ713T (SEQ ID NO: 48; Fig. 7), in which the ble gene is flanked
 by the tubulin gene promoter #341 and terminator #713 of ONC-T 18.
 [0219]       The present invention therefore provides, among other things, vectors comprising
 Thraustochytriumpromoters and terminators operatively linked to a heterologous gene (e.g.,
 so that the promoter is upstream of the gene and the terminator is downstream). In some
 embodiments, such vectors include, for example, one or more replication origins, and one or
                                             57

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 more detectable or selectable markers. The present invention therefore provides, among
 other things, vectors comprising a Thraustochytrium promoter operatively linked to a
 heterologous gene. In some embodiments, such vectors include, for example, a terminator,
 one or more replication origins, and one or more detectable or selectable markers. In light
 of the description provided herein of a plurality of such vectors, and sequence information
 with regard to certain elements such as promoters and/or terminators sufficient to permit
 linkage of elements (e.g., promoters, terminators) having such sequences to other elements,
 those of ordinary skill in the art, reading the present disclosure, would be well enabled to
 make and use a wide range of different individual vector constructs, for example by
 combining provided sequences with any of a variety of known other elements, often
 according to known techniques.
 [0220]      6. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vector p701PZ40T (SEQ ID
 NO:52; Fig. 8). To construct the vector p701PZ40T (SEQ ID NO:52; Fig. 8) which
 contains the ble gene from S. hidustanus, flanked by the tubulin gene promoter #701 of
 ONC-T 18 and SV40 terminator, the DNA fragment of tubulin gene promoter #701 was
 amplified with PCR using the primer pair #87 (SEQ ID NO:53) and #88 (SEQ ID NO:54),
 and the template plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-17-10 described in Example 1. The 5'-end
 sequence of primer #87 (SEQ ID NO: 48) is complementary to a small region of vector
 p341PZ40T and its 3'-end complements to the minus-strand of the 5'-end sequence of the
 tubulin gene promoter #701. The 5'-end sequence of primer #88 (SEQ ID NO: 54), is
 complementary to the plus-strand of the 5'-end sequence of the ble gene ORF and its 3'-end
 matches the plus-strand of the 3'-end of the tubulin gene terminator #701. The PCR product
 was gel purified and cloned into the vector of p341PZ40T to replace the tubulin gene
 promoter #341 using extension PCR (Higuchi et al., 1988; Zhang et al., 2001). TaKaRa
 PrimeStar Taq TM DNA polymerase, 200 rlg DNA of the gel purified PCR products and
 600ng BglII-linearized plasmid DNA of vector p341PZ40T, were used in the extension
 PCR. One microliter (~100 ig) extension PCR product DNAs were used to transform
 Top10 E. coli competent cells (Invitrogen, California, USA) with electroporation. Positive
 colonies were initially screened with colony PCR method using primer pair #52 (SEQ ID
 NO: 51) and #53 (SEQ ID NO: 52). The insert of the positive clone was completely
 sequenced using forward and reverse primers as well as internal primers #52 (SEQ ID NO:
                                               58

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 1) and #53 (SEQ ID NO: 2), #15 (SEQ ID NO:23), #16 (SEQ ID NO:42), #63 (SEQ ID
 NO:4), #64 (SEQ ID NO:40), #65 (SEQ ID NO:41), and #85 (SEQ ID NO:43). Resulting
 sequences were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon
 (Applied Maths) and the integrity of the cloned insert was confirmed. The resulting ble
 gene expression vector was named to p701PZ40T (SEQ ID NO:52; Figure 7), in which the
 ble gene is flanked by the tubulin gene promoter #701 of ONC-T 18 and SV40 terminator.
 [0221]      7. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vector p341PRsGP40T (SEQ ID
 NO:55; Fig. 9). To construct the vector p341PRsGFP40T (SEQ ID NO:55; Fig. 9) which
 contains the GFP gene from Aequorea victoria, flanked by the tubulin gene promoter #341
 of ONC-T18 and SV40 terminator, the DNA fragment of the tubulin gene promoter #341
 was amplified with PCR using primer pair #66 (SEQ ID NO:36) and #78 (SEQ ID NO:56),
 and the template plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-17-14 described in Example 1. The 5'-end
 sequence of primer #78 (SEQ ID NO:56) is complementary to the plus-strand of the 5'-end
 sequence of the GFP gene ORF and its 3'-end matches the plus-strand of the 3'-end of the
 tubulin gene promoter #341 of ONC-T 18.
 [0222]      The DNA fragment of the GFP gene ORF was also amplified with PCR using
 primer pair #79 (SEQ ID NO: 57) and #80 (SEQ ID NO:58), and the template plasmid DNA
 of vector pCD3-327. The 5'-end sequence of the primer #79 (SEQ ID NO:57) is
 complementary to the plus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of the tubulin gene promoter #341
 of ONC-T18 and its 3'-end sequence matches the minus-strand of the 5'-end of the GFP
 gene ORF. The 5'-end sequence of the primer #80 (SEQ ID NO: 58) is complementary to
 the plus-strand of the 5'-end sequence of the SV40 terminator, and its 3'-end matches the
 plus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of the GFP gene ORF.
 [0223]      The DNA fragment of the SV40 terminator was also amplified with PCR using
 primer pair #81 (SEQ ID NO:59) and #71 (SEQ ID NO:39), and the template plasmid DNA
 of vector pSV40/Zeo2 (Invitrogen, California). The 5'-end sequence of the primer #81
 (SEQ ID NO:59) is complementary to the minus-strand of the 3'-end sequence of the GFP
 gene ORF, and its 3'-end sequence matches the 5'-end of SV40 terminator.
 [0224]      The above three PCR products were gel purified, mixed in similar molar ratios,
 and used as the DNA template for the extension PCR using primer pair #66 (SEQ ID
 NO:36) and #71 (SEQ ID NO:39) to fuse the tubulin gene promoter #341, GFP gene ORF
                                            59

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 and SV40 terminator together (Higuchi, Krummel, and Saiki, 1988). The extension PCR
 product containing the ONC-T 18-specific GFP gene expression cassette was gel purified,
 and cloned into vector p341PZ40T linearized with restriction enzyme HindlII in a second
 round extension PCR. The second round PCR products were cleaned, desalted, and
 transformed into Top 10 E. coli competent cells with electroporation. The positive colonies
 were screened using direct colony PCR and the primer pair #54 (SEQ ID NO:7) and #86
 (SEQ ID NO:60). The insert of the positive clone JZ2-53-20 was completely sequenced
 using forward and reverse primers as well as internal primers #15 (SEQ ID NO:23), #16
 (SEQ ID NO:42), #54 (SEQ ID NO:7), #63 (SEQ ID NO:4), #64 (SEQ ID NO:40), #65
 (SEQ ID NO:41), #85 (SEQ ID NO:43), and #86 (SEQ ID NO:60). The resulting sequences
 were assembled and analyzed using bioinformatics software package Kodon (Applied
 Maths) and the integrity of the cloned insert was confirmed. The resulting GFP gene
 expression vector was named to p341PRsGFP40T (SEQ ID NO:55; Fig. 8) in which the
 GFP gene is flanked by the tubulin gene promoter #341 of ONC-T 18 and SV40 terminator.
 [0225]      8. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vector pD4DPZ118S (SEQ ID
 NO:61; Fig. 10). To construct pD4DPZ18S (SEQ ID NO:61; Fig. 10) vector, the plasmid
 DNA of vector pD4DPZl was digested with restriction enzymes SalI and SphI to linearize
 the vector and then gel purified with QlAquick Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen, Valencia,
 California) as per manufacturer's protocol. The 18S rDNA fragment (SEQ ID NO: 29) that
 was amplified from the genomic DNA of ONC-T18 with PCR using primer pair 18SrRNAf
 (SEQ ID NO: 27) and 18SrRNAr (SEQ ID NO: 28) and cloned into vector pT7Blue-3, was
 released from the plasmid DNA of the clone JZ2-3-1 by restriction digestion with enzymes
 XhoI and SphI, then gel purified and ligated into the restriction sites SalI and SphI of the
 linearized vector of pD4DPZl, to yield the pD4DPZl8S (SEQ ID NO: 61; Fig. 10) which
 bears a DNA fragment of the 18S ribosome RNA gene.
 [0226]      9. Generation of the recombinant plasmid vector p341PZ5pEx (SEQ ID
 NO:62; Fig. 11). To construct the construct p341PZ5pEx for the over-expression of
 homologous and heterogonous genes, for knocking down or knocking out the homologous
 gene in the Thraustochytrid protist microbes, the zeocin resistance gene expression vector
 pd5EPPZl was modified with PCR using primers LinkerF (SEQ ID NO:63) and LinkerR
                                            60

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 (SEQ ID NO:64) to replace the zeocin resistance gene ORF with multiple cloning sites
 including enodonuclease restriction sites (NcoI, SpeI, KpnI, MluI, NdeI, SphI, NruI, BstBI
 and BamHI). After PCR, the template plasmid DNA was destroyed using the enodonuclease
 restriction enzyme DpnI. The PCR product was precipitated and digested with
 enodonuclease restriction enzyme MluI, gel-purified, re-ligated together with T4 DNA
 ligase (Invitrogen, California) and then transformed into Top 10 E. coli cells. The
 preliminary screening of the positive clones was carried out using restriction digestions. The
 integrity of positive clones was confirmed with DNA sequencing and named as the plasmid
 p5eEP40T (SEQ ID NO: 65). The plasmid DNA of the positive clone was digested with the
 enodonuclease restriction enzymes HindIII and EcoRI and the backbone plasmid DNA was
 gel purified. The zeocin resistance gene expression cassette in which the zeocin gene ORF
 is flanked by the tubulin gene promoter #341P and SV40 terminator, was also isolated and
 gel-purified from vector p18S341PZ40t digested with the same enodonuclease restriction
 enzymes HindIII and EcoRI. The zeocin resistance gene expression cassette was then
 ligated into the corresponding enodonuclease restriction sites HindIII and EcoRI of the
 plasmid p5eEP40T, resulting in the gene expression vector p341PZ5pEx.
 Example 3: Identification of an antibiotic that can be used for genetic manipulation of
 Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
 [0227]      The present Example describes experiments identifying an antibiotic for which
 resistance can be used as a selectable marker for genetic manipulation of ONC-T 18.
 [0228]      Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T 18 was grown on agar plates (20 g agar per liter
 ONC-T18-GMO). One loop of inoculum of ONC-T18 was inoculated into 50 mL of liquid
 ONC-T18-GMO, and the culture was incubated in a shaker incubator at 25 'C at 250 rpm for
 36 hours. Half a milliliter of the culture was transferred into a 1.5 mL tube and vortexed at
 full speed for 30 seconds to break down cell clusters, then diluted in 50 mL sterilized water.
 One hundred microliters of the resulting solution was spread onto each ONC-T18-GMO
 medium plate. Each plate contained one of various antibiotics at one of various
 concentrations. Plates were incubated at 25 'C and emergence and development of colonies
 were observed daily. As can be seen in Table 1, growth of ONC-T 18 was insensitive to
 most of the antibiotics tested. However, zeocin significantly inhibited the growth of ONC
 T18 in ONC-T18-GMO agar plates.
                                             61

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0229]      Thus, the present Example identifies zeocin as an antibiotic that can be used for
 selection in genetic manipulation experiments.
 [0230]      Table 1: Effects of different antibiotics on the growth of Thraustochytrium
 sp. ONC-T18
                                          Concentration (pg/mL medium)
             Antibiotics           0            1          10        50         100
             Nourseothricin      ++++        ++++        ++++      ++++        ++++
              Bialophos          ++++        ++++        ++++_I    +
                                          Concentration (tg/mL medium)
                                   0          100         200             500
              Kanamycin          ++++        ++++        ++++            ++++
                                          Concentration (tg/mL medium)
                                   0           10          30        50         100
              Zeocin             ++++         +++          ++         +         --
 Example 4: Optimization of salinity in ONC-T18-GM0 medium for effective selection of
 Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18 transformants
 [0231]      As is known in the art, zeocin is unstable at high salt concentrations (Invitrogen,
 CA, USA). It has also been shown that ONC-T18 prefers to grow under conditions of
 relatively high salinity because of its natural inhabiting environments
 (PCT/IB2006/003977). The present Example describes the determination of optimal zeocin
 concentrations and salinities for efficient selection of ONC-T18 transformants using a
 zeocin resistance gene as the selectable marker.
 [0232]      One hundred pL of ONC-T18 cell suspension diluted at 1:500 from a 2-day
 culture were spread onto ONC-T 18-GMO plates containing various concentrations of
 antibiotic zeocin and sea salt. Inoculated plates were incubated in a 25 'C incubator for 10
 days. The numbers of the colonies on each plate were counted. Means of colony numbers
 from two duplicate plates are presented in Table 2. After 10 days post-inoculation, no
 colonies were observed in ONC-T 18-GMO agar plates containing 5 g/L sea salt and various
 concentrations of zeocin. In plates containing 8.5 g/L sea salt without zeocin, only one
 colony was observed. In plates containing 18 g/L sea salt without zeocin, colony numbers
 were similar to that of plates containing 35 g/L sea salt without zeocin. However, zeocin at
 a concentration of 30 pg/mL completely inhibited growth of ONC-T18 in ONC-T18-GMO
                                              62

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 agar plates containing 18 g/L sea salt, whereas 100 pg/mL zeocin was needed for complete
 inhibition of ONC-T18 in ONC-T18-GMO agar plates containing 35 g/L sea salt. The
 diameters of single colonies in two duplicate plates were measured and their means are
 shown in Table 3. Salinities between 18 g/L and 35 g/L did not affect the sizes of the
 colonies significantly (Fig. 12). The present Example therefore demonstrates, among other
 things, that better growth is observed in the presence of sea salt at a concentration above
 about 8.5 g/L. According to the present invention, concentrations in the range of 8.5 g/L to
 more than 35 g/L (e.g., to about 36 g/L, 37 g/L, 38 g/L, 39 g/L, 40 g/L, 41 g/L, 42 g/L, 43
 g/L, 44 g/L, 45 g/L, 46 g/L, 47 g/L, 48 g/L, 49 g/L, 50 g/L or more, even possibly as much
 as 55 g/L, 60 g/L, 65 g/L, 70 g/L, 75 g/L, 80 g/L, 85 g/L, 90 g/L, 95 g/L, 100 g/L or more
 may be suitable for growth. For selection of transformants using zeocin, of course, it is
 desirable to achieve robust growth with maintained sensitivity to zeocin. Therefore, for this
 work, 18 g/L sea salt was used to make ONC-T18-GMO for selection of ONC-T18
 transformants transformed with constructs bearing a zeocin-resistant gene expression
 cassette.
 [0233]      Table 2: Effects of zeocin and salinity on the colony numbers of
 Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
                                                   Zeocin concentration (pg/mL)
             Salt concentration (g/L)            0       10        30       50       100
                          5                      0        0         0        0        0
                        8.5                      1        0         0        0        0
                         18                     33       11         0        0        0
                         35                     39      22.5       11        5        0
                                             63

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0234]       Table 3: Effects of zeocin and salinity on the colony growth rates (diameter
 in mm) of Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
                                                    Zeocin concentration  (fptg/mL)
              Salt concentration (g/L)           0       10       30       50       100
                           5                     0        0        0        0        0
                          8.5                    3        0        0        0        0
                          18                    4.3      4.1       0        0        0
                          35                    5.2      4.1      1.9     0.6        0
          Transformation efficiencies were tested at various pressure conditions. In the
 present Example, it was found that a pressure condition of about 1100 psi resulted in a better
 transformation efficiency than did other pressure conditions tested.
 Example 5: Transformation of Thraustochvtrium sp. ONC-T18
 [0235]       This Example describes a biolistic transformation method of ONC-T 18.
 [0236]       Materials and methods.
 [0237]       Generating competent cells. ONC-T18 was maintained on ONC-T18-GMO agar
 plates in a 25 'C incubator and transferred to fresh plates every 3-4 weeks. One loop of
 inoculum of ONC-T 18, taken from vigorously growing cells, was inoculated in 50 mL
 ONC-T18-GMO in a 250 mL Erlenmeyer flask, then cultured in a shaker incubator at 25 'C
 at 150 rpm for about 46 hours. Half a milliliter of the culture was transferred into a
 sterilized 1.5 mL centrifuge tube in a laminar flow hood under sterile conditions, then
 centrifuged in a desktop centrifuge at 3,000 rpm for 1 minute. The supernatant was
 discarded, the cell pellent was re-suspended in 0.5 mL sterilized water, and 100 pL of the
 cell suspension was spread onto the central area (approximately 28 cm 2 ) of an ONC-T18
 GMO agar plate. Petri dishes were left opened in a laminar flow hood under sterile
 conditions for 10 to 15 minutes to let cells settle down and to evaporate liquid water.
 [0238]      Biolistic transformation. Plasmids pd5EPZ1, p 3 4 1 PZ40T, p341PZ347T,
 p341PZ713T, and pD4DPZl8S (constructed as described in Example 2; see also Figs. 3, 5,
                                             64

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 6, 7, and 10) were isolated from bacterial cultures of strains containing the respective
 plasmids using the ZYPPY TM Plasmid Maxiprep Kit (Zymo Research Corp., Orange,
 California) per manufacturer's protocol. As discussed in Example 2, each of these plasmids
 contains a ble transgene, which confers resistance to zeocin, phleomycin, and bleomycin.
 (See, e.g., Gatignol et al. (1988) and Dumas et al. (1994), the entire contents of each of
 which are incorporated by reference herein.) In the present Example, a Sh ble
 (Streptoalloteichushindustanus) transgene was employed. Other ble transgenes are also
 suitable, such as the Tn5 ble and Sa ble (Staphylococcus aureus) transgenes.
 [0239]      For each plasmid, five pL (~1 pg/pL) of plasmid DNA was mixed with 25 PL of
 gold particle suspension (60 mg/mL in 50% glycerol) by vortexing for 3 minutes and
 incubating on ice for 10 minutes. Ten pL of 0.1 M spermidine and 25 pL of 2.5 M CaCl 2
 were added into the mixture and immediately vortexed for 4 minutes, then centrifuged for 10
 seconds at full speed in a desktop centrifuge. The supernatant was discarded. Plasmid
 DNA-coated gold particles were washed twice with 70% ethanol and re-suspended in 36 PL
 98% ethanol. Six pL of the gold particle suspension was spread on each macrocarrier disc
 and discs were air-dried (Zhang et al. 2001).
 [0240]      The PSD-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc.,
 California) was used for delivery of plasmid DNAs bearing zeocin resistant gene expression
 cassettes into ONC-T 18 competent cells under sterilized conditions in a laminar flow hood
 according to the manufacturer's protocol. Parts of the particle delivery system, including
 macrocarrier holders, macrocarriers, stopping screens, were autoclaved. The chamber of the
 particle delivery system was disinfected by wiping with 70% ethanol. After bombardment,
 petri dishes containing transformed cells were incubated at 25 'C incubator in darkness for 6
 hours. Transformed cells were then washed out of the dishes using 1 mL sterilized water,
 transferred into a 1.5 mL autoclaved micro-centrifuge tube, and centrifuged at 3,000 rpm for
 2 minutes. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet was re-suspended in 0.5 mL
 autoclaved water. One-hundred fifty pL of the cell suspension was spread on agar ONC
 T18-GMO plates containing ~150-200 pg/mL zeocin. After the liquid in the plates had been
 evaporated, plates were sealed with PARAFILM* M and incubated at 25'C incubator for 6
 10 days. Zeocin-resistant colonies were picked using 10 pL pipette tips and suspended in 50
 pL sterilized water in a 200 pL PCR tube. One pL of the cell suspension was spotted onto
                                            65

WO 2012/120375                                                           PCT/IB2012/000528
 ONC-T18-GMO agar plates containing 150-200 pg/mL zeocin. After 3-5 day incubation at
 25 'C, vigorously growing colonies were chosen for further analysis.
 [0241]      Zeocin-resistant colonies were grown on ONC-T18-GMO agar plates containing
 150-200 pg/mL zeocin 4-6 days after biolistic transformation. Zeocin-resistant strains were
 generated with various constructs derived from combinations of various promoters and
 terminators isolated from ONC-T 18. The numbers of the transformants generated per
 transformation using different constructs were variable. (See Table 4.)
 [0242]      Table 4: Number of transformants per transformation
           Constructs                  Number of transformants/5pg plasmid DNAs
            pd5EPZ1                                          11
          p341PZ40T                                          9
         p341PZ347T                                          4
         p341PZ713T                                           7
          pD4DPZ18S                                          5
 Example 6: PCR analysis of transformants of Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
 [0243]      This Example describes confirmation of the presence of transgene in transformed
 ONC-T18. A PCR assay was used to assess presence of the ble transgene, which is present
 in each of the plasmid constructs used to transform ONC-T 18.
 [0244]      One loop of inoculum of each potentially transformed strain growing on zeocin
 ONC-T18-GMO agar plates was inoculated in 10 mL liquid ONC-T18-GMO medium in a 50
 mL flask and grown in a shaker incubator at 25 'C and at 250 rpm for 2 days. Two-mL
 cultures were used for isolation of the genomic DNA of each strain using an Ultraclean
 Microbial Mini-prep DNA Isolation kit (MO BIO Laboratories, Inc, Solana Beach,
 California) following the manufacturer's protocol. Genomic DNA concentrations were
 measured using spectrum photometer Spectro 2000RSP (Lebomed, Inc., Culver City, CA,
 U.S.A). A half pL of genomic DNA was used for a 20 pL PCR reaction containing the
 following components: Taq DNA polymerase (Sigma), 1 X PRC buffer, 2.5 mM MgCl 2 ,
 dNTPs mixture (0.20 mM each), 0.25 pM primer #64 (SEQ ID NO:66), and 0.25 PM
 primer #65 (SEQ ID NO:67) in a 200 pL PCR tube. PCR reactions were carried out using
 the following thermal cycle program: 94 'C for 3 minutes, 94 'C for 1 minute, 55 'C for 2
 minutes, and 72 'C for 2 minutes for 30 cycles. Primer #64 anneals to the 5'-end and primer
 #65 anneals to the 3'-end of the ble gene of each plasmid used for transforming ONC-T 18.
                                            66

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 A ~350 base pair DNA fragment was amplified from the genomic DNAs of positive
 transformants and from plasmid DNA of the positive control, but not from genomic DNA of
 the negative control isolated from the cells of the wild type ONC-T 18. These results
 confirm that most zeocin-resistant strains are true transformants (Fig. 13).
 Example 7: Growth rates of transformants
 [0245]      This Example describes the dermination of growth rates of transformed single
 cell-derived strains. Inocula of zeocin-resistant strains that had been transferred three times
 on zeocin ONC-T18-GMO agar plates was picked from each colony using a 10 PL pipette
 tip and re-suspended in 50 pL sterilized water in a 200 pL PCR tube. One PL of the cell
 suspension was spotted on ONC-T18-GMO agar plates (15 g/L agar) containing either 18
 g/L or 35 g/L sea salt. The diameters of the spotted colonies were measured on day 1, day 3,
 day 5, day 7, and day 8 post-inoculation.
 [0246]      Most tested strains grew faster than the wild type strain ONC-T18 on ONC-T 18
 GMO agar plates, whether they were grown on plates containing 18 g/L or 35 g/L sea salt.
 Among the tested strains, most grew faster on plates containing 18 g/L than on plates
 containing 35 g/L sea salt. Some strains that grew fastest on ONC-T 18-GMO agar plates
 containing 18 g/L sea salt (such as strain 5-3) grew slower than other strains on plates
 containing 35 g/L sea salt. It appears that most transformed strains prefer to grow on media
 containing lower salinity, for example 18 g/L sea salt (Fig. 14).
 Example 8: Zeocin sensitivity of transformed strains
 [0247]      This Example describes assays of the zeocin sensitivity of single-cell derived
 transformed strains.
 [0248]      A very small amount of inoculum of zeocin-resistant strains that had been
 transferred three times via colony passages on zeocin/ONC-T 18-GMO agar plates (as well as
 their parental strain or the wild type strain) was picked from colonies using a 10 PL pipette
 tip and re-suspended in 50 pL sterilized water in a 200 pL PCR tube. One PL of the cell
 suspension was spotted on ONC-T18-GMO agar plates containing 18 g/L sea salt (15 g/L
 agar) and zeocin at a concentration ranging from 0 to 5000 pg/mL (Invitrogen, CA, USA).
 The diameters of the spotted colonies were measured on day 1, day 3, day 5, day 7, and
 day 8.
                                              67

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0249]      All strains tested grew well on ONC-T 18-GMO agar plates in the absence of
 zeocin, but their growth rates differed. The parental strain (the wild type strain) ONC-T 18
 only grew on ONC-T18-GMO agar plates that had 30 pg/mL or less zeocin. For all of the
 five different plasmid constructs, all transformed strains bearing the zeocin-resistance gene
 (from S. hidustanus)expression cassette grew well on ONC-T18-GMO agar plates having
 zeocin at concentrations ranging from 30 to 1000 pg/mL (Fig. 15). However, at a
 concentration of 5000 pg/mL zeocin, most strains grew remarkably slower than that they did
 on media with 1000 pg/mL or less zeocin, and some of the strains could not grow at all on
 5000 pg/mL zeocin (Fig. 15). Several strains, especially those transformed with a plasmid
 construct bearing zeocin-resistance gene expression cassette driven by the A5 elongase gene
 promoter, however grew very well (Fig. 15), demonstrating that the A5 elongase gene
 promoter is a very strong gene expression promoter.
 [0250]      These results are consistent with DHA being the major energy storage fatty acid
 in the group of Thraustochytrid microalgae (Jain et al. 2007) and with the A5 elongase
 elongation step being the rate-limiting step during DHA biosynthesis in DHA omega-3 fatty
 acid producing microbes (Leonard et al. 2004). Growth rate variability among strains
 transformed with the same plasmid construct either reflects variability in copy number of the
 ble transgene or variability in insertion location of the ble transgene in the chromosomes of
 the host strain ONC-T 18.
 [0251]      These results indicate that various promoter and terminator sequences isolated
 from ONC-T18 can effectively drive transgene expression in PUFA-producing
 microorganisms. In addition, these results indicate that the ble transgene from S. hidustanus
 is a very effective selection marker gene for industrial strain improvement programs and
 genetic manipulation of Thraustochytrium sp. strains.
 Example 9: Comparisons of biomass productivities between transformed strains and wild
 type strain Thraustochytriumsp. ONC-T 18
 [0252]      The present Example describes comparisons of biomass productivities of
 transformants to that of the wild type strain Thraustochytrium sp., and demonstrates, among
 other things, that certain transformed strains produce elevated biomass levels (e.g., elevated
 at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, or more as compared with wild type).
                                              68

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0253]       ONC-T18, 10 mL ONC-T18-GMO (18 g/L sea salt) cultures were each
 inoculated with a transformed strain or with the wild type strain ONC-T18. Cultures
 inoculated with a transformed strain contained 200 pg/mL zeocin in the medium. Cultures
 were grown at 25 'C in a shaker incubator set at 250 rpm for 3 days until the OD60 0 reached
 about 1.979~2.369. Then 50 mL ONC-T18-GMO cultures containing either 18 g/L or 35g/L
 sea salt in 250 mL flasks were inoculated with 6 OD6 00 of the inocula of each strain,
 including the wild type strain (OD 60 0 was measured for 1 mL of culture and then the volume
 of culture was scaled up to correspond to an OD60 0 value of 6; e.g., if the OD600
 measurement were 2, then (1 mL x (6/2.0)) = 3 mL was used as inoculate). Cultures were
 grown in a shaker incubator set at 250 rpm at 25 'C for 2 days. Five mL of autoclaved 50%
 glucose were then added into each culture flask. Cultures were continually grown in a
 shaker incubator set at 150 rpm and at 20 'C for another 2 days. Six mL of autoclaved 50%
 glucose were then added into each culture flask and the cultures were constantly grown in a
 shaker incubator set at 150 rpm and at 20 'C for 3 more days. The biomasses of cultures of
 each strain in the two types of ONC-T18-GMO media (with 18 g/L or with 35 g/L sea salt)
 were harvested by transferring cell cultures into a 50 mL falcon tube and centrifuging at
 4000 rpm using the SORVALL LEGEND RT+ centrifuge (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.,
 MA, USA). Biomass floated on the surface of the liquid medium as a compacted layer.
 Liquid medium was released by punching a very small hole at the bottom of the falcon tube
 using an 18G 1 1/2 syringe needle. The pellet of the biomass in the tube was frozen in a -80
 'C freezer overnight and then freeze-dried using a freeze dryer for three days. The biomass
 of each sample was weighed. Nine strains including the wild type were tested.
 [0254]       Most transformants produced similar amounts of dry cell biomass to that of the
 wild type strain ONC-T 18 when grown in ONC-T 18-GMO containing 35 g/L artificial sea
 salt. One out of 8 transformed strains produced about 22% more dry cell biomass than that
 of the wild type strain ONC-T18 (Fig. 16) when grown under the same conditions. In the
 ONC-T1 8-GMO containing 18 g/L sea salt, 7 out of 8 transformed strains produced similar
 amounts or more biomass than that of the wild type strain ONC-T18. One out of 8 tested
 strains produced 19.5 % more biomass than that of the wild type strain ONC-T18 (Fig. 16).
                                             69

WO 2012/120375                                                                  PCT/IB2012/000528
 Example 10: Comparisons of DHA productivity between transformed strains and the wild
 type strain of Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
 [0255]       The present Example describes DHA productivity in the various transformed
 strains, and demonstrates elevated levels as compared to the wild type. The present
 Example demonstrates, among other things, that levels within the range of at least 1%-36%
 higher than wild type (e.g., 1%,   2    3    4         6         8     9                      13
                                      %,   %,    %, 5%,   %, 7%,    %,    %, 10%, 11%, 12%,       %,
                                       2
 14%, 15%, 16%, 17%, 18%, 19%,           0%, 2 1%, 22%, 23%, 24%, 25%, 26%, 2 7%,         28
                                                                                             %, 29%,
 3
   0% , 3 l%,3 2 %, 33%, 34%, 35%,     36
                                          %, etc) have been achieved. Based on these findings,
 one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that further elevation can be achieved (e.g., to
 levels within the range of 1%-1000% higher than wild type, e.g., about 1%, 5 %, 10%, 15%,
 2
   0 % , 25%, 3 0%,3 5 %, 4 0%,45%, 50%, 55%, 6 0%,65%,         7
                                                                  0 % , 75%,  8
                                                                                0%, 85
                                                                                       %, 9 0%, 95
                                                                                                   %,
 100%, 110%, 120%, 130%, 140%, 150%, 160%, 170%, 180%, 190%,200%,210%,220%,
 230%, 240%, 250%, 260%, 270%, 280%, 290%, 300%, 310%, 320%, 330%, 340%, 350%,
 360%, 370%, 380%, 390%, 400%, 410%, 420%, 430%, 440%, 450%, 460%, 470%, 480%,
 490%, 500%, 550%, 600%, 650%, 700%, 750%, 800%, 850%, 900%, 950, 1000% or more
 higher than wild type). The present Example further demonstrates achievement of
 DHA:biomass ratios within the range of about 1:4 to about 1:2, at least about 40% higher
 than those typically observed with wild type strains. (See, e.g., Table 2 in Raghukumar
 (2008), the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.) Based on these
 findings, those of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that at least ratios of about 1:5
 can be achieved. We have achieved DHA to biomass ratios (DHA:biomass) of about 1:8 to
 1:4; and expect to achieve ratios of about 1:3. Examples in literature (such as the review
 published by Raghukumar, 2008) indicate achievements that have not reduced this ratio
 below 1:5.
 [0256]       Cultures of 8 transformed strains and their parental strain (wild type) were
 grown, and the biomass was harvested and freeze-dried under the same conditions as
 described in Example 9. Fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) extraction was via the direct
 transesterification method. Approximately 20 mg of freeze dried cell biomass and 3 mL of
 transesterification reaction buffer (methanol:hydrochloric acid:chloroform) were mixed by
 vortexing for 10 seconds and then incubated in a 90 'C water bath for two hours. After
 completion of transesterification, the samples were removed and cooled down to ambient
                                                70

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 temperature. One mL of water was added and mixed by vortexing for 10 seconds. FAMEs
 were then extracted by adding 3 X 2 mL of a hexane: chloroform (v/v, 4:1) solvent and
 vortexing for 10 seconds; samples were then allowed to sit until phase separations were
 completed.
 [0257]       Gas chromatographic (GC) analysis of the FAMEs was carried out using two
 internal standards (200 pL). One hexacosaenoic acid (C23:0) was added before
 transesterification and the other one, nonadecaenoic acid (C19:0) was added directly before
 analysis. Analyses were performed in an Agilent 6890 GC (Agilent Technologies, Palo
 Alto, CA, USA) installed with a 30 m X 0.32 mm internal diameter (0.25 pm film thickness)
 OMEGAWAX 320 fused-silica capillary column (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) and
 flame ionization detector set at 250 0C, split ratio 50:1 to FID detector at 275 0C. The
 injection volume was 1 pL. The carrier gas was H2 with a constant flow of 5.0 mL per
 minute. Confirmation of FAME identity was carried out using a Trace GC-DSQ mass
 spectrometer (Thermo Electron, Boston, USA) and comparison of the retention times for
 laboratory standards.
 [0258]       One out of eight transformed strains produced about 6.337 g/L DHA. This yield
 is about 16% more than that of the wild type strain ONC-T18 when grown in ONC-T18
 GMO containing 35 g/L artificial sea salt. Three out of the eight transformed strains
 produced more DHA, ranging from 1 to 13% more, than that of the wild type strain ONC
 T18 when grown in ONC-T18-GMO containing 18 g/L artificial sea salt under the same
 conditions (Fig. 17A and B).
 [0259]       Two out of eight transformed strains produced 7.445 g/L and 7.871 g/L DHA,
 which represent 25% and 36%, respectively, more than their parental strain (5.935 g/L) grew
 in ONC-T18-GM0 containing 35 g/L artificial sea salt (Fig. 17B). Use of lower salinity
 ONC-T18-GMO not only directly reduces DHA production costs, but also slows down the
 erosion of the fermentors caused by high concentrations of sodium chloride salt in growth
 medium for culturing Thraustochytridmicrobes.
 The ratio of DHA to total lipids from high level DHA-producing transformed strains is
 higher than that of their parental strain (Fig. 17C). The DHA to total lipds factor can
 influence downstream processing of DHA extracted from the cells of transformed strains.
 DHA:total lipid ratios achieved with strains and methods of the invention may vary
 according to fermentation conditions. For example, for cultures grown in flasks, a DHA
                                              71

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 percentage of about 15% to about 25% of total lipids (corresponding to DHA:total lipids
 ratios of about 0.15:1 to about 0.25:1) can typically be achieved with transformed strains.
 For cultures grown in a fermentor, a DHA percentage of about 30% to about 60% of total
 lipids (corresponding to DHA:total lipids ratios of about 0.3:1 to about 0.6:1 ) can typically
 be achieved with transformed strains. Much greater DHA yields are obtained from
 transformed strains disclosed herein than can be obtained with wild type strains. For
 example, DHA yields from transformed strains typically range from about 10 to about 40
 g/L (grams DHA per liter of media), whereas DHA yields from wild type strains typically
 range from about 0.5 to about 1.6 g/L. (See, e.g., Table 2 in Raghukumar (2008)). The ratio
 of DHA to biomass from high level DHA production transformed strains is also higher than
 that of their parental strain. This higher ratio of DHA to biomass benefits the downstream
 extraction of DHA from the cell biomass of the transformed strains (Fig. 17D).
 [0260]       All of the cultures in this Example were grown under the same conditions. The
 higher level of DHA production by the transformed strains indicate that those strains have a
 higher efficiency of converting carbon sources into DHA, which can reduce the cost of DHA
 production from those transformed strains.
 Example 11: Comparison of total lipid productivity between transformed strains and the
 wild type strain Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
 [0261]       As amply described and demonstrated herein, ONC-T18 has great potential for
 use as an efficient biofactory not only for PUFA and its derivatives of pharmaceutical and
 nutraceutical biomolecule productions, but also for biofuel production. In order to assess
 and characterize the ability of ONC-T 18 to be employed for biofuel production in
 accordance with the present invention, total lipid productivities and fatty acid profiles of
 transformed strains of ONC-T 18 were analyzed for potential use in methods for changing
 fatty acid profiles for specialty product applications.
 [0262]       Cultures of 8 transformed strains and their parental strain (wild type) were
 grown, and the biomass was harvested and freeze-dried under the same conditions as
 described in Example 9. FAME extraction and GC analysis were carried out as described as
 in Example 10.
 [0263]       We found that fatty acid profiles of the transformed strains were very similar to
 that of their parental strain when grown in ONC-T18-GMO containing 35 g/L artificial sea
                                              72

WO 2012/120375                                                                PCT/IB2012/000528
 salt. Four out of eight transformed strains produced more total lipids than that of their
 parental strain, further demonstrating that the transformation process itself and the presence
 and/or expression of the transgene did not significantly affect fatty acid profiles, nor it did
 interrupt genes potentially involved in lipid metabolic pathways of most derivative strains.
 Thus, it appears that strains retain the genetic integrity of the parental strains after the
 transformation process (Fig. 18A).
 [0264]        The ability to transform Thraustochytrium strains provides enormous opportunity
 to genetically modify these microbes and to channel metabolic pathways. Remarkably,
 when the transformed strains were grown in ONC-T 18-GMO containing 18 g/L sea salt, two
 strains showed significantly higher level of C16 fatty acid production than that of their
 parental strain. These results are useful in the development of this strain ONC-T 18 into a
 platform for short chain fatty acid biofuel production. These results demonstrate that during
 the selection process of zeocin-resistant transformants, mutagenesis occurred in the cells
 with relatively high frequency. This high frequency of mutagenesis can be used in strain
 improvement programs (Fig. 18B).
 [0265]        Ratios of total lipid to biomass were higher in strains that produce high levels of
 short chain fatty acids than in low-level production strains (Fig. 18C); such higher rations
 may be beneficial to downstream oil extraction and the reduction of processing costs.
 [0266]        Growing in low sea salt ONC-T18-GMO (18 g/L) enhanced overall total lipid
 productivity for most strains tested (Fig. 18D).
 [0267]        For example, it may be desirable to increase production of short chain fatty acids
 (i.e. fatty acids with less than 16 carbons) or of particular PUFA, as mentioned herein in the
 discussion of the PUFA biosynthetic pathway. It may, for example, be desirable to increase
 production of EPA (e.g., by mutating or knocking out the PKS genes and A5 elongase
 genes) or of ARA (e.g., by downregulating any of the PKS genes and/or upregulation of the
 A12 elongase gene).
 Example 12: Stability of the ble transgene in the transformed strains of Thraustochvtrium
 sp. ONC-T18
 [0268]        The present Example confirms transgene stability in transformed
 Thraustochytrium sp. strains as described herein.
                                               73

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0269]      Transgene stability is important for certain applications of genetic engineering in
 industrial microbial strain improvement programs where microorganisms are used in
 pharmaceutical or industrial processes, and where product quantity and quality are
 paramount. We therefore carried out transgene stability estimate assays of transformed
 ONC-T18 strains. As for the growth rate assays described in Example 7, inocula of four
 strains of each transformation as well as their ancestor wild type strains were spotted on
 ONC-T18-GMO agar plates in the absence of zeocin and incubated at 25 'C for seven days.
 (Each transformation had been performed using one of the five different plasmid constructs,
 each of which bears various zeocin-resistant gene expression cassettes driven by a
 combination of different promoters and terminators). Then, using the same method, strains
 were transferred on a new fresh ONC-T 18-GMO agar plate and incubated at 25 'C for 7
 days; colony passages were carried out 6 times. Finally, strains were transferred back onto
 ONC-T18-GMO agar plates either without or with zeocin at a concentration of 200 pg/ mL
 media.
 [0270]      Results indicate that after six colony passages, all strains can grow well on ONC
 T18-GMO agar plates either with or without zeocin (Fig. 19A). However, on ONC-T18
 GMO agar plates having zeocin at a concentration at 200 pg/ mL media, only the
 transformed strains grew well, whereas none of the wild type strains were able to grow (Fig.
 19B).
 [0271]      These results demonstrate that there were no observed losses of the transgene in
 the strains examined. Furthermore, no resistance was observed in wild type strains,
 indicating that there was no spontaneous mutation for these traits and there was no
 detectable contamination. Presence of the ble transgene in the transformed strains after six
 time colony-passages was further confirmed using the PCR as described in Example 6. All
 transformed strains retained the ble transgene even after 6 colony passages. Thus, the ble
 transgene showed stability in transformed ONC-T 18 strains.
 Example 13: Mutagenic agent
 [0272]      This Example describes, among other things, the discovery of an effective
 mutagenic agent. This agent is particularly useful for mutagenesis in Thraustochytrids.
 [0273]      Zeocin is an antibiotic that breaks chromosomal DNA in cells. It was
 hypothesized that antibiotic zeocin would be a useful mutagenic agent for thaustochytrid
                                              74

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 strains for strain improvement. At certain concentrations, zeocin can kill most treated cells,
 but some cells still survived. Treatment of cells at high concentration increases the mutation
 frequency, which can facilitate selection and isolation of mutated strains.
 [0274]       The marine protist wild type strain of ONC-T 18 was chosen as a model system to
 test if zeocin would be effective to induce mutagenesis in this strain. One full loop of the
 inocula of ONC-T 18, growing in the agar plates containing ONC-T 18-GMO medium [5 g/L
 yeast extract, 5 g/L peptone, 10 g/L D(+)-glucose, 35 g/L artificial sea salt, 1.25 mg/L trace
 elements (5 g/L NaH 2PO 4.H2O, 3.15 g/L FeC13-6H 2 0, 4.36 g/L Na2EDTA-2 H 20, 0.6125
 mg/L CuSO 4 -5 H2 0, 0.0597g/L Na2MoO 4-2 H2 0, 0.022 g/L ZnSO4-7H 2O, 0.01g/L
 CoC12-6H 2 0, 0.18 g/L MnC12-4H 20, 13 pg/L H2 SeO 3, 2.7 mg/L NiSO4-6H 20, 1.84 mg/L
 Na3 VO 4 andl.94 mg/L K2 CrO 4 ), 1.25 mg/L vitamins (1 mg/L vitamin B12, 1 mg/L biotin,
 0.20 g/L thiamine HCl) and 20 g agar per liter], was inoculated into 50 mL liquid ONC-T18
 GMO medium, and incubated in a shaker incubator at 25'C at 250 rpm for 36 hours. Half a
 milliliter of culture was transferred into a 1.5 mL tube and vortexed at full speed for 30
 seconds, and then diluted in 50 mL sterilized water. One hundred microliters of the diluted
 inocula were respectively spread on the agar plates containing zeocin at various
 concentrations (0, 10, 30, 50, and100 pg/mL). Plates were incubated at 25'C incubator.
 The emergence and development of the colonies were observed daily. Six days post
 inoculation, the sizes of the colonies growing at 10 pg/mL zeocin were similar to that at 0
 pg/mL zeocin, and gradually decreased at 30 to 50 pg/mL zeocin. The colony numbers per
 plate also were gradually reduced at 10, 30, and 50 pg/mL zeocin. Only a few of colonies
 were seen at 50 pg/mL zeocin. Remarkably, colony sectors with various visible colony
 morphology changes were observed in some of the colonies growing at 50 pg/mL zeocin,
 but were not observed in the colonies growing at lower concentration or without zeocin,
 indicating that zeocin indeed is an effective mutagen agent for Thraustochytrid stains.
 Under these conditions, zeocin was effective within the range of at least 10-200 pg/mL;
 higher concentrations may well also be effective. For example, concentrations in the range
 of 200-500 pg/mL or higher could work. In some cases, higher concentrations of zeocin are
 used when salt concentrations are also increased to counteract possible degradation of
 zeocin from salt. Under the particular conditions utilized in the present Example, zeocin
 worked best at 50 pg/mL.
                                              75

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 Example 14: A novel fermentation procedure
 [0275]      This Example describes a two-stage fermentation method for obtaining high
 biomass, total lipids and PUFA production in Thraustochytrid strains.
 [0276]      The life cycle of the strain ONC-T18 was studied in detail through microscopic
 observations of the cells from cultures growing under various conditions such as ratios of
 C:N sources, dissolved oxygen level and temperatures. It was discovered that at low oxygen
 concentration with a high carbon to nitrogen ratio (C:N) (e.g., within the range of 40:1 to
 1:-0, and specifically at 1:1 to 1:-0 and ambient temperature, the strain ONC-T 18 grew
 vigorously and propagated mainly through production of zoospores, resulting in large
 numbers of small vegetative cells that contains relative small and less subcellular oil bodies.
 In contrast, at high C:N ratio, low oxygen level and relative low temperature (e.g., within the
 range of 10-30 C, and specifically at 20-25'C), the strain ONC-T18 mainly propagated
 through directly vegetative cell dividing, resulting in a large population of giant cells that
 contain remarkably bulky subcellular oil bodies. Hence, a two-stage fermentation method
 was developed to maximize biomass, total lipid and PUFA productivity. This is one optimal
 method for growing and screening high lipid and PUFA thraustochytrid strains. The
 following three assays were conducted:
 [0277]      Assay I: The wild type strain ONC-T18 was inoculated in 10 mL liquid ONC
 T18-GMO medium. Cultures were grown at 25'C in a shaker incubator set at 250 rpm for 2
 days. Then the inocula (OD 660   =  12) was inoculated in 100 mL ONC-T 18-GMO medium in
 250 mL flasks. Three cultures were inoculated for each strain. Cultures were grown in a
 shaker incubator set at 250 rpm at 25'C for 2 days, then switched to 150 rpm and 20'C, and
 grown for another 4 days. Biomasses of the cultures were harvested by transferring the cell
 cultures into a 50 mL falcon tube and centrifuging at 4000 rpm using a SORVALL
 LEGEND RT+ centrifuge (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., MA, USA). The biomass floated
 on the surface of the liquid medium as a compacted layer. The liquid medium was released
 by punching a very small hole at the bottom of the falcon tube using an 18G 1 1/2 syringe
 needle. The pellet of the biomass in the tube was frozen in a -80'C freezer overnight and
 then freeze dried using a freeze dryer for three days. The biomass of each sample was
 weighed.
 [0278]      Assay II: The inocula was prepared as described in the Assay I. Next, the
 inocula (OD 66 0 = 6) was inoculated in 50 mL ONC-T18-GMO medium in 250 mL flasks.
                                             76

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 Three cultures were inoculated for each strain. Cultures were grown in a shaker incubator
 set at 250 rpm at 25'C for 2 days, then switched to 150 rpm and 20'C. At 2 days post
 inoculation, 5 mL of autoclaved 50% glucose was added into each culture flask, then at 4
 days post inoculation, 6 mL of glucose were added.. After 6 days post inoculation,
 biomasses of the cultures were harvested as described in Assay I.
 [0279]        Assay III: The inocula were prepared as described in Assay I. Then the inocula
 (OD 6 6 0 = 6) was inoculated in 50 mL ONC-T18-GMO medium in 250 mL baffled flasks.
 Cultures were grown in a shaker incubator set at 250 rpm at 25'C. At 2 and 4 days post
 inoculation, 5 and 6 mL of autoclaved 50% glucose were added into each culture flasks,
 respectively, as was done in Assay III. At day 6 post inoculation, biomasses of cultures were
 harvested as described in Assay II.
 [0280]        Total lipid and DHA contents of each sample were analyzed using direct
 transesterification method. Approximately 20 mg of freeze dried cell biomass and 3 mL of
 transesterification reaction buffer (methanol:hydrochloric acid:chloroform) were mixed by
 vortexing for 10 seconds and then incubated in a 90'C water bath for two hours. After the
 completion of transesterification, the samples were removed and cooled down to ambient
 temperature. One mL of water was added and mixed via vortexing for 10 seconds. Fatty
 acid methyl esters (FAME) were then extracted by adding 3 X 2 mL of the solvent of
 hexane: chloroform (v/v, 4:1) and vortexing for 10 seconds, and allowed to sit until phase
 separations were completed.
 [0281]        Gas chromatographic (GC) analysis of the FAMEs was carried out using two
 internal standards (200 pL). One hexacosaenoic acid (C23:0) was added before
 transesterification and the other one, nonadecaenoic acid (C19:0) was added directly before
 analysis. Analyses were performed in an Agilent 6890 GC (Agilent Technologies, Palo
 Alto, CA, USA) installed with a 30 m X 0.32 mm internal diameter (0.25 pm film thickness)
 OMEGAWAX 320 fused-silica capillary column (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) and
 flame ionization detector set at 250'C, split ratio 50:1 to FID detector at 275 'C. The
 injection volume was 1 pL. The carrier gas was H 2 with a constant flow of 5.0 mL per
 minute. Confirmation of the FAME identity was carried out using a Trace GC-DSQ mass
 spectrometer (Thermo Electron, Boston, USA) and comparison of the retention times for
 laboratory standards.
                                            77

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 [0282]       Results (Table 5) indicated that the fermentation conditions used in Assay II
 were the best for high lipid and DHA production in ONC-T18; levels within the range of
 about 50 to about 70% of dry biomass were observed; levels as high as about 70% to about
 90% can be expected based on these findings.       Observed DHA yields were withn the range
 of about 5 to about 7.5 g/L culture. Based on these findings, DHA yields as high as about
 45 to about 95 g/L can be expected.
 [0283]       Increasing dissolved oxygen for example by using baffled flask and high shaking
 speed in Assay III can significantly enhance the biomass productivity, but DHA productivity
 was considerable lower than that in Assay II. Therefore, optimization of fermentation
 parameters such as C:N ratio, glucose concentration, dissolved oxygen and temperature as
 well as the dynamics of these parameters during fermentation processes, impact cost
 effective production of lipids and PUFA in thraustochytrid strains. Without wishing to be
 bound by any particular theory, the inventors propose that the increased yields observed in
 Assay II as compared to Assay I may be attributed at least in part to the higher glucose
 concentration and/or lower levels of dissolved oxygen in Assay II.
 [0284]       Table 5     Biomass, total lipids and DHA productivities of Thraustochytrium
 sp. ONC-T18 under various fermentation conditions
         Assay               Biomass (g/L)         Total Lipid (mg/g)          DHA (g/L)
            I                      7.10                  211.20                    0.45
            II                    41.32                  671.09                    5.94
           III                    46.50                  661.07                    3.06
 Example 15: Application of a mutagenic agent
 [0285]       This Example describes the application of a mutagenic agent, zeocin, for strain
 improvement of Thraustochytrids.
 [0286]       Inocula from colony sectors were transferred into new fresh plates and developed
 into new strains. Four new strains, la, lb, 3a and 3b were chosen for further study (results
 are shown in table 2). These four strains and their wild type parent strain ONC-T18 were
 inoculated in 10 mL liquid medium of ONC-T18-GMO. The cultures were grown at 25'C in
 a shaker incubator set at 250 rpm for 3 days till the OD66 0 was greater than 2. Then the
 inocula (OD 66 0 = 6) of each strain, including the wild type strain, were respectively
                                              78

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 inoculated in 50 mL ONC-T18-GMO medium in 250 mL flasks. The following
 experimental conditions and procedures used were the same as in Example 14, assay II.
 [0287]       Table 6     Biomass, total lipids and DHA productivities of four selected
 strains and their wild type parent strain Thraustochytrium sp. ONC-T18
         Strains              Biomass (g/L)       Total Lipid (mg/g)           DHA (g/L)
       ONC-T18
                                  37.78                  648.03                   4.904
    (parent strain)
            la                    36.29                  592.06                   3.774
           lb                     36.33                  574.74                   3.330
           3a                     43.91                  670.38                   5.135
           3b                     32.58                  612.60                   3.988
 [0288]       Experimental results indicated that three out of four selected strains produced
 significantly less biomass, total lipids and DHA compared to that of their wild type parent
 strain (Table 6). However, strain 3a produced more biomass, more lipids and DHA than that
 of its wild type strain. The high DHA productivity of strain 3 a is due to not only its high
 biomass productivity, but high ratio of DHA to biomass. This result indicated that the
 mutagenic agent discovered can be used to improve a microbial strain's fitness (such as,
 e.g., capability of using cheaper carbon sources such as waste stream, glycerol, starch,
 cellulose, and hemicellulose), product quality and quantity such as ARA, DHA, and/or EPA
 productivity of PUFA, and fatty acid and/or lipid profiles favourable for biofuel
 applications.
 [0289]       Produced materials may be separated from production strains and/or media
 components by any of a variety of means. In some embodiments, extraction of produced
 materials is facilitated, for example, by taking one or more steps that alter fatty acid
 secretion and/or that weaken the cell wall.
                                              79

WO 2012/120375                                                           PCT/IB2012/000528
 Example 16: A novel strain of Thraustochvtrium sp.
 [0290]      This Example describes the discovery of a novel strain of Thraustochytrium sp.
 with high productivity levels of lipids and DHA.
 [0291]      Single cells of ONC-T 18 were spread on the agar plates containing ONC-T 18
 GMO medium and 50 pg/mL zeocin. Ten to 15 days post inoculation, the colonies were
 screened visually. Large colonies without visible morphology changes were randomly
 isolated and developed into new strains. The biomass, total lipid and DHA productivity of
 new strains were compared. One strain ONC-T18/35/Z50 was initially found to be able to
 produce significantly more biomass, total lipids and DHA, which have been confirmed
 repeatedly with optimized fermentation conditions, methods and procedures described in
 Example 14, Assay II. In the two stage fermentation assays using ONC-T18-GM0 medium
 containing 35g/L sea salt, the new strain ONC-T18/35/Z50 produced 5% more biomass, 7%
 more total lipids and 14% more DHA than that of its parent strain ONC-T18. Using the
 same medium, but containing 18g/L sea salt, the new strain ONC-T18/35/Z50 produced
 about 10% more biomass, 20% more total lipids and 36% more DHA than that of its parent
 strain ONC-T18 (Fig. 19). Moreover, the ratios of DHA and total lipid to biomass, in high
 level DHA producing new strain ONC-T 18/3 5/Z50, are higher than that of its parent strain,
 demonstrating that the new strain has a more robust capacity in converting carbon resources
 such as glucose to lipids and DHA. This novel strain is useful not only in improvement of
 yields, but also in reducing fermentation and downstream processing costs for biological
 lipid and PUFA production such as DHA from microalgae.
                                            80

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 References
 Altschul, S. F., Gish, W., Miller, W., Myers, E. W., and Lipman, D. J. (1990). Basic local
         alignment search tool. JMolBiol 215(3), 403-10.
 Davis, S. J., and Vierstra, R. D. (1998). Soluble, highly fluorescent variants of green
         fluorescent protein (GFP) for use in higher plants. PlantMol Biol 36(4), 521-8.
 Dumas et al. (1994) The three-dimensional structure of a bleomycin resistance protein.
         EMBOJ. 242(5), 595-601.
 Gatignol et al. (1988) Bleomycin resistance conferred by a drug-binding protein. FEBS
         Letters, 230:171-175.
 Higuchi, R., Krummel, B., and Saiki, R. K. (1988). A general method of in vitro preparation
         and specific mutagenesis of DNA fragments: study of protein and DNA interactions.
         Nucleic Acids Res 16(15), 7351-67.
 Huang, J., Jiang, X., Zhang, X., Chen, W., Tian, B., Shu, Z., and Hu, S. (2008). Expressed
         sequence tag analysis of marine fungus Schizochytrium producing docosahexaenoic
         acid. JBiotechnol 138(1-2), 9-16.
 Jain, R., Raghukumar, S., Sambaiah, K., Kumon, Y., and Nakahara, T. (2007).
         Docosahexaenoic acid accumulation in thraustochytrids: search for the rationale.
         Mar Biol 151, 1657-1664.
 Jepson et al. (1998) PesticideScience, 54(4), 360-367.
 Leonard, A., Pereira, S., Sprecher, H., and Huang, Y.-S. (2004). Elongation of long-chain
         fatty acids. Progressin Lipid Research 43, 36-54.
 Li et al. (2005) PlantSciences, 169(3), 463-469.
 Park and Morschhauser (2005) Eukaryotic cell 4(8), 1328-1342.
 Raghukumar S. (2008) Thraustochytrid Marine Protists: Production of PUFAs and Other
         Emerging Technologies. Mar. Biotech. 10:631-640.
 Zhang, S. C., Wege, C., and Jeske, H. (2001). Movement proteins (BC1 and BV1) of
         Abutilon mosaic geminivirus are cotransported in and between cells of sink but not
         of source leaves as detected by green fluorescent protein tagging. Virology 290(2),
         249-60.
                                             81

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
                                            Equivalents
 [0292]     Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
 routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
 described herein. The scope of the present invention is not intended to be limited to the
 above Description. Alternative methods and materials and additional applications will be
 apparent to one of skill in the art, and are intended to be included within the following
 claims:
                                              82

WO 2012/120375                                                           PCT/IB2012/000528
 What is claimed is:
 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a Thraustochytrium gene promoter.
 2. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the promoter is a tubulin promoter.
 3. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 2, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the promoter is
 at least 80% identical to SEQ ID NO:6.
 4. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 2, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the promoter is
 at least 80% identical to SEQ ID NO: 10.
 5. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the promoter is a A5 elongase promoter.
 6. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 5, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the promoter is
 at least 80% identical to SEQ ID NO:19.
 7. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the promoter is a A4 desaturase promoter.
 8. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 7, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the promoter is
 at least 80% identical to SEQ ID NO:24.
 9. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a Thraustochytrium gene terminator.
 10. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 9, wherein the terminator is a tubulin terminator.
 11. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 9, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the terminator
 is at least 80% identical to SEQ ID NO:14.
 12. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 9, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the terminator
 is at least 80% identical to SEQ ID NO:16.
                                          83

WO 2012/120375                                                              PCT/IB2012/000528
 13. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a heterologous sequence operably linked
 to a Thraustochytrium gene promoter and a Thraustochytriumgene terminator.
 14. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 13, wherein the heterologous sequence
 encodes a polypeptide.
 15. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 13, further comprising a zeocin resistance
 gene.
 16. A host cell comprising a nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 13-15.
 17. A method of mutagenizing a cell of a microorganism, the method comprising:
         culturing cells of the microorganism on a medium, the medium comprising zeocin at
 a concentration at which it kills 60-80% of the cells;
         isolating a subpopulation of cells that survive cultivation, thereby mutagenizing cells
 of a microorganism.
 18. A Thraustochytrium cell that contains one or more modifications to one or more genes
 encoding an enzyme polypeptide or part of an enzyme polypeptide complex involved in the
 PUFA biosynthetic pathway of Thraustochytrium.
 19. The cell of claim 18, wherein the one or more modifications increases production of one
 or more PUFAs by the modified cell as compared with a reference Thraustochytrium cell
 when the modified and reference cells are cultured under comparable conditions.
 20. The cell of claim 19, wherein the enzymes polypeptide or enzyme polypeptide
 complexes are selected from the group consisting of fatty acid synthase (FAS), A5 elongase,
 A12 elongase, A4 desaturase, and polyketide PUFA synthase (PKS).
 21. The cell of claim 19, wherein the one or more PUFAs is selected from the group
 consisting of arachidonic acid (ARA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), docosapentaenoic acid
                                             84

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
 (DPA), eicosopentaenoic acid (EPA), gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), linoleic acid (LA), and
 linolenic acid.
 22. The cell of claim 18, wherein the enzyme or enzyme complexes are selected from the
 group consisting of polyketide PUFA synthase (PKS), A9 desaturase, elongase, and omega-3
 desaturase.
 23. A method for transforming a Thraustochytriumcell comprising the steps of:
                 (a) providing a competent Thraustochytriumcell;
                 (b) delivering a recombinant nucleic acid into the competent
 Thraustochytrium cell, wherein the recombinant nucleic acid comprises a selectable marker;
 and
                 (c) culturing the competent Thraustochytrium cell in a culturing medium
 containing a selection agent that reduces growth of cells without the selectable marker.
 24. The method of claim 23, wherein selectable marker is an antibiotic resistance gene.
 25. The method of claim 24, wherein selection agent is an antibiotic.
 26. The method of claim 25, wherein antibiotic is zeocin.
 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the zeocin is present at a concentration greater than 50
 pg/mL.
 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the zeocin is present at a concentration at about 100
 ug/mL.
 29. The method of claim 23, wherein the recombinant nucleic acid further comprises a gene
 expression cassette distinct from the selectable marker.
 30. The method of claim 23, further comprising: (d) isolating a competent
 Thraustochytrium cell containing the selectable marker.
                                            85

WO 2012/120375                                                               PCT/IB2012/000528
 31. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of delivering comprises biolistic delivery of
 particles coated with the recombinant nucleic acid.
 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the particles comprise gold particles.
 33. The method of claim 23, wherein the culturing medium contains between about 10 g/L
 and about 40 g/L of salt (e.g., between about 15 g/L and about 35 g/L salt, or between about
 18 g/L and about 35 g/L salt).
 34. A Thraustochytrium cell competent for genetic transformation.
 35. A Thraustochytrium cell transformed with a recombinant nucleic acid.
 36. A method of culturing Thraustochytrium cells, the method comprising:
         growing a culture comprising Thraustochytrium cells under a first set of conditions
 under which biomass increases,
         shifting the first set of culture conditions to a second set of conditions in which lipid
 productivity increases, wherein the shifting comprises one or more of:
         (a) decreasing oxygen concentrations from a first oxygen concentration to a second
 oxygen concentration;
         (b) increasing C:N ratio first C:N ratio to a second C:N ratio;
         (c) decreasing temperature from a first temperature to a second temperature; and
 combinations thereof.
 37. A method of providing a PUFA, the method comprising:
         providing a Thraustochytrium cell that is modified as compared with a reference
 Thraustochytrium cell in that the modified cell contains one or more genetic modifications
 that increase production of one or more PUFAs by the modified cell as compared with the
 reference cell when the modified and reference cells are cultured under comparable
 conditions; and
                                               86

WO 2012/120375                                                            PCT/IB2012/000528
         culturing the modified Thraustochytrium cell under conditions and for a time
 sufficient to achieve production of the one or more PUFAs.
 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the step of providing comprises providing a
 Thraustochytrium cell containing at least one engineered Thraustochytriumpromoter.
 39. The method of claim 37 or claim 38, wherein the step of providing comprises providing
 a Thraustochytrium cell containing at least one engineered Thraustochytrium terminator.
 40. The method of any one of claims 37-39, wherein the step of providing comprises
 providing a Thraustochytrium cell that is modified with respect to a reference
 Thraustochytrium cell in that the modified Thraustochytriumcell contains at least one
 expressed heterologous polypeptide.
 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the at least one heterologous protein is expressed from
 a gene that is operably linked with an engineered Thraustochytriumgene promoter, an
 engineered Thraustochytrium terminator, or both.
 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the at least one heterologous polypeptide comprises at
 least one heterologous PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide.
 43. The method of claim 37, wherein the genetic modification comprises at least one
 nucleotide mutation that increases expression or activity of a PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptide.
 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide whose expression
 or activity is increased is an endogenous PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide.
 45. The method of claim 43, wherein the PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide whose expression
 or activity is increased is a heterologous PUFA biosynthesis polypeptide.
                                             87

WO 2012/120375                                                             PCT/IB2012/000528
 46. An engineered Thraustochytrium cell that expresses a heterologous PUFA biosynthesis
 polypeptide.
 47. An engineered Thraustochytrium cell that produces at least one PUFA at a level at least
 36% higher than a non-engineered Thraustochytrium cell when the engineered and non
 engineered cells are cultured under comparable conditions.
 48. A composition comprising:
         at least one PUFA; and
         one or more components of a Thraustochytrium cell that contains an antibiotic
 resistance gene or is progeny of a Thraustochytrium cell that contains an antibiotic
 resistance gene.
 49. The composition of claim 48, wherein the antibiotic resistance gene is a zeocin
 resistance gene.
 50. A composition comprising:
         at least one PUFA; and
         one or more components of
         (a)      a Thraustochytrium cell that has been cultured in or on a medium comprising
                      zeocin at a concentration at which zeocin kills 60-80% of the cells, or
         (b)      a progeny of a Thraustochytrium cell that has been cultured in or on a
                      medium comprising zeocin at a concentration at which zeocin kills 60
                      80% of the cells.
                                              88

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                   !
                  "               # $"%
                  $       $&
                  '       (               )            "*+
<removed-apn>
                          , -
                      "   -   .           /
                      "       0    1           /        /
              2
                          , -
                      "   -   .           /
                      "       0    1           /        /
              2
                          "
                          , -
                      "   -   .           /
                      "       0    1           /        /
              2           "
                          2
                            #
                          , -
                      "   -   .           /
                      "       0    1           /        /
              2           2
                                                                     #
                          +
                          ' 2
                          , -
                      "     1             10            3*
              2           +
                                                                 $
                                                             (

<removed-date>
                                                        &
                                                        2
                                                    "
                                                    "$
                                                    2
                                                    2&
<removed-apn>
                                                    +2
                                                    $
                                                    $$
                                                    '
                                                    ' 2
                      $
                      2#
                      , -
                  "     1         10       3*
              2       $
                                                        $
                                                        &
                                                        2
                                                    "
                                                    "$
                                                    2
                                                    2&
                                                    2#
                      '
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       '
                      &
                        #
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                                                (

<removed-date>
                  "       0       1        /   /
              2       &
                                                                    #
                      #
                              +
                      , -
                  "    1              10       3*
              2       #
                                                                $
<removed-apn>
                                                                &
                                                                2
                                                            "
                                                            "$
                                                            2
                                                            2&
                                                            +2
                                                            $
                                                            $$
                                                            '
                                                            '&
                                                            &2
                                                            #
                                                            #$
                                                                &
                                                                    +
                              2
                      , -
                  "    1              10       3*
              2
                                                                $
                                                                &
                                                                2
                                                            "
                                                            "$
                                                    (   "

<removed-date>
                                                      2
                                                      2&
                                                      +2
                                                      $
                                                      $$
                                                      '
<removed-apn>
                                                      '&
                                                      &2
                                                      #
                                                      #$
                                                              2
                        "
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0    1        /   /
              2
                                                              "
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0    1        /   /
              2
                       "
                      ' '
                      , -
                  "    1        10       3*
              2        "
                                                          $
                                                          &
                                                          2
                                                      "
                                                      "$
                                                      2
                                              (   2

<removed-date>
                                                      2&
                                                      +2
                                                      $
                                                      $$
                                                      '
                                                      ' '
<removed-apn>
                       2
                      +#
                      , -
                  "    1        10       3*
              2        2
                                                          $
                                                          &
                                                          2
                                                      "
                                                      "$
                                                      2
                                                      2&
                                                      +2
                                                      +#
                       +
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0    1        /   /
              2        +
                       $
                       "
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0    1        /   /
              2        $
                                                              "
                       '
                      &$#
                      , -
                  "    1        10       3*
                                              (   +

<removed-date>
              2        '
                                                  $
                                                  &
                                                  2
                                              "
                                              "$
<removed-apn>
                                              2
                                              2&
                                              +2
                                              $
                                              $$
                                              '
                                              '&
                                              &2
                                              &$#
                       &
                      $2
                      , -
                  "    1    10   3*
              2        &
                                                  $
                                                  &
                                                  2
                                              "
                                              "$
                                              2
                                              2&
                                              +2
                                              $
                                              $2
                       #
                      #+
                      , -
                  "    1    10   3*
              2        #
                                      (   $

<removed-date>
                                                       $
                                                       &
                                                       2
                                                   "
                                                   "$
                                                   2
<removed-apn>
                                                   2&
                                                   +2
                                                   $
                                                   $$
                                                   '
                                                   '&
                                                   &2
                                                   #
                                                   #+
                      ""
                      , -
                  "   -   .    /
                  "    0   1       /   /
              2
                                                       ""
                      "
                      , -
                  "   -   .    /
                  "    0   1       /   /
              2
                                                       "
                      , -
                  "   -   .    /
                  "    0   1       /   /
              2
                                           (   '

<removed-date>
                       "
                       '
                      , -
                  "   -   .         /
                  "    0        1        /   /
              2        "
                                                                  '
<removed-apn>
                       2
                            $
                      , -
                  "    1            10       3*
              2        2
                                                              $
                                                              &
                                                              2
                                                          "
                                                          "$
                                                          2
                                                          2&
                                                          +2
                                                          $
                                                          $$
                                                          '
                                                          '&
                                                          &2
                                                          #
                                                          #$
                                                              &
                                                              2
                                                                  $
                        +
                      ""
                      , -
                  "   -   .         /
                                                  (   &

<removed-date>
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2        +
                                                           ""
                        $
                      "
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
<removed-apn>
              2        $
                                                           "
                       '
                       "
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2        '
                                                               "
                       &
                       '
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2        &
                                                               '
                       #
                       '$2
                      , -
                  "    1         10       3*
              2        #
                                                           $
                                                           &
                                                           2
                                                       "
                                                       "$
                                                       2
                                                       2&
                                                       +2
                                                       $
                                               (   #

<removed-date>
                                           $$
                                           '
                                           '&
                                           &2
                                           #
                                           #$
<removed-apn>
                                               &
                                               2
                                               $
                                           "
                                           "&
                                           22
                                           +
                                           +$
                                           $
                                           $&
                                           '2
                                           '$2
                      "
                      2 "+
                      , -
                  "     1    10   3*
              2       "
                                               $
                                               &
                                               2
                                           "
                                           "$
                                           2
                                           2&
                                           +2
                                           $
                                           $$
                                       (

<removed-date>
                  '
                  '&
                  &2
                  #
                  #$
<removed-apn>
                      &
                      2
                      $
                  "
                  "&
                  22
                  +
                  +$
                  $
                  $&
                  '2
                  &
                  &$
                  #
                  #&
                      2
                      $
                      &
                  "2
                  2
                  2$
                  +
                  +&
                  $2
                  '
              (

<removed-date>
                                               '$
                                               &
                                               &&
                                               #2
                                           "
                                           " $
<removed-apn>
                                           "
                                           " &
                                           " 2
                                           ""
                                           ""$
                                           "2
                                           "2&
                                           "+2
                                           "$
                                           "$$
                                           "'
                                           "'&
                                           "&2
                                           "#
                                           "#$
                                           2
                                           2 &
                                           2 2
                                           2
                                           2 "+
                      "
                      "#$2
                      , -
                  "     1    10   3*
              2       "
                                                   $
                                                   &
                                                   2
                                       (

<removed-date>
                      "
                      "$
                      2
                      2&
                      +2
                      $
                      $$
<removed-apn>
                      '
                      '&
                      &2
                      #
                      #$
                          &
                          2
                          $
                      "
                      "&
                      22
                      +
                      +$
                      $
                      $&
                      '2
                      &
                      &$
                      #
                      #&
                          2
                          $
                          &
              (   "

<removed-date>
                                                   "2
                                                   2
                                                   2$
                                                   +
                                                   +&
                                                   $2
                                                   '
<removed-apn>
                                                   '$
                                                   &
                                                   &&
                                                   #2
                                               "
                                               " $
                                               "
                                               " &
                                               " 2
                                               ""
                                               ""$
                                               "2
                                               "2&
                                               "+2
                                               "$
                                               "$$
                                               "'
                                               "'&
                                               "&2
                                               "#
                                               "#$
                                               "#$2
                      "
                      2" #
                      , -
                  "     1    10   3*
              2       "
                                                       $
                                       (   2

<removed-date>
                          &
                          2
                      "
                      "$
                      2
                      2&
<removed-apn>
                      +2
                      $
                      $$
                      '
                      '&
                      &2
                      #
                      #$
                          &
                          2
                          $
                      "
                      "&
                      22
                      +
                      +$
                      $
                      $&
                      '2
                      &
                      &$
                      #
                      #&
                          2
                          $
              (   +

<removed-date>
                              &
                          "2
                          2
                          2$
                          +
<removed-apn>
                          +&
                          $2
                          '
                          '$
                          &
                          &&
                          #2
                      "
                      " $
                      "
                      " &
                      " 2
                      ""
                      ""$
                      "2
                      "2&
                      "+2
                      "$
                      "$$
                      "'
                      "'&
                      "&2
                      "#
                      "#$
                      2
                      2 &
                      2 2
                      2
              (   $

<removed-date>
                                                              2 $
                                                              2" #
                      ""
                      '&
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0    1        /   /
<removed-apn>
              2       ""
                                                                   $
                                                                   '&
                      "2
                      +2
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0    1        /   /
              2       "2
                                                                   +2
                      "+
                      ' "
                      , -
                  "    1        10       3*   %   &
              2       "+
                                                                   $
                                                                   &
                                                                   2
                                                               "
                                                               "$
                                                               2
                                                               2&
                                                               +2
                                                               $
                                                               $$
                                                               '
                                                               '&
                                                               &2
                                                               #
                                                      (   '

<removed-date>
                      #$
                          &
                          2
                          $
                      "
<removed-apn>
                      "&
                      22
                      +
                      +$
                      $
                      $&
                      '2
                      &
                      &$
                      #
                      #&
                          2
                          $
                          &
                      "2
                      2
                      2$
                      +
                      +&
                      $2
                      '
                      '$
                      &
                      &&
                      #2
              (   &

<removed-date>
                      "
                      " $
                      "
                      " &
                      " 2
                      ""
                      ""$
<removed-apn>
                      "2
                      "2&
                      "+2
                      "$
                      "$$
                      "'
                      "'&
                      "&2
                      "#
                      "#$
                      2
                      2 &
                      2 2
                      2
                      2 $
                      2"
                      2"&
                      222
                      2+
                      2+$
                      2$
                      2$&
                      2'2
                      2&
                      2&$
                      2#
                      2#&
              (   #

<removed-date>
                  + 2
                  +
                  + $
                  +
                  + &
                  +"2
                  +2
<removed-apn>
                  +2$
                  ++
                  ++&
                  +$2
                  +'
                  +'$
                  +&
                  +&&
                  +#2
                  $
                  $ $
                  $
                  $ &
                  $ 2
                  $"
                  $"$
                  $2
                  $2&
                  $+2
                  $$
                  $$$
                  $'
                  $'&
                  $&2
                  $#
                  $#$
                  '
              (

<removed-date>
                                                  ' "
                      "$
                      +"
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       "$
                                                    +"
<removed-apn>
                      "'
                      +
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       "'
                                                    +
                      "&
                      +
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       "&
                                                    +
                      "#
                      ++
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       "#
                                                    ++
                      2
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       2
                      2
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                                              (

<removed-date>
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       2
                      2
                        #
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
<removed-apn>
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       2
                                                                    #
                      2"
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       2"
                      22
                      '"$
                      , -
                  "    1          10       3*   %   &
              2       22
                                                                $
                                                                &
                                                                2
                                                            "
                                                            "$
                                                            2
                                                            2&
                                                            +2
                                                            $
                                                            $$
                                                            '
                                                            '&
                                                            &2
                                                            #
                                                            #$
                                                        (

<removed-date>
                              &
                              2
                              $
                          "
<removed-apn>
                          "&
                          22
                          +
                          +$
                          $
                          $&
                          '2
                          &
                          &$
                          #
                          #&
                              2
                              $
                              &
                          "2
                          2
                          2$
                          +
                          +&
                          $2
                          '
                          '$
                          &
                          &&
                          #2
                      "
              (   "

<removed-date>
                      " $
                      "
                      " &
                      " 2
                      ""
                      ""$
<removed-apn>
                      "2
                      "2&
                      "+2
                      "$
                      "$$
                      "'
                      "'&
                      "&2
                      "#
                      "#$
                      2
                      2 &
                      2 2
                      2
                      2 $
                      2"
                      2"&
                      222
                      2+
                      2+$
                      2$
                      2$&
                      2'2
                      2&
                      2&$
                      2#
                      2#&
                      + 2
              (   2

<removed-date>
                      +
                      + $
                      +
                      + &
                      +"2
                      +2
<removed-apn>
                      +2$
                      ++
                      ++&
                      +$2
                      +'
                      +'$
                      +&
                      +&&
                      +#2
                      $
                      $ $
                      $
                      $ &
                      $ 2
                      $"
                      $"$
                      $2
                      $2&
                      $+2
                      $$
                      $$$
                      $'
                      $'&
                      $&2
                      $#
                      $#$
                      '
                      ' &
              (   +

<removed-date>
                                                               ' 2
                                                               '
                                                               ' $
                                                               '"
                                                               '"$
                      2+
<removed-apn>
                      2&
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2       2+
                                                                       2&
                      2$
                      2&
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2       2$
                                                                       2&
                      2'
                      2#
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2       2'
                                                                       2#
                      2&
                      ' ##
                      , -
                  "    1         10       3*   %   &
              2       2&
                                                                       $
                                                                       &
                                                                       2
                                                                   "
                                                                   "$
                                                                   2
                                                       (   $

<removed-date>
                      2&
                      +2
                      $
                      $$
                      '
                      '&
                      &2
<removed-apn>
                      #
                      #$
                          &
                          2
                          $
                      "
                      "&
                      22
                      +
                      +$
                      $
                      $&
                      '2
                      &
                      &$
                      #
                      #&
                          2
                          $
                          &
                      "2
                      2
                      2$
              (   '

<removed-date>
                          +
                          +&
                          $2
                          '
                          '$
                          &
                          &&
<removed-apn>
                          #2
                      "
                      " $
                      "
                      " &
                      " 2
                      ""
                      ""$
                      "2
                      "2&
                      "+2
                      "$
                      "$$
                      "'
                      "'&
                      "&2
                      "#
                      "#$
                      2
                      2 &
                      2 2
                      2
                      2 $
                      2"
                      2"&
                      222
                      2+
              (   &

<removed-date>
                      2+$
                      2$
                      2$&
                      2'2
                      2&
                      2&$
                      2#
<removed-apn>
                      2#&
                      + 2
                      +
                      + $
                      +
                      + &
                      +"2
                      +2
                      +2$
                      ++
                      ++&
                      +$2
                      +'
                      +'$
                      +&
                      +&&
                      +#2
                      $
                      $ $
                      $
                      $ &
                      $ 2
                      $"
                      $"$
                      $2
                      $2&
                      $+2
              (   #

<removed-date>
                                                                $$
                                                                $$$
                                                                $'
                                                                $'&
                                                                $&2
                                                                $#
                                                                $#$
<removed-apn>
                                                                '
                                                                ' &
                                                                ' 2
                                                                ' ##
                      2#
                      2&
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       2#
                                                                     2&
                      +
                      2&
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       +
                                                                     2&
                      +
                      2&
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       +
                                                                     2&
                      +
                      $+ $
                      , -
                  "     1         10       3*   %   &
              2       +
                                                                     $
                                                        (   "

<removed-date>
                          &
                          2
                      "
                      "$
                      2
                      2&
<removed-apn>
                      +2
                      $
                      $$
                      '
                      '&
                      &2
                      #
                      #$
                          &
                          2
                          $
                      "
                      "&
                      22
                      +
                      +$
                      $
                      $&
                      '2
                      &
                      &$
                      #
                      #&
                          2
                          $
              (   "

<removed-date>
                              &
                          "2
                          2
                          2$
                          +
<removed-apn>
                          +&
                          $2
                          '
                          '$
                          &
                          &&
                          #2
                      "
                      " $
                      "
                      " &
                      " 2
                      ""
                      ""$
                      "2
                      "2&
                      "+2
                      "$
                      "$$
                      "'
                      "'&
                      "&2
                      "#
                      "#$
                      2
                      2 &
                      2 2
                      2
              (   "

<removed-date>
                       2 $
                       2"
                       2"&
                       222
                       2+
                       2+$
<removed-apn>
                       2$
                       2$&
                       2'2
                       2&
                       2&$
                       2#
                       2#&
                       + 2
                       +
                       + $
                       +
                       + &
                       +"2
                       +2
                       +2$
                       ++
                       ++&
                       +$2
                       +'
                       +'$
                       +&
                       +&&
                       +#2
                       $
                       $ $
                       $
                       $ &
                       $ 2
              (   ""

<removed-date>
                                                        $"
                                                        $"$
                                                        $2
                                                        $2&
                                                        $+ $
                      +"
<removed-apn>
                      2'
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2       +"
                                                             2'
                      +2
                      +#
                      , -
                  "   -   .      /
                  "    0     1        /   /
              2       +2
                                                             +#
                      ++
                      '"'2
                      , -
                  "    1         10       3*
              2       ++
                                                             $
                                                             &
                                                             2
                                                         "
                                                         "$
                                                         2
                                                         2&
                                                         +2
                                                         $
                                                         $$
                                                         '
                                                         '&
                                               (   "2

<removed-date>
                       &2
                       #
                       #$
                           &
                           2
<removed-apn>
                           $
                       "
                       "&
                       22
                       +
                       +$
                       $
                       $&
                       '2
                       &
                       &$
                       #
                       #&
                           2
                           $
                           &
                       "2
                       2
                       2$
                       +
                       +&
                       $2
                       '
                       '$
                       &
              (   "+

<removed-date>
                           &&
                           #2
                       "
                       " $
                       "
                       " &
                       " 2
<removed-apn>
                       ""
                       ""$
                       "2
                       "2&
                       "+2
                       "$
                       "$$
                       "'
                       "'&
                       "&2
                       "#
                       "#$
                       2
                       2 &
                       2 2
                       2
                       2 $
                       2"
                       2"&
                       222
                       2+
                       2+$
                       2$
                       2$&
                       2'2
                       2&
                       2&$
              (   "$

<removed-date>
                       2#
                       2#&
                       + 2
                       +
                       + $
                       +
                       + &
<removed-apn>
                       +"2
                       +2
                       +2$
                       ++
                       ++&
                       +$2
                       +'
                       +'$
                       +&
                       +&&
                       +#2
                       $
                       $ $
                       $
                       $ &
                       $ 2
                       $"
                       $"$
                       $2
                       $2&
                       $+2
                       $$
                       $$$
                       $'
                       $'&
                       $&2
                       $#
              (   "'

<removed-date>
                                                       $#$
                                                       '
                                                       ' &
                                                       ' 2
                                                       '
                                                       ' $
                                                       '"
<removed-apn>
                                                       '"'2
                      +$
                      +2
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       +$
                                                            +2
                      +'
                      +2
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       +'
                                                            +2
                      +&
                      +2
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       +&
                                                            +2
                      +#
                      +2
                      , -
                  "   -   .       /
                  "       0   1       /   /
              2       +#
                                                            +2
                      $
                       "
                      , -
                                              (   "&

<removed-date>
                  "   -       .   /
                  "       0   1        /   /
              2       $
                                                                 "
                      $
                      $
                      , -
                  "     1         10       3*
<removed-apn>
              2       $
                                                             $
                                                             &
                                                             2
                                                         "
                                                         "$
                                                         2
                                                         2&
                                                         +2
                                                         $
                                                         $$
                                                         '
                                                         '&
                                                         &2
                                                         #
                                                         #$
                                                             &
                                                             2
                                                             $
                                                         "
                                                         "&
                                                         22
                                                         +
                                                         +$
                                                         $
                                                (   "#

<removed-date>
                          $&
                          '2
                          &
                          &$
                          #
                          #&
<removed-apn>
                              2
                              $
                              &
                          "2
                          2
                          2$
                          +
                          +&
                          $2
                          '
                          '$
                          &
                          &&
                          #2
                      "
                      " $
                      "
                      " &
                      " 2
                      ""
                      ""$
                      "2
                      "2&
                      "+2
                      "$
                      "$$
              (   2

<removed-date>
                      "'
                      "'&
                      "&2
                      "#
                      "#$
                      2
<removed-apn>
                      2 &
                      2 2
                      2
                      2 $
                      2"
                      2"&
                      222
                      2+
                      2+$
                      2$
                      2$&
                      2'2
                      2&
                      2&$
                      2#
                      2#&
                      + 2
                      +
                      + $
                      +
                      + &
                      +"2
                      +2
                      +2$
                      ++
                      ++&
                      +$2
                      +'
              (   2

<removed-date>
                                              +'$
                                              +&
                                              +&&
                                              +#2
                                              $
                                              $
<removed-apn>
                      $
                      $$$
                      , -
                  "     1   10   3*
              2       $
                                                      $
                                                      &
                                                      2
                                                  "
                                                  "$
                                                  2
                                                  2&
                                                  +2
                                                  $
                                                  $$
                                                  '
                                                  '&
                                                  &2
                                                  #
                                                  #$
                                                      &
                                                      2
                                                      $
                                                  "
                                                  "&
                                                  22
                                      (   2

<removed-date>
                           +
                           +$
                           $
                           $&
                           '2
                           &
                           &$
<removed-apn>
                           #
                           #&
                               2
                               $
                               &
                           "2
                           2
                           2$
                           +
                           +&
                           $2
                           '
                           '$
                           &
                           &&
                           #2
                       "
                       " $
                       "
                       " &
                       " 2
                       ""
                       ""$
                       "2
                       "2&
              (   2"

<removed-date>
                       "+2
                       "$
                       "$$
                       "'
                       "'&
                       "&2
                       "#
<removed-apn>
                       "#$
                       2
                       2 &
                       2 2
                       2
                       2 $
                       2"
                       2"&
                       222
                       2+
                       2+$
                       2$
                       2$&
                       2'2
                       2&
                       2&$
                       2#
                       2#&
                       + 2
                       +
                       + $
                       +
                       + &
                       +"2
                       +2
                       +2$
                       ++
              (   22

<removed-date>
                                                    ++&
                                                    +$2
                                                    +'
                                                    +'$
                                                    +&
                                                    +&&
                                                    +#2
<removed-apn>
                                                    $
                                                    $ $
                                                    $
                                                    $ &
                                                    $ 2
                                                    $"
                                                    $"$
                                                    $2
                                                    $2&
                                                    $+2
                                                    $$
                                                    $$$
                                                    $$$
                      $"
                      &+
                      , -
                  "   -   .    /
                  "    0   1       /   /
              2       $"
                                                         $
                                                         &+
                      $2
                      +#
                      , -
                  "   -   .    /
                  "    0   1       /   /
              2       $2
                                                         +#
                      $+
                                           (   2+

<removed-date>
                      "$'
                      , -
                  "    1    10   3*
              2       $+
                                                   $
                                                   &
                                                   2
<removed-apn>
                                               "
                                               "$
                                               2
                                               2&
                                               +2
                                               $
                                               $$
                                               '
                                               '&
                                               &2
                                               #
                                               #$
                                                   &
                                                   2
                                                   $
                                               "
                                               "&
                                               22
                                               +
                                               +$
                                               $
                                               $&
                                               '2
                                               &
                                               &$
                                               #
                                      (   2$

<removed-date>
                                           #&
                                               2
                                               $
                                               &
<removed-apn>
                                           "2
                                           2
                                           2$
                                           +
                                           +&
                                           $2
                                           '
                                           '$
                                           &
                                           &&
                                           #2
                                       "
                                       " $
                                       "
                                       " &
                                       " 2
                                       ""
                                       ""$
                                       "2
                                       "2&
                                       "+2
                                       "$
                                       "$$
                                       "$'
                  $$
                  , -
              "   -   .   /
                              (   2'

<removed-date>
                  "    0   1        /   /
              2       $$
                      $'
                      , -
                  "   -   .     /
                  "    0   1        /   /
<removed-apn>
              2       $'
                      $&
                        ' 2
                      , -
                  "   -     .   /
                  "    0   1
              2       $&
                                                         $
                                                         &
                                                         2
                                                     "
                                                     "$
                                                     2
                                                     2&
                                                     +2
                                                     $
                                                     $$
                                                     '
                                                     '&
                                                     &2
                                                     #
                                                     #$
                                                         &
                                                         2
                                                         $
                                            (   2&

     <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
(
2#
                 $&   $   +$   +   22   "&   "
           ' 2

