                            AUTOMATED ACCOUNT PROVISIONING
                                                  ABSTRACT
        Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems, methods, and apparatus for
allowing an issuer to initiate account provisioning on a mobile device without interacting with an
account holder. The issuer may initiate the process by sending a provisioning information request
message to a mobile device with a secure element. The mobile device may recognize the provisioning
request message and gather the requisite provisioning information without requiring user input. The
provisioning information may include information associated with the secure element of the mobile
device. The mobile device may then send a provisioning request message to a provisioning system.
The provisioning request message may include the requisite provisioning information to allow the
provisioning system to provision the financial account on the secure element of the mobile device.
14537113 1

                                                    1
                          AUTOMATED ACCOUNT PROVISIONING
                     CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014353151, a National Phase Entry of International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2014/066215, filed on 18 November 2014. International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2014/066215 claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 61/906,378 filed November 19, 2013 and entitled "Issuer Initiated Account
Provisioning", the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all
purposes. Australian Patent Application No. 2014353151 is incorporated herein by reference in
its entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0002]        Mobile communication devices are becoming increasingly popular for conducting
various types of transactions. A mobile communication device can store financial account
information or other information associated with a user, for example, information associated
with credit cards, debit cards, coupons, rewards, receipts, concert tickets, and the like. The
mobile communication device may be linked to a user's payment account credentials as well as
personal information. Using mobile communication devices for payment transactions reduce the
need to enter payment credentials or present a physical card each time a payment transaction is
conducted. Often, a provisioning system (i.e. a provisioning service provider computer) is
required to provision the financial account information of the user on the user's mobile
communication device.
[0003]        Current provisioning systems typically require the users to request provisioning of
accounts from the mobile communication device. However, this can be onerous and difficult for
some accountholders who are not technically savvy. Furthermore, issuers may wish to provision
payment accounts for some customers (e.g., VIPs) or accountholders who indicate an interest in
the provisioning while in a branch office. However, issuers do not have access to all of the
mobile device information, such as information associated with a secure element of the mobile
device, necessary to provision the financial account on the mobile device. In addition,
conventional systems require interaction with a third party (e.g. the mobile network operator) to
obtain the secure element information. These communications are extensive in nature, and
require cooperation between different entities with different data transfer protocols. Accordingly,
there is a need for a system that allows an account issuer to initiate a provisioning request on
behalf of the user.

                                                   2
[0004]       Embodiments of the invention address these and other problems, individually and
collectively. It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least
ameliorate, at least one disadvantage of present arrangements.
                                              SUMMARY
[0004a]      One aspect of the present invention provides a method comprising: authenticating, by
a server computer, a user associated with a user payment account; receiving, by the server
computer, a mobile device identifier identifying a mobile device of the user; generating, by the
server computer, a provisioning information request message without interacting with the user,
the provisioning information request message including at least the mobile device identifier and
a provisioning information request identifier, wherein the provisioning information request
identifier automatically causes the mobile device to gather provisioning information associated
with a secure memory of the mobile device without interacting with the user; and sending, by the
server computer, the provisioning information request message to the mobile device, wherein the
provisioning information request message initiates provisioning of the user payment account on
the mobile device of the user.
[0004b]      Another aspect of the present invention provides an issuer server computer
comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer readable medium coupled to the
processor, the computer readable medium comprising code, that when executed by the processor,
causes the processor to: send an information request message to a mobile communication device,
the information request message requesting provisioning information associated with a secure
memory of the mobile communication device; receive a response message including the
provisioning information from the mobile communication device, wherein the provisioning
information is automatically gathered by the mobile communication device in response to the
information request message and without input of a user operating the mobile communication
device; and send a provisioning request message to a provisioning system such that provisioning
data can be sent to the mobile communication device for associating the mobile communication
device with a payment account, wherein the provisioning request message includes the
provisioning information, and one or more of an account identifier and a mobile device identifier
associated with the mobile communication device.
[0004c]      Another aspect of the present invention provides a method comprising: sending, by a
server computer, an information request message to a mobile communication device, the
information request message requesting provisioning information associated with a secure
memory of the mobile communication device; receiving, by the server computer, a response
message including the provisioning information from the mobile communication device, wherein

                                                 2a
the provisioning information is automatically gathered by the mobile communication device in
response to the information request message and without input of a user operating the mobile
communication device; and sending, by the server computer, a provisioning request message to a
provisioning system such that provisioning data can be sent to the mobile communication device
for associating the mobile communication device with a payment account, wherein the
provisioning request message includes the provisioning information, and one or more of an
account identifier and a mobile device identifier associated with the mobile communication
device.
[0005]       Some embodiments of the invention are directed to systems, apparatuses, and
methods related to initiating the provisioning of financial accounts on mobile devices by an
issuer and without user interaction. Provisioning a financial account on a mobile device includes
secure communication of financial account information into a secure element or other secure
data storage element of the mobile device. The financial account information or credentials may
be accessed by authorized applets or mobile payment applications on the mobile device to
initiate and complete transactions with access devices, server computers, and any other
components or systems in a transaction processing system.
[0006]       Some embodiments of the present invention allow an issuer to initiate account
provisioning on a mobile device without requiring interaction with or input from an
accountholder (i.e. user). For example, the issuer may initiate the process by sending a
provisioning information request message to a mobile device with a secure element (i.e. secure
memory). The operating system of the mobile device may recognize the provisioning request
message and gather the requisite provisioning information without requiring user input. The
provisioning information may include, for example, information associated with the secure
element of the mobile device. The mobile device may then send a provisioning request message
to a provisioning system (i.e. provisioning service provider computer). In some exemplary
embodiments, the mobile device may send the provisioning request message to the issuer, which
may, in turn, send the provisioning request message to the provisioning system. The
provisioning request message may include the requisite provisioning information to allow the
provisioning system to provision the financial account on the secure element of the mobile
device.

[0007]         In some embodiments, the issuer may include an authorization code in
the provisioning information request message. The authorization code may be
forwarded to the provisioning system as part of the provisioning request message.
The provisioning system may validate the authorization code to ensure the mobile
device is authorized by the issuer for provisioning of the account.
[0008]         One embodiment of the invention is directed to a method comprising
receiving, by a mobile communication device, an information request message from
an issuer server computer. The mobile communication device automatically
determines provisioning information associated with a secure memory in response to
the information request message and without input of a user operating the mobile
communication device. The method further includes generating, by the mobile
communication device, a provisioning request message including the provisioning
information. The mobile communication device sends the provisioning request
message including the provisioning information to a provisioning system or the issuer
server computer and receives a provisioning response message including
provisioning data from the provisioning system. The provisioning data is generated
using the provisioning information associated with the secure memory. The method
also includes storing, by the mobile communication device, the provisioning data in
the secure memory. The provisioning data associates the mobile communication
device with a payment account.
[0009]         Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a method
comprising authenticating, by an issuer server computer, a user associated with a
user payment account. The issuer server computer receives a mobile device
identifier identifying a mobile device of the user and generates a provisioning
information request message without interacting with the user. The provisioning
information request message includes at least the mobile device identifier and a
provisioning information request identifier. The provisioning information request
identifier automatically causes the mobile device to gather provisioning information.
The method further includes sending, by the issuer server computer, the provisioning
information request message to the mobile device of the user. The provisioning
                                             3

information request message initiates provisioning of the user payment account on
the mobile device of the user.
[0010]        Yet another embodiment of the invention is directed to an issuer
computer server computer comprising a processor and a non-transitory computer
readable medium coupled to the processor. The computer readable medium
comprises code, that when executed by the processor, causes the processor to send
an information request message to a mobile communication device. The information
request message requests provisioning information associated with a secure
memory of the mobile communication device. The code, when executed by the
processor, further causes the processor to receive a response message including
the provisioning information from the mobile communication device. The
provisioning information is automatically gathered by the mobile communication
device in response to the information request message and without input of a user
operating the mobile communication device. The code, when executed by the
processor, further causes the processor to send a provisioning request message to a
provisioning system such that provisioning data can be sent to the mobile
communication device for associating the mobile communication device with a
payment account. The provisioning request message includes the provisioning
information, and one or more of an account identifier and a mobile device identifier
associated with the mobile communication device. In certain embodiments, the
code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to generate an
authorization code indicating that the provisioning request message associated with
the authorization code is authorized and authenticated by the issuer server
computer, and include the authorization code in the provisioning request message.
[0011]        Other embodiments include a mobile communication device comprising
a processor, a server computer comprising a processor and computer readable
media configured to complete the methods described above. Further, other
embodiments may include systems, server computers, and methods for completing
the functionality disclosed herein.
[0012]        These and other embodiments of the invention are described in further
detail below.
                                           4

                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]         FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of an exemplary secure element account
provisioning system, according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0014]         FIG. 2 shows components of, and interactions between, an issuer, a
mobile device and a provisioning system for provisioning a financial account on a
secure element of the mobile device, according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0015]         FIG. 3 shows an exemplary flow diagram for an issuer initiated account
provisioning process where provisioning information is sent directly from a mobile
device to a provisioning system, according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0016]         FIG. 4 shows another exemplary flow diagram for an issuer initiated
account provisioning process where provisioning information is sent indirectly from a
mobile device to a provisioning system, according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0017]         FIG. 5 shows exemplary steps performed by a mobile device for
provisioning a financial account on a secure element of the mobile device, according
to an embodiment of the invention.
[0018]         FIG. 6 shows exemplary steps performed by an issuer for initiating the
provisioning of a financial account on a mobile device, according to an embodiment
of the invention.
[0019]         FIG. 7 shows an exemplary financial transaction system, according to
an embodiment of the invention.
[0020]         FIG. 8 shows an exemplary computer system according to
embodiments of the present invention.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]         Embodiments of the present invention allow an issuer to initiate
account provisioning on a mobile device without interaction with or input from a user.
For example, the issuer may initiate the process by sending a provisioning
                                           5

information request message to a mobile device with a secure element (i.e. secure
memory). The operating system of the mobile device may recognize the
provisioning request message and gather the requisite provisioning information
without requiring user input. The provisioning information may include, for example,
information associated with the secure element of the mobile device. The mobile
device may then send a provisioning request message to a provisioning system. In
some exemplary embodiments, the mobile device may send the provisioning request
message to the issuer, which may, in turn, send the provisioning request message to
the provisioning system. The provisioning request message may include the
requisite provisioning information to allow the provisioning system to provision the
financial account on the secure element of the mobile device.
[0022]         In some embodiments, the issuer may include an authorization code in
the provisioning information request message. The authorization code may be
forwarded to the provisioning system as part of the provisioning request message.
The provisioning system may validate the authorization code to ensure the mobile
device is authorized for provisioning of the account.
[0023]        Thus, embodiments of the present invention may be used in
connection with transaction processing systems or may use data generated during
transaction processing through a transaction processing system. Such
embodiments may involve transactions between accountholders and merchants
using the mobile communication device of the accountholders. For example, once
an account has been successfully provisioned onto the secure element of the mobile
communication device of the accountholder (i.e. user), the accountholder may use
the provisioned account information to initiate and complete transactions with
transaction processing systems, as further described below in connection with FIG.
7.
[0024]         Before discussing specific embodiments and examples, some
descriptions of terms used herein are provided below.
[0025]        As used herein, a "mobile device" may comprise any electronic device
that may be transported and operated by a user, which may also provide remote
communication capabilities to a network. Examples of remote communication
                                            6

capabilities include using a mobile phone (wireless) network, wireless data network
(e.g. 3G, 4G or similar networks), Wi-Fi, Wi-Max, or any other communication
medium that may provide access to a network such as the Internet or a private
network. Examples of mobile devices include mobile phones (e.g. cellular phones),
PDAs, tablet computers, net books, laptop computers, personal music players, hand
held specialized readers, etc. A mobile device may comprise any suitable hardware
and software for performing such functions, and may also include multiple devices or
components (e.g. when a device has remote access to a network by tethering to
another device - i.e. using the other device as a modem - both devices taken
together may be considered a single mobile device). A mobile device may also
comprise secured hardware or software component within the mobile device and/or
one or more external components that may be coupled to the mobile device. A
detailed description of an exemplary mobile device is provided below.
[0026]         A "secure element" may include any secure memory device such that
the data contained on the secure element cannot easily be hacked, cracked, or
obtained by an unauthorized entity. For example, the secure element may be an
integrated circuit device that is implemented within a near field communications
(NFC) enabled mobile communication device. The secure element may contain
embedded smart card-grade applications (e.g., payment, transport, etc.). The
secure element may be used by the mobile communication device to host and store
data and applications that require a high degree of security. For example, the
secure element may be encrypted and may store payment account information. The
secure element may be provided to the mobile communication device by the secure
element owner, who may also be the mobile network operator (MNO), original
equipment manufacturer (OEM), mobile device manufacturer (MDM), or any other
suitable entity. Additionally, the secure element may be either embedded in the
handset of the mobile communication device or in a subscriber identity module (SIM)
card that may be removable from the mobile communication device. The secure
element can also be included in an add-on device such as a micro-Secure Digital
(microSD) card or the like.
                                            7

[0027]         An "issuer" may typically refer to a business entity (e.g., a bank) that
maintains financial accounts for a user and often issues a credit or debit card to the
user. An issuer can include a payment account issuer or other service provider that
provisions and personalizes mobile payment applications on a secure element of a
mobile device. During provisioning, issuers (and issuer trusted service managers)
may ensure that the mobile device is properly configured to allow accountholder
purchases using mobile payment applications on the secure element. The issuer
may be responsible to make a credit limit available to account holders and may also
be responsible for sending payments to merchants for purchases made with
payment accounts issued by the issuer.
[0028]         As used herein, a "payment account" or a "financial account" (which
may be associated with one or more payment devices) may include any suitable
payment account including a credit card account, a checking account, a savings
account, a merchant account assigned to a accountholder, or a prepaid account.
[0029]         A "server computer" or a "server" can be a powerful computer or a
cluster of computers. For example, the server computer can be a large mainframe, a
minicomputer cluster, or a group of servers functioning as a unit. In one example,
the server computer may be a database server coupled to a Web server.
[0030]         As used herein, "provisioning information" may include information
specific to a memory (e.g., a secure element) of a mobile device that is used by a
provisioning system to provision payment account credentials on the mobile device.
For example, the provisioning information may include algorithms and/or encryption
keys stored by the secure element, a secure element identifier assigned to the
secure element, information associated with a secure domain of the secure element,
network operator information, user information, trusted service manager information,
etc.
[0031]         As used herein, "provisioning request message" may include a
message sent from a mobile device directly or indirectly to a provisioning system to
request provisioning of payment account credentials on the mobile device. The
payment account credentials associate the mobile device with a payment account,
thereby enabling the mobile device to initiate payment transactions. The
                                             8

provisioning request message may include provisioning information that would
enable the provisioning system to provision payment account credentials on the
mobile device.
[0032]          As used herein, "provisioning data" may include information that is
configured to be installed on a device to allow the device to perform a service or set
of functionality. In some embodiments, the provisioning data may be installed on a
memory of a device. Further, in some embodiments, the memory may include a
secure memory (e.g., a secure element). For example, provisioning data may
include data that has been encrypted with a secure element key that may allow a
secure element or other secure data to receive and install the data. Alternatively or
additionally, the provisioning data may include data that is ready to be provisioned to
the secure element. For example, the provisioning data may include application data
and a secure element key that may allow a mobile application on the device or the
secure element to install or store the application data onto the secure element.
[0033]          As used herein, "provisioning response message" may be message
sent from a provisioning system to a mobile device to enable provisioning of
payment account credentials on the mobile device. The payment account
credentials associate the mobile device with a payment account, thereby enabling
the mobile device to initiate payment transactions. The provisioning response
message may include provisioning data that would enable the mobile device to
install the or store the payment account credentials on the secure element.
I.              Issuer-Initiated Secure Element Account Provisioning
[0034]          Embodiments of the present invention allow an issuer to initiate
account provisioning on a secure element of a mobile device without interacting with
a user. FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of an exemplary secure element account
provisioning system 100 that may be used in connection with issuer-initiated secure
element account provisioning described herein. The secure element account
provisioning system 100 may include, among other elements, a mobile device 110
(also referred to as a "mobile communication device"), a payment processing
network 130 associated with a provisioning service provider computer 120, a device
provisioning accountholder authentication system (DPCAS) 140, one or more access
                                             9

control servers 150, and an issuer server computer 160. The entities may comprise
any suitable hardware or software, for example such as those illustrated in FIG. 8,
and may communicate with one another through any series of communications
networks.
[0035]         The mobile device 110 may include any electronic device comprising a
secure element or other secure data storage memory that is configured to receive
and store secure data. For example, the mobile device 110 may include a smart
phone, a tablet device, a smartcard, a cellular phone, or any other device that may
be portable, configured to communicate with one or more entities within the
transaction processing system (as shown in FIG. 7) as well as the secure element
account provisioning system 100, and may be configured to store secure payment
credentials for initiating and conducting payment transactions.
[0036]         The wallet provider server 120 may include any server computer that
may manage, facilitate, and otherwise interact with the mobile device 110 as well as
any mobile wallets provided on the mobile device 110, and the payment processing
network 130 in order to manage the use and maintenance of a wallet system. For
example, the wallet provider server 120 may comprise a secure element trusted
service manager (SE TSM) for devices associated with the wallet provider server
120.
[0037]         The payment processing network 130 may include data processing
subsystems, networks, and operations used to support and deliver authorization
services, exception file services, and clearing and settlement services. An
exemplary payment processing network may include VisaNetTM. Payment
processing networks such as VisaNetTM are able to process credit card transactions,
debit card transactions, and other types of commercial transactions. VisaNet TM, in
particular includes a Visa Integrated Payments (VIP) system which processes
authorization requests and a Base II system which performs clearing and settlement
services. Furthermore, the payment processing network 130 may include a server
computer and may use any suitable wired or wireless telecommunications network,
including the Internet.
                                           10

[00381         The payment processing network 130 may include or be associated
with a provisioning service provider computer 120 (also referred to as a "provisioning
system"). The provisioning service provider computer 120 may include any number
of systems that may allow the payment processing network 130 to provide
provisioning services to merchants, accountholders, mobile devices, etc. The
payment processing network 130 and the provisioning service provider computer
120 may provision a financial account on the mobile device 110 upon, for example,
the issuer server computer 160 initiating the provisioning of the financial account via
communication with the mobile device 110.
[0039]         The device provisioning accountholder authentication system (DPCAS)
140 may include any computer or series of computers configured to determine the
appropriate authentication system to be implemented for authenticating a
provisioning request. According to various embodiments, the provisioning request
may be sent by the mobile device 110 in response to a provisioning initiating
message sent from the issuer server computer 160 to the mobile device 110. The
DPCAS 140 may be configured to return a response to the payment processing
network 130 indicating that a provisioning request is approved, declined, or that the
authentication server is not sure whether the accountholder is authentic and would
like to perform further authentication processes to be sure.
[0040]         The DPCAS 140 may be in communication with one or more access
control servers 150 to authenticate the accountholder. The one or more access
control servers may include any number of different authentication systems that may
be operated by the payment processing network 130, the issuer server computer
160, the wallet provider server 120, or any other third party. The different
authentication systems that may be implemented may include on-behalf-of (OBO)
issuer authentication system, existing accountholder authentication system, or an
authentication system that uses the issuer's access control server (ACS).
[0041]         The on-behalf-of Issuer authentication service (OBO AS) server may
be implemented by the payment processing network 130 and may provide risk
based authentication, using device activation specific rules. These rules may or may
                                           11

not be issuer-specific, and may be used for issuers that do not have an approved
ACS for device activation authentication requests.
[0042]         The accountholder authentication system may be implemented from
authentication services related to issuer issued accounts (e.g., Verified by Visa
(VbV)) payment authentication requests. The accountholder authentication system
can allow issuers to specify customized rules for the authentication of
accountholders.
[0043]         The ACS 150 may be implemented such that the payment processing
network 130 may establish new specifications that may be required for the ACS 150
to support device activation authentication requests. An ACS 150 may be selected
by the issuer server computer 160 for performing the device activation authentication
function.
[0044]         Elements of the secure element account provisioning system 100 may
interact to provision a financial account (e.g. a payment account) on the secure
element of the mobile device 110. FIG. 2 shows the interactions between the issuer
server computer 160, the mobile device 110 and the provisioning service provider
computer 120 for provisioning the financial account on the secure element of the
mobile device 110, according to an embodiment of the invention. The actions of the
elements illustrated in FIG. 2 are illustrated in greater detail in FIGs. 3 and 4.
Specifically, FIG. 3 shows an exemplary flow diagram for an issuer initiated account
provisioning process and FIG. 4 shows another exemplary flow diagram for an issuer
initiated account provisioning process, according to embodiments of the present
invention. Accordingly, method steps illustrated in FIGs. 3 and 4 are discussed
below in connection with FIG. 2.
[0045]         Before the exemplary method shown in FIG. 2 may be initiated, the
issuer server computer 160 may engage in some transaction or otherwise
communicate with an accountholder or someone who has authorization to provide a
mobile device identifier to the issuer server computer 160 on behalf of the
accountholder. The issuer server computer 160 may receive an identifier for a
mobile communication device that allows the issuer server computer 160 to identify
and communicate with the mobile device 110 associated with the requested account.
                                             12

The mobile device identifier may include one or more of a telephone number, a
unique device number, such as an international mobile station equipment identity
(IMEI) number, a unique serial number (i.e. integrated circuit card identifier (ICCI)) of
a subscriber identification module (SIM) card, and a unique international mobile
subscriber identity (IMSI) identifier. In some embodiments, the accountholder (e.g.
the user) may register their mobile device identifier with the issuer server computer
160 at any time (i.e. irrespective of, and unrelated to, the provisioning of a payment
account). The accountholder may perform any other suitable steps to inform the
issuer server computer 160 of their mobile communication device identifier. For
instance, an authorized person that is not the accountholder (e.g., a spouse) may
inform a teller at the bank that their spouse may wish to have their account
provisioned on their device and may provide a mobile device identifier to allow the
issuer server computer 160 to contact the mobile device 110.
[0046]         According to various embodiments, the mobile device 110 may be
used to conduct transactions using the accountholder's financial account. In order to
do so, the account is provisioned on the mobile device 110. Embodiments of the
present application allow the issuer server computer 160 to initiate the provisioning
process without any interaction with or input from the accountholder. For example,
an executive of the issuer, a customer service representative, a business unit
manager or other entity may determine that the financial account is part of a
determined accountholder base that should have their account credentials
provisioned onto their mobile devices. Based on that determination, the issuer
server computer 160 may initiate the provisioning of the financial account on the
mobile device 110.
[0047]         The issuer server computer 160 may include, among other elements, a
provisioning module 212. The provisioning module 212 may generate a provisioning
information request message (step 302 of FIG. 3 and step 402 of FIG. 4). The
provisioning information request message may include one or more of a provisioning
information request message identifier (e.g., a header, a flag, a particular formatting,
or any information that allows the mobile device 110 to identify the message as a
provisioning information request message), an account identifier (e.g., a primary
                                            13

account number (PAN), a PAN substitute, a payment token, a pseudo-PAN, or any
other credential associated with the accountholder's account), additional account
credentials (e.g., CVV, track 2 data, etc.), an authorization code , and a mobile
device identifier (e.g., a phone number, SMS text address, an IP address, a
MSISDN, or any other information that may be used to identify and contact the
mobile device 110 to be provisioned). The mobile device identifier may also include
a unique device number, such as an international mobile station equipment identity
(IMEI) number, a unique serial number (i.e. integrated circuit card identifier (ICCI)) of
a subscriber identification module (SIM) card, or a unique international mobile
subscriber identity (IMSI). The issuer server computer 160 may send the
provisioning information request message to the mobile device 110 via, for example,
an external communication interface 216 (step 304 of FIG. 3 and step 404 of FIG. 4).
[0048]         The authorization code in the provisioning information request
message may be a re-creatable code that the provisioning service provider computer
may use to validate that the provisioning request is authorized and authenticated by,
for example, the issuer server computer 160.
[0049]         According to various embodiments, the issuer server computer 160
may include an authentication module 212 that authenticates the accountholder prior
to generating the provisioning information request message using the provisioning
module 214. Upon authenticating the accountholder, the authentication module 212
may generate the authorization code which may be used by the provisioning service
provider computer 120 to validate that the provisioning request is authorized and
authenticated by the issuer server computer 160. The issuer server computer 160
may also include a system memory 218 and a processor 219 to perform one or more
of the actions described herein. An exemplary memory and processor is discussed
below in connection with FIG. 8.
[0050]         The mobile device 110 illustrated in FIG. 2 may include a secure
element 222 that may securely store account credentials to allow the user of the
mobile device 110 to securely initiate and process transactions from the mobile
device 110 with NFC point-of-sale devices or through e-commerce merchant
servers, etc. When the mobile device 110 receives the provisioning information
                                            14

request message from the issuer server computer 160, the operating system 226 of
the mobile device 110 may identify the provisioning information request message
indicator included in the provisioning information request message. The
identification may occur through any suitable method. For example, the operating
system 226 may comprise an identification module that is configured to allow the
operating system 226 to identify the provisioning information request message
identifier (e.g. a header, a flag, some specific pre-determined message string or
content, the specific address of the issuer server computer 160 that sends the
provisioning information request message, or any other associated information)
indicating that the received message is a provisioning information request message.
[0051]           In response to the provisioning information request message, the
operating system 226 may gather provisioning information associated with the
secure element 222. For example, the operating system 226 may request secure
domain information from the secure element 222 for an available domain on the
secure element 222. In addition, the operating system 226 may gather or determine
accountholder information associated with the mobile device 110, network operator
information stored on a system memory 228, trusted service manager (TSM)
information, unique derived key (UDK) or other encryption key information, and any
other information that may be useful for a provisioning system to provision an
account on the secure element 222 of the mobile device 110. Accordingly, the
provisioning information may include any data (e.g., secure element identifier, UDK
identifier, etc.) that may be provided by the mobile device 110 during a request to
provision an account on the mobile device 110. Additional details regarding the
provisioning information as well as the other information provided during provisioning
requests may be found in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/713,938, filed December
13, 2012, by Makhotin, et al., which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
for all purposes.
[0052]          After the operating system 226 gathers the provisioning information,
the provisioning module 224 of the mobile device 110 may generate a provisioning
request message including the provisioning information (step 306 of FIG. 3 and step
406 of FIG. 4). The provisioning request message may also include one or more of
                                             15

the authorization code, the account identifier, the additional account credentials and
the mobile device identifier provided to the mobile device 110 by the issuer server
computer 160. The mobile device 110 may send the provisioning request message
to the provisioning service provider computer 120 via the external communication
interface 227 (step 308 of FIG. 3). The mobile device 110 may also include a
processor 229 to perform one or more of the actions described herein. An
exemplary processor is discussed below in connection with FIG. 8.
[0053]         In some embodiments, the mobile device 110 may send the
provisioning request message or just the provisioning information to the issuer server
computer 160 in response to the provisioning information request message (step 408
of FIG. 4). The issuer server computer 160 may then send the provisioning
information along with one or more of the authorization code, the account identifier,
the additional account credentials and the mobile device identifier to the provisioning
server provider 120 via the external communication interface 216 (step 409 of FIG.
4).
[0054]         According to various embodiments, the provisioning service provider
computer 120 may be located in the payment processing network 130 illustrated in
FIG. 1 or may include a separate third party provisioning system such as a TSM
associated with the mobile network operator, mobile device manufacturer, the issuer
server computer 160, or any other third party, or any combination thereof. The
provisioning service provider computer 120 may be configured to receive the
provisioning request message from the mobile device 110 or the issuer server
computer 160 and complete the provisioning process. Any suitable combination of
components or systems that are configured to provision the requested account onto
the secure element 222 of the mobile device 110 may be included in the provisioning
service provider computer 120.
[0055]         Upon receiving the provisioning request message, the provisioning
service provider computer 120 may authenticate the accountholder information using
a validation module 232 (step 310 of FIG. 3 and step 410 of FIG. 4). For example,
the validation module 232 may validate the authorization code generated by the
authentication module 212 of the issuer server computer 160 to ensure that the
                                           16

mobile device 110 is authorized by the issuer server computer 160 to be provisioned.
In some embodiments, the DPCAS 140 and ACS controllers 150 shown in FIG. 1
may be used to implement an advanced authentication of the accountholder. If the
validation module 232 determines that the authorization code, the account identifier
or the additional account credentials do not match with the information stored and/or
accessed by the provisioning service provider computer 120, the provisioning
process may be terminated. Similarly, if some risk data at the provisioning service
provider computer 120 requires advanced authentication of the accountholder, the
provisioning process may be paused or terminated. Details regarding the advanced
authentication process and other exemplary methods of provisioning account data
onto a mobile communication device may be found in U.S. Patent Application No.
14/455,600, filed August 8, 2014, by Karpenko, et al., which is hereby incorporated
by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
[0056]         The generation of and subsequent validation of the authentication code
may occur in any suitable manner. For example, an authentication code may be
generated by the authentication module in the issuer server using a number of data
inputs and a hashing algorithm to obtain the authorization code. The validation
module of the provisioning service provider computer can then create the
authentication code using the data inputs. Such data inputs may be associated with
the transaction or the account. Exemplary data inputs may include an account
number, a CVV, home address, date, time, phone identifier information such as a
SIM card number, IMEI number, etc., and name, as well as other data elements in
this application. In another example, the issuer server and the provisioning service
provider computer may share a secret encryption key. The issuer server may
concatenate and encrypt data inputs such as those above using the encryption key
and an encryption algorithm to form the authentication code. The authentication
code could be decrypted by the provisioning service provider computer using the
secret encryption key and the associated encryption algorithm.
[0057]         If the provided information is validated by the validation module 232,
the provisioning service provider computer 120 may provision the accountholder's
payment account on the secure element 222 of the mobile device 110 (step 312 of
                                             17

FIG. 3 and step 412 of FIG. 4). For example, the provisioning service provider
computer 120 may send a provisioning response message to the mobile device 110
via an external communication interface 236. The provisioning response message
may provision the accountholder's payment account on the secure element 222 of
the mobile device 110 (step 314 of FIG. 3 and step 414 of FIG. 4). As illustrated in
FIG. 2, the provisioning service provider computer 120 may also include a system
memory 238 and a processor 239 to perform one or more of the actions described
herein. An exemplary memory and processor is discussed below in connection with
FIG. 8.
[0058]         Additional details regarding some potential implementations of the
provisioning service provider computer 120 and details of the provision information,
provisioning data, encryption steps, and key management can be found in U.S.
Patent Application No. 13/713,938, filed December 13, 2012, by Makhotin, et al.,
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
II.            Exemplary Methods
[0059]         FIG. 5 shows an exemplary method 500 performed by a mobile device
for provisioning a financial account on a secure element of the mobile device,
according to an embodiment of the invention. At 502, the mobile device comprising
the secure element receives a provisioning information request message from an
issuer. In some embodiments, the provisioning information request message may
be encrypted with an issuer provisioning service key or other shared encryption key
pair to ensure that the provisioning information request message may not be
intercepted by a malicious third party. If the message is encrypted, the mobile
device may decrypt the message upon receipt. The provisioning information request
message may include one or more of an authorization code, an account identifier
and a mobile device identifier. The mobile device may receive the provisioning
information request message using any communication network or communication
protocol. For example, the provisioning information request message may include a
text message, an email, an over-the-air (OTA) communication message, or any other
message that the mobile device may receive. In some embodiments, the
provisioning information request message may include an identifier. An operating
                                            18

system of the mobile device may identify that the received message is a provisioning
information request message based on the identifier and without the user (or the
accountholder) having to identify the message as such. According to various
embodiments, the mobile device may not even display the provisioning information
request message to the user.
[0060]        Once the mobile device identifies the provisioning information request
message, the operating system of the mobile communication device may gather or
determine provisioning information associated with the secure element and the
mobile communication device without the input of the user operating the mobile
device (step 504). At step 506, the mobile device generates a provisioning request
message including the gathered/determined provisioning information. The
provisioning request message may also include one or more of the authorization
code, the account identifier and a mobile communication device identifier (e.g.,
phone number, MSISDN, etc.) that may allow a provisioning system to determine the
appropriate mobile communication device and the associated secure element on
which to provision the account credentials. Further, the provisioning request
message may be encrypted with an encryption service key to ensure that the
provisioning request may not be intercepted by a malicious third party.
[0061]        At step 507, the mobile device may send the provisioning request
message to the issuer or to a provisioning system (i.e. provisioning service provider
computer). If the provisioning request message is sent to the issuer in response to
the provisioning information request message, the issuer may send the provisioning
request message to the provisioning system.
[0062]        When the provisioning system receives the provisioning request
message including the authorization code, the provisioning information, and the
accountholder account credentials (e.g., PAN, payment token, CVV, any other track
1 or track 2 data associated with the payment account, etc.), the provisioning system
may validate the authorization code to ensure the mobile device is authorized to be
provisioned by the issuer. The validation of the authorization code may be
completed in any suitable manner. For example, in some embodiments, the
provisioning system and the issuer server computer may share a unique secret key
                                          19

or secret algorithm that allows the provisioning system to generate another
authorization code and compare the received authorization code to the generated
authorization code to ensure they are the same and thus, that the authorization code
must have come from the issuer server computer as the issuer is the other party that
knows the unique secret key or secret algorithm. Alternatively, the provisioning
system may contact the issuer server computer to obtain authorization and/or
validate the authorization code is associated with the mobile device requesting the
account provisioning. Any other suitable validation technique may be implemented
to allow the provisioning system to ensure that the provisioning request message is
associated with the correct account, the correct mobile device, and that the issuer
server computer has requested or initiated the account provisioning.
[0063]        Once the authorization code has been validated to confirm that the
mobile device is authorized to have the payment account credentials provisioned
onto the secure element of the mobile device, the provisioning system uses the
received provisioning information, mobile communication device identifier, account
credentials, and any other information associated with the request to generate a
provisioning response message including account provisioning data. The account
provisioning data may be traditional provisioning data that one of ordinary skill in the
art may recognize. The provisioning system may send the provisioning response
message to the mobile device.
[0064]        At step 510, the mobile device may receive the provisioning response
message including the provisioning data. In some embodiments, the account
provisioning data may be generated using a unique derived key (UDK) or other
encryption key that is associated with a mobile payment application stored on the
secure element such that the secure element or the mobile payment application may
decrypt the account provisioning data and store the account provisioning data onto
the secure element. One or more software modules or applets on the mobile device
and/or the secure element may identify the provisioning data as being a provisioning
response directed at the secure element and may operate to provision the
provisioning data onto the secure element. Accordingly, the secure element may
now comprise the payment account credentials associated with the payment account
                                           20

and may be configured to initiate and complete transactions using an NFC
communications chip, e-commerce transactions, or any other secure payment
processes from the mobile device.
[0065]         Accordingly, the payment account that may be used in a payment
transaction is provisioned on the mobile device without any user input, knowledge, or
affirmative action by the mobile device operator. In some embodiments, the
accountholder or mobile communication device operator may be notified as to the
status of the process or that the process is being completed, but such notification is
optional and in other embodiments, no such notification may be given.
Embodiments of the present invention enable an issuer to automatically and
seamlessly provision a payment account onto an authorized mobile device.
[0066]         FIG. 6 shows exemplary steps performed by the issuer for initiating the
provisioning of a financial account on a mobile device, according to an embodiment
of the invention. At step 602, the issuer authenticates a user associated with a user
payment account. At step 604, the issuer may receive a mobile device identifier
associated with a mobile device of the user. As provided above, the mobile device
identifier may include one or more of a telephone number, a unique device number,
such as an international mobile station equipment identity (IMEI) number, a unique
serial number (i.e. integrated circuit card identifier (ICCI)) of a subscriber
identification module (SIM) card, and a unique international mobile subscriber
identity (IMSI) identifier.
[0067]         The issuer may not have access to provisioning information associated
with a secure element of the mobile device. Without the provisioning information, the
issuer cannot provision (or request a provisioning service to provision) the financial
account on the mobile device. According to various embodiments, the issuer may
request the provisioning information from the mobile device instead of a third party
such as a mobile network operator. The issuer may either request the provisioning
information from the mobile device and send the provisioning information to a
provisioning system, or automatically cause the mobile device to determine/gather
the provisioning information and send the provisioning information directly to the
provisioning system.
                                             21

[00681         At step 606, the issuer server computer generates a provisioning
information request message to the accountholder's mobile device without
interacting with the accountholder. The provisioning information request message
may include one or more of an authorization code, an account identifier, the mobile
device identifier and a provisioning information request identifier (e.g. a header) that
identifies the message to the recipient mobile device as a provisioning information
request message. In some embodiments, the provisioning information request
message may be encrypted with an issuer provisioning service key or other shared
encryption key pair to ensure that the provisioning request may not be intercepted by
a malicious third party.
[0069]         At 608, the issuer may send the provisioning information request
message to the mobile device of the user to initiate the provisioning of the payment
account on the mobile device. According to various embodiments, the provisioning
information request message may be sent using any communication network or
communication protocol. For example, the provisioning information request
message may include a text message, email, over-the-air (OTA) communication
message, or any other message that the mobile device may receive.
III.           Exemplary Systems
[0070]         Provided below is a description of an exemplary system in which
embodiments provided herein may be utilized. Although some of the entities and
components may be depicted as separate, in some instances, one or more of the
components may be combined into a single device or location (and vice versa).
Similarly, although certain functionality may be described as being performed by a
single entity or component within the system, the functionality may in some instances
be performed by multiple components and/or entities (and vice versa).
Communication between entities and components may comprise the exchange of
data or information using electronic messages and any suitable electronic
communication medium and method, as described below. The system may be used
to perform a process for using a mobile device with a provisioned account identifier
such as a PAN or a payment token. The process for using a mobile device with a
                                           22

provisioned account identifier is discussed subsequently to the discussion of the
system.
[0071]           As used herein, an "issuer" may typically refer to a business entity
(e.g., a bank or other financial institution) that maintains financial accounts for the
user and often issues a payment device such as a credit or debit card to the user.
As used herein, a "merchant" may typically refer to an entity that engages in
transactions and can sell goods or services to the user. As used herein, an
"acquirer" may typically refer to a business entity (e.g., a commercial bank or
financial institution) that has a business relationship with a particular merchant or
similar entity. Some entities can perform both issuer and acquirer functions.
[0072]           An exemplary financial transaction system is shown in FIG. 7. The
system 720 may include one or more merchants 722, one or more access devices
734, one or more acquirers 724, and one or more issuers 728. For example, the
system 720 may include a merchant having a merchant computer 722 that
comprises an external communication interface (e.g. for communicating with an
access device 734 and an acquirer 724), system memory comprising one or
modules to generate and utilize electronic messages, and a data processor (for
facilitating a financial transaction and the exchange of electronic messages); an
acquirer having an acquirer computer 724 that comprises an external communication
interface (e.g. for communicating with a merchant computer 722 and a payment
processing network 726), system memory comprising one or modules to generate
and utilize electronic messages, and a data processor (for facilitating a financial
transaction and the exchange of electronic messages); and an issuer having an
issuer server computer 728 that comprises an external communication interface (e.g.
for communicating with a payment processing network 726), system memory
comprising one or modules to generate and utilize electronic messages, and a data
processor (for facilitating a financial transaction and the exchange of electronic
messages). The external communication interface of the merchant computer 722
may be coupled to an access device 734 (such that information may be received by
the access device 734 and communicated to the merchant computer 722) or, in
                                              23

some embodiments, the access device 734 may comprise a component of the
merchant computer 722.
[0073]          As used in this context, an "external communication interface" may
refer to any hardware and/or software that enables data to be transferred between
two or components of system 720 (e.g., between devices residing at locations such
as an issuer, acquirer, merchant, payment processing network 726, etc.). Some
examples of external communication interfaces may include a modem, a network
interface (such as an Ethernet card), a communications port, a Personal Computer
Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA) slot and card, or the like. Data
transferred via external communications interface may be in the form of signals
which may be electrical, electromagnetic, optical, or any other signal capable of
being received by the external communications interface (collectively referred to as
"electronic signals" or "electronic messages"). These electronic messages that may
comprise data or instructions may be provided between one or more of the external
communications interface via a communications path or channel. As noted above,
any suitable communication path or channel may be used such as, for instance, a
wire or cable, fiber optics, a telephone line, a cellular link, a radio frequency (RF)
link, a WAN or LAN network, the Internet, or any other suitable method.
[0074]          As would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, any suitable
communications protocol for storing, representing, and transmitting data between
components in the system 720 may be used. Some examples of such methods may
include utilizing predefined and static fields (such as in core TCP/IP protocols);
"Field: Value" pairs (e.g. HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP3, and SIP); an XML based format;
and/or Tag-Length-Value format.
[0075]          As shown in the exemplary system 720 in FIG. 7, payment account
information from mobile device 736 may be provided to access device 734, for
example, through a contact or contactless interface . In some embodiments, the
mobile device 736 may interact with the payment processing network 726 (or other
entity in the system 720) via network 740 (such as the Internet).
[0076]          A payment processing network 726 may be disposed between the
acquirer computer 724 and the issuer server computer 728 in the system 720.
                                             24

Furthermore, the merchant computer 722, the acquirer computer 724, the payment
processing network 726, and the issuer server computer 728 may all be in operative
communication with each other (i.e. although not depicted in FIG. 7, one or more
communication channels may exist between each of the entities, whether or not
these channels are used in conducting a financial transaction).
[0077]         The payment processing network 726 may include data processing
subsystems, networks, and operations used to support and deliver authorization
services, exception file services, and clearing and settlement services. For example,
the payment processing network 726 may comprise a server computer, coupled to a
network interface (e.g. by an external communication interface), and a database(s)
of information. Payment processing networks such as VisaNetTM are able to process
credit card transactions, debit card transactions, and other types of commercial
transactions. VisaNet TM, in particular, includes a VIP system (Visa Integrated
Payments system) which processes authorization requests and a Base II system
which performs clearing and settlement services. The payment processing network
726 may use any suitable wired or wireless network, including the Internet.
[0078]         Although many of the data processing functions and features of some
embodiments may be present in the payment processing network 726 (and a server
computer therein), it should be understood that such functions and features could be
present in other components such as the issuer server computer 728, and need not
be present in the payment processing network 726, or a server computer therein.
[0079]         Using the mobile device 736 (which is provisioned with an account
identifier such as a PAN or a payment token), the user may initiate a payment
transaction with the merchant computer 722, through the access device 734. An
illustrative method for an exemplary financial transaction is described below. The
method described below is exemplary in nature, and are not intended to be limiting.
Methods in accordance with some embodiments described herein may include (or
omit) some or all of the steps described below, and may include steps in a different
order than described herein.
[0080]         A user presents his or her mobile device 736 to the access device 734 to
pay for an item or service. The mobile device 736 and the access device 734 interact
                                            25

such that information from the mobile device 736 (e.g. PAN, verification value(s),
expiration date, etc.) is received by the access device 734 (e.g. via contact or
contactless interface). The merchant computer 722 may then receive this information
from the access device 734 via the external communication interface. The merchant
computer 722 may then generate an authorization request message that includes the
information received from the access device 734 (i.e. information received from the
mobile device 736) along with additional transaction information (e.g. a transaction
amount, merchant specific information, etc.). The merchant computer 722 may
electronically transmit this information to the acquirer computer 724. The acquirer
typically represents, and vouches for, the merchant in financial transactions (e.g. credit
card transactions). The acquirer computer 724 may then receive (via its external
communication interface), process, and forward the authorization request message
to the payment processing network 726.
[0081]          The payment processing network 726 may have an established
protocol with each issuer on how the issuer's transactions are to be authorized. In
some cases, such as when the transaction amount is below a threshold value, the
payment processing network 726 may be configured to authorize the transaction
based on information that it has about the user's account without generating and
transmitting an authorization request message to the issuer server computer 728. In
other cases, such as when the transaction amount is above a threshold value, the
payment processing network 726 may receive the authorization request message via
its external communication interface, determine the issuer associated with the
payment account, and forward the authorization request message for the transaction
to the issuer server computer 728 for verification and authorization. As part of the
authorization process, the payment processing network 726 or issuer server
computer 728 may analyze a verification value or other datum provided by the
mobile device 736. The verification value may be stored at issuer server computer
728 or the payment processing network 726. Once the transaction is authorized, the
issuer server computer 728 may generate an authorization response message (that
may include an authorization code indicating the transaction is approved or declined)
and transmit this electronic message via its external communication interface to the
payment processing network 726. The payment processing network 726 may then
                                              26

forward the authorization response message via a communication channel to the
acquirer computer 724, which in turn may transmit the electronic message to
comprising the authorization indication to the merchant computer 722.
[0082]         The various participants and elements described herein may operate
one or more computer apparatuses to facilitate the functions described herein. Any
of the elements in the above-described FIGS. 1-7, including any servers or
databases, may use any suitable number of subsystems to facilitate the functions
described herein.
[0083]         Examples of such subsystems or components are shown in FIG. 8.
The subsystems shown in FIG. 8 are interconnected via a system bus 800.
Additional subsystems such as a printer 808, keyboard 816, fixed disk 818 (or other
memory comprising computer readable media), monitor 812, which is coupled to
display adapter 810, and others are shown. Peripherals and input/output (1/O)
devices, which couple to 1/O controller 802 (which can be a processor or other
suitable controller), can be connected to the computer system by any number of
means known in the art, such as serial port 814. For example, serial port 814 or
external interface 820 can be used to connect the computer apparatus to a wide
area network such as the Internet, a mouse input device, or a scanner. The
interconnection via system bus allows the central processor 806 to communicate
with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions from system
memory 804 or the fixed disk 818, as well as the exchange of information between
subsystems. The system memory 804 and/or the fixed disk 818 may embody a
computer readable medium.
[0084]         Any of the software components or functions described in this
application, may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor
using any suitable computer language such as, for example, Java, C++ or Perl
using, for example, conventional or object-oriented techniques. The software code
may be stored as a series of instructions, or commands on a computer readable
medium, such as a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), a
magnetic medium such as a hard-drive or a floppy disk, or an optical medium such
as a CD-ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a
                                           27

single computational apparatus, and may be present on or within different
computational apparatuses within a system or network.
[0085]         The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many
variations of the invention may become apparent to those skilled in the art upon
review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention can, therefore, be determined
not with reference to the above description, but instead can be determined with
reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.
[0086]         One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with
one or more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of
the invention.
[0087]         A recitation of "a", "an" or "the" is intended to mean "one or more"
unless specifically indicated to the contrary.
[0088]         All patents, patent applications, publications, and descriptions
mentioned above are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all
purposes. None is admitted to be prior art.
                                              28

                                                   29
CLAIMS:
                1.      A method comprising:
                authenticating, by a server computer, a user associated with a user payment account;
                receiving, by the server computer, a mobile device identifier identifying a mobile
device of the user;
                generating, by the server computer, a provisioning information request message
without interacting with the user, the provisioning information request message including at least the
mobile device identifier and a provisioning information request identifier, wherein the provisioning
information request identifier automatically causes the mobile device to gather provisioning
information associated with a secure memory of the mobile device without interacting with the user;
and
                sending, by the server computer, the provisioning information request message to the
mobile device, wherein the provisioning information request message initiates provisioning of the
user payment account on the mobile device of the user.
                2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the provisioning information request message
further includes one or more of an authorization code and an account identifier.
                3.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                generating, by the server computer, an authorization code indicating that the user is
authenticated by the server computer; and
                incorporating the authorization code in the provisioning information request message.
                4.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                receiving, by the server computer, the provisioning information from the mobile
device;
                generating, by the server computer, a provisioning request message including at least
the provisioning information and the mobile device identifier; and
                sending, by the server computer, the provisioning request message to a provisioning
entity responsible for provisioning the user payment account on the mobile device of the user.

                                                  30
                5.      The method of claim 4, further comprising:
                generating, by the server computer, an authorization code indicating that the user is
authenticated by the server computer; and
                incorporating the authorization code in the provisioning request message.
                6.      An issuer server computer comprising:
                a processor; and
                a non-transitory computer readable medium coupled to the processor, the computer
readable medium comprising code, that when executed by the processor, causes the processor to:
                        send an information request message to a mobile communication device, the
        information request message requesting provisioning information associated with a secure
        memory of the mobile communication device;
                        receive a response message including the provisioning information from the
        mobile communication device, wherein the provisioning information is automatically
        gathered by the mobile communication device in response to the information request
        message and without input of a user operating the mobile communication device; and
                        send a provisioning request message to a provisioning system such that
        provisioning data can be sent to the mobile communication device for associating the mobile
        communication device with a payment account, wherein the provisioning request message
        includes the provisioning information, and one or more of an account identifier and a mobile
        device identifier associated with the mobile communication device.
                7.      The issuer server computer of claim 6, wherein the provisioning information
associated with the secure memory includes one or more of secure domain information, network
operator information, user information, trusted service manager information and encryption key
information.
                8.      The issuer server computer of claim 6, wherein the provisioning data includes
a primary account number or a payment token.

                                                   31
                9.      The issuer server computer of claim 6, wherein the code, when executed by
the processor, further causes the processor to:
                generate an authorization code indicating that the provisioning request message
associated with the authorization code is authorized and authenticated by the issuer server computer;
and
                include the authorization code in the provisioning request message.
                10.     A method comprising:
                sending, by a server computer, an information request message to a mobile
communication device, the information request message requesting provisioning information
associated with a secure memory of the mobile communication device;
                receiving, by the server computer, a response message including the provisioning
information from the mobile communication device, wherein the provisioning information is
automatically gathered by the mobile communication device in response to the information request
message and without input of a user operating the mobile communication device; and
                sending, by the server computer, a provisioning request message to a provisioning
system such that provisioning data can be sent to the mobile communication device for associating
the mobile communication device with a payment account, wherein the provisioning request
message includes the provisioning information, and one or more of an account identifier and a
mobile device identifier associated with the mobile communication device.
                11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the provisioning information associated
with the secure memory includes one or more of secure domain information, network operator
information, user information, trusted service manager information and encryption key information.
                12.     The method of claim 10, wherein the provisioning data includes a primary
account number or a payment token.
                13.     The method of claim 10, further comprising:
                generating, by the server computer, an authorization code indicating that the
provisioning request message associated with the authorization code is authorized and authenticated
by the issuer server computer; and

                                           32
         including, by the server computer the authorization code in the provisioning request
message.
                      Visa International Service Association
                           Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
