                                   Continuous Flow Separation Chamber
                                                 Abstract
A centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood comprising: an outer body
rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl, the outer body having a main body
defining an interior cavity, a neck portion extending proximal to the main body, and a
shoulder connecting the main body and the neck portion: a top core located within and
rotatable with the outer body, the top core being coaxial with the outer body and including a
chimney extending through the top core along the longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl; a
separation region located between the top core and the outer body, rotation of the centrifuge
bowl separating the whole blood within the separation region into a first blood component
and a second blood component; an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge
bowl; an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port and through
the chimney, the inlet tube configured to introduce the whole blood into an introduction
region; a first blood component outlet port for drawing the first blood component out of the
centrifuge bowl; a first blood component extraction tube extending from the first blood
component outlet port to a first blood component extraction region; a second blood
component outlet port fluidly connected to the separation region and for drawing a second
blood component from the centrifuge bowl; a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the
outer body and fluidly coupling the inlet port, first blood component outlet port, and second
blood component outlet port to the outer body; and an optical sensor located on the shoulder
of the outer body, the optical sensor configured to monitor an interface between the first
blood component and the second blood component within the separation region, the optical
sensor configured to control the operation of a first blood component pump based upon a
location of the interface.
10355826_1 (GHMatters) P99886.AU.1

                               1/7
 110                130                 220
                                             RBC Effluent
 Whole Blood Inlet
                                         230
                                             Plasma Effluent
             250
                                                   180
                                                   182
           195                                     186
                                                   184
    270   260
                                                   126
  144                                                  124
                                     -                    148
               120                                         142
115                                                           140
                                                           Top Core
                                                              122
                                                               160
                                                              Bottom
                                                               Core
             210   200  16         \   O25162 16170           164
FIG. 1                     225   222

                                          Continuous Flow Separation Chamber
                                                     Priority
              [0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013337284, the original disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  Technical Field
              [0002] The present invention relates to whole blood separation chambers, and more
particularly to continuous flow separation chambers and methods of using the same.
                                                  Background Art
              [0003] Apheresis is a procedure in which individual blood components can be
separated and collected from whole blood withdrawn from a subject. Typically, whole blood
is withdrawn through a needle inserted into a vein of the subject's arm and into a cell
separator, such as a centrifugal bowl. Once the whole blood is separated into its various
components, one or more of the components can be removed from the centrifugal bowl. The
remaining components can be returned to the subject. In some instances, the remaining
components can be returned along with optional compensation fluid to make up for the
volume of the removed component. The process of drawing and returning continues until the
quantity of the desired component has been collected, at which point the process is stopped.
A central feature of apheresis systems is that the processed but unwanted components are
returned to the donor. Blood components separated may include, for example, a high density
component such as red blood cells, an intermediate density component such as platelets or
white blood cells, and a lower density component such as plasma.
              [0004]          As mentioned above, many prior art apheresis systems use a centrifuge bowl
to separate and collect the individual blood components. In such systems, the whole blood is
drawn into the bowl and separated into the various components (e.g., within a separation
region). As the bowl continues to fill with whole blood, red blood cells sediment towards the
outer diameter of the bowl, causing a plasma interface (e.g., the interface between the red
                                                         1
10355826_1 (GHMatters) P99886.AU.1

blood cells and plasma) to move towards the center of the bowl. When the plasma interface
reaches a certain point, plasma is pushed out of the bowl and may be collected in one or
more collection bags. Blood will continue to fill the bowl until the plasma interface reaches a
certain position. At this point, the introduction of whole blood into the bowl is stopped.
         [0005] After the introduction of whole blood is stopped, the collected plasma may be
recirculated to the bowl in order to remove a layer of platelets formed within the bowl. Once
the platelets are collected, many prior art systems then collect and/or return the remaining
contents of the bowl to the patient. The process is then repeated in a batch-like/intermittent
manner until a target amount of blood component (e.g., red blood cells, platelets, plasma,
etc.) is collected.
                                 Summary of the Embodiments
         [0006] In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a centrifuge
bowl for continuous separation of whole blood (e.g., into red blood cells and plasma) may
include an outer body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl. Within the
outer body, the bowl can have a top core and a bottom core. The top core may be rotatable
and coaxial with the outer body. The bottom core may have a bottom wall and a proximally
extending wall that extends from the bottom wall and is radially outward from at least a
portion of the top core. The proximally extending wall and a portion of the top core can
define a primary separation region in which separation of the whole blood begins. The bowl
may also have a secondary separation region located between the top core and the outer
body.
         [0007] In some embodiments, the bowl may have an inlet port for introducing whole
blood into the centrifuge bowl, and an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally
from the inlet port. The inlet tube may introduce the whole blood into an introduction region
(between the top core and the bottom core). Additionally, the bowl can have a first blood
component outlet port and a second blood component outlet port. The first blood component
outlet port may be for drawing a first blood component out of the centrifuge bowl. A first
blood component extraction tube may extend from the first blood component outlet port and
through the bottom core to a region below the bottom core. The second blood component
outlet port may be fluidly connected to the secondary separation region and may be
                                                 2

configured to allow a second blood component to exit the centrifuge bowl. A centrifuge bowl
rotary seal may be attached to the outer body and couple the inlet port, first blood component
outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to the outer body.
        [0008] The primary separation region may be fluidly connected to the secondary
separation region, and there may be a first blood component extraction region located
between the bottom wall of the bottom core and a bottom of the outer body. The first blood
component extraction tube may extend into the first blood component extraction region.
Additionally, the proximally extending wall may be configured to prevent whole blood from
entering the first blood component extraction region. The bowl may also include a fluid path
way that (1) extends from the introduction region to the primary separation region, (2) fluidly
connects the inlet tube and the primary separation region, and (3) is located between the
bottom wall of the top core and the upper surface of the bottom core.
        [0009] The bowl may also include a seal located between the first blood component
extraction tube and the bottom core, and a bypass seal (e.g., a rotary seal). The top core may
include a chimney extending through the top core along the longitudinal axis of the
centrifugal bowl. The inlet tube and first blood component extraction tube may extend
through the chimney. The bypass seal may be located between the outer diameter of the inlet
tube and the inner diameter of the chimney, and may isolate the introduction region from the
chimney. The first blood component extraction tube may be coaxial with the inlet tube.
        [0010] On a shoulder of the bowl/outer body, the bowl may have an optical sensor
that monitors an interface between the first blood component and the second blood
component. The optical sensor may control the operation of a first blood component pump
based upon a location of the interface. The first blood component pump may draw the first
blood component from the bowl.
        [0011] The bowl may also have a weir disk extending inward from a neck portion of
the outer body. The second blood component may flow over the weir disk into the neck
portion of the outer body prior to exiting the centrifuge bowl via the second blood
component outlet port. The bottom surface of the weir disk and a top surface of the top core
may define a second blood component channel that fluidly connects the secondary separation
region and the second blood component outlet port.
                                                3

         [0012] In accordance with further embodiments, a centrifuge bowl for continuous
separation of whole blood may include an outer body that is rotatable about a longitudinal
axis of the centrifuge bowl, a top core, and a separation region. The top core may be located
within and may be rotatable with the outer body. The top core may also be coaxial with the
outer body and have a chimney extending through it along the longitudinal axis of the
centrifuge bowl. The separation region may be located between the top core and the outer
body, and rotation of the centrifuge bowl may separate the whole blood within the separation
region into a first blood component (e.g., red blood cells) and a second blood component
(e.g., plasma).
         [0013] The centrifuge bowl may also have an inlet port for introducing whole blood
into the centrifuge bowl. The inlet port may be fluidly connected to an inlet tube that extends
distally from the inlet port and through the chimney. The inlet tube may introduce the whole
blood into an introduction region. There may be a bypass seal (e.g., a rotary seal) between an
outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the chimney to isolate the
introduction region from the chimney. A first blood component outlet port (e.g., in fluid
communication with the separation region) may be used to draw the first blood component
out of the centrifuge bowl. A first blood component extraction tube may be coaxial with the
inlet tube and extend from the first blood component outlet port to a first blood component
extraction region. Additionally, the bowl may include a second blood component outlet port
fluidly connected to the separation region and configured to draw a second blood component
from the centrifuge bowl. A centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the outer body may
couple the inlet port, first blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet
port to the outer body.
         [0014] In addition to the top core, in some embodiments, the bowl may also include a
bottom core located within and rotatable with the outer body. The bottom core may be
located between the bottom surface of the outer body and the top core. The first blood
component extraction region may be located between the bottom wall of the bottom core and
a bottom of the outer body, and may fluidly connect the first blood component extraction
tube and the separation region. The first blood component extraction tube may extend
through the bottom core and into the first blood component extraction region. Additionally,
there may be a seal member located between the first blood component extraction tube and
                                                 4

the bottom core to prevent leakage between the first blood component extraction tube and the
bottom core.
         [0015] In some embodiments, the bowl may include an optical sensor located on a
shoulder of the outer body. The optical sensor may monitor an interface between the first
blood component and the second blood component within the separation region, and control
the operation of a first blood component pump based upon a location of the interface. The
first blood component pump may draw the first blood component from the centrifuge bowl.
         [0016] Additionally, the bowl may have a weir disk extending inward from the neck
portion of the outer body. The second blood component may flow over the weir disk into the
neck portion of the outer body prior to exiting the centrifuge bowl via the second blood
component outlet port. The weir disk and a top surface of the top core can define a second
blood component channel that fluidly connects the separation region and the second blood
component outlet port.
         [0017] The centrifuge bowl may also have a bottom core with a bottom wall and a
proximally extending wall that extends from the bottom core. The proximally extending wall
may be radially outward from at least a portion of the top core. The proximally extending
wall and a portion of the top core may define a primary separation region that is fluidly
connected to the secondary separation region. The bowl may also have a fluid path that
extends between a bottom wall of the top core and an upper surface of the bottom core, and
fluidly connects the inlet tube and the primary separation region. A first blood component
extraction region (located between the bottom wall of the bottom core and a bottom of the
outer body) may fluidly connect the first blood component extraction tube and the separation
region. The proximally extending wall may prevent whole blood from entering the first blood
component extraction region. The introduction region may be located between the top core
and the bottom core.
         [0018] In accordance with still further embodiments, a centrifuge bowl for
continuous separation of whole blood may include an outer body, a top core, and a separation
region. The outer body may be rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl, and
may have a main body defining an interior cavity, a neck portion extending proximal to the
main body, and a shoulder connecting the main body and the neck portion. The top core may
be located within and rotatable with the outer body. The top core may also be coaxial with
                                                 5

the outer body and include a chimney extending through it along the longitudinal axis of the
centrifuge bowl. The separation region may be located between the top core and the outer
body, and rotation of the centrifuge bowl may separate the whole blood within the separation
region into a first blood component and a second blood component.
         [0019] The bowl may also include an inlet port, a first blood component outlet port,
and a second blood component outlet port. The inlet port may introduce whole blood into the
centrifuge bowl, and may be fluidly connected to an inlet tube that extends distally from the
inlet port and through the chimney to introduce the whole blood into an introduction region.
The first blood component outlet port may draw a first blood component out of the centrifuge
bowl, and may have a first blood component extraction tube that extends from the first blood
component outlet port to a first blood component extraction region. The second blood
component outlet port may be fluidly connected to the separation region and may be
configured to draw a second blood component from the centrifuge bowl. The bowl may also
have a rotary seal that is attached to the outer body and fluidly couples the inlet port, first
blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to the outer body.
         [0020] Additionally, the bowl may also have a weir disk extending inward from the
neck portion of the outer body. In such embodiments, the second blood component may flow
over the weir disk and into the neck portion of the outer body prior to exiting the centrifuge
bowl via the second blood component outlet port. The weir disk and the top surface of the
top core may define a second blood component channel that fluidly connects the separation
region and the second blood component outlet port.
         [0021] Located between the bottom surface of the outer body and the top core, the
bowl may also have a bottom core that is rotatable with the outer body. The first blood
component extraction region may be located between the bottom wall of the bottom core and
a bottom of the outer body, and may fluidly connect the first blood component outlet tube
and the separation region. The first blood component extraction tube may extend through the
bottom core and into the first blood component extraction region, and a seal member located
between the first blood component extraction tube and the bottom core may prevent leakage
between the first blood component extraction tube and the bottom core.
         [0022] The bottom core may have a bottom wall and a proximally extending wall that
is radially outward from at least a portion of the top core. The proximally extending wall and
                                                  6

at least a portion of the top core may define a primary separation region that is fluidly
connected to the secondary separation region. The bowl may also have a fluid pathway
fluidly connecting the inlet tube and the primary separation region. The fluid pathway may
extend between a bottom wall of the top core and an upper surface of the bottom core. The
proximally extending wall may prevent whole blood from entering the first blood component
extraction region.
         [0023] The outer body may include an optical sensor that (1) monitors an interface
between the first blood component and the second blood component within the separation
region, and (2) controls the operation of a first blood component pump based upon a location
of the interface. The first blood component pump may draw the first blood component from
the centrifuge bowl. The inlet tube and the first blood component extraction tube may extend
through the chimney and may be coaxial. The bowl may also include a bypass seal (e.g., a
rotary seal) between an outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the chimney
that isolates the introduction region from the chimney.
         [0024] In accordance with additional embodiments, a centrifuge bowl for continuous
separation of whole blood may include an outer body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of
the bowl, a top core located within and rotatable with the outer body, and a separation region
located between the top core and the outer body. The outer body may have a main body
defining an interior cavity, a neck portion extending proximal to the main body, and a
shoulder connecting the main body and the neck portion. The top core may be coaxial with
the outer body and may include a chimney extending through it along the longitudinal axis of
the centrifuge bowl. Rotation of the centrifuge bowl may separate the whole blood within the
separation region into a first blood component and a second blood component.
         [0025] The bowl may also have a rotary seal attached to the outer body and fluidly
coupling an inlet port, a first blood component outlet port, and a second blood component
outlet port to the outer body. The inlet port may be used to introduce whole blood into the
centrifuge bowl, and may be fluidly connected to an inlet tube. The inlet tube may extend
distally from the inlet port and through the chimney to introduce the whole blood into an
introduction region. The first blood component outlet port may be used to draw the first
blood component out of the centrifuge bowl, and may include a first blood component
extraction tube extending from the first blood component outlet port to a first blood
                                                 7

component extraction region. The second blood component outlet port may be fluidly
connected to the separation region and may be used to draw a second blood component from
the centrifuge bowl.
         [0026] Moreover, the bowl may also have an optical sensor located on the shoulder
of the outer body. The optical sensor may monitor an interface between the first blood
component and the second blood component within the separation region, and control the
operation of a first blood component pump based upon a location of the interface. The first
blood component pump may draw the first blood component from the centrifuge bowl.
         [0027] A bottom core located below the top core can have a bottom wall and a
proximally extending wall. The first blood component extraction region may be located
between the bottom wall of the bottom core and a bottom of the outer body, and may fluidly
connect the first blood component outlet tube and the separation region. The first blood
component extraction tube may extend through the bottom wall of the bottom core, and the
bowl may include a seal member located between the first blood component extraction tube
and the bottom wall of the bottom core. The seal member may prevent leakage between the
first blood component extraction tube and the bottom core.
         [0028] The proximally extending wall may be radially outward from at least a portion
of the top core, and may define a primary separation region with at least a portion of the top
core. The primary separation region may be fluidly connected to the secondary separation
region, and the bowl may include a fluid pathway (e.g., extending between a bottom wall of
the top core and an upper surface of the bottom core) that fluidly connects the inlet tube and
the primary separation region. The separation chamber may be in fluid communication with
the second blood component outlet.
         [0029] The first blood component extraction tube and the inlet tube may be coaxial
and may extend through the chimney. The bowl may include a bypass seal (e.g., a rotary
seal) between an outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the chimney that
isolates the introduction region from the chimney. Additionally, a weir disk extending inward
from the neck portion of the outer body may define a second blood component channel with
a top surface of the top core. The second blood component channel may fluidly connect the
secondary separation region and the second blood component outlet port. The second blood
                                                8

component may flow over the weir disk into the neck portion of the outer body prior to
exiting the centrifuge bowl via the second blood component outlet port.
        [0030] In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is
provided a centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood comprising: an outer
body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl, the outer body having a main
body defining an interior cavity, a neck portion extending proximal to the main body, and a
shoulder connecting the main body and the neck portion; a top core located within and
rotatable with the outer body, the top core being coaxial with the outer body and including a
chimney extending through the top core along the longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl; a
separation region located between the top core and the outer body, rotation of the centrifuge
bowl separating the whole blood within the separation region into a first blood component
and a second blood component; an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge
bowl; an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port and through
the chimney, the inlet tube configured to introduce the whole blood into an introduction
region; a first blood component outlet port for drawing the first blood component out of the
centrifuge bowl; a first blood component extraction tube extending from the first blood
component outlet port to a first blood component extraction region; a second blood
component outlet port fluidly connected to the separation region and for drawing a second
blood component from the centrifuge bowl; a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the
outer body and fluidly coupling the inlet port, first blood component outlet port, and second
blood component outlet port to the outer body; and an optical sensor located on the shoulder
of the outer body, the optical sensor configured to monitor an interface between the first
blood component and the second blood component within the separation region, the optical
sensor configured to control the operation of a first blood component pump based upon a
location of the interface.
        [0031] In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is
provided a centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood comprising: an outer
body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl; a top core located within and
rotatable with the outer body, the top core being coaxial with the outer body and having a
chimney extending through the top core along the longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl; a
separation region located between the top core and the outer body, rotation of the centrifuge
                                                9

bowl separating the whole blood within the separation region into a first blood component
and a second blood component; an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge
bowl; an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port and through
the chimney, the inlet tube configured to introduce the whole blood into an introduction
region; a bypass seal between an outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the
chimney, the bypass seal isolating the introduction region from the chimney; a first blood
component outlet port for drawing a first blood component out of the centrifuge bowl; a first
blood component extraction tube extending from the first blood component outlet port to a
first blood component extraction region; a second blood component outlet port fluidly
connected to the separation region and for drawing a second blood component from the
centrifuge bowl; a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the outer body and fluidly coupling
the inlet port, first blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to
the outer body.
         [0032] In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is
provided a centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood into a first blood
component and a second blood component comprising: an outer body rotatable about a
longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl; a top core located within and rotatable with the
outer body, the top core being coaxial with the outer body; a bottom core having a bottom
wall and a proximally extending wall extending from the bottom wall, the proximally
extending wall being radially outward from at least a portion of the top core; a primary
separation region defined by the proximally extending wall and at least a portion of the top
core, separation of the whole blood into the first and second blood components beginning in
the primary separation region; a secondary separation region located between the top core
and the outer body; an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge bowl; an
inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port, the inlet tube
configured to introduce the whole blood into an introduction region; a first blood component
outlet port for drawing a first blood component out of the centrifuge bowl; a first blood
component extraction tube extending from the first blood component outlet port to a first
blood component extraction region; a second blood component outlet port fluidly connected
to the secondary separation region and for drawing a second blood component from the
centrifuge bowl; a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the outer body and coupling the
                                                10

inlet port, first blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to the
outer body.
                               Brief Description of the Drawings
         [0033] The foregoing features of embodiments will be more readily understood by
reference to the following detailed description, taken with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which:
         [0034] Figure 1 schematically shows a cross-sectional view of a continuous flow
centrifuge bowl in accordance with illustrative embodiments of the present invention.
         [0035] Figure 2 schematically shows a cross-sectional view of the lower portion of
the centrifuge bowl shown in Figure 1 with an alternative bottom core, in accordance with
illustrative embodiments of the present invention.
         [0036] Figure 3 schematically shows a cross-sectional view of a bypass seal within
the centrifuge bowl shown in Figure 1, in accordance with illustrative embodiments of the
present invention.
         [0037] Figure 4 schematically shows a cross-sectional view of the top portion of the
centrifuge bowl shown in Figure 1, in accordance with illustrative embodiments of the
present invention.
         [0038] Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a continuous flow blood processing system
using the centrifuge bowl shown in Figure 1, in accordance with illustrative embodiments of
the present invention.
         [0039] Figure 6 schematically shows a cross-sectional view of an alternative
continuous flow centrifuge bowl in accordance with illustrative embodiments of the present
invention.
         [0040] Figure 7 schematically shows a cross-sectional view of the lower portion of
the centrifuge bowl shown in Figure 6, in accordance with illustrative embodiments of the
present invention.
                                                11

                         Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments
         [0041] In illustrative embodiments, a continuous flow separation chamber is able to
process and separate whole blood into its various components, and allows for the extraction
of multiple blood components (e.g., red blood cells, plasma, etc.) simultaneously and while
the separation chamber is spinning. In this manner, various embodiments of the present
invention are able to continuously process whole blood and avoid the drawbacks of the
batch/intermittent processes described above.
         [0042] Fig. 1 schematically shows a cross-section of a continuous flow separation
chamber (e.g., a centrifuge bowl 110), in accordance with some embodiments of the present
invention. The bowl 110 has an outer body 120 that defines the structure of the bowl 110 and
an inner volume into which the whole blood may be introduced for processing. The outer
body 120, in turn, includes a main wall 122, a neck portion 126, and shoulder portion 124
that connects the main wall 122 and the neck portion 126. As discussed in greater detail
below, the bowl 110 is rotatable about an axis 130 in order to separate the whole blood into
its various components.
         [0043] Within the interior of the outer body 120, the bowl can include a number of
cores that displace some of the volume within the outer body 120, create separation regions
in which the whole blood separates, and create a number of fluid paths/channels within the
bowl 110. For example, the bowl 110 may include a top core 140 that fills a significant
portion of the inner volume and may be frusto-conical in shape. The top core 140 includes a
top surface 144, a bottom wall 146, and a side wall 142 that extends between the top surface
144 and the bottom wall 146. The side wall 142 may be spaced from the main wall 122 to
create a separation region (e.g., a secondary separation region 115) between the side wall 142
of the top core 140 and the main wall 122 of the outer body 120. Additionally, the top core
140 can have a chimney 148 extending through the center from the top surface 144 to the
bottom wall 146. As discussed in greater detail the chimney 148 may serve as a channel
through which a number of tubes (e.g., an inlet tube and an extraction tube) can pass.
         [0044] The bowl 110 may also include a bottom core 160 (Fig. 2) located below the
top core 130 (e.g., distal to the top core 130). The bottom core 160 may include a bottom
circular wall 162 with an opening 166 extending through it (e.g., near the center of the
circular wall 162). The bottom core 160 may also have a vertical wall 164 that extends
                                                 12

upward (e.g., proximally) from the bottom circular wall 162. As shown in Figure 1 and 2, the
vertical wall 164 is located near the outer diameter of the bottom circular wall 162 and may
extend upwards such that it is radially outward from the side wall 142 of the top core 140.
The annular space between the side wall 142 of the top core 140 and the vertical wall 164
creates a primary separation region 170 in which separation of whole blood begins
(discussed in greater detail below). Although similar, it is important to note that the bottom
core 160 shown in Figure 2 is an alternative embodiment of the bottom core 160 shown in
Figure 1 (e.g., it is thinner than that shown in Figure 1).
         [0045] As best shown within Figure 4, within the neck portion 126 of the outer body
 120, the centrifuge bowl 110 can include a upper skirt 182 and a lower skirt 184 both
extending radially outward from the center of the bowl 110. Together, the upper skirt 182
and the lower skirt 184 can form an effluent skirt 180 through which one or more of the
separated blood components can flow and exit the bowl 110 (e.g., via the second blood
component outlet 230, discussed in greater detail below). To that end, the upper skirt 182 and
the lower skirt 184 may be spaced from one another such that an effluent channel 186 is
formed between the skirts 182/184. The exiting blood component can flow through the
effluent channel 186 to reach the second blood component outlet 230.
         [0046] In order to facilitate the transfer of fluids (e.g., whole blood and blood
components) in and out of the centrifuge bowl 110, the bowl 110 can have an inlet and one
or more outlets. For example, the bowl 110 may include an inlet 190 that may be used to
introduce whole blood into the bowl 110. In many blood processing procedures, it is
desirable to introduce the whole blood into an area near the bottom of the bowl 110. To that
end, some embodiments of the present invention may also include an inlet tube 195 that
extends downward from the inlet 190, through the chimney 148 in the top core 140, and into
an introduction region 200 located between the top core 140 and the bottom core 160.
Additionally, the bottom core 160 (e.g., the circular wall 162) may be spaced from the
bottom 146 of the top core 140 to create a channel 205 extending from the introduction
region 200 to the primary separation region 170. The centrifugal force created by spinning
the bowl 110 may cause the whole blood entering the introduction region 200 to flow
through the channel 205 and into the primary separation region 170.
                                                  13

         [0047] It is important to note that problems can arise if the whole blood or other fluid
introduced into the bowl 110 (e.g., into the introduction region 200) flows back up into the
chimney 148 (e.g., instead of traveling towards the outer diameter of the bowl 110 and into
the separation regions). For example, if this "bypass" occurs while the bowl 110 is being
filled, unseparated red blood cells may flow up the chimney 148, and contaminate the
effluent plasma exiting the bowl 110. If the bypass occurs during a surge step (e.g., to
remove platelets from the bowl 110, discussed in greater detail below), plasma may travel up
the chimney 148 instead of carrying away the platelets. In order to avoid this "bypass" and
isolate the introduction region 200 from the chimney 148 in the top core 130, some
embodiments of the present invention can include a bypass seal 210 (Fig. 3) located between
the outer diameter of the inlet tube 195 and the inner diameter of the chimney 148. The
bypass seal 210 can be a rotary seal to allow the top core 130 (and the bowl 110) to rotate
relative to the inlet tube 195 (which does not rotate during bowl operation).
         [0048] In addition to the inlet 190, the bowl 110 can also include a first blood
component outlet 220 and a second blood component outlet 230. As the name suggests, the
first blood component outlet 220 can be used to remove a first blood component (e.g., red
blood cells) from the bowl 110. Additionally, in a manner similar to the inlet 190, the first
blood component outlet 220 may be fluidly connected to a tube (e.g., a first blood component
extraction tube 225) that extends downward from the first blood component outlet 220,
through the chimney 148, through the opening 166 in the bottom core 160 (e.g., within the
bottom circular wall 162), and into a first blood component extraction region 240 located
below the bottom bore 160 (e.g., between the bottom core 160 and the bottom of the bowl
 110). To prevent leakage past the bottom core 160 (e.g., through opening 166), the bowl 110
can also have a seal 222 (e.g., a rotary seal) between the first blood component extraction
tube 225 and the opening 166. As discussed in greater detail below, a pump can draw the
first blood component out of the first blood component extraction region 240, through the
first blood component extraction tube 225 and out of the first blood component outlet 220.
         [0049] The second blood component outlet 230 may be used to remove the second
blood component (and perhaps a third) from the bowl 110. To that end, the second blood
component outlet 230 may be fluidly connected to the effluent channel 186 through the
effluent skirt 180. Therefore, when the second blood component is pushed towards the neck
                                                 14

portion 126 (e.g., as discussed in greater detail below), the second blood component can flow
through the effluent channel 186 and out of the second blood component outlet 230.
         [0050] As best shown in Figures 1 and 4, the centrifuge bowl 110 may include a
rotary seal 250 that connects the ports (e.g., the inlet 190, first blood component outlet port
220, and second blood component outlet port 230) to the outer body 120 of the bowl 110.
The rotary seal 250 allows the bowl 110 (and the top core 140 and bottom core 160) to spin
while the the inlet 190, first blood component outlet 220, and second blood component outlet
230 remain stationary.
         [0051] It is important to note that in some applications, in order to extract the first
blood component (e.g., red blood cells) from the bowl 110 (e.g., from the first blood
component extraction region 240), a large negative pressure may be required to overcome the
centrifugal force created as the bowl 110 spins. For example, it was discovered that the
radius of the air cylinder defined by the diameter 182 of the effluent skirt 180 (e.g., a
cylinder of air below the effluent skirt 180) drives the negative force required to draw out the
first blood component. In some applications, the pressures required to draw out the first
blood component can be greater than 500 mmHG (P = pgr, where p is the density of the
fluid, g is the centrifugal force and r is the radius of the air cylinder), which is impractical for
any type of available pumping technology.
         [0052] In order to reduce the pressure required to withdraw the first blood
component, some embodiments of the present invention can include a weir disk 260 (Figure
4) that extends radially inward from the bottom of the neck portion 126 of the outer body
 120. The weir disk 260 essentially creates a wall that forces fluid leaving the bowl 110 to a
smaller diameter defined by the inner diameter 262 of the opening 264 through the weir disk
260. In this manner, the weir disk 260 essentially decouples the diameter of the effluent skirt
 180 from the radius of the air cylinder, which, in turn, reduces the radius of the air cylinder
(which is now defined by diameter 262 of the opening 264 in the weir disk 260) and the
pressure required to withdraw the first blood component from the bowl 110.
         [0053] As shown in Figure 4, the weir disk 260 creates a fluid channel 270 between
the weir disk 260 and the top surface 144 of the top core 140. As the bowl 110 fills with
fluid, the fluid will flow through the fluid channel 270 between the weir disk 260 and the top
surface 144 of the top core 140 until it reaches the opening 264 in the weir disk 260. The
                                                  15

fluid may then "roll over" the weir disk 260 (e.g., similar to the overflow of a dam), and fill
the region above the weir disk 260 (e.g., the neck portion 126 of the bowl 110) until it comes
in contact with the effluent skirt 180. The fluid (e.g., the second blood component) may then
be pushed from the bowl 110 into the effluent channel 186 and into the second blood
component outlet 230.
         [0054] During blood processing it is important to know not only how full the bowl
110 is but also the location of the red blood cell/plasma interface within the secondary
separation chamber 115. To that end, some embodiments may include an optical system 280
located on the shoulder 124 of the outer body 120. The optical system 280 may include an
LED (e.g., a red LED) that emits a beam (e.g., approximately 1-2mm in diameter) that
illuminates a small area of the shoulder 124. Additionally, the optical system 280 may also
include an optical sensor that is focused on the illuminated area of the bowl shoulder 280.
         [0055] As the plasma/cell interface encroaches on this illuminated area, the signal
received back at the sensor decreases. The optical system 180 may be in communication
with a control system of the blood processing device, and when the optical system 280
identifies that this signal has decreased by some predetermined amount (e.g. 10%), the
control system may increase the speed of a pump (e.g., a red blood cell pump, discussed in
greater detail below) that is drawing the first blood component out of the bowl by some
predetermined amount (e.g. 5 ml/min). If the reading from the optical sensor continues to
decrease, the control system may continue to increase the speed of the pump. When the
output from the optical sensor begins to plateau and no longer change, the control system
will maintain the speed of the pump. Conversely, if the output signal begins to increase, the
control system will slow down the pump, pushing the interface further in towards the area of
illumination. In this manner, various embodiments of the invention are able to monitor and
control the location of the plasma/cell interface to ensure that the interface remains in the
optimal location within the bowl 110.
         [0056] Figure 5 schematically shows an exemplary blood processing system 510
utilizing the centrifuge bowl 110 described above and shown in Figure 1. Figure 5 will be
discussed in conjunction with an exemplary blood processing method. First, whole blood
may be drawn from source (e.g., a patient, a blood storage bag, etc.), through a draw line
520, and into a storage container (e.g., draw bag 530) using a donor pump 540. During this
                                                 16

draw step, the donor pump 540 may run in a clockwise direction and valves VI and V3 may
be open to allow the whole blood to flow into the draw bag 530, and valves V2 and V4 may
be closed to prevent the whole blood from entering a return line 550. Also, while the whole
blood is being drawn from the source, an anticoagulant pump 560 may draw anticoagulant
through an anticoagulant line 565 from an anticoagulant source (not shown). The
anticoagulant may mix with the drawn whole blood prior to reaching the draw bag 530. In
some embodiments, the draw pump 540 may draw approximately 75-80 mL of whole blood
at approximately 120 mL/min during this initial draw phase.
         [0057] Once the initial draw step has commenced and a sufficient amount of
anticoagulated whole blood is collected in the draw bag 530, a bowl pump 570 may begin to
draw anticoagulated whole blood from the draw bag 530 via line 575. As the bowl pump
570 draws the anticoagulated whole blood from the bag 530, valve V4 may be opened to
allow the anticoagulated whole blood to flow into line 575, and valves V5 and V9 may be
closed to prevent the anticoagulated whole blood from flowing into the plasma bag 580 via
the plasma recirculation line 585 and/or the platelet bag 590 via the platelet line 595. In order
to ensure that a sufficient volume of anticoagulated whole blood remains within the draw bag
530 (e.g., to maintain a continuous flow of anticoagulated whole blood to the bowl 110), the
bowl pump 570 may draw the anticoagulated whole blood from the bag at a rate slower than
that of the donor pump 540. For example, the bowl pump 570 may draw at a rate of 60
mL/min as compared to the donor pump's rate of 120 mL/min. The bowl 110 will continue
to fill until the optical system 280 detects the presence of the plasma/cell interface.
         [0058] As the anticoagulated whole blood enters the bowl 110 through the inlet 190,
it will flow down the inlet tube 195 and into the introduction region 200. Once in the
introduction region 200, the centrifugal forces from the spinning of the bowl 110 will cause
the anticoagulated whole blood to flow through the channel 205 between the top core 140
and bottom core 160 and into the primary separation region 170 (e.g., between the side wall
142 of the top core 140 and the proximally extending wall 164 of the bottom core), where
separation of the anticoagulated whole blood into its individual components (e.g., plasma,
platelets, red blood cells) begins.
     [0059]       As additional anticoagulated whole blood is introduced into the bowl 110, the
whole blood will flow into the secondary separation region 115 where the anticoagulated
                                                 17

whole blood continues to separate. For example, as the whole blood enters the secondary
separation region 115 of the bowl 110, the centrifugal forces cause the heavier cellular
components of the blood to sediment from the lighter plasma component of the blood. This
results in the cell/plasma interface mentioned above. The red blood cells are by far the most
numerous of the cellular components of blood and the most dense, resulting in a layer of
concentrated red blood cells at the outermost diameter of the bowl 110. As filling continues,
the other cellular components of blood begin to become apparent. These cellular
components are primarily platelets, leukocytes and peripheral hematopoietic progenitor stem
cells. These cells may have a range of densities between that of the red blood cells and
plasma. Therefore they tend to sediment in a layer between the red blood cell layer and
plasma layer. As this layer grows, it is visually apparent as a solid white layer which is
known as a buffy coat.
    [0060]      As the bowl 110 continues to fill with whole blood, the red blood cells will
continue to sediment to the outermost diameter, flow over the proximally extending wall 164
on the bottom core 160, and begin to fill the area between the bottom core 160 and the
bottom of the bowl 110. Additionally, the intermediate cells of the buffy coat will continue to
accumulate at the red blood cell / plasma interface, and the plasma interface will move
inward towards the center of the bowl 110. When the bowl 110 is full, the plasma will flow
through the fluid channel 270 between the weir disk 260 and the top surface 144 of the top
core 140, over the weir disk 260, and will exit the bowl 110 via the effluent channel 186 and
the second blood component outlet 230.
    [0061]      As the plasma exits the bowl 110, the majority of the plasma may pass
through line 610, valve V8, line 630 and into a return bag 640. However, a small volume of
plasma (e.g., 175-200 mL over the length of the procedure) may be sequestered within the
plasma bag 580. To sequester this plasma in the plasma bag 580, the operator or the control
system can open valve V7 to allow some of the plasma exiting the bowl 110 to enter line 650
and flow into the plasma bag 580. As discussed in greater detail below, the sequestered
plasma in the plasma bag 580 will be used during a surge elutriation procedure to remove the
platelets from the bowl 110.
    [0062]      As mentioned above, the bowl 110 is a continuous flow bowl that allows the
continuous processing of whole blood without the need to intermittently stop. To that end,
                                                18

various embodiments of the present invention also extract red blood cells from the bowl 110
as additional whole blood is introduced (e.g., while simultaneously extracting plasma). For
example, once the red blood cells have collected under the bottom core 160 (e.g., in the first
blood component extraction region 240), the red blood cell pump 660 can draw red blood
cells inward of the air cylinder diameter (e.g., corresponding to the diameter of the effluent
skirt 180 or the opening 264 through the weir disk 180, if equipped), into the first blood
component extraction region 240, up the first blood component extraction tube 225 and out
of the first blood component outlet 220. As the red blood cells leave the bowl 110, they will
pass through line 670 and into the return bag 640. While the red blood cell pump 660 extracts
the red blood cells, the optical system 280 will monitor the location of the plasma/cell
interface and will control the flow rate of the red blood cell pump 660 to adjust the location
of the interface as necessary (e.g., it will speed up the pump 660 if the sensor output decrease
and slow down the pump 660 if the sensor output increases).
    [0063]       Once the donor pump 540 has drawn a predetermined volume of whole blood
from the source (e.g., 80 mL), the system 510 will stop the draw step and begin to return
some of the blood components (e.g., red blood cells and plasma) that have been collected in
the return bag 640. For example, the system 510 will reverse the direction of the donor pump
540, close valves VI and V3, and open valves V2 and V10. This will cause the donor pump
540 to begin drawing (e.g., at 120 mL/min) the plasma and red blood cells within the return
bag 640 through line 680, valves V1O and V2, through a return line 550 and back to the
source (e.g., back to the patient). This return phase will continue until a predetermine volume
of red blood cells and plasma are returned to the subject, for example, 80 mL. The system
510 may then alternate the draw and return phases until the procedure is complete.
    [0064]       It is important to note that, because this is a continuous system, anticoagulated
whole blood is continuously drawn from the draw bag 530 and into the bowl 110, even
during the return phase. As mentioned above, this can be accomplished by first drawing a
bolus volume of whole blood from the subject, collecting the bolus volume of whole blood
within the draw bag 530, and drawing the whole blood from the draw bag at a slower rate
than the draw and return steps (e.g., the bowl pump 570 draws the anticoagulated whole
blood at 60 mL/min and the donor pump 540 draws the whole blood from the subject and
returns the red blood cells and plasma to the subject at 120 mL/min). Therefore, the draw bag
                                                  19

always has a sufficient volume of anticoagulated whole blood from which the bowl pump
570 can draw.
    [0065]       The whole blood processing may continue until a desired volume of platelets
has accumulated within the bowl 110. When the blood processing is complete, the system
510 may then perform a surge elutriation process using the sequestered plasma in order to
extract the highly concentrated platelet product. For example, the bowl pump 570 can draw
the plasma within the plasma bag 580, through plasma recirculation line 585 and valve V9,
and into the bowl 110 (e.g., via the inlet 190). To elutriate the platelets, the flow rate of
plasma is gradually increased. As the flow rate is increased, the effluent plasma passes
through a line sensor 620 (located on line 610) that monitors the fluid exiting the bowl 110.
At some point in this ramping up of plasma flow rate, the drag force created by the plasma
flow overcomes the centrifugal force caused by the bowl rotation, and the platelets are
carried away from the buffy coat in the flowing plasma. The line sensor 620 may then detect
the presence of cells (e.g., as the fluid exiting the bowl 110 changes from plasma to
platelets), and the system 510 (or the user) can close valve V7 and open valve V6 to allow
the platelets to flow into the platelet line 595 and into the platelet bag 590.
    [0066]       After the elutriation process and after the platelets are collected within the
platelet bag 590, the system 510 may stop the bowl 110 and return the contents of the bowl
 110 to the donor For example, the system 510 may turn on the red blood cell pump 660 to
draw the contents of the bowl 110 into the return bag 640 (via line 670). The donor pump
540 may then draw the contents of the return bag 640 through line 680, and return the
components via the return line 550.
    [0067]       It should be noted that, although the blood processing method discussed above
draws whole blood from and returns the contents of the bowl to a donor, some embodiments
may not draw from and/or return to a donor. Rather, in some embodiments, the whole blood
may be drawn from a whole blood storage container, and the contents of the bowl 110 may
be returned to the whole blood storage container (or a different blood storage container).
    [0068]       It is also important to note that although the centrifuge bowl 110 discussed
above and shown in Figure 1 has a sloped wall 142 on the top core 140 (e.g., it is angled such
that the diameter of the top core 140 increases from the top surface 144 to the bottom 146),
other embodiments can have different configurations. For example, as shown in Figures 6
                                                  20

and 7, some embodiments of the bowl 710 can have a top core 720 with a side wall 722
having a straight section 724 and an angled/sloped section 726. The straight walled section
724 can extend a distance from the bottom 728 of the top core 720 and may be located
radially inward from the proximal wall 164 of the bottom core 160. The primary separation
region 730 may be located between (and defined by) the straight walled section 724 of the
top core 720 and the proximally extending wall 164 of the bottom core 160. The
angled/sloped wall/section 726 can extend from the top of the straight walled portion 724 to
the top surface 740 of the top core 720.
    [0069]      The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be merely
exemplary; numerous variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present
invention as defined in any appended claims.
    [0070]      In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used
in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                 21

What is claimed is:
 1. A centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood comprising:
              an outer body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl, the outer
body having a main body defining an interior cavity, a neck portion extending proximal to
the main body, and a shoulder connecting the main body and the neck portion;
              a top core located within and rotatable with the outer body, the top core being coaxial
with the outer body and including a chimney extending through the top core along the
longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl;
              a separation region located between the top core and the outer body, rotation of the
centrifuge bowl separating the whole blood within the separation region into a first blood
component and a second blood component;
              an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge bowl;
              an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port and
through the chimney, the inlet tube configured to introduce the whole blood into an
introduction region;
              a first blood component outlet port for drawing the first blood component out of the
centrifuge bowl;
              a first blood component extraction tube extending from the first blood component
outlet port to a first blood component extraction region;
              a second blood component outlet port fluidly connected to the separation region and
for drawing a second blood component from the centrifuge bowl;
              a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the outer body and fluidly coupling the inlet
port, first blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to the outer
body; and
              an optical sensor located on the shoulder of the outer body, the optical sensor
configured to monitor an interface between the first blood component and the second blood
component within the separation region, the optical sensor configured to control the
operation of a first blood component pump based upon a location of the interface.
                                                     22
10355826_1 (GHMatters) P99886.AU.1

2. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 1 wherein the first blood component pump is
configured to draw first blood component from the centrifuge bowl.
3. A centrifuge bowl according to either claim 1 or 2, further comprising a bottom core
having a bottom wall and a proximally extending wall, the first blood component extraction
region located between the bottom wall of the bottom core and a bottom of the outer body,
the first blood component extraction region fluidly connecting the first blood component
outlet tube and the separation region.
4. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 3, wherein the first blood component extraction tube
extends through the bottom wall of the bottom core and into the first blood component
extraction region.
5. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 4, further comprising a seal member located between
the first blood component extraction tube and the bottom wall of the bottom core, the seal
member preventing leakage between the first blood component extraction tube and the
bottom core.
6. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the separation
chamber is in fluid communication with the second blood component outlet.
7. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first blood
component is red blood cells and the second blood component is plasma.
8. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
bottom core having a bottom wall and a proximally extending wall extending from the
bottom core near, the proximally extending wall being radially outward from at least a
portion of the top core.
9. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 8, further comprising a primary separation region
defined by the proximally extending wall and at least a portion of the top core.
                                              23

 10. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 9, wherein the primary separation region is fluidly
connected to the secondary separation region.
 11. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 9, further comprising a fluid pathway fluidly
connecting the inlet tube and the primary separation region.
 12. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 11, wherein the fluid pathway extends between a
bottom wall of the top core and an upper surface of the bottom core.
13. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first blood
component extraction tube is coaxial with the inlet tube.
14. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the inlet tube
and first blood component extraction tube extend through the chimney.
15. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 14, further comprising a bypass seal between an
outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the chimney, the bypass seal
isolating the introduction region from the chimney.
16. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 15, wherein the bypass seal is a rotary seal.
17. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
weir disk extending inward from the neck portion of the outer body, the second blood
component flowing over the weir disk into the neck portion of the outer body prior to exiting
the centrifuge bowl via the second blood component outlet port.
18. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 17, further comprising a second blood component
channel defined by a bottom surface of the weir disk and a top surface of the top core, the
second blood component channel fluidly connecting the secondary separation region and the
second blood component outlet port.
                                               24

 19. A centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood comprising:
         an outer body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl;
         a top core located within and rotatable with the outer body, the top core being coaxial
with the outer body and having a chimney extending through the top core along the
longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl;
         a separation region located between the top core and the outer body, rotation of the
centrifuge bowl separating the whole blood within the separation region into a first blood
component and a second blood component;
         an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge bowl;
         an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port and
through the chimney, the inlet tube configured to introduce the whole blood into an
introduction region;
         a bypass seal between an outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the
chimney, the bypass seal isolating the introduction region from the chimney;
         a first blood component outlet port for drawing a first blood component out of the
centrifuge bowl;
         a first blood component extraction tube extending from the first blood component
outlet port to a first blood component extraction region;
         a second blood component outlet port fluidly connected to the separation region and
for drawing a second blood component from the centrifuge bowl;
         a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the outer body and fluidly coupling the inlet
port, first blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to the outer
body.
20. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 19, further comprising a bottom core located within
and rotatable with the outer body, the bottom core located between a bottom of the outer
body and the top core, the first blood component extraction region located between the
bottom wall of the bottom core and the bottom of the outer body, the first blood component
                                                25

extraction region fluidly connecting the first blood component outlet tube and the separation
region.
21. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 20, wherein the first blood component extraction
tube extends through the bottom core.
22. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 21, further comprising a seal member located
between the first blood component extraction tube and the bottom core, the seal member
preventing leakage between the first blood component extraction tube and the bottom core.
23. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 22, wherein the separation region
is in fluid communication with the second blood component outlet.
24. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 23, wherein the bypass seal is a
rotary seal.
25. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 24, further comprising an optical
sensor located on a shoulder of the outer body, the optical sensor configured to monitor an
interface between the first blood component and the second blood component within the
separation region, the optical sensor configured to control the operation of a first blood
component pump based upon a location of the interface.
26. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 25, wherein the first blood component pump is
configured to draw the first blood component from the centrifuge bowl.
27. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 26, wherein the first blood
component is red blood cells and the second blood component is plasma.
28. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 27, further comprising a weir
disk extending inward from a neck portion of the outer body, the second blood component
                                                26

flowing over the weir disk into the neck portion of the outer body prior to exiting the
centrifuge bowl via the second blood component outlet port.
29. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 28, further comprising a second blood component
channel defined by a bottom surface of the weir disk and a top surface of the top core, the
second blood component channel fluidly connecting the separation region and the second
blood component outlet port.
30. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 29, further comprising a bottom
core having a bottom wall and a proximally extending wall extending from the bottom core,
the proximally extending wall being radially outward from at least a portion of the top core.
31. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 30, further comprising a primary separation region
defined by the proximally extending wall and at least a portion of the top core.
32. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 31, wherein the primary separation region is fluidly
connected to the secondary separation region.
33. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 31, further comprising a fluid pathway fluidly
connecting the inlet tube and the primary separation region.
34. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 33, wherein the fluid pathway extends between a
bottom wall of the top core and an upper surface of the bottom core.
35. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 30, further comprising a first blood component
extraction region located between the bottom wall of the bottom core and a bottom of the
outer body, the first blood component extraction region fluidly connecting the first blood
component outlet tube and the separation region, wherein the proximally extending wall
prevents whole blood from entering the first blood component extraction region.
                                              27

36. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 30, wherein the introduction region is located
between the top core and the bottom core.
37. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 19 to 36, wherein the first blood
component extraction tube is coaxial with the inlet tube.
38. A centrifuge bowl for continuous separation of whole blood into a first blood component
and a second blood component comprising:
         an outer body rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the centrifuge bowl;
         a top core located within and rotatable with the outer body, the top core being coaxial
with the outer body;
         a bottom core having a bottom wall and a proximally extending wall extending from
the bottom wall, the proximally extending wall being radially outward from at least a portion
of the top core;
         a primary separation region defined by the proximally extending wall and at least a
portion of the top core, separation of the whole blood into the first and second blood
components beginning in the primary separation region;
         a secondary separation region located between the top core and the outer body
         an inlet port for introducing whole blood into the centrifuge bowl;
         an inlet tube fluidly connected to and extending distally from the inlet port, the inlet
tube configured to introduce the whole blood into an introduction region;
         a first blood component outlet port for drawing a first blood component out of the
centrifuge bowl;
         a first blood component extraction tube extending from the first blood component
outlet port to a first blood component extraction region;
         a second blood component outlet port fluidly connected to the secondary separation
region and for drawing a second blood component from the centrifuge bowl;
         a centrifuge bowl rotary seal attached to the outer body and coupling the inlet port,
first blood component outlet port, and second blood component outlet port to the outer body.
                                                28

39. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 38, wherein the primary separation region is fluidly
connected to the secondary separation region.
40. A centrifuge bowl according to either claim 38 or 39, wherein the first blood component
extraction region is located between the bottom wall of the bottom core and a bottom of the
outer body, the first blood component extraction tube extending through the bottom core and
into the first blood component extraction region.
41. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 40, further comprising a seal member located
between the first blood component extraction tube and the bottom core.
42. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 41, further comprising a fluid
pathway fluidly connecting the inlet tube and the primary separation region.
43. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 42, wherein the fluid pathway extends from the
introduction region to the primary separation region between a bottom wall of the top core
and an upper surface of the bottom core.
44. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 43, wherein the proximally
extending wall is configured to prevent whole blood from entering the first blood component
extraction region.
45. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 44, wherein the introduction
region is located between the top core and the bottom core.
46. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 45, wherein the top core includes
a chimney extending through the top core along the longitudinal axis of the centrifugal bowl,
the inlet tube and first blood component extraction tube extending through the chimney.
                                              29

47. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 46, further comprising a bypass seal between an
outer diameter of the inlet tube and an inner diameter of the chimney, the bypass seal
isolating the introduction region from the chimney.
48. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 47, wherein the bypass seal is a rotary seal.
49. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 48, further comprising an optical
sensor located on a shoulder of the outer body, the optical sensor configured to monitor an
interface between the first blood component and the second blood component, the optical
sensor controlling operation of a first blood component pump based upon a location of the
interface, the first blood component pump configured to draw the first blood component from
the bowl.
50. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 49, wherein the first blood
component is red blood cells and the second blood component is plasma.
51. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 50, further comprising a weir
disk extending inward from a neck portion of the outer body, the second blood component
flowing over the weir disk into the neck portion of the outer body prior to exiting the
centrifuge bowl via the second blood component outlet port.
52. A centrifuge bowl according to claim 51, further comprising a second blood component
channel defined by a bottom surface of the weir disk and a top surface of the top core, the
second blood component channel fluidly connecting the secondary separation region and the
second blood component outlet port.
53. A centrifuge bowl according to any one of claims 38 to 52, wherein the first blood
component extraction tube is coaxial with the inlet tube.
                                               30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
