                                          Abstract
A nebulizer dispenser that reduces the amount of the aerosolized medication that is
not delivered to the patient, comprising:
A nebulizer chamber having an interior volume configured to retain a medication; an
inlet configured to receive a first flow of gas into the interior volume, the inlet
comprising an entrainment passage configured to entrain the first flow of gas;
an outlet configured to direct the first flow of gas and the medication out of the
interior volume;
an opening from the interior volume to an ambient environment; and a first baffle
within the interior volume; wherein, in a first configuration, the first flow of gas is
directed by the first baffle to mix with a second flow of gas from the opening into the
interior volume, and the mixture of the first and second flow of gas is directed from
the interior volume through the outlet, and in a second configuration, an increase in a
pressure from the outlet into the interior volume causes the mixture of the first and
second flow of gas within the interior volume to be displaced, by the first flow of gas,
and move from the interior volume through the opening.

                   NEBULIZER MOUTHPIECE FOR REDUCING DRUG LOSS
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2013363364, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
Field
 [0001]      The present invention generally relates to nebulizers and, in particular, to the
breathing devices used with a nebulizer dispenser.
Description of the Related Art
 10002]      Medications for certain respiratory conditions, such as asthma and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), are often administered as an inhaled aerosol to improve delivery of
the medication to the lungs. A nebulizer, also referred to as a "nebuliser," is a medical device
which uses mechanical energy to transform a liquid medication into an aerosol. A nebulizer may
 use compressed gas forced through a nozzle to break up the liquid medication into tiny globules
or may use ultrasonic or vibrating-mesh mechanisms to mechanically generate the tiny globules
of liquid medication, thereby forming an aerosol mist.
 [00031      Nebulizers are available in various sizes, including tabletop units that are plugged
 into an electrical outlet, such as shown in FIG. 1. The aerosol mist is delivered to the patient
through a breathing element such as a mask, a nasal piece, or a mouthpiece that fits into the
 mouth.
 [0004]       Conventional designs for nebulizer dispensers produce a continuous flow of the
 aerosol mist irrespective of whether the patient is inhaling, exhaling, or not breathing on the
 device at all. One problem with conventional designs is that the aerosolized medication is only
 delivered to the patient while the patient is inhaling through the breathing device, with the
 aerosol mist that is generated while the patient is exhaling or not breathing through the device
 being lost to the ambient atmosphere.
                                              SUMMARY
 [00051       The disclosed nebulizer dispenser reduces the amount of the aerosolized medication
 that is not delivered to the patient.
                                                   -I-

[0006]      A breathing element is disclosed here that reduces the amount of aerosolized
medication that is lost during exhalation by the patient. The breathing element includes an
inhalation tube adapted to be held in a patient's mouth such that the patient breathes through the
breathing element. Aerosolized medication is carried in a flow of gas provided through a
medicine input tube from a nebulizer chamber that contains a liquid medication and aerosolizes
the liquid medication. The breathing element also includes an internal baffle at the inner end of
the medicine input tube that directs the flow of the aerosolized medication toward the inhalation
tube during an inhalation by the patient. During an exhalation by the patient, the baffle redirects
a portion of the exhaled gas into the medicine input tube, thereby slowing the flow rate of the gas
carrying the aerosolized medication during the exhalation.
[0007]      In certain embodiments, a method for reducing a loss of medication from a nebulizer
is disclosed. The method includes the steps of entraining a liquid medication into a first flow of
a pressurized gas into an interior volume of a nebulizer chamber, and entraining an additional
amount of the liquid medication into a second flow of ambient air into the interior volume
through an opening when a patient inhales through the nebulizer chamber such that the patient
receives a mixture of the first flow of gas and the second flow of ambient air. The mixture flows
out of the interior volume to the patient through an outlet in a first direction. The method also
includes the step of directing, when the patient exhales, a portion of an exhaled breath of the
patient into the outlet in a second direction opposite to the first direction, thereby increasing a
backpressure within the outlet and substantially stopping the second flow of ambient air into the
interior volume, thereby decreasing the amount of medication lost to the ambient environment
while the patient is not inhaling.
 [0008]     In certain embodiments, a breathing element is disclosed that includes a body
comprising a first passage having a first external opening and a first internal end, a shaped baffle
disposed within the body and coupled to the internal end of the first passage, a breathing piece
coupled to the body and comprising a second passage having a second external opening and a
second internal end that is fluidly coupled to the first internal end of the first passage through the
shaped baffle, and an exhaust piece coupled to the body and comprising a third passage having a
third external opening and a third internal end that is fluidly coupled to the second internal end of
the second passage.
                                                  -2-

10009]       In certain embodiments, a nebulizer dispenser is disclosed that includes a nebulizer
chamber configured to accept a quantity of a liquid medication and a flow of a gas, aerosolize the
liquid medication, and provide a first flow of gas carrying the aerosolized medication. The
dispenser also includes a breathing element configured to be coupled to the nebulizer chamber.
The breathing element includes a body comprising a first passage having a first external opening
and a first internal end. The first passage is configured to accept the first flow of gas from the
nebulizer chamber through the first external opening. The breathing element also includes a
shaped baffle disposed within the body and coupled to the internal end of the first passage, a
breathing piece coupled to the body and comprising a second passage having a second external
opening and a second internal end that is fluidly coupled to the first internal end of the first
passage through the shaped baffle, and an exhaust piece coupled to the body and comprising a
third passage having a third external opening and a third internal end that is fluidly coupled to
the second internal end of the second passage.
[0010]       In certain embodiments, a breathing element is disclosed that includes an inhalation
tube, an exhaust tube, a medicine input tube configured to accept a flow of a gas, and a baffle
with a first opening fluidically coupled to the medicine input tube and a second opening
fluidically coupled to the inhalation tube and the exhaust tube. The baffle provides a free flow of
the gas from the medicine input tube to the inhalation tube during an inhalation by a patient
through the inhalation tube and redirects a portion of the gas exhaled by the patient through the
inhalation tube into the medicine input tube.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0011]      The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide further understanding
and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate disclosed
embodiments and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the disclosed
embodiments. In the drawings:
 [00121      FIG. I depicts a nebulizer system according to certain aspects of the present
disclosure.
                                                  -3-

[0013]       FIG. 2 depicts a nebulizer dispenser according to certain aspects of the present
disclosure.
[0014]       FIG. 3 depicts an exemplary embodiment of a breathing element according to certain
aspects of the present disclosure.
[0015]       FIG. 4A is a cutaway view of a portion of the breathing element of FIG. 3 showing an
example baffle according to certain aspects of the present disclosure.
[0016]       FIGS. 4B-4C are cross-sections of the breathing element of FIG. 3 showing the
directions of flow according to certain aspects of the present disclosure.
[0017]       FIG. 5A is a cutaway view of another embodiment of a breathing element according
to certain aspects of the present disclosure.
[0018]       FIG. 5B is a cross-section of the breathing element of FIG. 5A according to certain
aspects of the present disclosure.
[00191       FIG. 6 is a chart showing the output flow rates of an example embodiment of a
nebulizer dispenser according to certain aspects of the present disclosure.
[0020]       FIG. 7 is an example embodiment of a nebulizer chamber according to certain aspects
of the present disclosure.
[0021]       FIG. 8 is another embodiment of a shaped baffle according to certain aspects of the
present disclosure.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0022]       The disclosed nebulizer dispenser reduces the amount of the aerosolized medication
that is not delivered to the patient. In certain embodiments, the nebulizer dispenser includes a
shaped flow diverter that diverts a portion of the patient's exhaled gas into the passage through
which the flow of aerosolized medication is provided by the medication cup, thereby causing an
accumulation of the aerosolized medication within the passage and reducing the amount of
aerosolized medication lost during the exhalation.
                                                  -4-

[00231       The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various
configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations
in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated
herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific
details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology.
However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology may be
practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known structures and
components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the
subject technology. Like components are labeled with identical element numbers for ease of
understanding.
[0024]       FIG. I depicts a nebulizer system according to certain aspects of the present
disclosure. The system 10 includes a dispenser 100 connected through tubing 50 to a separate
source 40 of pressurized air. The source 40 typically includes an air compressor (not visible in
FIG. 1) that compresses ambient air to provide the pressurized air. In a healthcare facility, the
pressurized air may be available from a wall fixture (not shown in FIG. 1) and, in this situation,
the tubing 50 may be connected to the wall fixture rather than the source 40. Nebulizers may
also operate using other gases in place of pure air, for example commercially pure oxygen as
typically provided in a healthcare facility, oxygen-enriched air, a helium-oxygen mixture such as
heliox, or any other mixture of gases suitable for breathing. In certain embodiments, the
dispenser 100 may be integrated into a self-contained handheld nebulizer (not shown in FIG. 1)
that includes a power source, such as a battery, and a source of compressed air, such as an air
pump.
[0025]       FIG. 2 depicts a nebulizer dispenser 100 according to certain aspects of the present
disclosure. The dispenser 100 includes, in this embodiment, a breathing element 1 10 that is
connected through a ball-and-socket joint 160 to an adapter 162 that is then connected to a
nebulizer chamber 164, also referred to as a "medicine cup." In certain embodiments, the
adapter 162 is integrated with the nebulizer chamber 164. Details of the ball-and-socket 160 are
described in a related application, docket no. 080625-0292, filed on the same day as this
application and incorporated in its entirely by reference. However, although a ball-and
                                                  -5-

socket 160 are depicted herein, conventional arrangements for connecting a breathing element to
a nebulizer chamber 164.
[0026]      A liquid medication, or other therapeutic liquid, is introduced into the nebulizer
chamber 164 and a source of compressed gas (not shown in FIG. 2), delivered via tubing 50, is
connected to an inlet 166 of the nebulizer chamber 164. The pressurized gas entering the
nebulizer chamber 164 entrains the liquid medication and disperses the entrained liquid
medication as flow of an aerosolized mist that is delivered through the breathing element 110 to
the patient. In certain embodiments, the nebulizer chamber 164 may include a venturi (not
visible in FIG. 2) to aid in the entrainment of the liquid medication. In certain embodiments, the
nebulizer chamber 164 may include a mechanism (not visible in FIG. 2) to mechanically
generate droplets of the liquid medication. In certain embodiments, the nebulizer chamber 164
may include other devices and systems to aerosolize the liquid medication and provide the
aerosolized medication as part of a gas flow provided to the breathing element I 10.
[00271       FIG. 3 depicts an exemplary embodiment of a breathing element 110 according to
certain aspects of the present disclosure. The example embodiment shown in FIG. 3 has a body
portion 112 integrally formed with a breathing piece 114 and an exhaust piece 118. The
breathing piece 114 is arranged to be placed in the mouth of a patient such that a flow of gas
through the passage 116 will enter the patient's mouth. The exhaust piece 118 has a passage 120
having an interior end that is coupled to an interior end of the passage 116, and exhaled gas
passes from passage 116 through passage 120 to the ambient atmosphere. The flow paths
through the breathing element 110 are discussed in greater detail with respect to FIGS. 4B and
4C. In this embodiment, a ball 122 is coupled to the body portion 112 and is configured to form
a part of the ball-and-socket joint 140. In certain embodiments, one or both of the breathing
piece 114 and the exhaust piece 118 may be separately formed and coupled, either permanently
or removably, to the body portion 112. It should be noted that the disclosed breathing
element 110 may be formed as a single piece or as multiple pieces that are then assembled to
provide the same features without departing from the scope of this disclosure.
 [0028]      FIG. 4A is a cutaway view of a portion of the breathing element 110 of FIG. 3
showing an example baffle 130 according to certain aspects of the present disclosure. The
                                                  -6-

shaped baffle 130 is coupled between the interior ends of passages 116 and 124 and that, in this
embodiment, has the general shape of a truncated cone. In certain other embodiments, the
shaped baffle 130 may have the general shape of a cylinder, as shown in FIG. 8. In certain
embodiments, the baffle 130 is disposed within the body 112 and may protrude into the
passage 116. The baffle 130 may have a sloped top plane 132.
10029]      FIGS. 4B-4C are cross-sections of the breathing element I10 of FIG. 3 showing the
directions of flow according to certain aspects of the present disclosure. FIG. 4B depicts the
flow of the aerosolized medication during an inhalation by the patient. An interior end of
passage 116 is coupled to an interior end of a passage 124 and an interior end of passage 120 is
coupled to the interior end of a passage 116. As the patient inhales, the pressure within the
passage 116 is reduced while, at the same time, the delivery of the pressurized gas flow carrying
the aerosolized medication raises the pressure, relative to ambient air pressure, within the
passage 124 within the ball 122. This pressure gradient causes the delivered aerosolized
medication to flow generally entirely from the passage 124 to the passage 116, as indicated by
the arrow "A," and therethrough to the patient. In certain embodiments, there are no other flow
control elements, e.g. a flapper or other one-way valve, included in any of the passages 116, 120,
and 124.
10030]      The sloped top plane 132 of baffle 130 may be formed at an angle 134 relative to a
reference axis 140. In general, the angle 134 may be in the range of 0-90' with respect to the
reference axis 140. In certain embodiments, the angle 134 may be in the range of 2-45' and, in
certain embodiments, the angle 134 may be in the range of 15-300. The baffle creates a partial
blockage of the connection between the passage 120 of the exhaust piece 118 and the
passage 116. As the pressure within the passage 120 is at atmospheric pressure, and therefore
above the pressure in passage 116 during inhalation, there may be a relatively small flow of
ambient air through the passage 120 into passage 116 during inhalation. The combination of the
baffle 130 and the higher pressure within the passage 124, compared to ambient air pressure,
may tend to induce a preferential flow to the passage 116 from the passage 124 rather than from
passage 120. It should be noted that a similar baffle 130 may be provided in other types of
breathing elements, such as masks, with similar effect and benefit.
                                                 -7-

[0031]       FIG. 4C shows the gas flow during an exhalation by the patient. The patient blows
the exhaled gas at a slightly elevated pressure, compared to ambient pressure, into passage 116,
as indicated by arrow "B." A portion of the exhaled gas flow may be diverted toward the
passage 124 by the baffle 130, as indicated by arrow "D," while the remainder of the gas flow
will flow out through the passage 120 to the ambient atmosphere, as indicated by arrow "C."
During exhalation, the nebulizer body 164 is still providing a flow of pressurized gas carrying
the aerosolized medication into the bottom of passage 124 and any aerosolized medication that
enters the passage 1 16 will be diverted out through the passage 120 and wasted. However, the
flow "D" of the exhaled gas flow into the top of the passage 124 creates an increase in the
pressure within the passage 124, compared to what the pressure would be during exhalation
within passage 124 if there was no baffle 130. Accordingly, with baffle 130, the flow rate of the
aerosolized medication from the passage 124 into the passage 116 during exhalation is reduced.
 [0032]      The increased pressure within the passage 124 and the upstream flow path from the
nebulizer chamber 164 effectively accumulates some of the aerosolized medication that would
have otherwise been wasted. After the patient completes an exhalation and starts the next
 inhalation, the increased pressure within the passage 124 will cause a slight surge in the flow rate
from the passage 124 into the passage 116 and deliver this accumulated medication to the
patient. Thus, a portion of the aerosolized medication that would have been lost to the ambient
atmosphere in a conventional breathing element will be accumulated and delivered to the patient
by the disclosed breathing element I 10.
 [0033]      FIG. 5A is a cutaway view of another embodiment 200 of a breathing element
according to certain aspects of the present disclosure. In this embodiment, the shaped baffle 230
 is provided as a generally spherical half-dome 232 with an open side 234 facing toward the
passage 216. In certain embodiments, there are no other flow control elements, e.g. a flapper or
other one-way valve, included in the passages 216 and 220 or other gas flow passages within the
 breathing element 200.
 [0034]      FIG. 5B is a cross-section of the breathing element 200 of FIG. 5A according to
certain aspects of the present disclosure. The open side 234 of the half-dome 232 is seen in
profile, with the remainder of the opening of the passage 224 into the passage 216 having a top
                                                  -8-

plane 236 that, in certain embodiments, is parallel to an axis 240. In certain embodiments, the
top plane 236 may have an angle, similar to the angle 134 of FIG. 4B, in the range of 45-90'
with respect to the reference axis 240. The vertical open face 234 is effective at diverting a
portion of an exhaled breath into the passage 224, thereby causing an increased backpressure
within the passage 224 and may accumulate an increased amount of aerosolized medication,
compared to the embodiments I10 with small angles 134. In certain embodiments, the open
face 234 may be provided at an angle other than vertical. It should be noted that a similar half
dome baffle 230 may be provided in other types of breathing elements, such as masks, with
similar effect and benefit.
 [0035]      It should be noted that the shape and configuration of the baffle 130, 230 may be of
any shape. e.g. round, oval, rectangular, and such, and may include multiple half-domes or
similar shells or a plurality of sub-passages through the baffle that connect the passages 116 and
 124. In certain embodiments, the baffle 130, 230 may be at least partially disposed within the
passage 124. The passages 116, 120, and 124 and baffle 130, 230 can be arranged in any
configuration wherein a patient may inhale a gas provided at an external opening of passage 124
through an external opening of passage 16 and then exhale through the same external opening
of passage 116 and have the exhaled gas pass through an external opening of passage 120.
 [0036]      FIG. 6 is a chart 300 showing the output flow rates of an example embodiment of a
 nebulizer dispenser according to certain aspects of the present disclosure. The flow rates of the
 gas flow from the nebulizer chamber 164 into several embodiments of breathing elements
 according to this disclosure were measured during inhalation and exhalation. The embodiments
that were measured were embodiments 110 as shown in FIG. 4B with angles 134 of 2', 15', and
 30', and an embodiment 200 as shown in FIG. 5B with a domed baffle 230. The curve 302 of
the flow rates during inhalation are above the curve 304 of the flow rates during exhalation for
 all embodiments. The difference between the inhalation and exhalation flow rates ranged from
 16% for the embodiment 110 with an angle of 2' to 40% for the domed embodiment 200.
 [00371      FIG. 7 is an example embodiment of a nebulizer chamber 400 according to certain
 aspects of the present disclosure. The nebulizer chamber 400 includes an opening 440 from the
 ambient environment into the interior volume 401 that contains the medication 430. A flow 410
                                                  -9-

of pressurized gas enters the inlet 406 and entrains the liquid medication 430 as the flow 410
passes up the tubular projection 403 (the entrainment passages of the tubular projection 403 have
been omitted for clarity). There is a baffle 408 that deflects the medication-laden air flow 410
into the interior volume 401 and prevents the air flow that emerges from the tubular
projection 403 from flowing directly out of the outlet 404.
10038]       During an inhalation cycle, a flow 420 of ambient air is drawn in through the
opening 440 and then both the pressurized air flow 410 and ambient air flow 420 mix as they
flow through the interior volume 401 as indicated by arrows 412 and 422 and then exit through
outlet 404 into a breathing element (not shown in FIG. 7). This embodiment of the nebulizer
chamber 400 provides a higher air flow to the patient than is provided by the pressurized air
flow 410. As anon-limiting example provided for illustrative purposes, the flow 410 of
pressurized air may be constant at 10 standard cubic feet per minute (std cfm). During an
inhalation cycle, the flow 420 of ambient air may reach a peak value of 8 std cfm, with the
patient inhaling 18 std cfm of the mixture of flows 410 and 420. The air flow 420 decreases and
may drop to zero or may even reverse direction during an exhalation cycle. Thus, the patient
receives a flow of diluted medication-laden gas, being the sum of flows 414 and 424, that is
greater than the flow of medication-laden gas 410 that is provided when the patient is exhaling.
[0039]       During exhalation there is an increase in backpressure within the outlet 404, induced
by the diversion within the breathing element of the patient's exhaled breath into the outlet 404,
as previously discussed. As the air flow 420 during the prior inhalation cycle diluted the
concentration of the entrained medication in the gas within the interior volume 401, the
continued flow 410 of medication-laden gas into the interior volume 401 will tend to displace the
diluted gas out of the outlet 404 and also out of the opening 440. As this displaced diluted gas is
lost, while the newly introduced medication-laden gas flow 410 tends to be retained within the
interior volume 401, the net result is an increase in the amount of entrained medication in the gas
within the interior volume 401 and a reduction in the amount of medication lost to the ambient
environment.
 [0040]      FIG. 8 is another embodiment of a shaped baffle 500 according to certain aspects of
the present disclosure. This embodiment shares many features of the embodiment of FIG. 4B
                                                 -10-

and like features are not described again. In this embodiment, the shaped baffle 500 has a
generally cylindrical form and a top plane 502 that is parallel to the reference axis 140. In
certain embodiments, this generally cylindrical form may be combined with the half-dome 232
of FIG. 5B or a sloped top surface 132 as shown in FIG. 4B without departing from the scope of
this disclosure.
[0041]        The disclosed examples of nebulizer breathing elements provide a decrease in the
amount of aerosolized medication that is lost to the ambient atmosphere and, therefore, an
increase in the fraction of a dose of the liquid medication that is delivered to the patient in
aerosol form. The internal baffle diverts a portion of the exhaled gas into the passage through
which the aerosolized medication enters the breathing element, thereby causing some of the
aerosolized medication to accumulate within the breathing element during the exhalation and
delivering this accumulated medication to the patient during a subsequent inhalation. This
 increase in the fraction of the liquid medication that is delivered to the patient may allow a
reduction in the amount of liquid medication prescribed for each treatment as well as shortening
the treatment time to deliver a certain amount of the medication to the patient in aerosolized
 form. This shaped baffle may be incorporated into any breathing element, such as a mask, to
provide a similar benefit.
 [0042]       This application includes description that is provided to enable a person of ordinary
 skill in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. While the foregoing has
 described what are considered to be the best mode and/or other examples, it is understood that
various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the
 generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. It is understood that the
 specific order or hierarchy of steps or blocks in the processes disclosed is an illustration of
 exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences, it is understood that the specific order or
 hierarchy of steps or blocks in the processes may be rearranged. The accompanying method
 claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order, and are not meant to be limited to
 the specific order or hierarchy presented. Thus, the claims are not intended to be limited to the
 aspects shown herein, but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims.
                                                    -11-

[00431       Reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean "one and only one"
unless specifically so stated, but rather "one or more." Use of the articles "a" and "an" is to be
interpreted as equivalent to the phrase "at least one." Unless specifically stated otherwise, the
terms "a set" and "some" refer to one or more.
[0044]       Terms such as "top," "bottom," "upper," "lower," "left," "right," "front," "rear" and
the like as used in this disclosure should be understood as referring to an arbitrary frame of
reference, rather than to the ordinary gravitational frame of reference. Thus, a top surface, a
bottom surface, a front surface, and a rear surface may extend upwardly, downwardly,
diagonally, or horizontally in a gravitational frame of reference.
[0045]       Although the relationships among various components are described herein and/or are
illustrated as being orthogonal or perpendicular, those components can be arranged in other
configurations in some embodiments. For example, the angles formed between the referenced
components can be greater or less than 90 degrees in some embodiments.
 [00461      Although various components are illustrated as being flat and/or straight, those
components can have other configurations, such as curved or tapered for example, in some
embodiments.
 [0047]      Pronouns in the masculine (e.g., his) include the feminine and neuter gender (e.g., her
and its) and vice versa. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various
aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of
ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be
encompassed by the claims. Moreover, nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to
the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim
 element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. §112, sixth paragraph, unless the
 element is expressly recited using the phrase "means for" or, in the case of a method claim, the
 element is recited using the phrase "operation for."
 100481      A phrase such as an "aspect" does not imply that such aspect is essential to the
 subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A
 disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations, or one or more configurations. A
                                                  -12-

phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an
"embodiment" does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that
such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to
an embodiment may apply to all embodiments, or one or more embodiments. A phrase such as
an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa.
[0049]        The word "exemplary" is used herein to mean "serving as an example or illustration."
Any aspect or design described herein as "exemplary" is not necessarily to be construed as
preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.
[00501        All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects
described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of
ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be
encompassed by the claims. Moreover, nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to
the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim
element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 112, sixth paragraph, unless the
element is expressly recited using the phrase "means for" or, in the case of a method claim, the
element is recited using the phrase "step for." Furthermore, to the extent that the term "include,"
"have," or the like is used in the description or the claims, such term is intended to be inclusive
in a manner similar to the term "comprise" as "comprise" is interpreted when employed as a
transitional word in a claim.
[00511        Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described and illustrated
in detail, it is to be clearly understood that the same is by way of illustration and example only
and is not to be taken by way of limitation, the scope of the present invention being limited only
by the terms of the appended claims.
                                                   -13-

Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise"
or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or
method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of
elements or integers or method steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16414400_l.docx-6 02/2018
CLAIMS:
 1.               A nebulizer dispenser comprising:
                  nebulizer chamber having an interior volume configured to retain a medication;
                  an inlet configured to receive a first flow of gas into the interior volume, the inlet
comprising an entrainment passage configured to entrain the first flow of gas;
                  an outlet configured to direct the first flow of gas and the medication out of the
interior volume;
                  an opening from the interior volume to an ambient environment; and
                  a first baffle within the interior volume;
                  wherein, in a first configuration, the first flow of gas is directed by the first baffle
to mix with a second flow of gas from the opening into the interior volume, and the
mixture of the first and second flow of gas is directed from the interior volume through the
outlet, and in a second configuration, an increase in a pressure from the outlet into the
interior volume causes the mixture of the first and second flow of gas within the interior
volume to be displaced, by the first flow of gas, and move from the interior volume
through the opening.
2.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the first flow of gas is a pressurized
gas.
3.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the second flow of gas is ambient air
drawn through the opening into the interior volume.
4.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the inlet comprises a tubular
projection that extends into the interior volume toward the first baffle.
5.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 4, wherein the entrainment passage permits the
first flow of gas to entrains the medication as the first flow of gas moves through the
tubular projection.
                                                              - 15 -

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16414400_l.docx-6 02 2018
6.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 4, wherein the first baffle is configured to prevent
the first flow of gas, emerging from the tubular projection, from flowing directly through
the outlet.
7.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the first baffle extends from the outlet
into the interior volume.
8.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the first flow of gas is directed into the
interior volume at 10 standard cubic feet per minute.
9.                The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the outlet comprises a second baffle,
and wherein the second baffle is a partial-dome.
 10.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein the medication is a liquid medication.
 11.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 1, wherein a breathing element is coupled to the
outlet, the breathing element comprising:
                  a body having a first passage coupled to the outlet and a first internal end;
                  a second baffle disposed within the body and coupled to the first internal end; and
                  a breathing piece coupled to the body and comprising a second passage having a
second external opening and a second internal end that is fluidly coupled to the first
internal end of the first passage through the second baffle;
                  wherein the second baffle is configured to divert a portion of a flow of gas entering
the second external opening into the first passage to increase pressure within the outlet in
the second configuration.
 12.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 11, wherein second baffle is a partial-dome that
protrudes into the second passage.
                                                              - 16 -

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16414400_l.docx-6 02 2018
 13.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 12, wherein the partial-dome comprises an open
side that generally faces toward the second passage.
 14.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 11, wherein an exhaust piece is coupled to the
body, the exhaust piece comprising a third passage having a third external opening and a
third internal end that is fluidly coupled to the second internal end of the second passage.
 15.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 14 wherein the second baffle is configured to
permit another portion of a flow of gas entering the second external opening toward the
third external opening.
 16.              The nebulizer dispenser of Claim 11, wherein the second baffle is configured to
direct the first and second flow of gas toward the second external opening in the first
configuration.
                                                              - 17 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
