                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention relates generally to the field of generating recombinant chimeric fusion
proteins to be used in the cancer therapy, and more specifically, to fusion molecules of Anti
EGFR1-TGFORII, Anti-EGFR1-PD1 and Anti-CTLA4-PD1 and methods of generating same,
wherein the methods reduce production costs and increase homogeneity of the recombinant
chimeric fusion proteins.

  FUSION IMMUNOMODULATORY PROTEINS AND METHODS FOR MAKING SAME
                     CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[001]   The present application is a divisional of and claims priority to Australian application
2014249405, which is incorporated in full by reference. Accordingly, this application also claims
the priority of International Patent Application No. PCT/US2014/022404 filed on March 10,
2014 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/777,016 filed
on March 12, 2013 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein for all
purposes.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[002]     Technical Field
[003]     The present invention relates generally to the field of generating recombinant chimeric
fusion proteins to be used in the cancer therapy, and more specifically, to fusion molecules of
Anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII, Anti-EGFR1-PD1 and Anti-CTLA4-PD1 and methods of generating
same, wherein the methods reduce production costs and increase homogeneity of the
recombinant chimeric fusion proteins.
[004]     Related Art
[005]     In spite of numerous advances in medical research, cancer remains the second leading
cause of death in the United States. Traditional modes of clinical care, such as surgical resection,
radiotherapy and chemotherapy, have a significant failure rate, especially for solid tumors.
Failure occurs either because the initial tumor is unresponsive, or because of recurrence due to
regrowth at the original site or metastasis. Cancer remains a central focus for medical research
and development.
                                                 1

[006]      Immunotherapy of cancer has been explored for over a century, but it is only in the last
decade that various antibody-based products have been introduced into the management of
patients with diverse forms of cancer. At present, this is one of the most active areas of clinical
research, with numerous antibody therapeutic products already approved in oncology.
[007]      Using specific antibodies as therapeutic agents offers advantages over the non-targeted
therapies such as systemic chemotherapy via oral or intravenous administration of drugs or
radiation therapy. There are two types of antibody-based therapies. The more common type is
to identify a tumor antigen (i.e., a protein expressed on tumors and cancer cells and not in normal
tissues) and develop an antibody, preferably a monoclonal antibody (mAb) directed to the tumor
antigen.    One can then conjugate any therapeutic agent, such as a chemotherapeutic agent, a
radionuclide, modified toxin, etc., to this antibody to achieve targeted therapy by the therapeutic
agent to the tumor. The other kind of antibody based therapy is by providing an antibody which
in itself has therapeutic properties against the tumor/cancer cells it targets. The added advantage
of this second form of antibody-based therapy is that one may additionally conjugate another
therapeutic agent to the therapeutic antibody to achieve a more effective treatment. The major
advantage with any antibody-directed therapy and of therapy using monoclonal antibodies
(mAbs) in particular, is the ability to deliver increased doses of a therapeutic agent to a tumor,
with greater sparing of normal tissue from the side effects of the therapeutic agent.
[008]      Despite the identification of several antibodies for cancer therapies, there is still a need
to identify new and more effective therapeutics to overcome immune tolerance and activate T
cell responses. Further, even though molecular engineering has improved the prospects for such
antibody-based therapeutics issues still remain regarding continuity in the generated recombinant
products.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[009]      The present invention provides for a novel and consistent synthesis method for
generating     homogeneous     recombinant    fusion   immunomodulatory       molecules,   and more
                                                   2

specifically, recombinant chimeric polypeptides       including targeting antibodies linked to
immunomodulatory proteins.
[0010]    To mediate an immune response against cancer, T cell activation and co-stimulation are
both important. Co-stimulation of T cells is mainly mediated through engaging of CD28 with its
ligands of B7 family on antigen presenting cells (APCs). However, after activation, T cells
express a molecule called Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4), which binds to B7
ligands with much more affinity than CD28 and such binding down-modulates T cell activity.
Thus, including an antibody that binds to the CTLA-4 receptor would block interaction with
ligands of the B7 family and enhance anti-tumor response.
[0011]    Programmed Death Ligand-1 (PDL1), one of the B7 ligands discussed above, obstructs
anti-tumor immunity by (i) tolerizing tumor-reactive T cells by binding to its receptor PD1
(CD279) on T cells; (ii) rendering tumor cells resistant to CD8+ T cell and FasL-mediated lysis
by PD-1 signaling through tumor cell-expressed PDL1; and (iii) promoting the development and
maintenance of induced T regulatory cells. Therefore, PDLi is a major obstacle to natural anti
tumor immunity and to cancer immunotherapies requiring activation of host T cell-mediated
anti-tumor immunity. This concept is supported by studies demonstrating that antibody blocking
of PDLi-PDi interactions improves T cell activation and reduces tumor progression. Although
antibodies to PDLi or PDi have shown therapeutic efficacy in a subset of cancer patients, the
majority of patients do not benefit from antibody treatment. Thus, there is needed a mechanism
for regulating PD-Li function that will lead to a new universally applicable treatment for
minimizing PD-Li-mediated immune suppression in cancer patients and that is more effective
than currently available mAbs to PD-1 or PD-Li.
[0012]    A characteristic of many epithelial cancers, such as, cancers of the colon, head and
neck, breast, ovary, non-small cell lung (NSCL), and pancreas, is abnormally high levels of
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) on the surface of cancer cells.          The family of
epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR; HER1, HER2/neu, HER3, and HER4) includes cell
membrane     receptors   with intrinsic tyrosine kinase    activity that trigger a cascade    of
biophysiological signaling reactions in response to the binding of different ligands.      These
                                                3

receptors play a key role in the behavior of malignant cells in a variety of human tumors,
inducing increased proliferation, decreasing apoptosis, and enhancing tumor cell motility and
angiogenesis. Thus, the present invention includes antibodies targeting EGFR family members.
[0013]    The present invention further provides methods of reducing growth of cancer cells by
counteracting immune tolerance of cancer cells, wherein T cells remain active and inhibit the
recruitment of T-regulatory that are known to suppress the immune system's response to the
tumor.    Thus, the chimeric polypeptides generated by the polynucleotides sequences of the
present invention are useful for treating cancer because of the expressed fusion or chimeric
polypeptides.
[0014]    In one aspect, the present invention provides for chimeric polypeptides containing at
least one targeting moiety to target a cancer cell and at least one immunomodulating moiety that
counteracts     immune tolerance of cancer       cell, wherein the    targeting moiety     and the
immunomodulating moiety are linked by an amino acid spacer of sufficient length of amino acid
residues so that both moieties can successfully bond to their individual target. In the alternative,
the targeting moiety and the immunomodulating moiety that counteract immune tolerance of
cancer cell may be bound directly to each other.         The chimeric/fusion polypeptides of the
invention are useful for binding to a cancer cell receptor and reducing the ability of cancer cells
to avoid an immune response.
[0015]    Preferably the targeting moiety is an antibody having binding affinity for CTLA-4 or
EGFR1, wherein the antibody is transcribed from a polynucleotide sequence lacking nucleotides
for expression of the C-terminal lysine of the heavy chain of the expressed antibody. It has been
discovered that by removing the C-terminal lysine of the heavy chain of an antibody during
transcription that the end product exhibits increased homogeneity, thereby reducing the need and
costs for further purification.
[0016]    It is known that during the process of transcription and translation of an IgG molecule
in CHO cells, the lysine (K) at the C-terminal of the heavy chain will be expressed.          In the
commercial product such expressed lysines have to be removed to increase purity.           There is
                                                  4

much heterogeneity in the produced product, as shown in Figure 1. This occurs because the
CHO cell has an endogenous enzyme Carboxypeptidase B (CPB) which will cleave the C
terminal lysine as long as the expressed antibody is still available intracellularly. However, this
enzyme will not cleave the lysine once the antibody is secreted into the medium.         Thus, the
cleavage efficiency of this endogenous CPB is based on the availability within the cell. As such,
some of the antibodies will be secreted with the lysine and some will not, and such combination
will cause significant heterogeneity in the secreted product, that being some antibodies with the
C-terminal lysine and some without.         As the recombinant product is being used for the
therapeutic use, one needs to purify to homogeneity. Thus, the recombinant products of the prior
art requires additional purification steps wherein the recombinant product need to be treated with
the enzyme CPB first and purified once again using an additional step to remove any lysine and
the enzyme CPB from the final product.        These additional steps add a significant cost to the
manufacturing process.
[0017]    The present invention avoids the shortcomings of previous methods of synthesizing
recombinant anti-CTLA-4 and anti-EGFR1 antibodies by transcribing an expressed protein from
a polynucleotide sequence lacking nucleotides for expression of the C-terminal lysine at the
heavy chain of the expressed antibody.
[0018]    The present invention is based on preparing chimeric/fusion proteins by expression of
polynucleotides encoding the fusion proteins that counteract or reverse immune tolerance of
cancer cells. Cancer cells are able to escape elimination by chemotherapeutic agents or tumor
targeted antibodies via specific immunosuppressive mechanisms in the tumor microenvironment
and such ability of cancer cells is recognized as immune tolerance. Such immunosuppressive
mechanisms include immunosuppressive cytokines (for example, Transforming growth factor
beta (TGF-p)) and regulatory T cells and/or immunosuppressive myeloid dendritic cells (DCs).
By counteracting tumor-induced immune tolerance, the present invention provides effective
compositions and methods for cancer treatment, optional in combination with another existing
cancer treatment. The present invention provides strategies to counteract tumor-induced immune
tolerance and enhance the antitumor efficacy of chemotherapy by activating and leveraging T
cell-mediated adaptive antitumor against resistant or disseminated cancer cells.
                                                  5

[0019]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a molecule including at least one
targeting moiety fused with at least one immunomodulatory moiety.                  The targeting moiety
specifically binds a target molecule, and the immunomodulatory moiety specifically binds one of
the following molecules: (i) Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-)              and or (ii) Programmed
death- 1 ligand 1 (PD-Li).
[0020]     In a further aspect, the targeting moiety includes an antibody, including both heavy
chains and light chains, wherein the antibody specifically binds a component of a tumor cell,
tumor antigen, tumor vasculature, tumor microenvironment, or tumor-infiltrating immune cell.
Notably the heavy chain and/or light chain may individually be linked to a same type
immunomodulatory moiety or a separate and distinct immunomodulatory moiety.                     Further, a
heavy or light chain of an antibody targeting moiety may be linked to an immunomodulatory
moiety which in turn can be further linked to a second immunomodulatory moiety wherein there
is a linker between the two immunomodulatory moieties.
[0021]     In a still further aspect, there is provided a chimeric polypeptide that comprised a tumor
targeting moiety and an immunomodulatory                 moiety comprising a molecule that binds
transforming growth factor beta (TGF-), wherein the tumor targeting moiety is an antibody that
binds to EGFR1, where in the antibody can be the full antibody, heavy chain or light chain.
[0022]     The tumor targeting moiety may include monoclonal antibodies that target a cancer
cell,   including     but not    limited    to   cetuximab,    trastuzumab,   ritubximab,     ipilimumab,
tremelimumab, muromonab-CD3, abciximab, daclizumab, basiliximab, palivizumab, infliximab.
gemtuzumab       ozogamicin, alemtuzumab,          ibritumomab tiuxetan, adalimumab, omalizumab,
tositumomab,      1-131    tositumomab, efalizumab,        bevacizumab,    panitumumab,      pertuzumab,
natalizumab, etanercept, IGNIO           (Aphton), volociximab (Biogen Idec and PDL BioPharm),
Anti-CD80 mAb (Biogen Idec), Anti-CD23 mAb (Biogen Idel), CAT-3888 (Cambridge
Antibody     Technology),       CDP-791      (Imclone),   eraptuzumab    (Immunomedics),        MDX-010
(Medarex and BMS), MDX-060 (Medarex), MDX-070 (Medarex), matuzumab (Merck), CP
675,206 (Pfizer), CAL (Roche), SGN-30                 (Seattle Genetics), zanolimumab (Serono         and
                                                       6

Genmab), adecatumumab (Sereno), oregovomab (United Therapeutics), nimotuzumab (YM
Bioscience), ABT-874 (Abbott Laboratories), denosumab (Amgen), AM 108 (Amgen), AMG
714 (Amgen), fontolizumab (Biogen Idec and PDL BioPharm), daclizumab (Biogent Idec and
PDL BioPharm), golimumab (Centocor and Schering-Plough), CNTO 1275 (Centocor),
ocrelizumab (Genetech and Roche), HuMax-CD20 (Genmab), belimumab (HGS and GSK),
epratuzumab (Immunomedics), MLN1202 (Millennium Pharmaceuticals), visilizumab (PDL
BioPharm), tocilizumab (Roche), ocrerlizumab (Roche), certolizumab pegol (UCB, formerly
Celltech), eculizumab (Alexion Pharmaceuticals), pexelizumab (Alexion Pharmaceuticals and
Procter & Gamble), abciximab (Centocor), ranibizimumab (Genetech), mepolizumab (GSK),
TNX-355 (Tanox), or MYO-029 (Wyeth).
[0023]     In a preferred embodiment, the tumor targeting moiety is a monoclonal antibody that
binds to CTLA-4 or EGFR1 generated by the methods of the present invention, wherein the
method comprises the following steps:
a.         preparing a codon optimized nucleotide sequence encoding the fusion protein, wherein
the codon optimized sequence for the antibody is lacking nucleotides for expression of a lysine at
the C-terminal end of the heavy chains of the antibody;
b.         cloning the optimized sequence of said fusion protein in a host cell capable of transient
or continued expression;
c.         growing the host cell in a media under suitable conditions for growing and allowing the
host cell to express the fusion protein; and
d.         collecting secreted fusion proteins.
[0024]     In yet another aspect, the immunomodulatory moiety includes a molecule that binds
TGF-p and inhibits the function thereof. Specifically the imnunomodulatoiy moiety includes an
extracellular ligand-binding domain of Transforming growth factor-beta receptor TGF-pRII,
TGF-PRIIb or TGF-PRIII.          In another aspect the immunomodulatory moiety includes an
extracellular ligand-binding domain (ECD) of TGF-pRIl
                                                  7

[0025]    In a still further aspect, the targeting moiety includes an antibody that specifically binds
to HER2/neu, EGFR1, CD20, or cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and wherein the
immunomodulatory moiety includes an extracellular ligand-binding domain of TGF-3RII.
[0026]    In yet another aspect, the immunomodulatory moiety includes a molecule that
specifically binds to and inhibits the activity of Programmed death- 1 ligand 1 (PD-L 1).
[0027]    In a further aspect, the targeting moiety includes an antibody, antibody fragment, or
polypeptide that specifically binds to HER2/neu, EGFR1, CD20, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
antigen-4    (CTLA-4),       CD25     (lL-2a   receptor;  IL-2aR),   or   CD4    and   wherein,    the
immunomodulatory moiety includes an extracellular ligand-binding domain or ectodomain of
Programmed Death- 1 (PD-1).
[0028]    In a still further aspect, the targeting moiety includes an antibody that specifically binds
to EGFR1 and CTLA-4, and the immunomodulatory moiety includes a sequence from interacts
with transforming growth factor-p (TGF-p).
[0029]    In one aspect, the present invention provides for optimized genes encoding for a fusion
polypeptide comprising at least one targeting moiety and at least one immunomodulatory moiety
for treating cancer in a human subject wherein the genes have been optimized to increase
expression in a human subject and/or cells.
[0030]    In another aspect, the present invention provides for a vector comprising optimized
genes for treating cancer in a human subject wherein the optimized genes have been modified to
increase CG sequences.        Preferably, the vector includes nucleotide sequences for encoding at
least one targeting moiety, at least one immunomodulatory moiety and a linking moiety, wherein
the optimized nucleotide sequences are selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1 to 7, as set forth in Figure
2.
[0031]    In yet another aspect, the present invention provides for a method of treating cancer in a
subject, the method comprising:
                                                     8

          providing at least one recombinant vector comprising nucleotide sequences that encode
at least one targeting moiety, at least one immunomodulatory moiety and a linking moiety
positioned between the targeting moiety and immunomodulatory moiety, wherein the nucleotide
sequences are selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1 to 7; and
          administering the recombinant vector to the subject under conditions such that said
nucleotide sequences are expressed at a level which produces a therapeutically effective amount
of the encoded fusion proteins in the subject.
[0032]    In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a recombinant host cell transfected
with a polynucleotide sequence that encodes a fusion protein peptide of the present invention,
wherein the polynucleotide sequences are selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1 to 7.
[0033]    In a still further aspect, the present invention contemplates a process of preparing a
chimeric fusion protein of the present invention comprising:
          transfecting a host cell with a polynucleotide sequence that encodes a chimeric fusion
protein to produce a transformed host cell, wherein the polynucleotide sequence encodes at least
one targeting moiety and at least one immunomodulatory moiety, wherein the polynucleotide
sequence comprises a combination of sequences selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1 to 7; and
          maintaining the transformed host cell under biological conditions sufficient for
expression of the chimeric fusion protein.
[0034]    In another aspect, the present invention relates to the use of a chimeric fusion protein,
wherein the chimeric fusion protein comprises anti-EGFR1 linker PD1 (SEQ ID NOs: 8, 9, 10
and 11); anti-EGFR1-linker-TGFpRII (SEQ ID NOs: 8, 9, 10 and 12); Anti-CTLA-4-linker-PD1
(SEQ ID NOs: 13, 14, 10 and 11), as shown in Figures 3, 4 and 5 respectively, in the use of a
medicament for the treatment of cancer. Preferably, the fusion protein is expressed in a host cell
and such expressed proteins are administered in a therapeutic amount to reduce the effects of
cancer in a subject in need thereof.
[0035]    In a still further aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating a neoplastic
disease. The method includes administration to a subject in need thereof one or more fusion
                                                    9

proteins of the present invention, in various aspects, the subject is administered one or more
fusion protein of the present invention in combination with another anticancer therapy. In one
aspect, the anticancer therapy includes a chemotherapeutic molecule, antibody, small molecule
kinase inhibitor, hormonal agent or cytotoxic agent. The anticancer therapy may also include
ionizing radiation, ultraviolet radiation, cryoablation, thermal ablation, or radiofrequency
ablation.
[0036]     In a preferred embodiment the therapeutically active antibody-peptide fusion proteins is
a targeting antibody fused to one or more immunomodulating moiety that counteracts immune
tolerance of a cancer cell. In one aspect, the immunomodulating moiety may be linked by an
amino acid spacer of sufficient length to allow bi-specific binding of the molecule.              The
immunomodulating moiety may be bound to either the N- terminus or C-terminus of the heavy
chain or the N- terminus or C-terminus of the light chain of the antibody
[0037]     The method of the present invention provides nucleotide sequences that encode the
therapeutically active antibody-peptide fusion proteins and such expression may be conducted in
a transient cell line or a stable cell line. The transient expression is accomplished by transfecting
or transforming the host cell with vectors carrying the encoded fusion proteins into mammalian
host cells
[0038]     Once the fusion peptides are expressed, they are preferably subjected to purification
and in-vitro tests to check its bi-specificity, that being, having the ability to bind to both the
target moiety and immunomodulating moiety. Such tests may include in-vitro tests such as
ELISA or NK/T-cell binding assays to validate bi-functional target binding or immune cell
stimulation.
[0039]     Notably once the specific fusion peptides demonstrate the desired bi-specificity, the
polynucleotide sequences encoding such fusion peptides are selected for sub-cloning into a stable
cell line for larger scale expression and purification.        Such stable cell lines are previously
disclosed, such as a mammalian cell line, including but not limited to HEK293, CHO or NSO.
                                                    10

[0040]     In another aspect the present invention provides for a method to inhibit and/or reduce
binding of PDL1 to PD1 thereby increasing immune response against tumor cells, the method
comprising:
a.         providing a chimeric polypeptide comprising PD 1 and an anti-EGFR1 or anti-CTLA-4
antibody; and
b.         contacting a tumor cell with the chimeric polypeptide wherein the chimeric polypeptide
binds with at least PDL1 of the tumor cell.
[0041] In yet another aspect, the present invention provides for a method of preparing
therapeutically active antibody-peptide fusion proteins, the method comprising;
a.         preparing a codon optimized sequence of the said fusion protein, wherein the codon
optimized sequences for anti-EGFR1 and anti-CTLA-4 antibodies are lacking nucleotides for
expression of a lysine at the C-terminal end of the heavy chains of the antibodies;
b.         cloning the optimized sequence of said fusion protein in a host cell capable of transient
or continued expression;
c.         growing the host cell in a media under suitable conditions for growing and allowing the
host cell to express the fusion protein; and
d.         collecting secreted fusion proteins.
[0042] In a still further aspect the present invention provides for a nucleic acid sequence
encoding a chimeric fusion protein, wherein the chimeric fusion protein comprises at least one
targeting moiety having affinity for a cancer cell and at least one immunomodulatory moiety that
counteract immune tolerance of the cancer cell, wherein targeting moiety is an antibody and the
nucleic acid sequence of the targeting moiety is lacking nucleotides for expression of a lysine at
the C-terminal end of the heavy chains of the antibody. The nucleic acid sequence encoding the
heavy chain of the antibody preferably includes SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO:5. The nucleic
acid sequence encoding the chimeric fusion proteins preferably comprises a sequence selected
from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 4 and 7; SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3 and 4; and SEQ
ID NOs: 5, 6, 3 and 4.
                                                 11

[0043]    In yet another aspect the present invention provides for a method of treating cancer in a
subject, the method comprising:
a)      preparing a preparing therapeutically active fusion protein, wherein the fusion protein
comprises a tumor targeting moiety and at least one immunomodulatory molecule, wherein the
tumor targeting moiety is an antibody that binds to CTLA-4 or EGFR1 and wherein the fusion
protein is prepared by the following steps:
          i) preparing a codon optimized nucleotide sequence encoding the fusion protein,
          wherein the codon optimized nucleotide sequence for the antibody is lacking
          nucleotides for expression of a lysine at the C-terminal end of the heavy chains of the
          antibody;
          ii) cloning the optimized sequence of said fusion protein in a host cell capable of
          transient or continued expression;
          iii) growing the host cell in a media under suitable conditions for growing and allowing
          the host cell to express the fusion protein; and
          iv) collecting secreted fusion proteins;
   b) administering a therapeutically active amount of the secreted fusion proteins to the subject.
[0044] The fusion protein is selected from the group of amino acid sequences consisting of SEQ
ID NOs: 15 and 9; SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 16; SEQ ID NOs: 17 and 9; SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 18; SEQ
ID NOs: 27 and 9; SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 28; SEQ ID NOs: 29 and 9; SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 30; SEQ
ID NOs: 31 and 28; SEQ ID NOs: 31 and 30; SEQ ID NOs: 29 and 28; SEQ ID NOs: 29 and 30;
SEQ ID NOs: 32 and 14; SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 33; SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 14; SEQ ID NOs: 13
and 35; SEQ ID NOs: 32 and 33; SEQ ID NOs: 32 and 35; SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 33 and SEQ ID
NOs: 34 and 35.
[0045] In another aspect, the present invention provides for a method of treating a neoplastic
disease, the method comprising administration to a subject in need thereof one or more fusion
proteins encoded by at least one polynucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of
SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 4 and 7; SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3 and 4; and SEQ ID NOs: 5, 6, 3 and 4. Notably
by using the above defined polynucleotide sequences, the following combination of fusion
proteins can be expressed including anti-EGFR1 linker PD1 (SEQ ID NOs: 8, 9, 10 and 11);
                                                   12

anti-EGFR1-linker-TGF3RII (SEQ ID NOs: 8, 9, 10 and 12); and Anti-CTLA-4-linker-PD1
(SEQ ID NOs: 13, 14, 10 and 11).
[0046]    Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following
detailed description, drawings and claims.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0047]    Figure 1 shows the different possibilities of lysine placement on a heavy chain and such
heterogeneity causing the need to provide purification.
[0048]    Figure 2 shows the optimized codon nucleotide sequences used for expression of the
antibody-peptide fusion proteins of the present invention, including Anti-EGFR1 heavy chain
(SEQ ID NO: 1); Anti-EGFR1 light chain (SEQ ID NO: 2); PD1 (SEQ ID NO: 7); Linker (SEQ
ID NO: 4); Anti-CTLA-4 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO: 5); Anti-CTLA-4 light chain (SEQ ID NO:
6) and TGFpRII (SEQ ID NO: 3).
[0049]    Figure 3 shows the amino acid residues for the anti-EGFR1 linker PD 1 construct (SEQ
ID NOs: 8, 9, 10 and 11).
[0050]    Figure 4 shows the amino acid residues for anti-EGFR1-linker-TGFPRII construct
(SEQ ID NOs: 8, 9, 10 and 12).
[0051]    Figure 5 shows the amino acid residues for the anti-CTLA-4-linker-PD1 (SEQ ID NOs:
13, 14, 10 and 11).
[0052]    Figure 6 shows the different possibilities for placement of the PD1 molecule on the
anti-EGFR1 antibody for FMab5, FMab6, FMab7 and FMab8.
                                                  13

[0053]    Figure 7 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC-PD1 + Anti-EGFR1 LC
wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the C terminus of the heavy chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 15 and 9.
[0054]    Figure 8 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
PD 1 wherein the PD 1 molecule is connected to the C terminus of the light chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 16.
[0055]    Figure 9 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
PD 1 wherein the PD 1 molecule is connected to the N terminus of the heavy chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 17 and 9.
[0056]    Figure 10 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC + PD1-Anti-EGFR1
LC wherein the PD 1 molecule is connected to the N terminus of the light chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 18.
[0057]    Figure 11 shows expression constructs developed using the cDNAs as set forth in SEQ
ID NOs: 1, 2 and 7.
[0058]    Figure 12 shows the different possibilities for placement of the TGF RII molecule on
the anti-EGFR1 antibody, FMabl, FMab2, FMab3, FMab4, FMab9, FMablO, FMabl1                 and,
FMabl2.
[0059]    Figure 13 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti
EGFR1 LC wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the C terminus of the heavy chain
separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 27 and 9.
[0060]    Figure 14 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
TGFPRII wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the C terminus of the light chain
separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 28.
                                                14

[0061]   Figure 15 shows the amino acid sequences for TGFfRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti
EGFR1 LC wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the N terminus of the heavy chain
separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 29 and 9.
[0062]   Figure 16 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC + TGFORII-Anti
EGFR1 LC wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the N terminus of the light chain
separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 30.
[0063]   Figure 17 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGF3RII + Anti
EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the C terminus of the
heavy and light chain separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 31 and 28.
[0064]   Figure 18 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + TGFpRII
Anti-EGFR1 LC wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the C terminus of the heavy
chain and N terminus of the light chain separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 31 and
30.
[0065]   Figure 19 shows the amino acid sequences for TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti
EGFR1 LC -TGFPRII wherein the TGFPRII molecule is connected to the N terminus of the
heavy chain and C terminus of the light chain separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs:
29 and 28.
[0066]   Figure 20 shows the amino acid sequences for TGFORII-Anti-EGFRI HC + TGFpRII
Anti-EGFR1 LC wherein the TGFpRII molecule is connected to the N terminus of the heavy
chain and N terminus of the light chain separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 29 and
30.
[0067]   Figure 21 shows expression constructs developed using the cDNAs as set forth in SEQ
ID NOs: 1, 2 and 3.
[0068]   Figure 22 shows ProteinA purified samples analyzed on 12% reducing SDS-PAGE.
                                                15

[0069]    Figure 23 shows ProteinA purified samples analyzed on 6% non-reducing SDS-PAGE.
[0070]    Figure 24 shows the different possibilities for placement of the PD1 molecule on the
anti-CTLA4 antibody.
[0071]    Figure 25 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-CTLA4
LC wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the C terminus of the heavy chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 32 and 14.
[0072]    Figure 26 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4 LC
PD 1 wherein the PD 1 molecule is connected to the C terminus of the light chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 33.
[0073]    Figure 27 shows the amino acid sequences for PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4
LC wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the N terminus of the heavy chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 14.
[0074]    Figure 28 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-CTLA4 HC + PD1-Anti-CTLA4
LC wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the N terminus of the light chain separated by a
linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 35.
[0075]    Figure 29 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-CTLA4
LC-PD1 wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the C terminus of the heavy chain and light
chain separated by a linker and including SEQ ID NOs: 32 and 33.
[0076]    Figure 30 shows the amino acid sequences for Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + PD1-Anti
CTLA4 LC wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the C terminus of the heavy chain
separated by a linker and N terminus of the light chain including SEQ ID NOs: 32 and 35.
                                                 16

[0077]    Figure 31 shows the amino acid sequences for PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4
LC-PD1 wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the N terminus of the heavy chain separated
by a linker and C terminus of the light chain including SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 33.
[0078]    Figure 32 shows the amino acid sequences for PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + PD1-Anti
CTLA4 LC wherein the PD1 molecule is connected to the N terminus of the heavy chain
separated by a linker and N terminus of the light chain including SEQ ID NOs: 34 and 35.
[0079]    Figure 33 shows expression constructs developed using the cDNAs as set forth in SEQ
ID NOs: 7, 5 and 6.
[0080] Figure 34 shows EGFR1 target binding ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + Anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its immobilized target EGFR1.
[0081] Figure 35 shows TGFp target binding ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + Anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its target TGFp.
[0082] Figure 36 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC
fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFR1 and TGFP at the same time.
[0083] Figure 37 shows flow cytometric analysis of the binding of the anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII
+ Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab to EGFR1-expressing A431 cells.
[0084] Figure 38 shows ADCC against EGFR1-expressing A-431 cells. Anti-EGFR1              HC
TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab mediates ADCC against EGFR1 -expressing A-431
cells and the effect is dose dependent.
[0085] Figure 39 shows Inhibition of proliferation assay. Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab inhibits the proliferation of EGFR1-expressing A-431 cells.
                                                 17

[0086]   Figure 40 shows EGFR1 target binding ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti- EGFR1
LC- TGFpRII fusion Mab binds to its immobilized target EGFR1.
[0087] Figure 41 shows TGFp target binding ELISA. The anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
TGFPRII fusion Mab binds to its target TGFP.
[0088] Figure 42 shows Bifunctional ELISA.         The anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
TGFPRII fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFRI and TGFP at the same time.
[0089]   Figure 43 shows Inhibition of proliferation assay. Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
-TGFpRII fusion Mab inhibits the proliferation of EGFRI-expressing A-431 cells.
[0090] Figure 44 shows EGFR1 target binding ELISA. The TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its immobilized target EGFR1.
[0091] Figure 45 shows TGF3 target binding ELISA. The TGFfRII-anti-EGFR1 HC+ anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its target TGFp.
[0092] Figure 46 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The TGFIRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1
LC fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFRI and TGF3 at the same time.
[0093] Figure 47 shows Inhibition of proliferation assay. TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab inhibits the proliferation of EGFR1-expressing A-431 cells.
[0094] Figure 48 shows EGFR1 target binding ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1 HC + TGFpRII-Anti
EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its immobilized target EGFR1.
[0095]   Figure 49 shows TGFp target binding ELISA. The Anti-EGFRI HC + TGFpRII-Anti
EGFRI LC fusion Mab binds to its target TGFp.
                                                18

[0096] Figure 50 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The Anti-EGFRI HC + TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1
LC fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFR1 and TGFp at the same time.
[0097] Figure 51 shows flow cytometric analysis of the binding of the Anti-EGFR1 HC +
TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab to EGFR1 -expressing A431 cells.
[0098] Figure 52 shows EGFR1 target binding ELISA.         The Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII +
TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its immobilized target EGFR1.
[0099] Figure 53 shows TGFp target binding ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1          HC-TGFpRII +
TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its target TGFP.
[00100]       Figure 54 shows Bifunctional ELISA.        The Anti-EGFR1   HC-TGFpRII +
TGFpRI-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFR1 and TGFp at the same
time.
[00101]       Figure 55 shows EGFRI target binding ELISA. The TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC
+ TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to its immobilized target EGFR1.
[00102]       Figure 56 shows TGFP target binding ELISA. TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1      HC +
TGFPRII-Anti-EGFRI LC fusion Mab binds to its target TGF3.
[00103]       Figure 57 shows Bifunctional ELISA.        The TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1  HC +
TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFR1 and TGFp at the same
time.
[00104]       Figure 58 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-CTLA4
LC fusion Mab binds to both its target CTLA4 and PDL1 at the same time.
[00105]       Figure 59 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4 LC
PD1 fusion Mab binds to both its target CTLA4 and PDL1 at the same time.
                                              19

[00106]        Figure 60 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4
LC fusion Mab binds to both its target CTLA4 and PDL1 at the same time.
[00107]        Figure 61 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + PD1-Anti
CTLA4 LC-PD1, Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-CTLA4 LC-PD1 and Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 +
PD1-Anti-CTLA4 LC fusion Mabs binds to both their target CTLA4 and PDL1 at the same time.
[00108]        Figure 62 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC +Anti-CTLA4
LC-PD1 and PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC+ PD1-Anti-CTLA4 LC fusion Mabs binds to both their
target CTLA4 and PDL1 at the same time.
[00109]        Figure 63 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1 HC-PD1 + Anti-EGFR1
LC fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFR and PDL1 at the same time.
[00110]        Figure 64 shows Bifunctional ELISA. The Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
PD1 fusion Mab binds to both its target EGFR and PDL1 at the same time.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00111]        In order to facilitate review of the various embodiments of the invention and
provide an understanding of the various elements and constituents used in making and using the
present invention, the following terms used in the invention description have the following
meanings.
[00112]        As used herein, the terms "polypeptide," "protein" and "peptide" are used
interchangeably to denote a sequence polymer of at least two amino acids covalently linked by
an amide bond, regardless of length or post-translational modification (e.g., glycosylation,
phosphorylation, lipidation, myristilation, ubiquitination, etc.). D- and L-amino acids, and
mixtures of D- and L-amino acids are also included.
                                               20

[00113]         Chimeric polypeptide refers to an amino acid sequence having two or more parts
which generally are not found together in an amino acid sequence in nature.
[00114]         The term "spacer/linker" as used herein refers to a molecule that connects two
monomeric protein units to form a chimeric molecule and still provides for binding of the parts
to the desired receptors. Particular examples of spacer/linkers may include an amino acid spacer,
wherein thee amino acid sequence can essentially be any length, for example, as few as 5 or as
many as 200 or more preferably from about 5 to 30 amino acid residues.
[00115]         The term "therapeutic," as used herein, means a treatment administered to a
subject who exhibits signs of pathology for the purpose of diminishing or eliminating those
signs.
[00116]         The term "therapeutically effective amount," as used herein means an amount of
the chimeric protein that is sufficient to provide a beneficial effect to the subject to which the
chimeric protein is administered.
[00117]         Another example of a modification is the addition of a heterologous domain that
imparts a distinct functionality upon the chimeric polypeptide. A heterologous domain can be
any small organic or inorganic molecule or macromolecule, so long as it imparts an additional
function. Particular examples of heterologous domains that impart a distinct function include an
amino    acid   sequence    that  imparts    targeting   (e.g.,  receptor     ligand,   antibody,  etc.),
immunopotentiating function (e.g., immunoglobulin, an adjuvant), enable purification, isolation
or detection (e.g., myc, T7 tag, polyhistidine, avidin, biotin, lectins, etc.).
[00118]         As exemplified     herein, polypeptide      sequences    may      include substitutions,
variations, or derivitizations of the amino acid sequence of one or both of the polypeptide
sequences that comprise the chimeric polypeptide, so long as the modified chimeric polypeptide
has substantially the same activity or function as the unmodified chimeric polypeptide.
                                                   21

[00119]         As used herein, the term "substantially the same activity or function," when used
in reference to a chimeric polypeptide so modified, means that the polypeptide retains most, all
or more of the activity associated with the unmodified polypeptide, as described herein or known
in the art.
[00120]         Modified chimeric polypeptides that are "active" or "functional" included herein
can be identified through a routine functional assay. For example, by using antibody binding
assays or co-receptor binding assays one can readily determine whether the modified chimeric
polypeptide has activity. As the modified chimeric polypeptides will retain activity or function
associated with unmodified chimeric polypeptide, modified chimeric polypeptides will generally
have an amino acid sequence "substantially identical" or "substantially homologous" with the
amino acid sequence of the unmodified polypeptide.
[00121]         As used herein, the term "substantially identical" or "substantially homologous,"
when used in reference to a polypeptide sequence, means that a sequence of the polypeptide is at
least 50% identical to a reference sequence. Modified polypeptides and substantially identical
polypeptides will typically have at least   7 0%, alternatively 85%, more likely 90%, and most
likely 95% homology to a reference polypeptide.
[00122]         As set forth herein, substantially identical or homologous polypeptides include
additions, truncations, internal deletions or insertions, conservative and non-conservative
substitutions, or other modifications located at positions of the amino acid sequence which do
not destroy the function of the chimeric polypeptide (as determined by functional assays, e.g., as
described herein). A particular example of a substitution is where one or more amino acids are
replaced by another, chemically or biologically similar residue.       As used herein, the term
"conservative substitution" refers to a substitution of one residue with a chemically or
biologically similar residue. Examples of conservative substitutions include the replacement of a
hydrophobic residue, such as isoleucine, valine, leucine, or methionine for another, the
replacement of a polar residue for another, such as the substitution of arginine for lysine,
glutamic for aspartic acids, or glutamine for asparagine, and the like. Those of skill in the art
                                                 22

will recognize the numerous amino acids that can be modified or substituted with other
chemically similar residues without substantially altering activity.
[00123]         Modified polypeptides further include "chemical derivatives," in which one or
more of the amino acids therein have a side chain chemically altered or derivatized.          Such
derivatized polypeptides include, for example, amino acids in which free amino groups form
amine hydrochlorides, p-toluene sulfonyl groups, carobenzoxy groups; the free carboxy groups
form salts, methyl and ethyl esters; free hydroxyl groups that form O-acyl or O-alkyl derivatives,
as well as naturally occurring amino acid derivatives, for example, 4-hydroxyproline, for proline,
5-hydroxylysine for lysine, homoserine for serine, ornithine for lysine, and so forth.        Also
included are D-amino acids and amino acid derivatives that can alter covalent bonding, for
example, the disulfide linkage that forms between two cysteine residues that produces a cyclized
polypeptide.
[00124]         As used herein, the terms "isolated" or "substantially pure," when used as a
modifier of invention chimeric polypeptides, sequence fragments thereof, and polynucleotides,
means that they are produced by human intervention and are separated from their native in vivo
cellular environment. Generally, polypeptides and polynucleotides so separated are substantially
free of other proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates or other materials with which they are
naturally associated.
[00125]         Polypeptides of the present invention may be prepared by standard techniques
well known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques include, but are not limited to, isolation
and purification from tissues known to contain that polypeptide, and expression from cloned
DNA that encodes such a polypeptide using transformed cells. Chimeric polypeptides can be
obtained by expression of a polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide in a host cell, such as a
bacteria, yeast or mammalian cell, and purifying the expressed chimeric polypeptide by
purification using typical biochemical methods (e.g.,            immunoaffinity purification,   gel
purification, expression screening etc.). Other well-known methods are described in Deutscher
et al., 1990. Alternatively, the chimeric polypeptide can be chemically synthesized. Purity can
                                                   23

be measured by any appropriate method, e.g., polyacrylamide               gel electrophoresis, and
subsequent staining of the gel (e.g., silver stain) or by HPLC analysis.
[00126]         The present invention further provides polynucleotide sequences encoding
chimeric polypeptides, fragments thereof, and complementary sequences. As used herein, the
terms    "nucleic   acid,"   "polynucleotide,"      "oligonucleotide,"  and   "primer"   are   used
interchangeably to refer to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic (RNA), either double- or
single-stranded, linear or circular. RNA can be unspliced or spliced mRNA, rRNA, tRNA, or
antisense RNAi. DNA can be complementary DNA (cDNA), genomic DNA, or an antisense.
Specifically included are nucleotide analogues and derivatives, such as those that are resistant to
nuclease degradation, which can function to encode an invention chimeric polypeptide.
Nuclease resistant oligonucleotides and polynucleotides are particularly useful for the present
nucleic acid vaccines described herein.
[00127]         An "isolated" or "substantially pure" polynucleotide means that the nucleic acid is
not immediately contiguous with the coding sequences with either the 5' end or the 3' end with
which it is immediately contiguous in the naturally occurring genome of the organism from
which it is derived. The term therefore includes, for example, a recombinant DNA (e.g., a cDNA
or a genomic DNA fragment produced by PCR or restriction endonuclease treatment produced
during cloning), as well as a recombinant DNA incorporated into a vector, an autonomously
replicating plasmid or virus, or a genomic DNA of a prokaryote or eukaryote.
[00128]         The polynucleotides sequences of the present invention can be obtained using
standard techniques known in the art (e.g., molecular cloning, chemical synthesis) and the purity
can be determined by polyacrylamide or agarose gel electrophoresis, sequencing analysis, and
the like. Polynucleotides also can be isolated using hybridization or computer-based techniques
that are well known in the art. Such techniques include, but are not limited to: (1) hybridization
of genomic DNA or cDNA libraries with probes to detect homologous nucleotide sequences; (2)
antibody screening of polypeptides expressed by DNA sequences (e.g., using an expression
library); (3) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of genomic DNA or cDNA using primers capable
                                                   24

of annealing to a nucleic acid sequence of interest; (4) computer searches of sequence databases
for related sequences; and (5) differential screening of a subtracted nucleic acid library.
[00129]         The invention also includes substantially homologous polynucleotides. As used
herein, the term "homologous," when used in reference to nucleic acid molecule, refers to
similarity between two nucleotide sequences.          When a nucleotide position in both of the
molecules is occupied by identical nucleotides, then they are homologous at that position.
"Substantially homologous" nucleic acid sequences are at least 50% homologous, more likely at
least 75% homologous, and most likely 90% or more homologous.                 As with substantially
homologous invention chimeric polypeptides, polynucleotides substantially homologous to
invention polynucleotides encoding chimeric polypeptides encode polypeptides that retain most
or all of the activity or function associated with the sequence to which it is homologous. For
polynucleotides, the length of comparison between sequences will generally be at least 30
nucleotides, alternatively at least 50 nucleotides, more likely at least 75 nucleotides, and most
likely 110 nucleotides or more. Algorithms for identifying homologous sequences that account
for polynucleotide sequence gaps and mismatched oligonucleotides are known in the art, such as
BLAST (see Altschul, 1990).
[00130]         The polynucleotides of the present invention can, if desired: be naked or be in a
carrier suitable for passing through a cell membrane (e.g., polynucleotide-liposome complex or a
colloidal dispersion system), contained in a vector (e.g., retrovirus vector, adenoviral vectors,
and the like), linked to inert beads or other heterologous domains (e.g., antibodies, ligands,
biotin, streptavidin, lectins, and the like), or other appropriate compositions disclosed herein or
known in the art. Thus, viral and non-viral means of polynucleotide delivery can be achieved
and are contemplated. The polynucleotides of the present invention can also contain additional
nucleic acid sequences linked thereto that encode a polypeptide having a distinct functionality,
such as the various heterologous domains set forth herein.
[00131]         The polynucleotides of the present invention can also be modified, for example, to
be resistant to nucleases to enhance their stability in a pharmaceutical formulation.           The
described polynucleotides are useful for encoding chimeric polypeptides of the present invention,
                                                   25

especially when such polynucleotides are incorporated into expression systems disclosed herein
or known in the art.      Accordingly, polynucleotides including an expression vector are also
included.
[00132]          For propagation or expression in cells, polynucleotides described herein can be
inserted into a vector. The term "vector" refers to a plasmid, virus, or other vehicle known in the
art that can be manipulated by insertion or incorporation of a nucleic acid. Such vectors can be
used for genetic manipulation (i.e., "cloning vectors") or can be used to transcribe or translate the
inserted polynucleotide (i.e., "expression vectors"). A vector generally contains at least an origin
of replication for propagation in a cell and a promoter. Control elements, including promoters
present within an expression vector, are included to facilitate proper transcription and translation
(e.g., splicing signal for introns, maintenance of the correct reading frame of the gene to permit
in-frame translation of mRNA and stop codons).            In vivo or in vitro expression of the
polynucleotides described herein can be conferred by a promoter operably linked to the nucleic
acid.
[00133]          "Promoter" refers to a minimal nucleic acid sequence sufficient to direct
transcription of the nucleic acid to which the promoter is operably linked (see Bitter 1987).
Promoters can constitutively direct transcription, can be tissue-specific, or can render inducible
or repressible transcription; such elements are generally located in the 5' or 3' regions of the
gene so regulated.
[00134]          As used herein, the term "operably linked" means that a selected polynucleotide
(e.g., encoding a chimeric polypeptide) and regulatory sequence(s) are connected in such a way
as to permit transcription when the appropriate molecules (e.g., transcriptional activator proteins)
are bound to the regulatory sequence(s). Typically, a promoter is located at the 5' end of the
polynucleotide and may be in close proximity of the transcription initiation site to allow the
promoter to regulate expression of the polynucleotide.
[00135]          When cloning in bacterial systems, constitutive promoters, such as T7 and the
like, as well as inducible promoters, such as pL of bacteriophage gamma, plac, ptrp, ptac, may be
                                                 26

used. When cloning in mammalian cell systems, constitutive promoters, such as SV40, RSV and
the like, or inducible promoters derived from the genome of mammalian cells (e.g., the
metallothionein promoter) or from mammalian viruses (e.g., the mouse mammary tumor virus
long terminal repeat, the adenovirus late promoter), may be used.           Promoters produced by
recombinant DNA or synthetic techniques may also be used to provide for transcription of the
nucleic acid sequences of the invention.
[00136]         Mammalian expression systems that utilize recombinant viruses or viral elements
to direct expression may be engineered.          For example, when using adenovirus expression
vectors, the nucleic acid sequence may be ligated to an adenovirus transcription/translation
control complex, e.g., the late promoter and tripartite leader sequence.         Alternatively, the
vaccinia virus 7.5K promoter may be used (see Mackett 1982; Mackett 1984; Panicali 1982).
[00137]         For yeast expression, a number of vectors containing constitutive or inducible
promoters may be used (see Ausubel 1988; Grant 1987; Glover 1986; Bitter 1987; and Strathem
1982).   The polynucleotides may be inserted into an expression vector for expression in vitro
(e.g., using in vitro transcription/translation kits, which are available commercially), or may be
inserted into an expression vector that contains a promoter sequence that facilitates expression in
either prokaryotes or eukaryotes by transfer of an appropriate nucleic acid into a suitable cell,
organ, tissue, or organism in vivo.
[00138]         As used herein, a "transgene" is any piece of a polynucleotide inserted by artifice
into a host cell, and becomes part of the organism that develops from that cell. A transgene can
include one or more promoters and any other DNA, such as introns, necessary for expression of
the selected DNA, all operably linked to the selected DNA, and may include an enhancer
sequence. A transgene may include a polynucleotide that is partly or entirely heterologous (i.e.,
foreign) to the transgenic organism, or may represent a gene homologous to an endogenous gene
of the organism. Transgenes may integrate into the host cell's genome or be maintained as a
self-replicating plasmid.
                                                   27

[00139]          As used herein, a "host cell" is a cell into which a polynucleotide is introduced
that can be propagated, transcribed, or encoded polypeptide expressed. The term also includes
any progeny of the subject host cell. It is understood that all progeny may not be identical to the
parental cell, since there may be mutations that occur during replication. Host cells include but
are not limited to bacteria, yeast, insect, and mammalian cells.             For example, bacteria
transformed with recombinant bacteriophage polynucleotide, plasmid nucleic acid, or cosmid
nucleic acid expression vectors; yeast transformed with recombinant yeast expression vectors;
plant cell systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g., cauliflower mosaic
virus, CaMV; tobacco mosaic virus, TMV), or transformed with recombinant plasmid expression
vectors (e.g., Ti plasmid), insect cell systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors
(e.g., baculovirus), or animal cell systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors
(e.g., retroviruses, adenovirus, vaccinia virus), or transformed animal cell systems engineered for
stable expression.
[00140]          As used herein, the term "transformation" means a genetic change in a cell
following incorporation of a polynucleotide (e.g., a transgene) exogenous to the cell. Thus, a
"transformed cell" is a cell into which, or a progeny of which, a polynucleotide has been
introduced by means of recombinant techniques. Transformation of a host cell may be carried
out by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art. When the host cell is a
eukaryote, methods of DNA           transformation include, for example, calcium phosphate,
microinjection, electroporation, liposomes, and viral vectors. Eukaryotic cells also can be co
transformed with invention polynucleotide sequences or fragments thereof, and a second DNA
molecule encoding a selectable marker, as described herein or otherwise known in the art.
Another method is to use a eukaryotic viral vector, such as simian virus 40 (SV40) or bovine
papilloma virus, to transiently infect or transform eukaryotic cells, and express the protein (see
Gluzman 1982). When the host is prokaryotic (e.g., E. coli), competent cells that are capable of
DNA uptake can be prepared from cells harvested after exponential growth phase and
subsequently treated by the CaCl 2 method using procedures well-known in the art.
Transformation of prokaryotes also can be performed by protoplast fusion of the host cell.
                                                  28

[00141]         Chimeric polypeptides, polynucleotides, and expression vectors containing same
of the present invention can be encapsulated within liposomes using standard techniques and
introduced into cells or whole organisms.       Cationic liposomes are preferred for delivery of
polynucleotides. The use of liposomes for introducing various compositions in vitro or in vivo,
including proteins and polynucleotides, is known to those of skill in the art.
[00142]         Liposomes can be targeted to a cell type or tissue of interest by the addition to the
liposome preparation of a ligand, such as a polypeptide, for which a corresponding cellular
receptor has been identified.    Monoclonal antibodies can also be used for targeting; many such
antibodies specific for a wide variety of cell surface proteins are known to those skilled in the art
and are available.    The selected ligand is covalently conjugated to a lipid anchor in either
preformed liposomes or are incorporated during liposome preparation (see Lee 1994 and Lee
1995).
[00143]         As the chimeric polypeptides or polynucleotides of the present invention will be
administered to humans, the present invention also provides pharmaceutical formulations
comprising the disclosed chimeric polypeptides or polynucleotides.               The compositions
administered to a subject will therefore be in a "pharmaceutically acceptable" or "physiologically
acceptable" formulation.
[00144]         As used herein, the terms "pharmaceutically acceptable" and "physiologically
acceptable" refer to carriers, diluents, excipients, and the like that can be administered to a
subject, preferably without excessive adverse side effects (e.g., nausea, headaches, etc.). Such
preparations for administration include sterile aqueous or non-aqueous solutions, suspensions,
and emulsions.    Examples of non-aqueous solvents are propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol,
vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous
carriers include water, alcoholic/aqueous solutions, emulsions, or suspensions, including saline
and buffered media. Vehicles include sodium chloride solution, Ringer's dextrose, dextrose and
sodium chloride, lactated Ringer's or fixed oils. Intravenous vehicles include fluid and nutrient
replenishers, electrolyte replenishers (such as those based on Ringer's dextrose), and the like.
Preservatives and other additives may also be present, such as, for example, antimicrobial, anti
                                                  29

oxidants, chelating agents, and inert gases and the like. Various pharmaceutical formulations
appropriate for administration to a subject known in the art are applicable in the methods of the
invention (e.g., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton,
PA (1990); and The Merck Index, 12th ed., Merck Publishing Group, Whitehouse, NJ (1996)).
[00145]         Controlling the duration of action or controlled delivery of an administered
composition can be achieved by incorporating the composition into particles or a polymeric
substance, such as polyesters, polyamine acids, hydrogel, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, ethylene
vinylacetate, methylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, protamine sulfate or lactide/glycolide
copolymers, polylactide/glycolide copolymers, or ethylenevinylacetate copolymers. The rate of
release of the composition may be controlled by altering the concentration or composition of
such macromolecules.      Colloidal dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes, nano
capsules, microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems, including oil-in-water emulsions,
micelles, mixed micelles, and liposomes.
[00146]         The compositions administered by a method of the present invention can be
administered    parenterally  by injection, by gradual perfusion over time, or by bolus
administration or by a microfabricated implantable device. The composition can be administered
via inhalation, intravenously, intraperitoneally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intracavity
(e.g., vaginal or anal), transdermally, topically, or intravascularly.   The compositions can be
administered in multiple doses. An effective amount can readily be determined by those skilled
in the art.
[00147]         Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be
used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and materials are
described below.     Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
following detailed description, and from the claims.    The invention is further described in the
following examples, which do not limit the scope of the invention(s) described in the claims.
                                                 30

[00148]         Examples
1.       Anti-EGFRI-PDI fusion protein constructs for cancer targets
[00149]         Anti-EGFR (Cetuximab) has been approved for squamous Head and Neck Cancer
(locally or regionally advanced in combination with radiotherapy and metastatic after platinum
based therapy) and EGFR expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (monotherapy in patients after
failure of both oxaliplatin and irinotecan based chemo or in patients intolerant to irinotecan based
chemo). Not applicable for colonrectal cancer (CRC) patients having K-RAS mutations.
[00150]         Across various studies about 55-60% of mCRC patients respond to cetuximab in
first line setting, however, this response too is transient (progression free survival (PFS)
advantage of 1.5-2 mths) (EPAR).        Significant numbers of patients either do not respond to
cetuximab or become resistant to therapy. In the recurrent metastatic head and neck cancer, only
35% patients respond to cetuximab with chemo with only 2-3 month overall survival (OS) and
(PFS) advantage.
[00151]         Clearly, a significant unmet need exists to improve efficacy of cetuximab therapy
in both these indications. Moreover, EGFR is also expressed in gastric cancer, non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC) and pancreatic cancers.          However, cetuximab has failed to prove any
significant benefit in these indications over standard of care.       Thus, the present invention
provides for improvement by combining cetuximab with an immunomodulatory therapy.
[00152]         Programmed death-i (PD-1) is an inhibitory receptor expressed on T cells after
activation. It has been shown to down-regulate T-cell activity upon binding its ligand PD-Li on
APCs. Many tumors constitutively express PD-Li and its' over expression has been associated
with impaired tumor immunity, more aggressive disease and decreased survival (see Thompson
2004). Till date PD-Li expression has been demonstrated to correlate with poor prognosis in
patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC), ovarian cancer and melanoma. Immunohistochemical
analysis of freshly isolated tumor samples from patients with ovarian, lung, and breast cancers,
renal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, esophageal carcinoma,
                                                  31

glioblastoma, thymoma, colon carcinoma, pancreatic and melanoma found that the vast majority
express B7-H1 (see Flies 2011; Nomi 2007).        Several pre-clinical studies have demonstrated
increased tumor rejection by blocking PD1-PDL1 interaction. Recently, anti-PD1 and PD-Li
based therapies have demonstrated considerable activity in melanoma and some other solid
tumors confirming their application as one of the most promising anti-cancer therapies.
[00153]        Cetuximab based therapy may be improved upon by combining it with
immunomodulation to remove immunosuppressive environment or delay the development of
resistance.  Moreover, patients who develop resistance to cetuximab due to mutations in the
downstream pathways may still benefit from Anti-EGFR1-PD-1 since the fusion protein of the
present invention binds to the EGFR receptor and negates the PD-Li expressed by the tumors,
allowing T cells to mount an anti-tumor response.       Accordingly, the fusion proteins of the
present invention can bind to both EGFR and PD-LI on the surface of the tumor cells.
[00154]        The anti-EGFR1-PD1 fusion protein constructs of the present invention may be
used in colorectal cancer, squamous head and neck cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, gastric
cancer and pancreatic cancer.
[00155]        Design and selection of the molecules:
[00156]        The antibody fusion molecules of the present invention have duel therapeutic
properties.   On one hand the molecule retains the complete activity of the Anti-EGFR1
(Cetuximab) and in parallel, it has the PD-LI receptor binding activity in the tumor environment.
The new molecules of the Anti-EGFRI-PDI fusion proteins that were developed for the cancer
therapies herein are devoid of the amino acid lysine 'K' from the C-terminus of heavy chain for
the reasons described above. The main objective of the fusion protein design is to keep the anti
EGFR1 molecule intact along with its function unaffected and allows fusion of the PDI molecule
to the various location on the anti-EGFRI antibody. That being, fusion to the HC C-terminus,
LC C-terminus, HC N-terminus, and or LC N-terminus and double fusions on both the chains as
shown in Figure 6.
                                                32

[00157]         The following constructs were designed.
Table 1
        Constructs.no.    Fusion mAbs name
        FMab5
        Figure 6          Anti-EGFR1 HC-PD1 + Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure 7,
                          SEQ ID NO: 15 and 9)
        FMab6             Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -PD1 (AA sequences in Figure 8,
        Figure 6          SEQ ID NO: 8 and 16)
        FMab7             PD1-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure 9,
        Figure 6          SEQ ID NO: 17 and 9)
        FMab8             Anti-EGFR1 HC + PD1-Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure 10,
        Figure 6          SEQ ID NO: 8 and 18)
[00158]         Expression of the above fusion constructs in CHO cells:
[00159]         The codon-optimized nucleotide sequences of the Anti-EGFR1-PD1 invidual
domains were optimized for expression in CHO cells. Such optimized sequences (SEQ ID NOs:
1, 2, 7, and 4) were assemble in a mammalian expression vector with help of primers described
in Table 2:
Table 2
FMAB7FP1          AGA TAT CGC CAC CAT GAT GTC CTT CGT G SEQ ID NO: 19
FMAB7FP2          GGC GGC GGA GGC TCT CAG GTG CAG CTG AAG CAG TC SEQ ID NO: 20
FMAB7RP1          AGTATACTCAGC CGG GGGACAGAGA                    SEQ ID NO: 21
FMAB7RP2          TTC AGC TGC ACC TGA GAG CCT CCG CCG CCA CTT C SEQ ID NO: 22
FMAB7LCRP         ATT AAT TAA TCAACA CTC GCC CCG GTT GAA GGA CT SEQ ID NO: 23
FMAB6FP2          CTC TGT CCC CCG GCG GCG GCG GAG GAT CTG GCG GA SEQ ID NO: 24
FMAB6RP2          GAT CCT CCG CCG CCG CCG GGG GAC AGA GAC AGG GA SEQ ID NO: 25
                                                33

FMAB6RP1           AGT ATA CTC ACA CCA GGG TCT GGAAC SEQ ID NO: 26
[00160]         Using the shown above cDNA primers set, constructs were assembled as shown
in Figure 11.
[00161]         2.     Anti-EGFR1-TGFDRII fusion proteins for treatment of cancer.
[00162]         High levels of TGFp are produced by many types of tumors, including
melanomas and cancers of the breast, colon, esophagus, stomach, liver, lung, pancreas, and
prostate, as well as hematologic malignancies (see Teicher 2001; Dong 2006). TGFp is known
to be immunosuppressive for T cells and NK cells through blocking of IL-2 and other
mechanisms, including generation of T-regs.      Several lines of evidence suggest that negating
TGFp activity may enhance anti-tumor effects of T cells (Wrzesinski 2007). Moreover, TGFP
can foster tumor growth through epithelial to mesenchymal transition and promoting
angiogenesis.    TGFP expression is also associated with poor prognosis in patients and earlier
recurrence.   However, considering the pleotropic effects of TGFp in controlling the immune
response, it has been shown that generalized blocking of TGFP activity may result in widespread
auto-inflammatory activity. Hence, localized depletion of TGFP in the tumor vicinity may be an
alternative way to modulate immunosuppressive environment.         Anti-EGFR1 -TGFPRII fusion
protein of the present invention binds to EGFR on the tumor cells and ties up the TGFp around
the tumor to enhance immune response against tumor cells.
[00163]         Design and selection of the molecules:
[00164]         The objective is to design the antibody fusion molecules which have duel
therapeutic properties. On one hand the molecule should retain the complete activity of the Anti
EGFR1 (cetuximab) and in parallel; it should have the TGFp binding activity in the tumor
environment.     The amino acid sequence of the Anti-EGFR1 IgG molecule was retained
excepting that the lysine was not expressed at the C-terminus of the heavy chain. Both single
and double fusion and expression levels are shown in Table 3, wherein TGFpRII was fused with
Anti-EGFR1.
                                                34

Table 3
Construct.    Fusion Mabs name
no.
FMabl         Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure 13, SEQ ID
Figure 12     NO: 27 and 9)
FMab2         Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII (AA sequences in Figure 14, SEQ
Figure 12     ID NO: 8 and 28)
FMab3         TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC            (AA sequences in Figure 15, SEQ
Figure 12     ID NO: 29 and 9)
FMab4         Anti-EGFR1 HC + TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure 16, SEQ ID
Figure 12     NO: 8 and 30)
FMab9         Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII) (AA sequences in Figure
Figure 12      17, SEQ ID NO: 31 and 28)
FMab1O        Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure
Figure 12      18, SEQ ID NO: 31 and 30)
FMab 11       TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFRII (AA sequences in Figure
Figure 12      19, SEQ ID NO: 29 and 28)
FMabl2        TGFpRII-Anti-EGFRI HC + TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC (AA sequences in Figure
              20, SEQ ID NO: 29 and 30)
Figure 12
[00165]         Expression of the above fusion constructs in CHO cells:
[00166]         The codon-optimized nucleotide sequences of the Anti-EGFR1-          TGFpRII
invidual domains were optimized for expression in CHO cells. Such sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 1,
2, 4, and 3) were assemble in a mammalian expression vector. The expression constructs are set
forth in Figure 21.
                                                35

  [00167]        Transfection of the above vectors combination to obatin the desired cell line:
  [00168]        The expression constructs developed above were transfected in the following
  combination, as set forth in Table 4, into CHO cells to produce the following fusion proteins
  using the constructs as defined in Figure 21.
  Table 4
Sl.         Fusion protein Name         Expression     constructs  combination   Cell     line  Titer
No.                                     transfected                              used
                                                                                                g/L
FMabl       Anti-EGFR1           HC- Expression constructs # 2C and 3 C          CHO            0.11
            TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1
            LC
            (HC-C-terminus)
FMab2       Anti-EGFR1       HC     + Expression constructs # 1 C and 4 C        CHO            0.10
            Anti-EGFR1       LC
            TGFPRII
FMab3       TGFPRII -Anti-EGFR1         Expression constructs # 2 C and 5 C      CHO            0.09
            HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC
FMab4       Anti-EGFR1       HC     +   Expression constructs # 1 C and 6 C      CHO            0.08
            TGF3RIl -Anti-EGFR1
            LC
FMab9       Anti-EGFR1           HC-    Expression constructs # 3 C and 4 C      CHO            ND/V
            TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1                                                                L
            LC -TGFpRII
FMablO      Anti-EGFR1           HC-    Expression constructs # 3 C and 6 C      CHO            0.06
            TGFpRII + TGFpRII
            Anti-EGFR1 LC
FMab 11     TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1          Expression constructs # 4 C and 5 C      CHO            ND/V
            HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -                                                                L
            TGFORII
FMabl2      TGFPRI-Anti-EGFR1           Expression constructs # 5 C and 6 C      CHO            0.06
            HC + TGFpRII-Anti
            EGFR1 LC
  [00169]        Purification of the Fusion Mabs supernatants using Protein A column:
  [00170]        The fusion monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) using recombinant protein producing
  CHO cell culture supernatant.
  [00171]        Procedure:
                                                    36

[00172]          The procedure describes in detail the small scale purification process of IgG using
C 10/10 or XK26 column and using Mab Select Xtra affinity resin. The samples generated by this
protocol can be used for various analysis
[00173]          Process flow:
            The culture supernatant secreted from recombinant cell line producing monoclonal
            antibodies or fusion monoclonal antibodies under sterile conditions were tested for
            titer and endotoxins;
            The affinity chromatography using Mab Select Xtra Protein A resin was washed and
            equilibrated with binding buffer;
            The pH of the supernatant was adjusted using 0.5M phosphate to the same pH has the
            column;
            The supernatant was allowed to bind to the column/ pass through the column at the
            flow rate of 0.5 ml/minute to achieve the maximum binding;
            All the fusion Mabs binds through the Fc region and rest of the impurities passed pass
            through as flow through;
            The column was washed with equilibration buffer;
            The bound fusion Mabs were eluted using 0.1 M glycine pH 3.0;
            The eluted proteins were adjusted back to neutral pH or the stable formulation pH;
            The purified proteins were stored at -20'C or at 2-8'C depending on the stability.
[00174]          Analysis of Protein A purified Fusion Mabs using SDS PAGE:
[00175]          The transfected supematants obtained were purified using proteinA affinity
column. Later these were analyzed on reducing and non-reducing SDS-PAGE to find out the
integrity of the molecule, as shown in Figure 22, where in the proteinA purified samples were
analyzed on 12% reducing SDS-PAGE.            As expected all the fusion partners are giving the
expected pattern on SDS-PAGE.        The LC fusion and HC are running closely but the bands are
separated. This higher mobility may be due to the 8 N-glycosylation sites( TGBRII 3*2=6 + 2 on
LC)
                                                  37

[00176]         Figure 23 shows the results of the ProteinA purified samples that were analyzed
on 6% non-reducing SDS-PAGE and although the amino acid composition is same, there is a
difference in mobility. It may be due to the variable levels of glycosylation pattern based on the
TGFRII position and access in the molecule.
[00177]         3.     Anti-CTLA4-PD1 fusion protein constructs for cancer targets.
[00178]         Immunohistochemical analysis of freshly isolated tumor samples from patients
with ovarian, lung, and breast cancers, renal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma of the
head and neck, esophageal carcinoma, glioblastoma, thymoma, colon carcinoma, pancreatic and
melanoma found that the vast majority express B7-HI (see Flies 2011; Nomi 2007). Several pre
clinical studies have demonstrated increased tumor rejection by blocking PDI-PDLI interaction.
Recently, anti-PDI and PD-Li based therapies have demonstrated considerable activity in
melanoma and some other solid tumors confirming their application as one of the most
promising anti-cancer therapies.
[00179]         Although, anti-CTLA4 may allow co-stimulation of T cells, they may still be
inhibited by PD-Li-PD-1 interaction. This may be one of the reasons for only a minority of
patients having response to anti-CTLA4 antibody.       Fusion antibody of both anti-CTLA4 and
PD1 are more efficacious than either agent alone since anti-CTLA4 allows T cell co-stimulation
whereas PDI binds to PD-Li on tumor cells to negate the immunosuppression of T cells in
tumor microenvironment. This may even be safer than the anti-CTLA4 because the lone use of
anti-CTLA4 has led to immune breakthrough adverse events.
[00180]         Design and selection of the molecules:
[00181]         The objective is to design the antibody fusion molecules which have duel
therapeutic properties. On one hand the molecule should retain the complete activity of the anti
CTLA4 (Ipilimumab) and in parallel; it should have the PD LI receptor binding activity in the
tumor environment. The complete amino acid sequence of the anti-CTLA4 IgG molecule was
used except the removal of the lysine at the C-terminus of the heavy chain. A 15 amino acid
linker was positioned between the PDI and Anti-CTLA4.             The following combinations of
                                                38

constructs, as setforth in Table 5, were designed as shown in Figure 24. The details of the above
fusion protein constructs are given below.
Table 5
Constructs.no.      Fusion Mabs name
FMabl3              Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-CTLA4 LC (AA sequences in Figure 25, SEQ
Figure 21           ID NO: 32 and 14)
FMabl4              Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4 LC-PD1(AA sequences in Figure 26, SEQ ID
Figure 21           NO: 13 and 33)
FMabl5              PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4 LC           (AA sequences in Figure 27, SEQ
Figure 21           ID NO: 34 and 14)
FMabl6              Anti-CTLA4 HC + PD1-Anti-CTLA4 LC (AA sequences in Figure 28, SEQ
Figure 21           ID NO: 13 and 35)
FMabl7              Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-CTLA4 LC-PD1 (AA sequences in Figure 29,
Figure 21           SEQ ID NO: 32 and 33)
FMab18              Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + PD1-Anti-CTLA4 LC (AA sequences in Figure 30,
Figure 21           SEQ ID NO: 32 and 35)
FMabl9              PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4 LC-PD1 (AA sequences in Figure 31,
Figure 21           SEQ ID NO: 34 and 33)
FMab20              PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + PD1-Anti-CTLA4 LC (AA sequences in Figure 32,
Figure 21           SEQ ID NO: 34 and 35)
[00182]         Expression of the above fusion constructs in CHO cells:
[00183]         The complete nucleotide sequence of the Anti-CTLA4-PD1 individual domains
were codon optimized for expression in CHO cells (SEQ ID NOs: 7, 4, 5 and 6). The cDNAs
were synthesized.      The constructs were assembled in mammalian expression vectors.         The
expression of anti-CTLA4-PD1 fusion proteins using the constructs as set forth in Figure 33.
                                                 39

  [00184]          The expression constructs developed and shown in Figure 33 were transfected in
  the following combination into CHO cells (Table 6) to produce the following fusion proteins.
  The titer obtained for each constructs are mentioned in the last column.
  Table 6
S1.      Fusion protein Name                    Expression              constructs Cell line Titer
No.                                             combination transfected            used      g/L
FMab     Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-              Expression constructs # 2C and     CHO       0.175
13       CTLA4LC                                3C
FMab     Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-CTLA4             Expression constructs # 1 C and    CHO       0.221
14       LC-PD1                                 4C
FMab     PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-              Expression constructs # 2 C and    CHO       0.029
15       CTLA4LC                                5C
FMab     Anti-CTLA4 HC + PD1-Anti-              Expression constructs # 1 C and    CHO       0.021
16       CTLA4LC                                6C
FMab     Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + Anti-              Expression constructs # 3 C and    CHO       0.137
17       CTLA4 LC-PD1                           4C
FMab     Anti-CTLA4 HC-PD1 + PD1-               Expression constructs # 3 C and    CHO       0.012
18       Anti-CTLA4 LC                          6C
FMab     PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + Anti-              Expression constructs # 4 C and    CHO       0.029
19       CTLA4 LC-PD1                           5C
FMab     PD1-Anti-CTLA4 HC + PD1-               Expression constructs # 5 C and    CHO       0.014
20       Anti-CTLA4 LC                          6C
  [00185]          Purification of and characterization of Fusion proteins:
  [00186]          The procedure describes the use of small scale purification process of IgG using
  C 10/10 or XK26 column and using Mab Select Xtra affinity resin. The samples generated by this
  protocol can be used for various analysis.
  [00187]          Process flow:
              The culture supernatant secreted from recombinant cell line producing monoclonal
              antibodies or fusion monoclonal antibodies under sterile conditions were tested for
              titer and endotoxins;
              The affinity chromatography using Mab Select Xtra ProteinA resin was washed and
              equilibrated with binding buffer;
                                                     40

            The pH of the supernatant was adjusted using 0.5M phosphate to the same PH has the
            column;
            The supernatant was allowed to bind to the column/ pass through the column at the
            flow rate of 0.5 ml/minute to achieve the maximum binding;
            All the fusion Mabs binds through the Fc region and rest of the impurities passed
            through as flow through;
            The column was washed with equilibration buffer;
            The bound fusion Mabs were eluted using 0.1 M glycine pH 3.0;
            The eluted proteins were adjusted back to neutral pH or the stable formulation pH;
            and
            The purified proteins are stored at -20'C or at 2-8'C depending on the stability.
[00188]         4.     Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFDRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC (Fmab 1)
[00189]         Binding ELISAs-Procedure:
[00190]         The fusion Mab was tested for its ability to bind to its targets in three different
ELISAs: 1) EGFR1 target-binding ELISA, 2) TGFf-target binding ELISA and 3) Bifunctional
ELISA.
[00191]         For the target binding ELISAs, the targets (rhEGFR-Fc chimera or TGFp) were
coated onto NUNC maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked
with superblock at room temperature for 2 hr.        Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the
negative control antibody was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature
for 1 hr. Binding of the fusion Mab was detected by the addition of a biotinylated anti-human
IgG F(ab) 2 secondary antibody, followed by a 1 hr incubation with peroxidase -conjugated
streptavidin at room temperature. TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
                                                  41

[00192]         For the bifunctional ELISA, rhEGFR-Fc chimera was coated onto NUNC
maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked with superblock at
room temperature for 2 hr. Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the negative control antibody
was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. After washing,
TGFP was added and the plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate was
washed and anti-TGFp-biotin             was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for
1 hr. The plate was washed and streptavidin-HRP was added and the plate incubated at room
temperature for 1 hr. After washing, TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
[00193]         Results:
[00194]         The binding of the anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab to
both the targets EGFRI (Figure 34) and TGF3 (Figure 35) was comparable with anti-EGFR1
TGFPRII.     The anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab was also tested in a
bifunctional ELISA to determine whether the anti-EGFR1 and TGFpRII domains of the Mab can
bind to their respective targets without interfering with each other. As seen in Figure 36, the
anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab binds to both its targets, suggesting
that there is no interference in binding to either target dues to the construction of the fusion Mab.
[00195]         Binding to Cells Expressing EGFR1:
[00196]         Procedure:
[00197]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency. The cells
were trypsinized and harvested.       The cells were stained with different dilutions of the anti
EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab or control Ig at 2 - 8 0C for 30 minutes.
The cells were washed and incubated with anti-Human IgG - FITC conjugate at 2 - 80C for 30
minutes. After washing, the cells were analyzed on a flow cytometer. Live cells were gated
based on their FSC vs SSC profiles. The total MFI for the gated population were recorded.
                                                   42

[00198]         Results:
[00199]         The anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1               LC fusion binds to EGFR
expressing A-431 cells in a dose dependent manner (Figure 37). The binding of anti-EGFR1
HC-TGF3RII + Anti-EGFR1 LC is comparable to the binding of anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII.
[00200]         Antibody-dependent cytotoxicity Activity
[00201]         Procedure:
[00202]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency.         The
cells were trypsinized, harvested and plated into 96-well plates.     The cells were labeled with
different dilutions of the anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab or control Ig
at 2 - 80 C for 30 minutes.     The labeled cells were co-incubated with freshly isolated human
PBMC at 37 0 C, 5% CO 2 for 24 hours.       Cytotoxicity was measured using the Cyto-Tox-Glo
cytotoxicity assay kits.
[00203]         Results:
[00204]         The anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFpRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion mediates ADCC of
EGFR-expressing A-431 cells by human PBMC effector cells. The ADCC is dose dependent
(Figure 38). These results suggest that the Fc portion of the fusion Mab is intact and functional.
[00205]         Inhibition of Proliferation
[00206]         Procedure:
[00207]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency.         The
cells were trypsinized , harvested and plated into 96-well plates. Different dilutions of the anti
EGFR1 HC-TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab or control Ig were added to the cells. The
                                                 43

plates were incubated at 37 0 C, 5% CO 2 for three days. On the third day, cell proliferation was
measured by the AlamarBlue method.
[00208]         Results:
[00209]         Anti-EGFR antibodies such as Cetuximab are known to inhibit the proliferation of
EGFR1-expressing cells. As seen in Figure 39, the anti-EGFR portion of the anti-EGFR1 HC
TGFPRII + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab is intact and has anti-proliferative activity.
[00210]         5.      Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII (Fmab2)
[00211]         Binding ELISAs: Procedure:
[00212]         The anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII fusion Mab was tested for its
ability to bind to its targets in three different ELISAs    : 1) EGFR1 target-binding ELISA, 2)
TGFP-target binding ELISA and 3) Bifunctional ELISA.
[00213]         For the target binding ELISAs, the targets (rhEGFR-Fc chimera or TGFp) were
coated onto NUNC maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked
with superblock at room temperature for 2 hr.        Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the
negative control antibody was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature
for 1 hr. Binding of the fusion Mab was detected by the addition of a biotinylated anti-human
IgG F(ab) 2 secondary antibody, followed by a 1 hr incubation with peroxidase -conjugated
streptavidin at room temperature. TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
[00214]         For the bifunctional ELISA, rhEGFR-Fc chimera was coated onto NUNC
maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked with superblock at
room temperature for 2 hr. Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the negative control antibody
was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. After washing,
                                                  44

TGF3 was added and the plate is incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate was washed
and anti-TGFp-biotin was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate
was washed and streptavidin-HRP was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for 1
hr. After washing, TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped with IN H2 SO4 .
The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid reader.
[00215]         Results:
[00216]         The binding of anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFPRII fusion Mab to both
the targets EGFR1 (Figure 40) and TGFP (Figure 41) was comparable to anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII.
The anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFPRII fusion Mab was also tested in a bifunctional
ELISA to determine whether the anti-EGFR1 and TGFpRII domains of the Mab can bind to their
respective targets without interfering with each other. As seen in Figure 42, the anti-EGFR1 HC
+ Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII fusion Mab binds to both its targets, suggesting that there is no
interference in binding to either target dues to the construction of the fusion Mab.
[00217]         Inhibition of Proliferation
[00218]         Procedure:
[00219]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency. The
cells were trypsinized , harvested and plated into 96-well plates. Different dilutions of the anti
EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGFpRII fusion Mab or control Ig were added to the cells. The
plates were incubated at 370 C, 5% CO 2 for three days. On the third day, cell proliferation was
measured by the AlamarBlue method.
[00220]         Results:
[00221]         Anti-EGFR antibodies such as Cetuximab are known to inhibit the proliferation of
EGFR1-expressing cells. As seen in Figure 43, the anti-EGFR portion of the anti-EGFR1 HC +
Anti-EGFR1 LC -TGF3RII fusion Mab is intact and has anti-proliferative activity.
                                                   45

[00222]         6.      TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC (Fmab 3)
[00223]         Binding ELISAs: Procedure:
[00224]         The fusion Mab was tested for its ability to bind to its targets in three different
ELISAs : 1) EGFR1 target-binding ELISA, 2) TGFP-target binding ELISA and 3) Bifunctional
ELISA.
[00225]         For the target binding ELISAs, the targets (rhEGFR-Fc chimera or TGFp) were
coated onto NUNC maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked
with superblock at room temperature for 2 hr.       Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the
negative control antibody was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature
for 1 hr. Binding of the fusion Mab was detected by the addition of a biotinylated anti-human
IgG F(ab) 2 secondary antibody, followed by a 1 hr incubation with peroxidase -conjugated
streptavidin at room temperature. TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
[00226]         For the bifunctional ELISA, rhEGFR-Fc chimera was coated onto NUNC
maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked with superblock at
room temperature for 2 hr. Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the negative control antibody
was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. After washing,
TGFp was added and the plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate was
washed and anti-TGFp-biotin was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for 1 hr.
The plate was washed and streptavidin-HRP was added and the plate incubated at room
temperature for 1 hr. After washing, TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 hybrid reader.
[00227]         Results:
                                               46

[00228]         The binding of the TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab to
both the targets EGFRI (Figure 44) and TGFp (Figure 45) was comparable to anti-EGFR1
TGF3RII. The TGF[3RII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab was also tested in a
bifunctional ELISA to determine whether the anti-EGFR1 and TGF3RII domains of the Mab can
bind to their respective targets without interfering with each other. As seen in Figure 46, the
binding of TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab is reduced as compared to
anti-EGFR1-TGF3RII, suggesting that there is some interference in binding to either target due
to the construction of the fusion Mab.
[00229]         Binding to Cells Expressing EGFR1:
[00230]         Procedure:
[00231]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency. The cells
were trypsinized and harvested. The cells were stained with different dilutions of the TGFPRII
Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab or control Ig at 2 - 80C for 30 minutes. The cells
were washed and incubated with anti-Human IgG - FITC conjugate at 2 - 8 0C for 30 minutes.
After washing, the cells were analyzed on a flow cytometer. Live cells were gated based on their
FSC vs SSC profiles. The total MFI for the gated population were recorded.
[00232]         Results:
[00233]         The TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1       HC + Anti-EGFR1        LC fusion binds to EGFR
expressing A-431 cells in a dose dependent manner. The binding of TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC +
Anti-EGFR1 LC is comparable to the binding of anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII.
[00234]         Inhibition of Proliferation
[00235]         Procedure:
                                                47

[00236]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency. The cells
were trypsinized , harvested and plated into 96-well plates. Different dilutions of the TGFPRII
Anti-EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab or control Ig were added to the cells. The plates
were incubated at 374C, 5% CO 2 for three days.         On the third day, cell proliferation was
measured by the AlamarBlue method.
[00237]         Results:
[00238]         Anti-EGFR antibodies such as Cetuximab are known to inhibit the proliferation of
EGFR1-expressing cells. As seen in Figure 47, the anti-EGFR portion of the TGFpRI-Anti
EGFR1 HC + Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab is intact and has anti-proliferative activity.
[00239]         7.      Anti-EGFR1 HC + TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC (Fmab 4)
[00240]         Binding ELISAs: Procedure:
[00241]         The fusion Mab was tested for its ability to bind to its targets in three different
ELISAs : 1) EGFR1 target-binding ELISA, 2) TGFp-target binding ELISA and 3) Bifunctional
ELISA.
[00242]         For the target binding ELISAs, the targets (rhEGFR-Fc chimera or TGFp) were
coated onto NUNC maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked
with superblock at room temperature for 2 hr.      Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the
negative control antibody was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature
for 1 hr. Binding of the fusion Mab was detected by the addition of a biotinylated anti-human
IgG F(ab) 2 secondary antibody, followed by a 1 hr incubation with peroxidase -conjugated
streptavidin at room temperature. TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
                                                48

[00243]         For the bifunctional ELISA, rhEGFR-Fc chimera was coated onto NUNC
maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked with superblock at
room temperature for 2 hr. Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the negative control antibody
was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. After washing,
TGFP was added and the plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate was
washed and anti-TGFp-biotin was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for 1 hr.
The plate was washed and streptavidin-HRP was added and the plate incubated at room
temperature for 1 hr. After washing, TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO4. The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 hybrid reader.
[00244]         Results:
[00245]         The binding of the Anti-EGFR1 HC + TGFpRIl-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab to
both the targets EGFR1 (Figure 48) and TGFp (Figure 49) was comparable with anti-EGFR1
TGFPRII. The Anti-EGFR1 HC + TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab was also tested in a
bifunctional ELISA to determine whether the anti-EGFR1 and TGF3RII domains of the Mab can
bind to their respective targets without interfering with each other. As seen in Figure 50, the
binding of Anti-EGFRI HC + TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab is reduced as compared to
anti-EGFR1-TGF3RII, suggesting that there is some interference in binding to either target due
to the construction of the fusion Mab.
[00246]         Binding to Cells Expressing EGFR1:
[00247]         Procedure:
[00248]         A-431 cells were grown in flasks until they reached 70-80% confluency.        The
cells were trypsinized and harvested. The cells were stained with different dilutions of Anti
EGFRI HC + TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab or control Ig at 2 - 8 0C for 30 minutes.
The cells were washed and incubated with anti-Human IgG - FITC conjugate at 2 - 80C for 30
minutes. After washing, the cells were analyzed on a flow cytometer. Live cells were gated
based on their FSC vs SSC profiles. The total MFI for the gated population were recorded.
                                                49

[00249]         Results:
[00250]         The Anti-EGFR1      HC + TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1          LC fusion binds to EGFR
expressing A-431 cells in a dose dependent manner (Figure 51). The binding of Anti-EGFR1 HC
+ TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC is reduced compared to the binding of anti-EGFR1-TGFPRII.
[00251]         8.      Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFDRII + TGFbRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC (Fmab 10)
[00252]         Binding ELISAs: Procedure:
[00253]         The fusion Mab was tested for its ability to bind to its targets in three different
ELISAs : 1) EGFR1 target-binding ELISA, 2) TGFp-target binding ELISA and 3) Bifunctional
ELISA.
[00254]         For the target binding ELISAs, the targets (rhEGFR-Fc chimera or TGF3) were
coated onto NUNC maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked
with superblock at room temperature for 2 hr.       Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the
negative control antibody was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature
for 1 hr. Binding of the fusion Mab was detected by the addition of a biotinylated anti-human
IgG F(ab) 2 secondary antibody, followed by a 1 hr incubation with peroxidase -conjugated
streptavidin at room temperature. TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
[00255]         For the bifunctional ELISA, rhEGFR-Fc chimera was coated onto NUNC
maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked with superblock at
room temperature for 2 hr. Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the negative control antibody
was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. After washing,
TGFP was added and the plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate was
washed and anti-TGFP-biotin was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for 1 hr.
                                               50

The plate was washed and streptavidin-HRP was added and the plate incubated at room
temperature for 1 hr. After washing, TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO4. The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 hybrid reader.
[00256]         Results:
[00257]         The binding of Anti-EGFR1 HC-TGFRII + TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion
Mab to the target EGFRI was slightly reduced (Figure 52) but was higher for TGF3 (Figure 53)
when compared to the binding of anti-EGFR1-TGFPRII.                 The Anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII        +
TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab was also tested in a bifunctional ELISA to determine
whether the anti-EGFR1 and TGFpRII domains of the Mab can bind to their respective targets
without interfering with each other. As seen in Figure 54, the binding of Anti-EGFR1 HC
TGFpRII + TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab is comparable to anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII,
suggesting that there is no interference in binding to either target due to the construction of the
fusion Mab.
[00258]         9.      TGFpRII-Anti-EGFRI HC + TGFpRIl-Anti-EGFR1 LC (Fmab 12)
[00259]         Binding ELISAs: Procedure:
[00260]         The fusion Mab was tested for its ability to bind to its targets in three different
ELISAs : 1) EGFR1 target-binding ELISA, 2) TGFP-target binding ELISA and 3) Bifunctional
ELISA.
[00261]         For the target binding ELISAs, the targets (rhEGFR-Fc chimera or TGFp) were
coated onto NUNC maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked
with superblock at room temperature for 2 hr.      Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the
negative control antibody was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature
for 1 hr. Binding of the fusion Mab was detected by the addition of a biotinylated anti-human
IgG F(ab) 2 secondary antibody, followed by a 1 hr incubation with peroxidase -conjugated
streptavidin at room temperature. TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
                                                51

with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 Hybrid
reader.
[00262]         For the bifunctional ELISA, rhEGFR-Fc chimera was coated onto NUNC
maxisorb plates overnight at 4'C. The plates were washed and then blocked with superblock at
room temperature for 2 hr. Different dilutions of the fusion Mab or the negative control antibody
was added to the plate. The plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. After washing,
TGFP was added and the plate was incubated at room temperature for 1 hr. The plate was
washed and anti-TGFP-biotin was added and the plate incubated at room temperature for 1 hr.
The plate was washed and streptavidin-HRP was added and the plate incubated at room
temperature for 1 hr. After washing, TMB substrate solution was added and the reaction stopped
with IN H 2 SO 4 . The absorbance was measured at 450nm on a BioTek Synergy H4 hybrid reader.
[00263]         Results:
[00264]         The binding of TGFpRII-Anti-EGFRI HC + TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion
Mab to the target EGFR1 was slightly reduced (Figure 53) but was higher for TGFp (Figure 56)
when compared to the binding of anti-EGFR1-TGFpRII.           The TGFpRII-Anti-EGFR1 HC +
TGF3RII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab was also tested in a bifunctional ELISA to determine
whether the anti-EGFR1 and TGFPRII domains of the Mab can bind to their respective targets
without interfering with each other. As seen in Figure 57, the binding of TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1
HC + TGFPRII-Anti-EGFR1 LC fusion Mab is reduced compared to anti-EGFR1-TGFPRII,
suggesting that there is interference in binding to either target due to the construction of the
fusion Mab.
                                               52

[00265]        References
[00266]        The contents of all references cited herein are incorporated by reference herein for
all purposes.
[00267]        Altschul, et al., 1990, Basic local alignment search tool, J Mol. Biol. 15:403-10.
[00268]        Ausubel, et al., (ed), 1998, Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Vol. 2, Ch.
13, Greene Publish. Assoc. & Wiley Interscience.
[00269]        Bitter, et al., 1987, Expression and Secretion Vectors for Yeast; Methods in
Enzymology, 153:5 16-544.
[00270]        Bitter, 1987, Heterologous Gene Expression in Yeast, Methods in Enzymology,
Vol. 152, pp. 673-684.
[00271]        Dong M., et al., 2006, Role of transforming growth factor-p in hematologic
malignancies. Blood. 107:4589-4596.
[00272]        Deutscher, M., et al., Guide to Protein Purification: Methods in Enzymology, Vol.
182, Academic Press (1990).
[00273]        Flies, et   al.,  2011,  Blockade      of the  B7-H1/PD-1    Pathway for Cancer
Immunotherapy, JBiol Med., 84(4): 409-421.
[00274]        Glover, 1986, DNA Cloning, Vol. II, Ch. 3, IRL Press, Wash., D.C.
[00275]        Gluzman (ed.), 1982, Eukaryotic Viral Vectors, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.: Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory.
                                                  53

[00276]         Grant, et al., 1987, Expression and Secretion Vectors for Yeast, Methods in
Enzymology, Vol. 153, 516-544.
[00277]         Lee, et al., 1994, Delivery of liposomes into cultured KB cells via folate receptor
mediated endocytosis. JBiol. Chem., 269:3 198.
[00278]         Lee, et al., 1995, Folate-mediated tumor cell targeting of liposome-entrapped
doxorubicin in vitro. Biochem. Biophys. Actu, 1233: 134-144.
[00279]         Mackett, et al., 1982, Vaccinia virus: a selectable eukaryotic cloning and
expression vector, Proc.Natl. A cad. Sci. USA, 79:7415-7419.
[00280]         Mackett, et al., 1984, General method for production and selection of infectious
vaccinia virus, J Virol., 49:857-864.
[00281]         Nomi, et al., 2007, Clinical significance and therapeutic potential of the
programmed death-1 ligand/programmed death-1 pathway in human pancreatic cancer. Clin
CancerRes., 13:2151-7.
[00282]         Okazaki, et al., 2007, PD-1 and PD-1 ligands: from discovery to clinical
Application. InternationalImmunology, Vol. 19, No. 7, pp. 813-824.
[00283]         Panicali, et al.,1982, Construction of poxviruses as cloning vectors: insertion of
the thymidine, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 79:4927-493 1.
[00284]         Pardoll,    DM.,   2012,   The blockage     of immune     checkpoints    in   cancer
immunotherapy. Nat. Rev. Cancer, 12(4): 252-64.
[00285]         Strathem, et al., 1982, The Molecular Biology of the Yeast Saccharomyces, Cold
Spring Harbor Press, Vols. I and II.
                                                  54

[00286]         Thompson RH, et al., 2004, Costimulatory B7-H1 in renal cell carcinoma
patients: Indicator of tumor aggressiveness and potential therapeutic target. Proc Natl Acad Sci U
SA., 101(49):17174-9.
[00287]         Teicher BA., 2001, Malignant cells, directors of the malignant process: role of
transforming growth factor beta. CancerMetastasisRev; 20:133-143.
[00288]         Wrzesinski, et al., 2007, Transforming Growth Factor-P and the Immune
Response: Implications for Anticancer Therapy, Clin Cancer Res, 13; 5262.
                                                55

CLAIMS
That which is claimed:
1.      A method for preparing therapeutically active fusion protein, wherein the fusion protein
comprises a tumor targeting moiety and at least one immunomodulatory molecule that
counteracts immune tolerance of a cancer cell, wherein the tumor targeting moiety is an antibody
that binds to EGFR1 or CTLA-4 and wherein the fusion protein is prepared by the following
steps:
           preparing a codon optimized nucleotide sequence encoding the fusion protein, wherein
the codon optimized nucleotide sequence for the antibody is lacking nucleotides for expression
of a lysine at the C-terminal end of the heavy chains of the antibody;
           cloning the optimized sequence of said fusion protein in a host cell capable of transient
or stable expression;
           growing the host cell in a media under suitable conditions for growing and allowing the
host cell to express the fusion protein; and
           collecting secreted fusion proteins and optionally for further purification.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the immunomodulatory molecule is linked to the
antibody by an amino acid sequence of sufficient length to allow bi-specific binding of the fusion
protein and is linked directly or through a linker to the heavy chain of the antibody, light chain of
the antibody or both chains.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the immunomodulatory molecule is linked directly or
through a linker to the N or C terminus of the heavy chain of the antibody, N or C terminus of
the light chain of the antibody or both N and C terminus of both chains.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the immunomodulatory molecule binds to (i)
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-p) and/or (ii) Programmed death- 1 ligand 1 (PD-Ll).
                                                  56

5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the antibody binds to EGFR1 or CTLA4 and the
immunomodulatory moiety binds to transforming growth factor beta (TGF- P) or to PD-IL.
6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the codon optimized nucleotide sequences comprise
SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 4 and 7.
7.      The method of claim 5, wherein the codon optimized nucleotide sequences comprise
SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3 and 4.
8.      The method of claim 5, wherein the codon optimized nucleotide sequences comprise
SEQ ID NOs: 5, 6, 3 and 4.
9.         A preparation comprising homogeneous therapeutically active fusion proteins, wherein
the fusion proteins comprise a tumor targeting moiety and at least one immunomodulatory
molecule, wherein the tumor targeting moiety is an antibody that binds to EGFR1 or CTLA-4
and wherein the fusion proteins are prepared by the following steps:
           preparing a codon optimized nucleotide sequence encoding the fusion protein, wherein
the codon optimized sequence for the antibody is lacking nucleotides for expression of a lysine at
the C-terminal end of the heavy chains of the antibody;
           cloning the codon optimized sequence of said fusion protein in a host cell capable of
transient or stable expression;
           growing the host cell in a media under suitable conditions for growing and allowing the
host cell to express the fusion protein; and
           collecting secreted fusion proteins for optional purification.
10.        A nucleic acid sequence encoding the chimeric fusion protein according to claim 1, and
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1 to 7.
11.        A vector comprising the nucleic acid sequences of claim 10.
                                                   57

12.    The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences
of SEQ ID NOs: 9 and one of SEQ ID NO: 15, 17, 27, or 29.
13.   The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences of
SEQ ID NOs: 8 and one of SEQ ID NO. 16, 18, 28 or 30.
14.   The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences of
SEQ ID NOs: 31 and one of SEQ ID NO. 28 or 30.
15.   The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences of
SEQ ID NOs: 29 and one of SEQ ID NO. 28 or 30.
16.   The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences of
SEQ ID NOs: 32 and one of SEQ ID NO. 14, 33 or 35.
17.   The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences of
SEQ ID NOs: 13 and one of SEQ ID NO. 33 or 35.
18.   The method of claim 1, wherein the fusion protein comprises the amino acid sequences of
SEQ ID NOs: 34 and one of SEQ ID NO. 14, 33 or 35.
                                             58

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721><U+2712><U+2711><U+270D><U+2713>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+271D><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2718><U+271C><U+2718><U+271F><U+2722><U+2723>
                      <U+2713><U+2719><U+2724><U+2718><U+271B><U+2723><U+2725><U+2726><U+2726><U+2725><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+272A>
                      <U+2721><U+2719><U+2725><U+2729><U+2722><U+272B><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2729><U+2718><U+2725> <U+272C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2725>
                      <U+2721><U+2725><U+272B><U+271F><U+2729><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725><U+2729><U+271B><U+2725><U+271F><U+2730>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+2702><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+2731><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+2732><U+270D> <U+2711><U+272C><U+272C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2732><U+272C><U+2732><U+2733><U+270C><U+270F><U+2734><U+2712><U+2732><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2735><U+2732><U+2712><U+261B><U+2711><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2734><U+270D><U+2733> <U+272C><U+261B><U+2712><U+2738><U+2732><U+2733><U+2721> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2735> <U+272C><U+2734><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2734><U+272C><U+261B>
              <U+2714><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2716>   <U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+2704><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E><U+2739><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+273A><U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273B><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+273C><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2727><U+2715><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273B><U+271D><U+2716>   <U+2702><U+2715><U+271D> <U+273D><U+2715> <U+273D><U+271D><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273B><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+271D><U+260E><U+273C><U+273A><U+273A><U+271D><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273B><U+271D><U+2716>   <U+2702><U+2715><U+271D><U+273B><U+273D><U+2715><U+2704><U+273D><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273B><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+2737><U+270E><U+2712><U+273C><U+2702><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+273C><U+2715><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2715><U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273B><U+271D><U+2716>   <U+2702><U+2715><U+271D><U+260E><U+273D><U+2715> <U+273D><U+271D><U+2715>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+2701><U+2715><U+2716>    <U+273B>
              <U+2714><U+271D><U+273A><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+2737><U+2725><U+271F><U+2722><U+271B><U+271F><U+2711><U+271B> <U+2724><U+2722><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271E><U+273B>
              <U+2714><U+2702><U+271D><U+2715><U+2716>   <U+271D>
              <U+2714><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+2716>   <U+271D> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+2716>   <U+2733><U+270D><U+2734>
              <U+2714><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2716>   <U+2734><U+2729><U+271F><U+2718><U+273E><U+2718><U+271A><U+2718><U+2725><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2722><U+273F><U+2740><U+2722><U+271B><U+271A><U+2722>
              <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702><U+2715><U+2716>
              <U+2714><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2716>   <U+2721><U+272E><U+271B><U+271F><U+2730><U+2722><U+271F><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271B><U+272B><U+271F><U+2729><U+2740><U+271A><U+271F>
              <U+2714><U+260E><U+2715><U+2715><U+2716> <U+271D>
              <U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271F><U+271A>        <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F> <U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A>      <U+271D><U+2702><U+2715>
              <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A>      <U+271D><U+2704><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271F><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A>       <U+2702><U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A>        <U+2715><U+2715>
              <U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F> <U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F>        <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F> <U+2605><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A>      <U+260E><U+2702><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605>      <U+260E><U+2704><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A>       <U+273B><U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F> <U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A>       <U+2701><U+2715><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F> <U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605>       <U+2701><U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F>       <U+273A><U+2702><U+2715>
              <U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725>       <U+273A><U+2704><U+2715>
              <U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725> <U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+271F> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A>       <U+2704><U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A>      <U+2739><U+2715><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605> <U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2725><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271A><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605>      <U+2739><U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271F><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2725><U+271F><U+271A><U+271F><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605>      <U+271D><U+2715><U+2702><U+2715>
              <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2605> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605><U+271A> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2605><U+2605><U+2725><U+271A><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+271A><U+271F><U+2605>      <U+271D><U+2715><U+2704><U+2715>
                                                     <U+2737><U+2725><U+2605><U+2722> <U+271D>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F> <U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+271D> <U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B>                                          <U+271D> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+270C><U+270E>   <U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+270E>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D> <U+270E>   <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+261B><U+2714><U+2721><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+261B><U+2718>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+2702><U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+2702> <U+270E>   <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+2718><U+271F><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+271B><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+271A><U+261B><U+271F>
              <U+270D><U+260E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2702>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B>     <U+2701><U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B>    <U+2702><U+260E><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F>     <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F> <U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B>     <U+2701><U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B>    <U+2726><U+260E><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B>    <U+2701><U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261E><U+271F>                       <U+2701><U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+270E>   <U+260E><U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D> <U+270E>   <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+261B><U+2714><U+2721><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+261B><U+2718>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+2702><U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+2702> <U+270E>   <U+2717><U+271C><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+2718><U+271F><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+271B><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+271A><U+261B><U+271F>
              <U+270D><U+260E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F>     <U+2701><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B> <U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721>   <U+271D><U+2704><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B>    <U+2702><U+260E><U+270C>
              <U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B>     <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F> <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271F> <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E>     <U+2701><U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F> <U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+261B>            <U+260E><U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+270C><U+270E>   <U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+270E>   <U+260E><U+2726>
                                                   <U+2727><U+2721><U+261E><U+2718> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B> <U+260E>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F>                     <U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>   <U+271D> <U+260E><U+271D>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2726>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725>     <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712>    <U+2702><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712>     <U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712>     <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725>    <U+2726><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F>    <U+2701><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F>    <U+2727><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725>    <U+2727><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725>    <U+2704><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2605><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712>    <U+2605><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+271A><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+271A><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725>   <U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271F><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+271D> <U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725>                                             <U+271D> <U+260E><U+271D>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                   <U+2729><U+2713><U+2725><U+2716>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712>    <U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713>    <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725>   <U+2726><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2727>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+2726><U+271A>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B> <U+2727>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+271D><U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713> <U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+271F><U+271F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2713><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271F><U+2725>                                    <U+260E><U+2726><U+271A>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2704>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2729> <U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2704>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719>
              <U+271D>               <U+2726>                   <U+271D><U+271A>                  <U+271D><U+2726>
                                                   <U+2729><U+2713><U+2725><U+2716> <U+260E>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>    <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E>
                            <U+2702><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+2726>                   <U+271A>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718>
                       <U+2726>                  <U+260E><U+271A>                  <U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E>
                  <U+2726><U+271A>                   <U+2726><U+2726>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>    <U+2714><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2726>                    <U+2727><U+271A>                  <U+2727><U+2726>                  <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2716><U+271F> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713>    <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713>
                              <U+2704><U+2726>                  <U+2605><U+271A>                    <U+2605><U+2726>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B>
                          <U+271D><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+271A><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2726>
              <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718>
                  <U+271D> <U+271A>                 <U+271D> <U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2727><U+2726>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723>
                      <U+271D><U+2605><U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+271A><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+271A><U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+271A>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2726>                 <U+2702> <U+271A>                 <U+2702> <U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+2726><U+271A>                 <U+2702><U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+271A>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+2727><U+271A>
              <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719>
                      <U+2702><U+2727><U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2726>
              <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2729><U+2713><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2726>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2605><U+271A>                <U+2702><U+2605><U+2726>                 <U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718>
               <U+271A><U+2726>                  <U+271D><U+271A>                  <U+271D><U+2726>                  <U+2702><U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724>
                               <U+2702><U+2726>                   <U+271A>                    <U+2726>
              <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E>
                            <U+260E><U+271A>                  <U+260E><U+2726>                  <U+2726><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E>
                       <U+2726><U+2726>                  <U+2701><U+271A>                  <U+2701><U+2726>
              <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718>
                   <U+2727><U+271A>                  <U+2727><U+2726>                   <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+2704><U+2726>                  <U+2605><U+271A>                  <U+2605><U+2726>                 <U+260E><U+271A><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724>
                              <U+260E><U+271A><U+2726>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+271A>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+271A>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2726>                 <U+260E> <U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B>
                      <U+260E> <U+2726>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+271A>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>   <U+2605>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>   <U+2702><U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2729> <U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>   <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B>       <U+2605>
              <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2714><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B>
              <U+271D>                <U+2726>                  <U+271D><U+271A>                  <U+271D><U+2726>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719>
                          <U+2702><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+2726>                    <U+271A>
               <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+2716>
                       <U+2726>                  <U+260E><U+271A>                  <U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B>   <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B>
                  <U+2726><U+271A>                  <U+2726><U+2726>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>
              <U+2701><U+2726>                  <U+2727><U+271A>                  <U+2727><U+2726>                 <U+2704><U+271A>
                                                    <U+2729><U+2713><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2701>

                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702>        <U+2714><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E>
                                    <U+2704><U+2726>                  <U+2605><U+271A>                  <U+2605><U+2726>
              <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713>
                          <U+271D><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+271A><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716>        <U+2714><U+2716> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2726>                       <U+271D><U+2702><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2726>
              <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+271D> <U+271A>                 <U+271D> <U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+271A>
              <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2727><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2727><U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+271A>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2726>                 <U+271D><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+2724> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2719> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+260E><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>
                      <U+271D><U+2605><U+2726>                 <U+2702><U+271A><U+271A>                 <U+2702><U+271A><U+2726>
              <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>     <U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>     <U+271D><U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>     <U+2729> <U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>     <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>     <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B>     <U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E>
              <U+271D>               <U+2726>                   <U+271D><U+271A>                  <U+271D><U+2726>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271A><U+261B>     <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>     <U+271D><U+2726><U+271A>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>     <U+2729> <U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+261B>     <U+270D><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271A><U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2702><U+2702> <U+261B>     <U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271F><U+271C><U+2716><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2724><U+271F><U+270E><U+2718><U+2712><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+260E><U+271A><U+271A><U+261B>     <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E>
              <U+271D>               <U+2726>                   <U+271D><U+271A>                  <U+271D><U+2726>
              <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270E><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2702><U+2714><U+271B> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2702> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716>
                          <U+2702><U+271A>                  <U+2702><U+2726>                   <U+271A>
              <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271C><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271C><U+2716> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2716><U+2718> <U+270D><U+2724><U+2719> <U+2701><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271B><U+270E>
                                                   <U+2729><U+2713><U+2725><U+2716> <U+2727>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
                           <U+2721>                <U+260E><U+261B>                  <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722>
                  <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
              <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+261B>                  <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715>
                              <U+2704><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+261B>                  <U+2729><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723>
                          <U+271D><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+261B><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C>
                  <U+271D> <U+261B>                 <U+271D> <U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>   <U+271D> <U+2726>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272D><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+2730><U+2722><U+270F><U+2715><U+272F><U+270F>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2711><U+271C><U+2715><U+271F><U+2719><U+270F><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+2724><U+2713><U+2715><U+2714><U+271F><U+270C><U+2722><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+261B><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717>
              <U+271D>               <U+2721>                   <U+271D><U+261B>                  <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714>
                          <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                   <U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715>
                       <U+2721>                  <U+260E><U+261B>                  <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723>
                  <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714>
              <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+261B>                  <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                              <U+2704><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+261B>                  <U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F>
                          <U+271D><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+261B><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2723><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A>
                  <U+271D> <U+261B>                 <U+271D> <U+2721>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272D><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+2730><U+2722><U+270F><U+2715><U+272F><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2711><U+271C><U+2715><U+271F><U+2719><U+270F><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+2724><U+2713><U+2715><U+2714><U+271F><U+270C><U+2722><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+261B><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+271D>               <U+2721>                   <U+271D><U+261B>                  <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C>
                          <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                   <U+261B>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717>
                       <U+2721>                  <U+260E><U+261B>                  <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717>
                  <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C>
              <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+261B>                  <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714>
                              <U+2704><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+261B>                  <U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C>
                          <U+271D><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+261B><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C>
                  <U+271D> <U+261B>                 <U+271D> <U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                      <U+271D><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+2721>
                                                    <U+2712><U+2723><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+2702> <U+261B>                 <U+2702> <U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2721><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2721><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2726><U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723>
                      <U+2702><U+2726><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717>
                  <U+2702><U+2729><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+2721>                  <U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C>
               <U+261B><U+2721>                  <U+271D><U+261B>                  <U+271D><U+2721>                  <U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C>
                               <U+2702><U+2721>                   <U+261B>                   <U+2721>
              <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
                           <U+260E><U+261B>                  <U+260E><U+2721>                  <U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714>
                       <U+2721><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+261B>                  <U+2701><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                   <U+2726><U+261B>                  <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A>
               <U+2704><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+261B>                  <U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+260E><U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                              <U+260E><U+261B><U+2721>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+261B>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+261B>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+260E> <U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C>
                      <U+260E> <U+2721>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+261B>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>   <U+2702><U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272D><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+2730><U+2722><U+270F><U+2715><U+272F><U+270F>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2711><U+271C><U+2715><U+271F><U+2719><U+270F><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+2724><U+2713><U+2715><U+2714><U+271F><U+270C><U+2722><U+272F><U+271F>
                                                  <U+2712><U+2723><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271D><U+261B>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+261B><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C>
              <U+271D>               <U+2721>                   <U+271D><U+261B>                  <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                          <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                   <U+261B>
              <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
                       <U+2721>                  <U+260E><U+261B>                  <U+260E><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                  <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722>
              <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+261B>                  <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713>
                              <U+2704><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+261B>                  <U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723>
                          <U+271D><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+261B><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722>
                  <U+271D> <U+261B>                 <U+271D> <U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714>
                      <U+271D><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2712><U+272D><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+2730><U+2722><U+270F><U+2715><U+272F><U+270F>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2711><U+271C><U+2715><U+271F><U+2719><U+270F><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+2724><U+2713><U+2715><U+2714><U+271F><U+270C><U+2722><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+261B><U+261B><U+272C>   <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2723><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271D>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271D>               <U+2721>                  <U+271D><U+261B>                   <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C>
                          <U+2702><U+261B>                  <U+2702><U+2721>                   <U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
                       <U+2721>                  <U+260E><U+261B>                  <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C>
                  <U+2721><U+261B>                  <U+2721><U+2721>                  <U+2701><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F>
              <U+2701><U+2721>                  <U+2726><U+261B>                  <U+2726><U+2721>                  <U+2704><U+261B>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723>
                              <U+2704><U+2721>                  <U+2729><U+261B>                  <U+2729><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C>
                          <U+271D><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+261B><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+261B>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
                  <U+271D> <U+261B>                 <U+271D> <U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2721><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+2721>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+261B>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2721>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713>
                      <U+271D><U+2729><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2721>                 <U+2702> <U+261B>                 <U+2702> <U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270F><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271F> <U+272A><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2721><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2711><U+270F><U+270C> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2726><U+261B>
              <U+2712><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2715>
                      <U+2702><U+2726><U+2721>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+261B>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2721>
                                                   <U+2712><U+2723><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271D><U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B>
                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717>
               <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                               <U+2702><U+2723>                   <U+2722>                   <U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                           <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                       <U+2723><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717>
                   <U+2729><U+2722>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717>
               <U+2704><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                              <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+260E> <U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                      <U+260E> <U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                  <U+260E><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715>
                          <U+2723><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726>
                      <U+2723><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                  <U+2723> <U+2722>                 <U+2723> <U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726>
              <U+2723><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2701><U+2722>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271D>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718>
                              <U+2723><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2729><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+2723><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718>
                      <U+2723><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2701><U+2722><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B>
                  <U+2701><U+271D><U+2722>
               <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722><U+2701>   <U+271D><U+2701>
               <U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+2701>    <U+2729><U+271C>
               <U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701>   <U+2713><U+2702><U+270F>
               <U+2702><U+271D> <U+2701>   <U+2721><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2704><U+2725><U+260E><U+2725><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2706><U+2717><U+271A><U+2718><U+260E><U+271A>
               <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722><U+2701>
               <U+2702><U+2702> <U+2701>   <U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+271F><U+2711><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+260E> <U+2727><U+2714><U+2718><U+270E><U+271F><U+2712><U+2717><U+260E><U+271F>
               <U+260E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2701>   <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+271D>               <U+2723>                   <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718>
                          <U+2702><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+2723>                   <U+2722>
              <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A>
                       <U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                  <U+2723><U+2722>                  <U+2723><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2729><U+2722>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                              <U+2704><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2723>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271D><U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
                      <U+271D><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+2722>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717>
                      <U+2702><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B>
               <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
                               <U+2702><U+2723>                   <U+2722>                   <U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715>
                           <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
                       <U+2723><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B>
                   <U+2729><U+2722>                  <U+2729><U+2723>
               <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722><U+2701>   <U+271D><U+2729>
               <U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+2701>   <U+2701><U+271D>
               <U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701>   <U+2713><U+2702><U+270F>
               <U+2702><U+271D> <U+2701>   <U+2721><U+2712><U+271F><U+2725><U+2704><U+2725><U+260E><U+2725><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2706><U+2717><U+271A><U+2718><U+260E><U+271A>
               <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722><U+2701>
               <U+2702><U+2702> <U+2701>   <U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+271F><U+2711><U+271A><U+271F><U+2725><U+260E> <U+2727><U+2714><U+2718><U+270E><U+271F><U+2712><U+2717><U+260E><U+271F>
               <U+260E><U+2722><U+2722><U+2701>   <U+271D><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+271D>               <U+2723>                   <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2723>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2702><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+2723>                   <U+2722>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712>
                       <U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717>
                  <U+2723><U+2722>                  <U+2723><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2729><U+2722>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718>
                              <U+2704><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                  <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                      <U+271D><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+2722>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+2722>
              <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                      <U+2702><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+2722>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2701>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
               <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                               <U+2702><U+2723>                   <U+2722>                   <U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B>
                           <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+2723><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718>
                       <U+2723><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                   <U+2729><U+2722>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717>
               <U+2704><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726>
                              <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271A><U+271F> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+260E> <U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D>
                      <U+260E> <U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718>
                  <U+260E><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717>
                          <U+2723><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2715> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718>
                      <U+2723><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+261B><U+271A>
                  <U+2723> <U+2722>                 <U+2723> <U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+2723><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726> <U+2716><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2711><U+271A> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                              <U+2723><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2723><U+2729><U+2722>                 <U+2723><U+2729><U+2723>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2729>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714>
                          <U+2722><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2722><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+2722><U+2724><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                      <U+2722><U+2724><U+2722>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
                  <U+2701><U+271D><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>    <U+272B><U+2724>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>   <U+271B><U+272C><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+271D>               <U+2722>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+2722>                   <U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E>
                       <U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E>
                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+272B><U+2723>                  <U+272B><U+2722>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A>
                              <U+2704><U+2722>                  <U+2724><U+2723>                  <U+2724><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
                  <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+272B><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+272B><U+2722>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2724><U+2723>
                                                   <U+271B><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2704>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E>
                      <U+271D><U+2724><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+272B><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E>
                      <U+2702><U+272B><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B>
                  <U+2702><U+2724><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2724><U+2722>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A>
               <U+2723><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E>
                               <U+2702><U+2722>                   <U+2723>                   <U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E>
                       <U+2722><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714>
                   <U+272B><U+2723>                  <U+272B><U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+271F><U+272E><U+2718><U+272E><U+272E> <U+2711><U+272E><U+272E><U+2711><U+271F><U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2718><U+271F> <U+272E><U+272E><U+271F><U+271F><U+272E><U+2718><U+271F><U+2718>                                    <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>    <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
                                                  <U+271B><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2724>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2718><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718> <U+2718><U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+2711><U+2718><U+2718><U+271F> <U+2718><U+272E><U+2711><U+2718><U+272E><U+271F><U+2718><U+2711><U+2711><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2711><U+2718><U+271F><U+272E>           <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+271F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+2711> <U+2718><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718><U+2711>                      <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>    <U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+271F><U+271F><U+272E><U+2711><U+2718><U+272E><U+271F><U+2718><U+272E><U+2711> <U+272E><U+272E><U+271F><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718><U+272E><U+272E> <U+271F><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+272E><U+272E><U+2711> <U+272E><U+271F><U+271F><U+272E>            <U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>    <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>     <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+271F><U+271F><U+2711><U+2711><U+271F><U+271F><U+2711><U+2711><U+271F> <U+272E><U+2711><U+2711><U+272E><U+2711><U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+2718><U+272E> <U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+271F><U+271F><U+2718><U+2711><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+272E><U+271F>           <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>    <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271F><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E> <U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+272E> <U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+272E><U+271F><U+2718> <U+2718><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+2711>           <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>    <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+272E><U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+272E> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+272E><U+272E><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718> <U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+272E><U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+2718><U+2711><U+272E> <U+2711><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2711>           <U+2722>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>    <U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
                                                  <U+271B><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2723>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+271F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+272E><U+271F><U+272E><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2711><U+272E><U+272E><U+2711><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+271F><U+272E> <U+271F><U+2718><U+2718><U+2711><U+2711><U+272E>                                      <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+272B>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272A>   <U+2701><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272A>   <U+271B><U+272C><U+270C>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272A>   <U+2713><U+270E><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+272F><U+261E><U+261B><U+271A><U+272E><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272A>   <U+2717><U+2716><U+271A><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271C><U+2605><U+271A><U+2714><U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272A>   <U+2702><U+272B>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A>
              <U+271D>               <U+2722>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+2722>                   <U+2723>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                       <U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+272B><U+2723>                  <U+272B><U+2722>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711>
                              <U+2704><U+2722>                  <U+2724><U+2723>                  <U+2724><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+272B><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+272B><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2724><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605>
                      <U+271D><U+2724><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2722>
                                                  <U+271B><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B> <U+2702><U+271D>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+272B><U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A>
                      <U+2702><U+272B><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                  <U+2702><U+2724><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2724><U+2722>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E>
               <U+2723><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714>
                               <U+2702><U+2722>                   <U+2723>                   <U+2722>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                       <U+2722><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E>
                   <U+272B><U+2723>                  <U+272B><U+2722>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
               <U+2704><U+2722>                  <U+2724><U+2723>                  <U+2724><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714>
                              <U+260E><U+2723><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+270D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+261E>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+260E> <U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2716><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716>
                      <U+260E> <U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                  <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270E><U+2605> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2719><U+2712><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2725><U+261B><U+271F> <U+2730><U+2712><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+272B><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+272B><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2723>
                                                  <U+271B><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+271B><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+2722><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
                      <U+271B><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+271B> <U+2722>                 <U+271B> <U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+271B><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F>
                              <U+271B><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+272A><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+272A><U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719>
                          <U+271B><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                      <U+271B><U+271C><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2722><U+272C>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>    <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2714><U+272D><U+2725>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2717><U+271F><U+2729><U+272E><U+2729><U+272F><U+2729><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2730><U+2719><U+2716><U+270C><U+272F><U+2716>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2722><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2724><U+270F><U+270C><U+271F><U+2715><U+2716><U+271F><U+2729><U+272F> <U+271A><U+2718><U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2717><U+2719><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272C>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+271D>               <U+271B>                   <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
                          <U+2702><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                   <U+2722>
              <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716>
                       <U+271B>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                  <U+271B><U+2722>                  <U+271B><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+272A><U+2722>                  <U+272A><U+271B>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717>
                              <U+2704><U+271B>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711>
                          <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>
                                                  <U+2714><U+2711><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D> <U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                      <U+271D><U+271C><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271B>                 <U+2702> <U+2722>                 <U+2702> <U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+272A><U+2722>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
                      <U+2702><U+272A><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719>
                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271B>                  <U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719>
               <U+2722><U+271B>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
                               <U+2702><U+271B>                   <U+2722>                   <U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                           <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+271B>                  <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                       <U+271B><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2722><U+272C>   <U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2714><U+272D><U+2725>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2717><U+271F><U+2729><U+272E><U+2729><U+272F><U+2729><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2730><U+2719><U+2716><U+270C><U+272F><U+2716>
                                                  <U+2714><U+2711><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2702><U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2722><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2724><U+270F><U+270C><U+271F><U+2715><U+2716><U+271F><U+2729><U+272F> <U+271A><U+2718><U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2717><U+2719><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272C>   <U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
              <U+271D>               <U+271B>                   <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                   <U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
                       <U+271B>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+271B><U+2722>                  <U+271B><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+272A><U+2722>                  <U+272A><U+271B>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                              <U+2704><U+271B>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                          <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                  <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D> <U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
                      <U+271D><U+271C><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271B>                 <U+2702> <U+2722>                 <U+2702> <U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271B><U+271B>
                                                  <U+2714><U+2711><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2702><U+271B>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+272A><U+2722>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                      <U+2702><U+272A><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271B>                  <U+2722><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
               <U+2722><U+271B>                  <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719>
                               <U+2702><U+271B>                   <U+2722>                   <U+271B>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717>
                           <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+271B>                  <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723>
                       <U+271B><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2722>                  <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
                   <U+272A><U+2722>                  <U+272A><U+271B>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B>
               <U+2704><U+271B>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
                              <U+260E><U+2722><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+271B>                 <U+260E> <U+2722>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719>
                      <U+260E> <U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B>
                  <U+260E><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+272A><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+272A><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+2722>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719>
                          <U+271B><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+2722><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+271B><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+2702><U+271B>
                                                  <U+2714><U+2711><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2702><U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
                  <U+271B> <U+2722>                 <U+271B> <U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+271B><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
                              <U+271B><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+272A><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+272A><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+271B><U+2704><U+2722>                 <U+271B><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                      <U+271B><U+271C><U+271B>                 <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2722><U+272C>    <U+2722>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>    <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2714><U+272D><U+2725>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2717><U+271F><U+2729><U+272E><U+2729><U+272F><U+2729><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2730><U+2719><U+2716><U+270C><U+272F><U+2716>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2722><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2724><U+270F><U+270C><U+271F><U+2715><U+2716><U+271F><U+2729><U+272F> <U+271A><U+2718><U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2717><U+2719><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272C>    <U+2722>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E>
              <U+271D>               <U+271B>                   <U+271D><U+2722>                  <U+271D><U+271B>
              <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2722>                  <U+2702><U+271B>                   <U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>
                       <U+271B>                  <U+260E><U+2722>                  <U+260E><U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+271B><U+2722>                  <U+271B><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2725><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2717><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B>
              <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+272A><U+2722>                  <U+272A><U+271B>                  <U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2729><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                              <U+2704><U+271B>                  <U+271C><U+2722>                  <U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                          <U+271D><U+2722><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+2716><U+271F> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                  <U+271D> <U+2722>                 <U+271D> <U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2715><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C> <U+2724><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+2722>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2722>
                                                  <U+2714><U+2711><U+2723><U+2716> <U+2702><U+272A>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                      <U+271D><U+2729><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                      <U+2702><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724>
                  <U+2702><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+271C>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
               <U+2723><U+271C>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B>
                               <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>                   <U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B>
                       <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+271C>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272B>    <U+271D>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272B>   <U+2701><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272B>   <U+2713><U+272C><U+2725>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272B>   <U+2717><U+2712><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+272F><U+270F><U+270D><U+2724><U+272E><U+270D>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272B>   <U+2711><U+2716><U+2724><U+271F><U+2719><U+270D><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2724><U+271B><U+271F><U+2712><U+270F><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+272A><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272B>    <U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724>
              <U+271D>               <U+271C>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261B><U+2718><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                       <U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D>
              <U+2701><U+271C>                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B>
                               <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                  <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D> <U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                      <U+271D><U+2729><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724>
                      <U+2702><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+2702><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+271C>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261B><U+2718><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2729>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F>
               <U+2723><U+271C>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B>
                               <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>                   <U+271C>
              <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                       <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F>
                   <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
               <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2729><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B>
                              <U+260E><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270D><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+271C>                <U+260E> <U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                      <U+260E> <U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+260E><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B>
                          <U+271C><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2723><U+271C>                  <U+271C><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                      <U+271C><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605>
                  <U+271C> <U+2723>                 <U+271C> <U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
              <U+271C><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D>   <U+270D><U+271F>
                               <U+271C><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>
                                                   <U+2713><U+261B><U+2718><U+270D>   <U+2723>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F>
                          <U+271C><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605>
                      <U+271C><U+2729><U+271C>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272B>      <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272B>     <U+2701><U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272B>     <U+2713><U+272C><U+2725>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272B>     <U+2717><U+2712><U+271F><U+2727><U+272D><U+2727><U+272E><U+2727><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+272F><U+270F><U+270D><U+2724><U+272E><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272B>
              <U+272A><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272B>    <U+2711><U+2716><U+2724><U+271F><U+2719><U+270D><U+271F><U+2727><U+272E> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2724><U+271B><U+271F><U+2712><U+270F><U+272E><U+271F>
              <U+272A><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272B>      <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718>
              <U+271D>               <U+271C>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>
              <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>     <U+270D><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712>
              <U+2701><U+271C>                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724>        <U+270D><U+271F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B>
                                    <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2729><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                  <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D> <U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+271C>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2729><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                      <U+271D><U+2729><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+271C>
                                                        <U+2713><U+261B><U+2718><U+270D>   <U+271D>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B>
                      <U+2702><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+2702><U+2729><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2729><U+271C>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712>
               <U+2723><U+271C>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712>
                               <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>                   <U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B>
                       <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270C><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                   <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605>
               <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2729><U+2723>                  <U+2729><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
                              <U+260E><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270D><U+271F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2715><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+261E><U+261B>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+271C>                  <U+260E> <U+2723>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2726><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2716><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2724> <U+270E><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                      <U+260E> <U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261E><U+2716>
                  <U+260E><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2605> <U+2717><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2717><U+271B><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2712>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2723>
                                                  <U+2713><U+261B><U+2718><U+270D>   <U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+271C>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F>
                          <U+271C><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725>
                      <U+271C><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+271C> <U+2723>                 <U+271C> <U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+271C><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711>
                              <U+271C><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+272A><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+272A><U+271C>
              <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712>
                          <U+271C><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711>
                      <U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+271C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                  <U+2701><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>    <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2712><U+2711><U+271A><U+272F><U+2711>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2724><U+2717><U+271A><U+271F><U+2715><U+2711><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271A><U+2718><U+271F><U+261B><U+2712><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717>
              <U+271D>               <U+271C>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                       <U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                  <U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712>
              <U+2701><U+271C>                  <U+272A><U+2723>                  <U+272A><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>
                                                  <U+2721><U+270E><U+2725><U+2711>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712>
                  <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D> <U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+271C>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+271D><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+271C>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+272A><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+2702><U+272A><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271C>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725>
                  <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
               <U+2723><U+271C>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711>
                               <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>                   <U+271C>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                       <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+271C>
                                                  <U+2721><U+270E><U+2725><U+2711>   <U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                   <U+272A><U+2723>                  <U+272A><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272C>    <U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2712><U+2711><U+271A><U+272F><U+2711>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2724><U+2717><U+271A><U+271F><U+2715><U+2711><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271A><U+2718><U+271F><U+261B><U+2712><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272C>   <U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B>
              <U+271D>               <U+271C>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B>
                       <U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712>
                  <U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+2701><U+271C>                  <U+272A><U+2723>                  <U+272A><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A>
                              <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717>
                  <U+271D> <U+2723>                 <U+271D> <U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+272A><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+271D><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2723><U+271C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+2723>
                                                  <U+2721><U+270E><U+2725><U+2711>   <U+271C>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+2702> <U+2723>                 <U+2702> <U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+272A><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717>
                      <U+2702><U+272A><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717>
                  <U+2702><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+2702><U+2722><U+271C>                  <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
               <U+2723><U+271C>                  <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>                  <U+2702><U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711>
                               <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>                   <U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                           <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>                  <U+271C><U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                       <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>                  <U+2701><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
                   <U+272A><U+2723>                  <U+272A><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
               <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B>
                              <U+260E><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                          <U+260E><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+260E> <U+2723>
              <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                      <U+260E> <U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                  <U+260E><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+272A><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+272A><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                              <U+260E><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+2723>                 <U+260E><U+2722><U+271C>
                                                  <U+2721><U+270E><U+2725><U+2711>   <U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+271C><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A>
                      <U+271C><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2702><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                  <U+271C> <U+2723>                 <U+271C> <U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+260E><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C><U+260E><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                              <U+271C><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+272A><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+272A><U+271C>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                          <U+271C><U+2704><U+2723>                 <U+271C><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B>
                      <U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+271C>
              <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717>
                  <U+2701><U+271D><U+2723>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2723><U+272C>    <U+271C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+271D><U+272C>    <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+272D><U+2714>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272C>   <U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2605><U+272E><U+2605><U+272F><U+2605><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2712><U+2711><U+271A><U+272F><U+2711>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2723><U+272C>
              <U+272B><U+2702><U+2702> <U+272C>   <U+2724><U+2717><U+271A><U+271F><U+2715><U+2711><U+271F><U+2605><U+272F> <U+271B><U+261E><U+271A><U+2718><U+271F><U+261B><U+2712><U+272F><U+271F>
              <U+272B><U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+272C>   <U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B>
              <U+271D>               <U+271C>                   <U+271D><U+2723>                  <U+271D><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711>
                          <U+2702><U+2723>                  <U+2702><U+271C>                   <U+2723>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B>
                       <U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+2723>                  <U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2712>
                  <U+271C><U+2723>                  <U+271C><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+2701><U+271C>                  <U+272A><U+2723>                  <U+272A><U+271C>                  <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2711><U+271F> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2725> <U+270C><U+2718><U+271A>
                              <U+2704><U+271C>                  <U+2722><U+2723>                  <U+2722><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2711><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2723>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2723>
                                                  <U+2721><U+270E><U+2725><U+2711>   <U+272A>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716>
                      <U+271D><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F>
                  <U+271D> <U+271C>                 <U+271D> <U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714>
              <U+271D><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+271B><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>
                              <U+271D><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2726><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+271D><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+271B>                 <U+271D><U+2605><U+271C>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                      <U+271D><U+2605><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D>
                  <U+2702><U+271D><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271D><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714>
              <U+2702><U+2702><U+271B>                 <U+2702> <U+271C>                 <U+2702> <U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+260E><U+271C>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2727><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+271B><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D>
                          <U+2702><U+2701><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2701><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2726><U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729>
                      <U+2702><U+2726><U+271B>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2727><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2711><U+261E>
                  <U+2702><U+2605><U+271C>                 <U+2702><U+2605><U+271B>                  <U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2714><U+2729> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729> <U+2715><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>
               <U+271C><U+271B>                  <U+271D><U+271C>                  <U+271D><U+271B>                  <U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729>
                               <U+2702><U+271B>                   <U+271C>                   <U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2711><U+2729> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714>
                           <U+260E><U+271C>                  <U+260E><U+271B>                  <U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2719><U+270F><U+2714> <U+2715><U+261B><U+2717> <U+2727><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714>
                       <U+271B><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+271C>                  <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2723> <U+2718><U+2717><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2722><U+271A><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2711><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2727><U+270F><U+2711>
                   <U+2726><U+271C>                  <U+2726><U+271B>                  <U+2704><U+271C>
                                                  <U+2722><U+2717><U+2716><U+270D>   <U+2704>

