                                         ABSTRACT
A gaming system configured to perform operations including receiving, via a network
communication interface of the gaming system, an electronic request from a mobile device to
transmit funds associated with the wagering game session.     The electronic request includes a
unique identifier.   The operations can further include, in response to analyzing the unique
identifier, determining from a casino server, via the network communication interface, a value
for the funds. The operations can further include electronically transmitting the value for the
funds using a player account.
                                                  30

                                                    1
METHODS OF TRANSFERRING FUNDS IN A CASHLESS WAGERING
SYSTEM
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> filed <removed-date>, which claims the priority benefit of United States Provisional
Application Serial No. 61/815,601 filed April24, 2013 the contents of which are hereby
incorporated in its entirety.
                               LIMITED COPYRIGHT WAIVER
[0002] A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to
copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by
anyone of the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or
records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. Copyright 2016, Bally Gaming,
Inc.
                                                 FIELD
[0003] Embodiments of the inventive subject matter relate generally to wagering game systems,
and more particularly to cashless wagering game systems.
                                           BACKGROUND
[0004] Cashless wagering game systems have become commonplace in casinos. Instead of
currency, cashless wagering game systems utilize cash substitutes, such as tickets, player
identification cards, credit cards, etc. for transactions taking place during wagering gameplay.
For example, when a player cashes out at the end of a wagering game session, the wagering
game machine prints a ticket representing the credit meter's cash value at the time of cash out.
The player can then take the ticket and insert it in another wagering game machine and begin
gameplay. Additionally, the player can exchange the ticket for cash at a cashier or kiosk.
Although cashless wagering game systems have many advantages, tickets can be easily lost,
misplaced, stolen, etc. before the player is able to redeem them.

                                                  la
                                            SUMMARY
[0004a] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
one or more disadvantages of existing arrangements.
[0004b] According to a first aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of
operating a gaming system, said method comprising: receiving, by player account server from a
mobile device an image of at least a portion of a wagering game ticket including indicia
indicating a monetary amount and a unique identifier; determining, by the player account server
based on the image, a player account associated with the unique identifier; transmitting, by the
player account server, at least a portion of the indicia to a remote ticketing server; receiving, by
the player account server, an indication of the monetary amount from the ticketing server; and
electronically depositing funds of the monetary amount in the player account.
[0004c] According to a second aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a gaming
system comprising: at least one processor; a network communication interface; and at least one
memory storage device configured to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one
processor, cause the gaming apparatus to control the gaming system, the instructions including
instructions to capture, by a mobile device, an electronic image of a wagering game ticket;
instructions to receive, by a player account server via the network communication interface from
the mobile device, the electronic image of the wagering game ticket, wherein the wagering game
ticket represents funds associated with one or more wagering games presented in a gaming
session, wherein the electronic image includes one or more unique identifiers; instructions to
determine, based on the electronic image, the one or more unique identifiers instructions to
determine, based on the one or more unique identifiers, a player account and an amount of the
funds associated with the wagering game ticket; and instructions to electronically transfer the
amount of the funds to the player account.
[0004d] According to a third aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided one or more non
transitory, computer readable storage media having instructions stored thereon, which when
executed by one or more processors of a gaming system, cause the gaming system to perform
operations for controlling the gaming system, the instructions comprising: instructions to
capture, by a mobile device, an electronic image of a wagering game ticket; instructions to

                                                 lb
receive by a player account server from a mobile device the electronic image of the wagering
game ticket from the mobile device, the wagering game ticket associated with monetary value
for placement of wagers in one or more wagering games presented in a wagering game session;
instructions to cause, by the player account server in response to receipt of the electronic image,
a ticketing server to determine the monetary value; and instructions to electronically transfer, by
the player account server, the monetary value to a player account associated with the wagering
game ticket.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0005] Embodiments of the invention are illustrated in the Figures of the accompanying
drawings in which:

[0006]    Figure 1A depicts a wagering game ticket 102, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter.
[0007]    Figure lB depicts a mobile device 116 capturing an image of a wagering game ticket
112.
[0008]    Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket using a mobile device, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject
matter.
[0009]    Figure 3 is flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket in a player account, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject matter.
[0010]    Figure 4 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket using a mobile device, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject
matter.
[0011]    Figure 5 is flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket in a player account, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject matter.
[0012]    Figure 6 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for transferring funds from a
player account to a wagering game ticket using a mobile device, according to some embodiments
of the inventive subject matter.
[0013]    Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for transferring funds from a
player account to a wagering game ticket, according to some embodiments of the inventive
subject matter.
[0014]    Figure 8 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for transferring funds from a
player account to a wagering game ticket, according to some embodiments of the inventive
subject matter.
[0015]    Figure 9 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for purchasing tangible
gaming instruments with funds in a player account using a mobile device, according to some
embodiments of the inventive subject matter.
[0016]    Figure 10 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for purchasing tangible
gaming instruments with funds in a player account, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter.
[0017]    Figure 11 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for purchasing tangible
gaming instruments with funds in a player account, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter.
[0018]    Figure 12 is a block diagram illustrating a wagering game network 600, according to
example embodiments of the invention.
                                                2

[0019]     Figure 13 is a block diagram illustrating a wagering game machine architecture,
according to example embodiments of the invention.
[0020]     Figure 14 is a perspective view of a wagering game machine, according to example
embodiments of the invention.
                               DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0021]     This description of the embodiments is divided into four sections. The first section
provides an introduction to embodiments of the invention, while the second section describes
example operations performed by some embodiments. The third section discusses wagering
game networks, while the fourth section describes wagering game machines.
                                             Introduction
[0022]     This section provides an introduction to some embodiments of the invention.
[0023]     Some embodiments of the inventive subject matter allow a player to deposit a wagering
game ticket using a mobile device. For example, in some embodiments, a wagering game
machine prints a wagering game ticket representing the player's credit meter balance at cash out.
The wagering game ticket can include a unique identifier, such as a two-dimensional (2D)
barcode, that indicates the player's player account, monetary value associated with the ticket,
and other information. The player can then take a picture of the wagering game ticket with a
mobile device, such a cellular telephone. The mobile device can then transmit the information
contained on the wagering game ticket to a player account server. The player account server can
then communicate with a ticketing server, which determines the monetary balance associated
with the wagering game ticket. The player account server can then deposit the wagering game
ticket (i.e., the monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket) in the player's player
account.
[0024]     Figure 1A depicts a wagering game ticket 102, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter. As depicted in Figure 1A, the wagering game ticket 102 contains a
unique identifier 104, an indication of the wagering game ticket value 106, the name of the
player 110 that owns the player account associated with the wagering game ticket, and the
player's player account number 108. In some embodiments, the wagering game ticket 102 can
contain more or less information than is depicted in Figure 1A. For example, the wagering
game ticket 102 can contain only the unique identifier 104. In some embodiments, the wagering
game ticket value, player tracking information, etc. can be embedded in the unique identifier
104. Additionally, the unique identifier 104 can take any suitable form, such as a one
                                                 3

dimensional (1D) barcode, a 2D barcode, a unique alphabetic code, a unique numeric code, a
unique alphanumeric code, etc.
[0025]    Figure 1B depicts a mobile device 116 capturing an image of a wagering game ticket
112. After capturing the image, the mobile device 116 can transmit the image or information
taken from the image to the player account server 120. The player account server 120
communicates with a ticketing server 124 to verify the monetary value associated with the
wagering game ticket 112. The player account server 120 deposits the money into the player
account 122.
[0026]    As noted above, some embodiments of the mobile device 116 send the image of the
wagering game ticket 112 to the player account server 120, so the player account server
processes the image (see discussion of Figures 2 and 3). In other embodiments, the mobile
device 116 itself processes the image, and then sends the pertinent information (i.e., monetary
value associated with the ticket, player account number, etc.) to the player account server 120
(see discussion of Figures 4 and 5).
[0027]    In one embodiment of the inventive subject matter, the player makes the deposit
through a web browser based system. For example, the player navigates the web browser on
their mobile device to a webpage associated with the player account server. Once at the
webpage, the player uploads the image of the wagering game ticket (or information associated
with the wagering game ticket) to the player account server. In another embodiment, the player
makes the deposit through a dedicated application running on the mobile device. For example,
the application can be associated with the player account server. The player can open the
application, and through the application, upload the image of the wagering game ticket (or
information associated with the wagering game ticket) to the player account server.
[0028]    Although Figure 1 describes some embodiments, the following sections describe many
other features and embodiments.
                                         Example Operations
[0029]     This section describes operations associated with some embodiments of the invention.
In the discussion below, the flow diagrams will be described with reference to the diagrams
presented above. However, in some embodiments, the operations can be performed by logic not
described in the diagrams.
[0030]     In certain embodiments, the operations can be performed by executing instructions
residing on machine-readable media (e.g., software), while in other embodiments, the operations
                                                4

can be performed by hardware and/or other logic (e.g., firmware). In some embodiments, the
operations can be performed in series, while in other embodiments, one or more of the operations
can be performed in parallel. Moreover, some embodiments can perform less than all the
operations shown in any flow diagram.
[0031]     The section will discuss Figures 2 - 11. The discussion of Figures 2 - 5 will describe
operations for processing an image of wagering game ticket and depositing the monetary value
associated with the wagering game ticket in a player account. The discussion of Figures 6 - 8
will describe operations for transferring funds from a player account to a wagering game ticket.
The discussion of Figures 9 - 11 will describe operations for purchasing tangible gaming
instruments with funds in a player account.
[0032]    Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket using a mobile device, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject
matter. The flow begins at block 202.
[0033]    At block 202, the mobile device captures an image of the wagering game ticket. In
some embodiments, the player takes a picture of the wagering game ticket, and the image of the
wagering game ticket is stored on the mobile device. In other embodiments, the player "scans"
the wagering game ticket. In such embodiments, the image of the wagering game ticket is not
saved to the mobile device. Rather, when the image appears in the mobile device's view finder,
the mobile device temporarily stores image information in a camera buffer. The image is
acquired by accessing the mobile device's camera buffer and retrieving the image. Furthermore,
in some embodiments, it is unnecessary for the player to capture an image of the entire wagering
game ticket. In such embodiments, it is only necessary for the player to capture an image of the
unique identifier on the wagering game ticket. The flow continues at block 204.
[0034]    At block 204, the mobile device transmits an image of the wagering game ticket to the
player account server. The mobile device may transmit the image information via a wireless
telephone network, a local area wireless network, or any other suitable communications network.
In some embodiments, the mobile device may transmit an image of the entire wagering game
ticket. In other embodiments, the mobile device may crop the image of the wagering game
ticket, so that the cropped image contains only the necessary information, such as the unique
identifier, player account associated with the wagering game ticket, the monetary value
associated with the wagering game ticket, etc. The flow continues at block 206.
[0035]    At block 206, the mobile device receives information about the deposit. For example,
the mobile device can receive a confirmation that the deposit was successful.
                                                5

[0036]    While Figure 2 describes embodiments in which the mobile device transmits the image
of the wagering game ticket to the player account server for processing from the perspective of
the mobile device, Figure 3 describes these same embodiments from the perspective of the
player account server.
[0037]     Figure 3 is flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket in a player account, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject matter.
The flow begins at block 302.
[0038]     At block 302, the player account server receives the image of the wagering game ticket.
In some embodiments, the player account server receives an image of the entire wagering game
ticket. In other embodiments, the player account server receives an image of just some of the
information on the wagering game ticket. For example, the player account server may receive
only an image of the unique identifier. The flow continues at block 304.
[0039]    At block 304, the player account server determines the player account information (the
player account associated with the wagering game ticket). In some embodiments, the player
account server determines the player account associated with the wagering game ticket from
information contained on the wagering game ticket. For example, the player account server can
employ optical character recognition (OCR) or other computer vision techniques to determine
the name of the player or the player's player account number printed on the wagering game
ticket. Additionally, the player's name or player account can be embedded in the unique
identifier. In such embodiments, the player account server determines the player account
associated with the wagering game ticket by scanning or processing the unique identifier. In
other embodiments, a player account may not be associated with the wagering game ticket (i.e.,
the ticket is not issued to a particular player account). In such embodiments, the player account
server can determine the player account into which the deposit should be made through other
means. For example, the player may have to login to a webpage or application from the mobile
device to initiate the deposit. The player account server can determine the player account into
which the deposit should be made based on this login information. The flow continues at block
306.
[0040]    At block 306, the player account server determines an indicator of the monetary value.
In some embodiments, the unique identifier printed on the wagering game ticket contains the
monetary value information. The flow continues at block 308.
[0041]    At block 308, the player account server transmits the wagering game ticket information
to a ticketing server. The wagering game ticket information can include an indication of the
monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket, a wagering game ticket serial number,
                                                  6

etc. In some embodiments, the ticketing server resides on the same hardware on which the
player account server resides. In other embodiments, the ticketing server resides on standalone
hardware. In some embodiments, the ticketing server is associated with a different business
entity (e.g., company) than the entity associated with the player account server or the wagering
game machine that printed the wagering game ticket. For example, a wagering game ticket may
be printed from a wagering game machine associated with WMS Gaming, Inc. of Chicago, IL,
and the ticketing server may be associated with International Game Technologies (IGT) of Reno,
NV, using Ticket In/Ticket Out (TITO) technology to determine the monetary value associated
with the wagering game ticket. The flow continues at block 310.
[0042]    At block 310, the player account server receives the monetary value information from
the ticketing server. In other words, the player account server receives an indication of the
monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket. The flow continues at block 312.
[0043]    At block 312, the player account server deposits the wagering game ticket in the player
account. Additionally, in some embodiments, once the wagering game ticket has been deposited,
the wagering game ticket can be voided, or recorded as deposited in a database to prevent the
wagering game ticket from being deposited a second time. The flow continues at block 314.
[0044]    At block 314, the player account server transmits information about the deposit. For
example, the player account server can transmit a confirmation that the deposit was successful.
Additionally, the wagering game server can transmit an indication of the current balance in the
player account.
[0045]    In Figures 2 and 3, as part of the process for depositing a ticket into a player account,
the player account server processes the ticket image. However, in some embodiments, the
mobile phone can process the image (e.g., by applying OCR to determine the ticket value, etc.).
Figures 3 and 4 describe operations for depositing a ticket into a player account, where the
mobile phone processes the image.
[0046]    Figure 4 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket using a mobile device, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject
matter. The flow begins at block 402.
[0047]    At block 402, the mobile device captures an image of the wagering game ticket. In
some embodiments, a player takes a picture of the wagering game ticket, and the image of the
wagering game ticket is stored on the mobile device. In other embodiments, the player "scans"
the wagering game ticket. In such embodiments, the image of the wagering game ticket is not
saved to the mobile device. Rather, the image is acquired by accessing the mobile device's
camera buffer and retrieving the image. As a player points the camera at a ticket, the image
                                                 7

appears in the mobile device's view finder. Images in the camera's viewfinder are temporarily
represented in a camera buffer of the mobile phone. Embodiments can access images in the
camera buffer even though a picture has not been taken. In some embodiments, it is unnecessary
for the player to capture an image of the entire wagering game ticket. In such embodiments, it is
only necessary for the player to capture an image of the unique identifier on the wagering game
ticket. The flow continues at block 404.
[0048]    At block 404, the mobile device determines the player account information (the player
account associated with the wagering game ticket). In some embodiments, the mobile device
determines the player account associated with the wagering game ticket from information
contained on the wagering game ticket. For example, the mobile device can employ OCR or
other computer vision techniques to determine the player's name or the player's player account
number printed on the wagering game ticket. Additionally, the player's name or player account
can be embedded in the unique identifier. In such embodiments, the mobile device determines
the player account associated with the wagering game ticket by scanning or processing the
unique identifier. In other embodiments, a player account may not be associated with the
wagering game ticket (i.e., the ticket is not issued to a particular player account). In such
embodiments, the mobile device can determine the player account into which the deposit should
be made through other means. For example, the player may have to login to a webpage or
application from the mobile device to initiate the deposit. The mobile device can determine the
player account into which the deposit should be made based on this login information. The flow
continues at block 406.
[0049]    At block 406, the mobile device determines the indicator of the monetary value. In
some embodiments, the unique identifier printed on the wagering game ticket contains the
monetary value information. The flow continues at block 408.
[0050]    At block 408, the mobile device transmits the indicator of the monetary value to a
ticketing server. The ticketing server, using the indicator of the monetary value, determines the
monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket (the monetary value information). The
flow continues at block 410.
[0051]    At block 410, the mobile device receives the monetary value information from the
ticketing server. In other words, the mobile device receives an indication of the monetary value
associated with the wagering game ticket. The flow continues at block 412.
[0052]    At block 412, the mobile device transmits the player account information and the
monetary value information to the player account server. This transmission may be achieved by
any suitable means, both wired and wireless. For example, the mobile device can communicate
                                                 8

with the player account server via a cellular telephone network, Wi-Fi network, etc.
Additionally, in some embodiments, the mobile device may also transmit an image of the
wagering game ticket (or unique identifier) to the player account server. In such embodiments,
the player account server can maintain images of the deposited wagering game tickets, log
transaction information pertaining to the wagering game tickets, etc. The flow continues at
block 414.
[0053]    At block 414, the mobile device receives information about the deposit from the player
account server. For example, the mobile device can receive a confirmation that the deposit was
successful.
[0054]    While Figure 4 describes embodiments where the mobile device processes the image of
the wagering game ticket and sends the relevant information to the player account server, Figure
5 describes complimentary operations performed by embodiments of the player account server.
[0055]    Figure 5 is flow diagram illustrating example operations for depositing a wagering
game ticket in a player account, according to some embodiments of the inventive subject matter.
The flow begins at block 502.
[0056]    At block 502, the player account server receives player account information. The
player account server can receive this information via any suitable wired or wireless means. The
flow continues at block 504.
[0057]    At block 504, the player account server receives the monetary value information. The
player account server can receive this information via any suitable wired or wireless means. The
flow continues at block 506.
[0058]    At block 506, the player account server performs security measures. In some
embodiments, the player account server can verify the information received in a database. For
example, the player account server can search a database of all issued wagering game tickets.
The database can contain information about each issued wagering game ticket, such as the player
account to which the wagering game ticket was issued, the monetary value associated with the
wagering game ticket, whether the wagering game ticket has been previously deposited, etc. In
some embodiments, a portion of this information may reside on the ticketing server. For
example, the monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket, a wagering game ticket
serial number, etc. may reside on the ticketing server. In such embodiments, the player account
server can interact with the ticketing server to perform security measures. Upon searching the
database and/or interacting with the ticketing server, if the player account server determines that
the ticket is fraudulent, has already been deposited, etc., the player account server can refuse to
make the deposit. In some embodiments, the player account server can relay the monetary value
                                                 9

information received from the mobile device to the ticketing server for verification. The flow
continues at block 508.
[0059]    At block 508, the player account server deposits the wagering game ticket in the player
account. As previously discussed, if the player account server determines that the wagering
game ticket is fraudulent or otherwise invalid, the player account server can refuse to make the
deposit. Additionally, in some embodiments, once the wagering game ticket has been deposited,
the wagering game ticket can be voided, or recorded in the database as deposited to prevent the
wagering game ticket form being deposited a second time. The flow continues at block 510.
[0060]    At block 510, the player account server transmits information about the deposit. For
example, the player account server can transmit a confirmation that the deposit was successful.
Additionally, the player account server can transmit an indication of the current balance in the
player account.
[0061]    While Figures 2 - 5 describe operations for processing an image of wagering game
ticket and depositing the monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket in a player
account, Figures 6 - 8 describe operations for transferring funds from a player account to a
wagering game ticket. In some embodiments, transferring funds from a player account to a
wagering game ticket requires action by three components: a mobile device, a print station, and a
player account server. In broad terms, the mobile device communicates with the print server,
indicating a desire to print a wagering game ticket. The print server communicates with the
player account server to facilitate that transfer of funds from the player account. The player
account server withdraws the funds from the player account to be associated with the wagering
game ticket. Finally, after all relevant information is received from the mobile device and the
player account server, the print station prints the wagering game ticket.
[0062]    Figure 6 is a flow diagram illustrating operations for transferring funds from a player
account to a wagering game ticket using a mobile device, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter. The flow begins at block 602.
[0063]    At block 602, the mobile device determines a player account from which to transfer
funds. In some embodiments, the player is required to login to a webpage or application on the
mobile device to transfer funds from their player account to a wagering game ticket. In such
embodiments, the mobile device can determine the player account based on the login credentials.
The flow continues at block 604.
[0064]    At block 604, the mobile device receives an indication to print (e.g., on a nearby print
station) a wagering game ticket representing funds transferred from the player account to the
wagering game ticket. In some embodiments, the player can indicate a desire to print a wagering
                                                 10

game ticket via a website associated with the player account server or using an application
associated with the player account server. The flow continues at block 606.
[0065]    At block 606, the mobile device receives an indication of the monetary value to be
associated with the wagering game ticket. In some embodiments, the player can indicate the
amount to be transferred from their player account to the wagering game ticket via a website
associated with the player account server or using an application associated with the player
account server. The flow continues at block 608.
[0066]    At block 608, the mobile device associates with a print station which will print the
wagering game ticket. In some embodiments, this association is necessary in order ensure that
the wagering game ticket will be printed at the correct print station and to prevent fraud. The
mobile device can associate with the print station using any suitable means. In some
embodiments, the print station may communicate with the mobile device wirelessly, for
example, over a near field communications (NFC) network. For example, the print station may
request that the mobile device emit an encoded audio signal to verify the mobile device's
proximity with the print station. Alternatively, the print station may have a unique identifier
associated with it that must be entered on the mobile device to associate with the print station.
For example, the print station may have a barcode that the mobile device must scan, or may have
a unique code printed on it that must be entered on the mobile device. In some embodiments, the
mobile device prompts the player to associate with the print station. In other embodiments, the
association may happen automatically. The flow continues at block 610.
[0067]    At block 610, the mobile device transmits an indication to print the wagering game
ticket to the print station. This transmission may be achieved by any suitable means, both wired
and wireless. The flow continues at block 612.
[0068]    At block 612, the mobile device transmits the player account information and the
monetary value information to the print station. This transmission may be achieved by any
suitable means, both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 614.
[0069]    At block 614, the mobile device receives confirmation of the transmission. In some
embodiments, the mobile device receives confirmation from the print station that the
transmission of the indication to print the wagering game ticket and the transmission of the
player account information and monetary value information was successful. In some
embodiments, the mobile device receives this confirmation after the transmissions have been
made to the print station. In other embodiments, the mobile device receives this confirmation
after the transmissions have been passed from the print station to a player account server which
                                                11

processes the transaction. For example, the print station can confirm that the transmissions were
successfully passed to the player account server.
[0070]    While Figure 6 describes transferring funds from a player account to a wagering game
ticket from the perspective of the mobile device, Figure 7 describes transferring funds from a
player account to a wagering game ticket from the perspective of the print server.
[0071]    Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for transferring funds from a
player account to a wagering game ticket, according to some embodiments of the inventive
subject matter. The flow begins at block 702.
[0072]    At block 702, the print station receives an indication to print a wagering game ticket. In
some embodiments, this indication is received from the mobile device. The flow continues at
block 704.
[0073]    At block 704, the print station associates with the mobile device. The print station can
associate with the mobile device via any suitable means, and can either associate automatically
or prompt player input for the association. For example, the print station can require player input
at the print station or can require player input at the mobile device. In some embodiments, the
print station associates with the mobile device wirelessly. In other embodiments, the print
station associates with the mobile device when the mobile device is physically connected to the
print station. The flow continues at block 706.
[0074]    At block 706, the print station receives player account information and monetary value
information. In some embodiments, the print station receives player account information and
monetary value information from the mobile device. In other embodiments, the print station
receives the player account information via player input at the print station. The player account
information indicates the player account from which funds should be withdrawn. The monetary
value information indicates the amount of funds to be withdrawn from the player account and
transferred to the wagering game ticket. The flow continues at block 708.
[0075]    At block 708, the print station transmits the player account information and the
monetary value information to the player account server. This transmission can be achieved
through any suitable means, both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 710.
[0076]    At block 710, the print server receives wagering game ticket information from the
player account server. In some embodiments, the wagering game ticket information includes all
information necessary to print the wagering game ticket representing the funds transferred from
the player account to the wagering game ticket. For example, the wagering game ticket can
include an indication of the player account from which the funds were transferred as well as an
indication of the monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket. Alternatively, the
                                                 12

wagering game ticket may be associated with a player account separate from the player account
from which the funds were transferred. For example, Player A may wish to transfer funds from
their player account to a wagering game ticket associated with their friend, Player B. The
wagering game ticket will then be associated with Player B (i.e., only Player B will be able to
access the monetary value associated with the wagering game ticket), but the monetary value
associated with the wagering game ticket will have come from funds in Player A's player
account. In some embodiments, the wagering game ticket information is only the monetary
value associated with the wagering game ticket (i.e., the wagering game ticket is not associated
with a specific player). In other embodiments, the wagering game ticket contains more
information than the monetary value and the player account. For example, the wagering game
ticket can include any type of information, such as a wagering game ticket number, time and date
information, etc. The flow continues at block 712.
[0077]    At block 712, the print station prints the wagering game ticket. In some embodiments,
the wagering game ticket is printed with all of the wagering game ticket information received by
the print station. In other embodiments, the wagering game ticket is printed with more or less
information than is received by the print station.
[0078]    While Figure 7 describes operations from the perspective of the print server, Figure 8
describes transferring funds from a player account to a wagering game ticket from the
perspective of the player account server.
[0079]    Figure 8 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for transferring funds from a
player account to a wagering game ticket, according to some embodiments of the inventive
subject matter. The flow begins at block 802.
[0080]    At block 802, the player account server receives and indication to create wagering game
ticket information. In some embodiments, this indication is received from the print station. In
other embodiments, this indication is received from the mobile device. The flow continues at
block 804.
[0081]    At block 804, the player account server receives the player account information and the
monetary value information. The player account information instructs the player account server
to withdraw the monetary value from a specific player account. The monetary value information
informs the player account server of the amount of funds to withdraw from the player account
and associate with the wagering game ticket. The flow continues at bock 806.
[0082]    At block 806, the player account server transmits the monetary value information to a
ticketing server. The ticketing server assigns a voucher number to the wagering game ticket.
The voucher number is associated with the wagering game ticket, and thus reflects the monetary
                                                 13

value associated with the wagering game ticket. This voucher number allows the wagering game
ticket to be used in a cashless wagering game system. In some embodiments, the ticketing server
resides on the same hardware as the player account server. In other embodiments, the ticketing
server resides on hardware distinct from that of the player account server. In some
embodiments, the player account server and the ticket server are associated with separate or
distinct entities. The flow continues at block 808.
[0083]    At block 808, the player account server receives the voucher number assigned to the
wagering game ticket from the ticketing server. This voucher number allows the wagering game
ticket to be used in a cashless wagering game system. The flow continues at block 810.
[0084]    At block 810, the player account server compiles the wagering game ticket information.
In some embodiments, the wagering game ticket information includes only the voucher number
assigned to the wagering game ticket. In other embodiments, the wagering game information
includes more data. For example, the wagering game ticket information can include the player
account from which the funds were transferred, a wagering game ticket number, date and time
information, etc. The flow continues at block 812.
[0085]    At block 812, the player account server transmits the wagering game ticket information
to the print station, so the print station can print the ticket. This transmission can be achieved by
any suitable means, both wired and wireless.
[0086]    While Figures 6 - 8 describe transferring funds from a player account to a wagering
game ticket, Figures 9 - 11 describe using funds in a player account to purchase tangible
wagering game instruments, such as chips.
[0087]    Figure 9 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for purchasing tangible
gaming instruments with funds in a player account using a mobile device, according to some
embodiments of the inventive subject matter. The flow begins at block 902.
[0088]    At block 902, the mobile device receives an indication to purchase a tangible gaming
instrument using funds in a player account. For example, a player may wish to purchase chips
for play at a table wagering game such as poker, roulette, etc. The player can use their mobile
device to access their player account and use money in their player account to fund the purchase
of chips. The flow continues at block 904.
[0089]    At block 904, the mobile device receives player account information and monetary
value information. The player account information allows funds to be withdrawn from the
correct player account. The monetary value information indicates the amount of money from the
player account to be used to fund the purchase of chips, or other tangible gaming instrument. In
some embodiments, the player logs in on the mobile device using a web browser or dedicated
                                                  14

application running on the mobile device. In such embodiments, the mobile device can obtain
the player account information from the login credentials. In some embodiments, the player
enters, on the mobile device, the monetary value they wish to utilize to purchase chips. The flow
continues at block 906.
[0090]    At block 906, the mobile device associates with a purchasing station. In some
embodiments, the purchasing station acts as an intermediary between the mobile device and the
player account server. Additionally, in some embodiments, the purchasing station can act as a
verification mechanism for the casino employee distributing chips or other tangible wagering
game instruments. The mobile device can associate with the purchasing station using any
suitable means. In some embodiments, the purchasing station may communicate with the mobile
device wirelessly, for example, over a near field communications (NFC) network. For example,
the purchasing station may request that the mobile device emit an encoded audio signal to verify
the mobile device's proximity with the purchasing station. Alternatively, the purchasing station
may have a unique identifier associated with it that must be entered on the mobile device to
associate with the purchasing station. For example, the purchasing station may have a barcode
that the mobile device must scan, or may have a unique code printed on it that must be entered
on the mobile device. In some embodiments, the mobile device prompts the player to associate
with the purchasing station. In other embodiments, the association may happen automatically.
The flow continues at block 908.
[0091]    At block 908, the mobile device transmits an indication to purchase tangible gaming
instruments to the purchasing station. This transmission may be achieved by any suitable means,
both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 910.
[0092]    At block 910, the mobile device transmits player account information and monetary
value information to the purchasing station. The player account information indicates the player
account from which to draw funds to purchase the tangible gaming instruments. The monetary
value information indicates the value of the tangible gaming instruments to be purchased. This
transmission may be achieved by any suitable means, both wired and wireless. The flow
continues at block 912.
[0093]    At block 912, the mobile device receives confirmation of the transmissions. For
example, the purchasing station or player account server can communicate with the mobile
device indicating that the transmissions were successful.
[0094]     While Figure 9 describes operations from the perspective of the mobile device, Figure
10 describes operations for purchasing tangible wagering game instruments from the perspective
of the purchasing station.
                                               15

[0095]    Figure 10 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for purchasing tangible
gaming instruments with funds in a player account, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter. The flow begins at block 1002.
[0096]    At block 1002, the purchasing station receives an indication to purchase tangible
gaming instruments from the mobile device. This transmission may be achieved by any suitable
means, both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 1004.
[0097]    At block 1004, the purchasing station associates with the mobile device. The purchasing
station can associate with the mobile device via any suitable means, and can either associate
automatically or prompt player input for the association. For example, the purchasing station
can require player input at the purchasing station or can require player input at the mobile device.
In some embodiments, the purchasing station associates with the mobile device wirelessly. In
other embodiments, the purchasing station associates with the mobile device when the mobile
device is physically connected to the purchasing station. The flow continues at block 1006.
[0098]    At block 1006, the purchasing station receives player account information and monetary
value information from the mobile device. This transmission may be achieved by any suitable
means, both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 1008.
[0099]    At block 1008, the purchasing station transmits and indication to purchase tangible
gaming instruments to the player account server. This transmission may be achieved by any
suitable means, both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 1010.
[00100] At block 1010, the purchasing station transmits player account information and
monetary value information to the player account server. This transmission may be achieved by
any suitable means, both wired and wireless. The flow continues at block 1012.
[00101] At block 1012, the purchasing station receives confirmation of the transaction. For
example, the purchasing station can receive an indication from the player account server that the
player account server has received the transmissions and successfully withdrawn the monetary
value from the player account. The flow continues at block 1014.
[00102] At block 1014, the purchasing station provides that tangible gaming instruments to the
player. However, in some embodiments, the purchasing station may not physically provide the
player with the tangible gaming instruments. Rather, the print station provides an instruction to a
casino employee to distribute tangible gaming instruments to the player. Additionally, in some
embodiments, the purchasing station prints a voucher representing the tangible gaming
instruments purchased. The player can then exchange the voucher for tangible gaming
instruments.
                                                16

[00103] While Figure 10 describes using funds in a player account to purchase tangible
wagering game instruments from the perspective of the purchasing station, Figure 11 describes
using funds in a player account to purchase tangible wagering game instruments from the
perspective of the player account server.
[00104] Figure 11 is a flow diagram illustrating example operations for purchasing tangible
gaming instruments with funds in a player account, according to some embodiments of the
inventive subject matter. The flow begins at block 1102.
[00105] At block 1102, the player account server receives the indication to purchase tangible
gaming instruments. In some embodiments, the player account server receives the indication
from the mobile device. In other embodiments, the player account server receives the indication
from the purchasing station. The indication can be sent by any suitable means, both wired and
wirelessly. The flow continues at block 1104.
[00106] At block 1104, the player account server receives the player account information and
monetary value information. The player account information indicates the player account from
which the funds to purchase the tangible gaming instruments should be withdrawn. The
monetary value information indicates the amount of the funds to be withdrawn. The flow
continues at block 1106.
[00107] At block 1106, the player account server deducts the monetary value from the player
account. The flow continues at block 1106.
[00108] At block 1106, the player account server transmits confirmation of the transaction. In
some embodiments, the player account server transmits to the mobile device, purchasing station,
or both, an indication that the transaction was successful.
[00109] Although examples refer to a player depositing the wagering game ticket associated
with their player account into their own player account, in some embodiments, players can
deposit wagering game tickets associated with another player's player account in their own
player account. For example, Player A is playing a wagering game on a wagering game
machine. At the end of the wagering game session, Player A cashes out and receives a wagering
game ticket that is associated with Player A's player account. Player A wishes to give this
wagering game ticket to Player B so that Player B can deposit the wagering game ticket in Player
B's player account. When Player B attempts to deposit the wagering game ticket, the mobile
device and/or player account server can determine that the wagering game ticket is associated
with a player account that is not Player B's player account. The mobile device and/or player
account server can then send an authorization code via email, SMS, MMS, etc. to Player A, and
alert Player A that Player B is attempting to deposit the wagering game ticket in Player B's
                                                17

player account. If Player A authorizes this deposit, Player A can provide Player B with the
authorization number provided by the mobile device or the player account server. Player B can
then enter the authorization number, and the mobile device and/or player account server will
continue with the deposit.
[00110] Although examples refer to capturing an image of the wagering game ticket, in some
embodiments, the mobile device may already have an image of the wagering game ticket stored
in its memory. For example, the mobile device can prompt the player to provide and image of
the wagering game ticket. The mobile device can provide the player with the option to either
take a picture of the wagering game ticket or use an existing image of the wagering game ticket.
If the player chooses to use an existing image of the wagering game ticket, the mobile device can
either process the existing image of the wagering game ticket or transmit the existing image of
the wagering game ticket to the wagering game server.
[00111] Although examples refer to either the mobile device processing the image of the
wagering game ticket or the player account server processing the image of the wagering game
ticket, in some embodiments both the mobile device and the player account server can process
the image of the wagering game ticket. In such embodiments, the mobile device can process the
image of the wagering game ticket and transmit the information obtained from the wagering
game ticket as well as the image of the wagering game ticket. Then player account server can
then process the image of the wagering game ticket. The mobile device, player account server,
or both, can then compare the information obtained by each entity to ensure accuracy.
[00112] Although examples refer to scanning and processing the wagering game ticket in the
casino, in some embodiments, players may be able to deposit wagering game tickets from
anywhere that the player account server can be accessed. For example, in some embodiments,
players can use a mobile device to capture an image of a wagering game ticket at their home.
The player can then connect to the player account server through the internet and either upload
the image of the wagering game ticket or upload the information relating to the wagering game
ticket to the player account server.
[00113] Although examples refer to performing security measures by accessing a database
containing information related to printed wagering game tickets, in some embodiments, a
password of other key may be linked with the wagering game ticket to enforce security. For
example, in some embodiments, before the wagering game ticket is printed, the player can enter
a password to be associated with the wagering game ticket. When the wagering game ticket is
redeemed (e.g., deposited via a mobile device, presented to a cashier, inserted into a wagering
game machine, etc.), the player is prompted to enter the password associated with the wagering
                                               18

game ticket. When the player enters the password correctly, the transaction can proceed. In
other embodiments, a password or key may be assigned to the wagering game ticket at the time
of printing by the wagering game machine, player account server, etc., and the password or key
provided to the player. In other embodiments, at the time of printing, the wagering game
machine printing the wagering game ticket can create an association between the wagering game
ticket and the player's mobile device. For example, the wagering game machine can
communicate with the player's mobile device via a near field communication (NFC) network (or
by other suitable means). The wagering game machine can request an identification number
from the mobile device. The mobile device's identification number can be associated with the
wagering game ticket. When a player attempts to deposit the wagering game ticket via their
mobile device, the player's mobile device's identification number will be referenced with the
identification number of the mobile device associated with the wagering game ticket.
Additionally, in some embodiments, when the wagering game ticket is inserted into another
wagering game machine, in order for the funds associated with the wagering game ticket to be
accessed, the wagering game machine will communicate with the player's mobile device to
ensure that the wagering game ticket is being utilized by the same player that printed the
wagering game ticket.
[00114] Although examples refer to security measures to ensure that a player seeking to utilize a
wagering game ticket is authorized to utilize the wagering game ticket, in some embodiments,
player-imposed restrictions may be set at the time of printing the wagering game ticket to limit
the use of the wagering game ticket. For example, a player may indicate at the time of printing
the wagering game ticket that the wagering game ticket is for deposit only (i.e., the wagering
game ticket cannot be redeemed for cash, redeemed for wagering game play on wagering game
machines, etc.). Further, the player may indicate that the wagering game ticket is for deposit
only in a specific player account (i.e., the wagering game ticket can only be deposited in Player
A's player account). Additionally, a player may indicate that the wagering game ticket cannot be
redeemed for a predetermined period of time. For example, the player can indicate that the
wagering game ticket cannot be redeemed during the subsequent two hours to enforce a break
from gaming.
[00115] Although examples refer to a mobile device communicating with a print kiosk to print a
wagering game ticket, in some embodiments the mobile device communicates with a player
account server, and the player account server communicates with the print kiosk. For example, a
player can indicate a request to print a wagering game ticket via the mobile device. The mobile
device will forward this request to the player account server. The player account server will then
                                                19

verify that the player account has funds sufficient to fulfill the request. In some embodiments,
the player account server will communicate with a ticketing server to receive a barcode, ticket
number, or other ticket identifier that indicates a monetary value associated with the wagering
game ticket. The player account server will then transmit all necessary information (e.g., player
account information, ticket identifier, etc.) to the print kiosk for printing of the wagering game
ticket.
[00116] Although examples refer to monetary value being associated with a wagering game
ticket, in some embodiments non-monetary value can be associated with a wagering game ticket.
For example, player reward points can be associated with a wagering game ticket. In such
embodiments, a player can deposit the player reward points in a player account using the
techniques described herein.
                                       Operating Environment
[00117] This section describes an example operating environment and presents structural
aspects of some embodiments. This section includes discussion about wagering game networks
and wagering game machine architectures.
                                     Wagering Game Networks
[00118] Figure 12 is a block diagram illustrating a wagering game network 1200, according to
example embodiments of the invention. As shown in Figure 12, the wagering game network
1200 includes a plurality of casinos 1212 connected to a communications network 1214.
[00119] Each casino 1212 includes a local area network 1216, which includes an access point
1204, a wagering game server 1206, a player account server 1218, a ticketing server 1220, and
wagering game machines 1202. The access point 1204 provides wireless communication links
1210 and wired communication links 1208. The wired and wireless communication links can
employ any suitable connection technology, such as Bluetooth, 802.11, Ethernet, public switched
telephone networks, SONET, etc. In some embodiments, the wagering game server 1206 can
serve wagering games and distribute content to devices located in other casinos 1212 or at other
locations on the communications network 1214.
[00120] The wagering game machines 1202 described herein can take any suitable form, such as
floor standing models, handheld mobile units, bartop models, workstation-type console models,
etc. Further, the wagering game machines 1202 can be primarily dedicated for use in conducting
wagering games, or can include non-dedicated devices, such as mobile phones, personal digital
assistants, personal computers, etc. In one embodiment, the wagering game network 1200 can
                                                 20

include other network devices, such as accounting servers, wide area progressive servers, player
tracking servers, and/or other devices suitable for use in connection with embodiments of the
invention.
[00121] In some embodiments, wagering game machines 1202 and wagering game servers 1206
work together such that a wagering game machine 1202 can be operated as a thin, thick, or
intermediate client. For example, one or more elements of game play may be controlled by the
wagering game machine 1202 (client) or the wagering game server 1206 (server). Game play
elements can include executable game code, lookup tables, configuration files, game outcome,
audio or visual representations of the game, game assets or the like. In a thin-client example, the
wagering game server 1206 can perform functions such as determining game outcome or
managing assets, while the wagering game machine 1202 can present a graphical representation
of such outcome or asset modification to the user (e.g., player). In a thick-client example, the
wagering game machines 1202 can determine game outcomes and communicate the outcomes to
the wagering game server 1206 for recording or managing a player's account.
[00122] In some embodiments, either the wagering game machines 1202 (client) or the
wagering game server 1206 can provide functionality that is not directly related to game play.
For example, account transactions and account rules may be managed centrally (e.g., by the
wagering game server 1206) or locally (e.g., by the wagering game machine 1202). Other
functionality not directly related to game play may include power management, presentation of
advertising, software or firmware updates, system quality or security checks, etc. Additionally,
in some embodiments, the player account server 1218 can store and provide access to player
accounts. Additionally, the player account server 1218 can perform transactions relating to the
player accounts. In some embodiments, the ticket server 1220 provides functionality relating to
wagering game tickets, such as verifying wagering game tickets, producing wagering game
tickets, determining monetary value associated with wagering game tickets, etc.
[00123] Any of the wagering game network components (e.g., the wagering game machines
1202) can include hardware and machine-readable media including instructions for performing
the operations described herein.
                               Wagering Game Machine Architectures
[00124] Figure 13 is a block diagram illustrating a wagering game machine architecture,
according to example embodiments of the invention. As shown in Figure 13, the wagering
game machine architecture 1300 includes a wagering game machine 1306, which includes a
central processing unit (CPU) 1326 connected to main memory 1328.         The CPU 1326 can
                                               21

include any suitable processor, such as an Intel@ Pentium processor, Intel@ Core 2 Duo
processor, AMD OpteronTM processor, or UltraSPARC processor. The main memory 1328
includes a wagering game unit 1332. In one embodiment, the wagering game unit 1332 can
present wagering games, such as video poker, video black jack, video slots, video lottery, etc., in
whole or part.
[00125] The CPU 1326 is also connected to an input/output (1/0) bus 1322, which can include
any suitable bus technologies, such as an AGTL+ frontside bus and a PCI backside bus. The 1/0
bus 1322 is connected to a payout mechanism 1308, primary display 1310, secondary display
1312, value input device 1314, player input device 1316, information reader 1318, and storage
unit 1330. The player input device 1316 can include the value input device 1314 to the extent
the player input device 1316 is used to place wagers. The 1/0 bus 1322 is also connected to an
external system interface 1324, which is connected to external systems 1304 (e.g., wagering
game networks). In some embodiments, the payout mechanism 1308 can include a ticket printer
for printing wagering game tickets.
[00126] In one embodiment, the wagering game machine 1306 can include additional peripheral
devices and/or more than one of each component shown in Figure 13. For example, in one
embodiment, the wagering game machine 1306 can include multiple external system interfaces
1324 and/or multiple CPUs 1326. In one embodiment, any of the components can be integrated
or subdivided.
[00127] Any component of the architecture 1300 can include hardware, firmware, and/or
machine-readable media including instructions for performing the operations described herein.
Any combination of one or more computer readable medium(s) may be utilized. The computer
readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage
medium. A computer readable storage medium may be, for example, but not limited to, an
electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system, apparatus, or
device, or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples (a non-exhaustive
list) of the computer readable storage medium would include the following: an electrical
connection having one or more wires, a portable computer diskette, a hard disk, a random access
memory (RAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an erasable programmable read-only memory
(EPROM or Flash memory), an optical fiber, a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD
ROM), an optical storage device, a magnetic storage device, or any suitable combination of the
foregoing. In the context of this document, a computer readable storage medium may be any
tangible medium that can contain, or store a program for use by or in connection with an
instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.
                                               22

[00128] A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with
computer readable program code embodied therein, for example, in baseband or as part of a
carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms, including, but not
limited to, electro-magnetic, optical, or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable
signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage
medium and that can communicate, propagate, or transport a program for use by or in connection
with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.
[00129] While Figure 13 describes an example wagering game machine architecture, this
section continues with a discussion wagering game networks.
                                Example Wagering Game Machines
[00130] Figure 14 is a perspective view of a wagering game machine, according to example
embodiments of the invention. Referring to Figure 14, a wagering game machine 1400 is used
in gaming establishments, such as casinos. According to embodiments, the wagering game
machine 1400 can be any type of wagering game machine and can have varying structures and
methods of operation. For example, the wagering game machine 1400 can be an
electromechanical wagering game machine configured to play mechanical slots, or it can be an
electronic wagering game machine configured to play video casino games, such as blackjack,
slots, keno, poker, blackjack, roulette, etc.
[00131] The wagering game machine 1400 comprises a housing 1412 and includes input
devices, including value input devices 1418 and a player input device 1424. For output, the
wagering game machine 1400 includes a primary display 1414 for displaying information about
a basic wagering game. The primary display 1414 can also display information about a bonus
wagering game and a progressive wagering game. The wagering game machine 1400 also
includes a secondary display 1416 for displaying wagering game events, wagering game
outcomes, and/or signage information. While some components of the wagering game machine
1400 are described herein, numerous other elements can exist and can be used in any number or
combination to create varying forms of the wagering game machine 1400.
[00132] The value input devices 1418 can take any suitable form and can be located on the front
of the housing 1412. The value input devices 1418 can receive currency and/or credits inserted
by a player. The value input devices 1418 can include coin acceptors for receiving coin currency
and bill acceptors for receiving paper currency. Furthermore, the value input devices 1418 can
include ticket readers or barcode scanners for reading information stored on vouchers, cards, or
                                                23

other tangible portable storage devices. The vouchers or cards can authorize access to central
accounts, which can transfer money to the wagering game machine 1400.
[00133] The player input device 1424 comprises a plurality of push buttons on a button panel
1426 for operating the wagering game machine 1400. In addition, or alternatively, the player
input device 1424 can comprise a touch screen 1428 mounted over the primary display 1414
and/or secondary display 1416.
[00134] The various components of the wagering game machine 1400 can be connected directly
to, or contained within, the housing 1412. Alternatively, some of the wagering game machine's
components can be located outside of the housing 1412, while being communicatively coupled
with the wagering game machine 1400 using any suitable wired or wireless communication
technology.
[00135] The operation of the basic wagering game can be displayed to the player on the primary
display 1414. The primary display 1414 can also display a bonus game associated with the basic
wagering game. The primary display 1414 can include a cathode ray tube (CRT), a high
resolution liquid crystal display (LCD), a plasma display, light emitting diodes (LEDs), or any
other type of display suitable for use in the wagering game machine 1400. Alternatively, the
primary display 1414 can include a number of mechanical reels to display the outcome. In
Figure 14, the wagering game machine 1400 is an "upright" version in which the primary
display 1414 is oriented vertically relative to the player. Alternatively, the wagering game
machine can be a "slant-top" version in which the primary display 1414 is slanted at about a
thirty-degree angle toward the player of the wagering game machine 1400. In yet another
embodiment, the wagering game machine 1400 can exhibit any suitable form factor, such as a
free standing model, bartop model, mobile handheld model, or workstation console model.
[00136] A player begins playing a basic wagering game by making a wager via the value input
device 1418. The player can initiate play by using the player input device's buttons or touch
screen 1428. The basic game can include arranging a plurality of symbols along a payline 1432,
which indicates one or more outcomes of the basic game. Such outcomes can be randomly
selected in response to player input. At least one of the outcomes, which can include any
variation or combination of symbols, can trigger a bonus game.
[00137] In some embodiments, the wagering game machine 1400 can also include an
information reader 1452, which can include a card reader, ticket reader, bar code scanner, RFID
transceiver, or computer readable storage medium interface. In some embodiments, the
information reader 1452 can be used to award complimentary services, restore game assets, track
player habits, etc.
                                                24

                                               General
[00138] This detailed description refers to specific examples in the drawings and illustrations.
These examples are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the
inventive subject matter. These examples also serve to illustrate how the inventive subject
matter can be applied to various purposes or embodiments. Other embodiments are included
within the inventive subject matter, as logical, mechanical, electrical, and other changes can be
made to the example embodiments described herein. Features of various embodiments described
herein, however essential to the example embodiments in which they are incorporated, do not
limit the inventive subject matter as a whole, and any reference to the invention, its elements,
operation, and application are not limiting as a whole, but serve only to define these example
embodiments. This detailed description does not, therefore, limit embodiments of the invention,
which are defined only by the appended claims. Each of the embodiments described herein are
contemplated as falling within the inventive subject matter, which is set forth in the following
claims.
[00139] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not
the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[00140] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge in Australia.
                                               25

                                                 26
CLAIMS:
1.      A method of operating a gaming system, said method comprising:
        receiving, by player account server from a mobile device an image of at least a portion of
a wagering game ticket including indicia indicating a monetary amount and a unique identifier;
        determining, by the player account server based on the image, a player account associated
with the unique identifier;
        transmitting, by the player account server, at least a portion of the indicia to a remote
ticketing server;
        receiving, by the player account server, an indication of the monetary amount from the
ticketing server; and
        electronically depositing funds of the monetary amount in the player account.
2.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        presenting, by a wagering game machine, the wagering game ticket.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the unique identifier identifies the wagering game ticket,
and wherein the player account server includes the ticketing server.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the determining the unique identifier comprises
analyzing the image using optical character recognition.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the image is captured by one or more of the mobile
device or a print station.
6.      The method of claim 1, further comprising connecting the mobile device to a printing
station and printing copy of the wagering game ticket.
7.      A gaming system comprising:
        at least one processor;
        a network communication interface; and
        at least one memory storage device configured to store instructions that, when executed
by the at least one processor, cause the gaming apparatus to control the gaming system, the

                                                    27
instructions including instructions to capture, by a mobile device, an electronic image of a
wagering game ticket;
         instructions to receive, by a player account server via the network communication
interface from the mobile device, the electronic image of the wagering game ticket, wherein the
wagering game ticket represents funds associated with one or more wagering games presented in
a gaming session, wherein the electronic image includes one or more unique identifiers,
         instructions to determine, based on the electronic image, the one or more unique
identifiers;
         instructions to determine, based on the one or more unique identifiers, a player account
and an amount of the funds associated with the wagering game ticket; and
         instructions to electronically transfer the amount of the funds to the player account.
8.       The gaming apparatus of claim 7, wherein at least one of the one or more unique
identifiers is a ticket identifier for the wagering game ticket.
9.       The gaming apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one memory storage device is
configured to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the
gaming apparatus to determine the amount of the funds to transfer, in response to electronic
communication of the ticket identifier to a ticketing server.
10.      The gaming apparatus of claim 7, wherein the at least one memory storage device is
configured to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the
gaming apparatus to analyze an image file received from the mobile device, wherein the image
file indicates the one or more unique identifiers.
11.      The gaming apparatus of claim 7, wherein the at least one memory storage device is
configured to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the
gaming apparatus to:
         scan, via a scanning device, a code that indicates the one or more unique identifiers in a
machine-readable format; and
         electronically transmit the funds after the code is scanned, wherein the scanning device is
associated with one or more of the mobile device, a print station, and a wagering game machine.

                                                   28
12.     The gaming apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory storage device is
configured to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the
gaming apparatus to, in response to the code being scanned, electronically connect the mobile
device to the gaming apparatus to process the funds.
13.     The gaming apparatus of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory storage device is
configured to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the
gaming apparatus to electronically connect to the mobile device in response to transmitting a
request to the mobile device to emit an encoded audio signal.
14.     One or more non-transitory, computer readable storage media having instructions stored
thereon, which when executed by one or more processors of a gaming system, cause the gaming
system to perform operations for controlling the gaming system, the instructions comprising:
        instructions to capture, by a mobile device, an electronic image of a wagering game
ticket;
        instructions to receive by a player account server from a mobile device the electronic
image of the wagering game ticket from the mobile device, the wagering game ticket associated
with monetary value for placement of wagers in one or more wagering games presented in a
wagering game session;
        instructions to cause, by the player account server in response to receipt of the electronic
image, a ticketing server to determine the monetary value; and
        instructions to electronically transfer, by the player account server, the monetary value to
a player account associated with the wagering game ticket.
15.     The one or more non-transitory, computer readable storage media of claim 14, said
instructions further comprising:
        instructions to present, by a wagering game machine, the wagering game ticket.
16.     The one or more non-transitory, computer readable storage media of claim 15, wherein
the player account is indicated by the wagering game ticket.
17.     The one or more non-transitory, computer readable storage media of claim 16, further
comprising:

                                                29
       instructions to analyze, by the player account server, the electronic image to determine
the monetary amount.
                                        Bally Gaming, Inc.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 22May
           13     2016
              Dec 2017

