                                      ABSTRACT
         IMPROVED METHOD OF PRODUCING HARD WEARING SIGNAGE
 5         This present invention relates to signage and in particular to methods of
   producing signs on surfaces which are subject to wear and tear. The method
   has the steps of laying a transparent plastic panel on a static backing film and
   printing in reverse an image onto a surface of the transparent plastic panel,
   said image having at least one space therein.        An optically clear transfer
10 adhesive is laminated to one side of a reflective sheet and at least one shape
   which is substantially the same size as the space in the reverse printed image
   is cut from the laminated reflective sheet.     The cut-out laminated reflective
   sheet shape is then attached to the space on the transparent plastic panel and
   the backing sheet is removed from the laminated reflective sheet and a double
15 sided transfer adhesive is applied to the laminated reflective sheet and the
   printed transparent plastic panel.

              4/4
                   10
                            70
90
   62
      70
                               20
         71-           7
          72 FIG 7  72
                         80
             FIG 8

                                             1
        IMPROVED METHOD OF PRODUCING HARD WEARING SIGNAGE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5         This present invention relates to a method of manufacturing signage and
   in particular to methods of producing signs on surfaces which are subject to
   wear and tear. The invention also extends to a hard wearing sign produced
   from the method.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           It should be noted that reference to the prior art herein is not to be taken
   as an acknowledgement that such prior art constitutes common general
   knowledge in the art.
15
           Adequate signage is important in many industries to identify and warn of
   potential hazards, restrict access or to provide safety directions. Traditionally,
   safety signs have been constructed of metal with ink or paint applied to the
   surface.    Such signs, when used in industrial or outdoor environments, are
20 subject to wear and damage causing warning statements to fade. This is not
   only dangerous but costly to business and property owners who must
   constantly replace worn signage.
           In addition safety signs are required to be highly visible in all conditions.
25 Lit safety signs provide high visibility in low light situations and at night.
   However such lights do not provide high visibility during well-lit conditions.
   Furthermore, it is not always possible to provide adequate lighting, in particular
   in remote locations.
30         Highly reflective signs are often used as safety signs. Highly reflective
   material provides high visibility of signs when light is shone directly onto the
   sign from a distance. The advantage of these types of signs is that they can be

                                              2
   made to be more visible during well-lit conditions and do not require power.
   The disadvantage is that in low light conditions light be shone on the sign for
   visibility.
 5          Protective coatings have been used in an attempt to prevent damage of
   the printed signage. For example, a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) carrier
   can have an adhesive laminated onto the PET film over a printed image and
   used to attach the label to a surface while the PET film protects the printing
   from environmental damage.
10
            In darker working environments, such as in mines, it is necessary to
   have highly reflective signage to ensure visibility of the sign in limited lighting.
   Although there are reflective paints available, reflective signage is commonly
   made using reflective sheeting with glass beads or specialised micro-prisms
15 which is more effective and provides up to 60% reflectivity of available light.
            The surface of such reflective sheeting can be damaged during
   construction of the sign or during daily use resulting in deterioration of its
   reflectivity.  It is also difficult to print on, so special formulations of sheet
20 materials, which are able to take the ink, special printing materials such as
   ribbons, together with the use of elevated print-head temperatures are required.
   Both of these factors increase the cost. The coarse surface structure of the
   specially formulated reflective sheet materials can reduce print-head operating
   life and the elevated print-head temperatures can also reduce print-head
25 lifetimes. It has also been found that print quality suffers at elevated print-head
   temperatures and with such rough surfaces.
            Current methods used in an attempt to protect reflective signage include
   providing a reflecting film for signs comprising the following layers: a signage
30 layer, a focusing layer, a layer of glass beads, a layer of polyester resin, a
   polyvinyl chloride (PVC) resin layer and a protective transparent PET film layer.
   This method is complicated and requires the application and drying of several

                                             3
   liquid layers which can take significant time and can be expensive. Another
   known method provides a sign which comprises a rear plastic film adhered to a
   fabric material having reflective beads to provide a reflective surface and a thin
   plastic protective film over the reflective material. This sign is very thin and
 5 may sag, warp or be easily damaged in an industrial or outdoor environment.
           Clearly it would be advantageous if an improved method of producing
   hard wearing signage could be devised that helped to at least ameliorate some
   of the shortcomings described above. In particular, it would be beneficial if an
10 improved method of producing signage which was hard wearing and reflective
   was devised or at least to provide a useful alternative.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15         According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   producing a hard wearing sign comprising the steps of: (a) laying a transparent
   plastic panel on a static backing film; (b) printing in reverse an image onto a
   surface of the transparent plastic panel, said image having at least one space
   therein; (c) laminating an optically clear transfer adhesive to one side of a
20 reflective sheet; (d) cutting at least one shape from the laminated reflective
   sheet, the shape being substantially the same size as the space in the reverse
   printed image on the transparent plastic panel; (e) attaching the cut-out
   laminated reflective shape to the space on the transparent plastic panel; (f)
   removing a backing sheet from the laminated reflective sheet; and (g) applying
25 a double sided transfer adhesive to the laminated reflective sheet and the
   transparent plastic panel.
           Preferably, the optically clear transfer adhesive may be applied to the
   reflective side of the reflective sheet.
30
           Preferably, the method may further comprise the step of adhering said
   double sided transfer adhesive to a supporting structure.         The supporting

                                                4
   structure may be selected from any one of: (i) a flat surface; (ii) a slightly curved
   surface; or (iii) a flat or a slightly curved illuminated surface.
           Preferably, the double sided transfer adhesive may be a clear, pressure
 5 sensitive, acrylic or high bond adhesive.
           According to a further aspect, the present invention provides a hard
   wearing sign comprising: a transparent plastic panel laid on an static backing
   film, a surface of the transparent plastic panel having an image reverse printed
10 onto the surface, the image having at least one space therein; an optically clear
   transfer adhesive is laminated to one side of a reflective sheet and a shape
   being substantially the same size as the at least one space is cut from the
   laminated reflective sheet; and wherein the cut-out laminated reflective sheet
   shape is attached to the at least one space in the reverse printed transparent
15 plastic panel, a backing sheet of the laminated reflective sheet is removed and
   a double sided transfer adhesive is applied to the laminated reflective sheet
   and the transparent plastic panel to form a hard wearing sign.
           Preferably, the double sided transfer adhesive applied to the laminated
20 reflective sheet and the reverse printed combined transparent plastic panel and
   static backing film may form a self-adhesive sticker. The double sided transfer
   adhesive may be a clear, pressure sensitive, acrylic or high bond adhesive.
           Preferably, the optically clear transfer adhesive may be applied to the
25 reflective side of the reflective sheet.
           Preferably, the self-adhesive sticker and the hard wearing sign may be
   applied to a supporting structure. The supporting structure may be selected
   from any one of: (i) a flat surface; (ii) a slightly curved surface; or (iii) a flat or a
30 slightly curved illuminated surface.

                                              5
           Preferably, the transparent plastic panel may be a polyvinyl chloride
   (PVC) plastics panel or any other plastics material.
           Preferably, the reflective sheet may be a diamond grade, class 1 or class
 5 2 reflective    sheet which contains         microprisms   which   are capable  of
   retroreflecting almost all of the light that strikes the microprisms. The diamond
   grade, class 1 or class 2 reflective sheets may be a 3M DG sheet.
           Preferably, the optically clear transfer adhesive may be a highly
10 transparent, low-haze, and UV-resistant adhesive. Alternatively, the optically
   clear transfer adhesive may be a double-sided adhesive on a polyester carrier
   film.
           Preferably, the self-adhesive sticker and the hard wearing sign may be
15 applied to any flat, porous or non-porous structural surface including metal,
   paint, concrete, plastic or glass.
           Preferably, the self-adhesive sticker and the hard wearing sign may be
   illuminated from behind to provide a high visibility sign.
20
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The present invention will be understood more fully from the detailed
   description given hereinafter and from the accompanying drawings of the
25 preferred embodiment of the present invention, which, however, should not be
   taken to be       limitative to the    invention, but are for explanation and
   understanding only. An embodiment of the invention is now described by way
   of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
30         Fig. 1 shows a perspective view of a reverse printed image on a
   transparent plastic panel laid on a static backing film;

                                             6
           Fig. 2 shows the laminated optically clear transfer adhesive and the
   reflective sheet from which the letters will be cut;
           Fig. 3 shows the cut-out laminated reflective letters prior to being applied
   to the spaces in the reverse printed transparent plastic panel;
 5         Fig. 4 shows the laminated reflective lettering applied to the back of the
   transparent plastic panel;
           Fig. 5 shows the removal of the backing layers form the reflective sheet
   of the lettering to expose the layer of adhesive;
           Fig. 6 shows the application of a double sided transfer adhesive to the
10 laminated reflective sheet and the transparent plastic panel;
           Fig. 7 illustrates the trimming of the excess double sided transfer
   adhesive from the transparent plastic panel; and
           Fig. 8 shows the completed reflective transparent panel utilised in a light
   box.
15
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The following description, given by way of example only, is described in
   order to provide a more precise understanding of the subject matter of a
20 preferred embodiment or embodiments.
           In its broadest form as illustrated in Figs. 1 to 7, the present invention
   provides an improved method of producing a hard wearing sign. The method
   comprises the steps of firstly laying a transparent plastic panel 20 on a static
25 backing film 30. An image 10 is then reverse printed on the transparent plastic
   panel 20, the image having at least one space 15 therein. An optically clear
   transfer adhesive 40 is then laminated to one side of a reflective sheet 50. At
   least one shape 60 which is substantially the same size as the space 15 in the
   reverse printed image 10 is then cut from the laminated reflective sheet 40, 50
30 and the cut-out laminated reflective shape 60 is applied to space 15 in the
   reverse printed transparent plastic panel 20. The hard wearing reflective sign is
   completed with the backing sheet 51 removed from the laminated reflective

                                             7
   sheet 50 and a double sided transfer adhesive 70 applied to the transparent
   plastic panel 20.
           In a preferred embodiment of the present invention an image 10 is
 5 reverse printed onto the back of a transparent plastic panel 20, such as
   polyvinyl chloride (PVC), as shown in Fig. 1. Image 10 is reverse printed so
   that when viewed through the transparent panel 20 it appears in normal view.
   Image 10 may be a single matt colour or may be semi translucent or patterned
   and could include text, shapes or photographs. The areas of the sign that are
10 to be reflective will not be printed and will remain transparent spaces 15. In this
   example, the areas or spaces 15 which are left as transparent in the printed
   image 10 is the letter 'P' and the number '1'. However, any part of the printed
   image 10 may be left transparent dependent upon the type of signage required.
15         Prior to reverse printing the image 10 on the transparent plastic panel
   20, the plastic panel 20 is placed on a static backing film 30. The static backing
   film 30 prevents the printed image 10 on the plastic panel 20 from becoming
   distorted, stretched or stressed. The static backing film 30 may be a 7725 liner
   by 3M, a transparent synthetic liner which resists moisture absorption, static
20 build-up and lays flat while allowing the reverse printing of the image 10 on the
   plastic panel 20.
           The reverse printed image 10 is then allowed to dry prior to further
   processing.
25
           As illustrated in Fig. 2, an optically clear transfer adhesive 40 is
   laminated to the reflective side of a high quality reflective sheet 50.       The
   lamination of the optically clear transfer adhesive 40 to the reflective sheet 50
   provides an optically clear film adhesive that offers superior clarity and
30 excellent adhesion to various types of substrates. By way of example only, the
   3M T M Optically Clear Adhesive (OCA) is used which when laminated to the
   reflective sheet 50 provides a contaminant free substrate which results in

                                             8
   improved bubble resistance in laminations exposed to high temperature and
   high humidity.
            To provide maximum bond strength during lamination the reflective
 5 surface of the reflective sheet 50 is thoroughly cleaned and dried.           The
   lamination process is carried out in a cleanroom and using equipment with
   static charge elimination. To further improve the bond between the optically
   clear adhesive 40 and the reflective sheet 50 a firm application pressure is
   used during the lamination process. By way of example only, a nip roll or roller
10 platen press type laminator may be used to maintain optical aesthetics when
   laminated.     Maximum bond strength of the laminated sheet comprising the
   optically clear transfer adhesive 40 and the reflective sheet 50 is achieved after
   at least 24 hours of dwell time.
15          One side of the optically clear transfer adhesive 40 has a release liner
   41,   such as a paper or plastic-based film sheet applied during the
   manufacturing process and utilised to prevent the adhesive surface from
   prematurely adhering to any other surface.
20          The high quality reflective sheeting 50, such as 3M DGa, is highly
   reflective, durable, and visible sheeting which provides a wide variety of sign
   visibility needs. The reflective sheet 50 is a diamond grade, class 1 or class 2
   cube prismatic reflective sheeting that delivers optimal performance at all sight
   distances and light levels. The reflective sheeting 50 is a flexible white or
25 coloured, retroreflective sheeting which has a pre-coated adhesive protected by
   a removable liner 51.
            Shapes 60 are then cut from the laminated film formed by combining the
   optically clear adhesive 40 and the reflective sheet 50. Typically these are cut
30 using a flatbed cutter or the like. As shown in Fig. 3, prior to attaching the
   shapes 60 to the spaces 15 on the transparent plastic panel 20, the liners 41
   are removed in the direction of arrow A from the optically clear adhesive side of

                                            9
   the laminated shapes 60 to reveal the pressure sensitive adhesive.             The
   shapes 60 with the optically clear pressure sensitive adhesive exposed are
   attached to the spaces 15 in the direction of arrows B. The prepared shapes
   60 correspond to the unprinted areas of the sign 15. The removable backing
 5 41 is pulled away and the laminated reflective sheeting 50 with the optically
   clear adhesive 40 is adhered to the back of the transparent plastic panel 20
   covering unprinted areas 15.        The shapes 60 of the laminated reflective
   sheeting 40, 50 are cut to slightly larger dimensions than the unprinted areas
   15 of the printed image 10 on the transparent panel 20 to ensure coverage of
10 all transparent sections 15 as shown in Fig. 4.         This coverage is typically
   around 1 to 3 mm of bleed to ensure adequate coverage of the transparent
   spaces 15.
           As shown in Fig. 4 the laminated reflective shapes 60 are applied to the
15 spaces 15 by a user 90 using a hand applicator 61 to remove any air captured
   between the shapes 60 and the spaces 15 to ensure a very smooth finish. The
   hand applicator 61 may be a tool with a flat, smooth rubber blade, used to
   remove or control the flow of liquid on a flat surface, such as a squeegee 61.
20         Fig. 5 shows the removal of the liners 51 from the reflective sheet side of
   the laminated shapes 60 which exposes the adhesive 52 on the reflective sheet
   50. The reverse printed image 10 on the transparent plastic panel 20 with the
   laminated reflective sheet cut shapes 60 applied to the spaces 15 is then
   attached to a further transfer adhesive 70 which effectively covers all parts of
25 the sign as shown in Fig. 6.
           The transfer adhesive 70 is a double-sided adhesive with a liner 71 on
   each side of the adhesive 72. The double sided transfer adhesive 70 is a high
   grade, high bond strength adhesive such as a 3M product. With one liner 71
30 removed the transfer adhesive 70 is applied to the entire back surface of
   transparent panel 20 over the top of printed image 10 and laminated reflective

                                              10
   sheeting 40, 50. Fig. 7 shows the double-sided transfer adhesive 70 is trimmed
   by a user 90 using any sharp knife 62 or like tool.
            To install the finished sign backing 71 is removed from the other side of
 5 the double-sided transfer adhesive 70 exposing adhesive 72 which is pressed
   against a supporting structure thereby securing the sign in place.
            The printed image 10 and laminated reflective sheeting 40, 50 are
   located underneath         plastic transparent panel 20 and are protected       by
10 transparent panel 20.        The sign can be applied to any flat, porous or non
   porous structural surface including metal, paint, concrete, plastic or glass. The
   sign is flexible and may also be applied to gently curving surfaces. The sign
   can also be applied to any powder coated or anodised metal surface.
15          As shown in Fig 8 the printed image 10 with the laminated reflective
   sheeting 40, 50 on the plastic transparent panel 20 can be inserted into a light
   box 80 or LED light box 80 which can be used to illuminate the sign from
   behind. By way of example only, LED light box 80 can be used to illuminate
   the sign in heavy vibration areas, such as on top of earth moving equipment
20 and other heavy mining equipment. The LED light box 80 can also be applied
   to any road sign, any light vehicles, buildings or anywhere that requires high
   visibility and safety.
            In an alternative embodiment (not shown) of the present invention an
25 additional layer may be adhered behind the laminated reflective sheeting 40, 50
   and before the double-sided transfer adhesive 70 is applied to create a layered
   effect or a perception of depth in the sign.       The additional layer may be a
   further plastic panel, a vinyl sheet or other block out film.       In yet another
   embodiment of the present invention no image is printed onto the transparent
30 plastic panel 20 so that the sign has only the laminated reflective sheeting 40,
   50 and the additional background signage layer applied to transparent plastic
   panel 20.

                                             11
   ADVANTAGES
          A number of advantages are apparent in the present invention.           It is
   robust and weather proof which allows its use both indoors and outdoors in any
 5 weather condition. Additionally it is small enough to be able to be used on
   mobile structures such as motor vehicles.          It also provides high visibility
   signage in all lighting conditions by employing both reflective material and an
   innate light source.
10        All of these features provide a universally useful device for use in
   signage.
          The present invention provides a method for producing high visibility
   signage that is hard wearing. The present method extends the life of reflective
15 signage thereby reducing the safety risks and maintenance costs involved with
   damaged or unseen safety signage. The signage also has long term durability
   without yellowing, delaminating, or degrading. The adhesives used provide a
   high cohesive and peel strength for reliably bonding most transparent
   substrates.
20
          Furthermore, the method allows for greater variation in the image that
   can be printed onto the sign and provides for multiple image layers creating a
   more aesthetic and visually pleasing sign.
25        The present invention provides a method for producing high visibility
   signage that is hard wearing. The present method extends the life of reflective
   signage thereby reducing the safety risks and maintenance costs involved with
   damaged or unseen safety signage.
30 VARIATIONS
          It will be realised that the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative

                                            12
   example only and that all other modifications and variations as would be
   apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope
   and ambit of the invention as herein set forth.
 5         Various substantially and specifically practical and useful exemplary
   embodiments of the claimed subject matter, are described herein, textually
   and/or graphically, including the best mode, if any, known to the inventors for
   carrying out the claimed subject matter. Variations (e.g., modifications and/or
   enhancements) of one or more embodiments described herein might become
10 apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this application. The
   inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate, and
   the inventors intend for the claimed subject matter to be practiced other than as
   specifically described herein.    Accordingly, as permitted by law, the claimed
   subject matter includes and covers all equivalents of the claimed subject matter
15 and all improvements to the claimed subject matter.              Moreover, every
   combination of the above described elements, activities, and all possible
   variations thereof are encompassed by the claimed subject matter unless
   otherwise clearly indicated herein, clearly and specifically disclaimed, or
   otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
20
           The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such
   as") provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate one or more
   embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the scope of any claimed
   subject matter unless otherwise stated. No language in the specification should
25 be construed as indicating any non-claimed subject matter as essential to the
   practice of the claimed subject matter.
           Thus, regardless of the content of any portion (e.g., title, field,
   background, summary, description, abstract, drawing figure, etc.) of this
30 application, unless clearly specified to the contrary, such as via explicit
   definition, assertion, or argument, or clearly contradicted by context, with
   respect to any claim, whether of this application and/or any claim of any

                                               13
   application claiming priority hereto, and whether originally presented or
   otherwise:
            (a) there is no requirement for the inclusion of any particular described or
   illustrated characteristic, function, activity, or element, any particular sequence
 5 of activities, or any particular interrelationship of elements;
            (b) no characteristic, function, activity, or element is "essential";
            (c) any elements can be integrated, segregated, and/or duplicated;
            (d) any activity can be repeated, any activity can be performed by
   multiple entities, and/or any activity can be performed in multiple jurisdictions;
10 and
            (e) any activity or element can be specifically excluded, the sequence of
   activities can vary, and/or the interrelationship of elements can vary.
            The use of the terms "a", "an", "said", "the", and/or similar referents in the
15 context of describing various embodiments (especially in the context of the
   following claims) are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural,
   unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms
   "comprising," "having," "including," and "containing" are to be construed as
   open-ended terms (i.e.,         meaning "including, but not limited to,") unless
20 otherwise noted.
            In this specification, adjectives such as first and second, left and right,
   top and bottom, and the like may be used solely to distinguish one element or
   action from another element or action without necessarily requiring or implying
25 any actual such relationship or order. Where the context permits, reference to
   an integer or a component or step (or the like) is not to be interpreted as being
   limited to only one of that integer, component, or step, but rather could be one
   or more of that integer, component, or step etc.
30

                                                 14
   CLAIMS
   1.      A method of producing a hard wearing sign comprising the steps of:
           (a) laying a transparent plastic panel on a static backing film;
 5         (b) printing in reverse an image onto a surface of the transparent plastic
   panel, said image having at least one space therein;
           (c) laminating an optically clear transfer adhesive to one side of a
   reflective sheet;
           (d) cutting at least one shape from the laminated reflective sheet, the
10 shape being substantially the same size as the space in the reverse printed
   image on the transparent plastic panel;
           (e) attaching the cut-out laminated reflective shape to the space on the
   transparent plastic panel;
           (f) removing a backing sheet from the laminated reflective sheet; and
15         (g) applying a double sided transfer adhesive to the laminated reflective
   sheet and the transparent plastic panel.
   2.      A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optically clear transfer
   adhesive is applied to the reflective side of the reflective sheet.
20
   3.      A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising the step of
   adhering said double sided transfer adhesive to a supporting structure.
   4.      A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, in which the supporting
25 structure is selected from any one of:
           (i) a flat surface;
           (ii) a slightly curved surface; or
           (iii) a flat or a slightly curved illuminated surface.
30 5.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   double sided transfer adhesive is a clear, pressure sensitive, acrylic or high
   bond adhesive.

                          1/4
<removed-date>
                                             30
                         10
                                        15
<removed-apn>
                              15
              30                                  20
                         FIG 1
                                                  50
                    40
               50
                                   51
                         FIG 2

                                                      2/4
<removed-date>
                       60
                                      A
                   A                                        41
                                                                                10
              51
<removed-apn>
                            41
                                                                 15
                                                15
                                                                           B
                                                            B
                                                                                20
                                                     FIG 3
                                 90
                                                                           61
                                                                                     10
                                          60                          60
                                                                           20
                                               51
                                                     FIG 4

                                    3/4
<removed-date>
                              51
                    51
<removed-apn>
                                                       52
                                           60
                                     60
                         52
                                                            10
                                                 20
                                   FIG 5
                   10                                 71
                                                                 72
                                                20
              70
                                   FIG 6

                                   4/4
<removed-date>                               10
                                                      70
              90
<removed-apn>
                   62
                        70
                                                           20
                             71                 71
                             72           72
                                  FIG 7
                                           10
                                                     80
                                  FIG 8

