ABSTRACT
Reaction resin mortar curable by frontal polymerization and method for fixing anchor
rods
A reaction resin mortar curable by frontal polymerization is described, comprising at least
one radically polymerizable compound (a), at least one thiol-functionalized compound (b)
and at least one polymerization initiator (c), wherein the weight ratio of the at least one
radically polymerizable compound (a) and the at least one thiol-functionalized compound (b)
is in the range of 10:1 to 2:1 and wherein the polymerization initiator (c) is selected from
compounds which can be thermally activated and/or thermally released at a temperature of
above 30        0C and/or ammonium persulfates which are formed in-situ from at least one
organically substituted ammonium salt and at least one inorganic persulfate as well as a
method for fixing anchor rods, rebars or the like in bore holes using the reaction resin mortar.
                                               24
IRactive-6830134.1

                                                                                    PAT-05267
                                       Hilti Aktiengesellschaft
                                    Principality of Liechtenstein
 Reaction resin mortar curable by frontal polymerization and method for fixing anchor
                                                  rods
                                            DESCRIPTION
The present invention relates to a reaction resin mortar curable by frontal polymerization
having at least one radically polymerizable compound, at least one thiol-functionalized
compound and at least one polymerization initiator, as well as to a method for fixing anchor
rods, rebars or the like in solid supports using this reaction resin mortar.
Two-component reaction resin mortars based on methacrylates or epoxide resins are
normally used for fixing anchor rods, rebars or similar elements in a bore hole in mineral
subgrades such as concrete or masonry. After the mixing of the constituents reacting with
each other, these reaction resin mortars have a certain pot life during which the element to
be fixed can be set and reach the final strength thereof after a further period of time has
elapsed. The mentioned pot life is in the range of a few minutes under normal conditions.
Curing generally takes place within a few minutes to hours. In each case, the two effects are
connected to each other, i.e., a longer pot life leads to a longer curing time, and these times
may vary depending on the environmental conditions, namely on the temperature.
                                                    1
IRactive-6830 134.1

A reaction resin mortar for fixing anchorings is known from DE 39 40 309 Al which contains
radically curable vinyl ester urethane as binder and delivers fixings with excellent stability
and strength.
The subject matter of DE 42 31 161 Al is a two-component reaction resin mortar for fixing
anchoring means in bore holes having a content of curable compounds on inorganic and
organic basis and curing agents which has an extraordinarily favorable storability due to the
content thereof of hydraulically binding and/or polycondensable compounds and curable
vinyl esters, in addition to reduced shrinkage tendency, increased heat distortion resistance,
improved fire behavior, resistance to climatic conditions, higher bond strength, favorable
expansion coefficients, satisfactory long-term behavior and high thermal shock resistance.
Lastly, DE 43 15 788 Al discloses plugging resins for fixing anchors into fixed bodies which
are present in an ampoule or cartridge and contain, as binders, radically non-polymerizable
polymers, reactive diluents having at least two (meth)acrylate groups, other reactive diluents,
reactive diluents with a boiling point of 180  0C,  other polymers and a non-reactive solvent.
These plugging resins allow retaining values that are common or required in the prior art, to
be achieved; they are safe to handle; they contain fewer toxic components and the physical
properties thereof can be adapted to the respective purpose of application.
Since it is seldom possible to work under optimal conditions even using these reaction resin
mortars or plugging resins on construction sites, if for example a number of bore holes are
first filled with these reaction resin mortars or plugging resins and then fixing elements are
introduced after each other, different time periods result between the setting of the curable
reaction resin mortar or the plugging resin and the introduction of the fixing elements which
can lead to the premature curing of the reaction resin mortar or of the plugging resin such
that the bore hole can no longer be used, which is critical, especially in the case of high
temperatures (during summer).
                                                2
IRactive-6830 134.1

In order to overcome the temperature dependence of pot life and/or curing time, the older
German patent DE 100 02 367 C1 proposes a reaction resin mortar curable by frontal
polymerization after thermal initiation which, in addition to a polymerizable monomer or
curable resin and optionally at least one filler, contains a polymerization initiator for the
monomer which can be thermally activated and/or thermally released at a temperature of
above 30       0C   and/or a curing accelerator for the curable resin, with the type and quantity of
monomers or resin and polymerization initiator or curing accelerator being selected such that
a speed of the polymerization front (front speed) of at least 10 cm/min results after triggering
of the polymerization. The inadequate storability is disadvantageous in this system.
In order to increase the storability of this system, but still provide a very reactive system, DE
101 32 336 Al proposes using an organically substituted ammonium persulfate as the
polymerization initiator which is present only in the form of the required raw materials in
separate components of the reaction resin mortar and is formed only during the mixing of the
at least two components in-situ in the reaction resin mortar. In this regard, one component of
the reaction resin mortar contains at least one organically substituted ammonium salt, while
another component contains at least one inorganic persulfate which form the organically
substituted ammonium persulfate in a very quick reaction, which is then available as the
initiator for the radical curing of the reaction resin mortar.
Both the reaction resin mortar according to DE 100 02 367 C1 and that according to DE 101
32 336 Al have, however, the disadvantage of being extremely reactive systems in which
high front temperatures are reached. These high temperatures lead to noticeable smoke
development and foaming during curing. Critical gases develop which are attributable to
products of decomposition. In addition, relatively strong foaming of the masses during curing
is observed with these systems. As a result of this, a solid which is not very compact is
                                                     3
IRactive-6830 134.1

obtained which negatively affects the load values such that the application area for these
reaction resin mortars is limited.
The inventors have found that by exchanging the reactive components, in particular the
reactive polymerizable compounds for less reactive compounds, the problems could not be
overcome. In fact, it was observed that curing was insufficient and the polymerization front
frequently collapsed and the curing thus came to a standstill before the reaction resin mortar
was fully cured.
The object of the present invention now consists of providing a reaction resin mortar which
cures by frontal polymerization after thermal initiation which does not present the
disadvantages described above, which in particular exhibits less smoke development and
less foaming, fully cures and results in a compact mass after curing of the reaction resin
mortar.
It has surprisingly now been shown that this object can be achieved by the addition of thiol
functionalized compounds. It is thus possible to provide a reaction resin mortar which,
compared with the systems known from DE 100 02 367 C1 and DE 101 32 336 Al, is less
reactive, has less smoke development and reduced foaming, but still fully cures and leads to
a compact polymer.
The subject matter of the invention is thus a reaction resin mortar curable by frontal
polymerization, comprising at least one radically polymerizable compound (a), at least one
thiol-functionalized compound (b) and at least one polymerization initiator (c), wherein the
weight ratio of the at least one radically polymerizable compound (a) and the at least one
thiol-functionalized compound (b) is in the range of 10:1 to 2:1            and wherein the
polymerization initiator (c) is selected from compounds which can be thermally activated
and/or thermally released at a temperature of above 30 *C and/or ammonium persulfates
which are formed in-situ from at least one organically substituted ammonium salt and at least
one inorganic persulfate.
                                               4
IRactive-6830 134.1

The reaction resin mortar according to the invention only then substantially cures if the
thermally-activatable and/or thermally-releasable polymerization initiator becomes active as
a result of thermal initiation, i.e. by selective or extensive heating of the surface layer or by
heating in the inside of the reaction resin mortar to a temperature of above 30               0C,  and
triggers the polymerization of the curable compound. It becomes possible as a result to
reach practically any length of pot life of the mortar and to separate this completely from the
curing time, since the curing is started only by the thermal initiation. In this way, it is possible
to set and to adjust the element to be fixed possibly even hours after the introduction of the
reaction resin mortar into the bore hole and to carry out the curing of the reaction resin
mortar within seconds to a few minutes by briefly heating the mortar surface.
In this regard, thermal initiation is understood as the polymerization reaction of the reaction
resin mortar being capable of being triggered by the supply of heat at any time point,
optionally after the formation thereof by the mixing of the constituents present in separate
components, such that a very long pot life of the reaction resin mortar results and the curing
thereof can be started at any desired time point. It is possible as a result to initially fill a large
number of bore holes with the reaction resin mortar, subsequently introduce the fixing
elements, adjust and then initiate the curing such that it is possible to achieve an optimal and
largely identical curing and thus largely identical pull-out resistance of the installed fixing
elements.
Lastly, with the reaction resin mortar according to the invention it is not only possible to carry
out the frontal polymerization downwards following gravity, but also upwards in a horizontal
or vertical direction. In this way, by correspondingly setting the viscosity of the reaction resin
mortar it is possible to fill bore holes opening downwards, for example even in ceilings, with
reaction resin mortar, to introduce fixing elements and to trigger the curing by thermal
initiation.
The triggering of the polymerization of the reaction resin mortar in accordance with the
invention preferably takes place by selective or extensive heating of the surface layer with
                                                  5
IRactive-6830 134.1

the aid of a flame, a soldering tip, a heating wire which extends either over the entire length
or a part of the length of the fixing element, a hot air fan, a flash of light/laser beam, an
induction oven or the like or in-situ by a chemical reaction or by heat input via a heat
conducting fixing element into the inside of the reaction resin mortar.
Alternatively, by corresponding selection of the constituents of the reaction resin mortar it is
possible for the reaction resin mortar according to the invention to also spontaneously cure
without thermal activation after a certain waiting time. The inventor has found that in the
presence of a polymerization accelerator (d), polymerization of the reaction resin mortar
starts even without previous thermal initiation after a certain time which is dependent on the
concentration of the polymerization accelerator.
A compound having at least one C-C double bond is expediently used as the radically
polymerizable compound (a), which C-C double bond can be radically cured and is
sufficiently stable when stored due to the absent homopolymerization.
According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the compound having at least one
reactive C-C double bond is a compound having at least one non-aromatic C-C double bond,
such as (meth)acrylate-functionalized compounds, allyl-functionalized compounds, vinyl
functionalized compounds, norbornene-functionalized compounds and unsaturated polyester
compounds.
Examples of unsaturated polyester compounds can be found in the article by M. Maik et.al.
J. Macromol. Sci., Rev. Macromol. Chem. Phys. 2000, C40, 139-165 in which a classification
of such compounds was made based on the structure thereof, with five groups being
mentioned: (1) orthoresins, (2) isoresins, (3) bisphenol-A fumarates, (4) chlorendics and (5)
vinyl ester resins. The so-called dicyclopentadienes (DCPD) resins can also be distinguished
therefrom.
More preferably, the compound having reactive carbon multiple bonds has allyl, vinyl,
(meth)acryl, fumaric acid, maleic acid, itaconic acid, crotonic acid or cinnamic acid double
                                                6
IRactive-6830 134.1

bond units or the compound having reactive carbon double bonds is a Diels-Alder adduct or
a norbornene derivative thereof or a derivative thereof having one other compound which
bears bicyclic double bonds. Exemplary compounds are vinyl esters, allyl esters, vinyl
ethers, allyl ethers, vinyl amines, allyl amines, vinyl amides, esters and amides of
(meth)acrylic acid, esters of fumaric acid and maleimides.
The polymerizable monomers or curable resins used according to the invention are
preferably selected from: acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, styrene, divinylbenzene, vinyl
acetate, acrylamide, transition metal nitrate/acrylamide complexes; acrylates such as butyl
acrylate, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy) ethyl acrylate (EOEOEA), tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate (THFA),
lauryl acrylate, phenoxyethyl acrylate, isodecyl acrylate, tridecyl acrylate, ethoxylated
nonylphenol acrylate, isobornyl acrylate (IBOA),               ethoxylated  bisphenol A diacrylate,
polyethylene glycol diacrylate (PEGDA), alkoxylated diacrylate, propoxylated neopentyl
glycol diacrylate (NPGPODA), ethoxylated neopentyl glycol diacrylate (NPGEODA), hexane
1,6-diol diacrylate (HDDA), tetraethylene glycol diacrylate (TTEGDA), triethylene glycol
diacrylate (TIEGDA), tripropylene glycol diacrylate (TPGDA), dipropylene glycol diacrylate
(DPGDA),            ditrimethylolpropane    tetraacrylate    (DiTMPTTA),      tris-(2-  hydroxyethyl)
isocyanurate triacrylate (THEICTA), dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate (DiPEPA), ethoxylated
tri methylolpropane triacrylate        (TMPEOTA),       propoxylated trimethylolpropane     triacrylate
(TMPPOTA),            ethoxylated pentaerythritol tetraacrylate     (PPTTA),   propoxylated glycerol
triacrylate (GPTA), pentaerythritol tetraacrylate (PETTA), trimethylolpropane triacrylate
(TMPTA) and modified pentaerythritol triacrylate; methacrylates such as methyl methacrylate
(MMA), allyl methacrylate (AMA), tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate (THFMA), phenoxyethyl
methacrylate, isobornyl methacrylate, triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TIEGDMA), ethylene
glycol      dimethacrylate       (EGDMA),     tetraethylene    glycol  dimethacrylate   (TTEGDMA),
polyethylene          glycol dimethacrylate    (PEGDMA),      butanediol dimethacrylate    (BDDMA),
diethylene         glycol   dimethacrylate   (DEGDMA),      hexanediol    dimethacrylate   (HDDMA),
polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate (PEG600DMA), butylene glycol dimethacrylate (BGDMA),
ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate, trimethylol propane trimethacrylate (TMPTMA);
and/or oligomers or prepolymers such as bisphenol A epoxy acrylate, epoxidized soybean oil
acrylate, epoxy novolac acrylate oligomers, fatty acid modified bisphenol A epoxy acrylate,
aromatic monacrylate oligomer, aliphatic diacrylate oligomer, tetrafunctional epoxy acrylate,
                                                      7
IRactive-6830 134.1

amine modified polyether acrylate oligomer, aliphatic urethane triacrylate, aliphatic urethane
tetraacrylate, aliphatic urethane diacrylate, hexafunctional aromatic urethane acrylate,
aromatic urethane diacrylate, aromatic urethane tetraacrylate and tetrafunctional polyester
acrylate.
The polymerizable monomers or curable resins can be used alone or as a mixture.
The reaction resin mortar can, if necessary, contain non-reactive diluents such as lower-alkyl
ketones, e.g. acetone, di-lower alkyl-lower alkanoylamides such as dimethylacetamide,
lower alkyl benzenes such as xylene or toluene, phthalic acid esters or paraffins or water, in
particular a dialkyl phthalate or dialkyl adipate and/or dimethylformamide in a quantity of up
to 10 wt%, in particular 5 wt%.
Any compound which has at least two thiol groups can expediently be used as the thiol
functionalized compound (b). Any thiol group is, in this regard, bound either directly or via a
linker to a structure, and the thiol-functionalized compound of the present invention can have
any wide number of structures.
The structure can be a monomer, an oligomer or a polymer.
In some embodiments of the present invention, the structures have monomers, oligomers or
polymers with a molecular weight (mw) of 50,000 g/mol or less, preferably 25,000 g/mol or
less, more preferably 10,000 g/mol or less, even more preferably 5,000 g/mol or less, even
more preferably 2,000 g/mol or less and most preferably 1,000 g/mol or less.
Alkane dioles, alkylene glycols, sugar, polyvalent derivatives thereof or mixtures thereof and
amines such as ethylenediamine and hexamethylenediamine and thiols may be mentioned
as monomers which are suitable as structures. The following can be mentioned, by way of
example, as oligomers or polymers which are suitable as structures:
                                                  8
IRactive-6830 134.1

polyalkyleneoxide, polyurethane, polyethylene vinyl acetate, polyvinyl alcohol, polydiene,
hydrated polydiene, alkyd, alkyd polyester, (meth)acrylic polymer, polyolefin, polyester,
halogenated polyolefin, halogenated polyester, polymercaptan, as well as copolymers or
mixtures thereof.
In preferred embodiments of the invention, the structure is a polyvalent alcohol or a
polyvalent amine, and these may be monomers, oligomers or polymers. The structure is
more preferably a polyvalent alcohol.
In this regard, the following may be mentioned, by way of example, as polyvalent alcohols
which are suitable as structures: alkane dioles such as butanediol, pentanediol, hexanediol,
alkylene glycols such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol and polypropylene glycol, glycerin,
2-(hydroxymethyl)propane-1,3-diol,1,1,1-tris(hydroxymethyl)ethane,                       1,1,1
trimethylolpropane, di(trimethylolpropane), tricyclodecane dimethylol, 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,3
pentanediol, bisphenol A, cyclohexanedimethanol, alkoxylated and/or ethoxylated and/or
propoxylated derivatives of neopentyl glycol, tertraethylene glycol cyclohexanedimethanol,
hexanediol,       2-(hydroxymethyl)propane-1,3-diol,    1,1,1-tris(hydroxymethyl)ethane, 1,1,1
trimethylolpropane and castor oil, pentaerythritol, sugar, polyvalent derivatives thereof or
mixtures thereof.
Any units which are suitable for binding structure and functional group may be used as
linkers. The linker for thiol-functionalized compounds is preferably selected from the
structures (1)to (XI).
1: Bond to the functional group
2: Bond to the structure
           CH0                            0          0                0          0
            (0            (I1        (Ill         (M               (V)     4<=n<=1
                                                                               (VI)
         (VII)      (ill)                                    <=-10
                                                       4P =Q4<n
                                                9
lRactve-6830134.1

The structures (1),      (II), (Ill) and (IV) are particularly preferred as the linkers for thiol
functionalized compounds.
The functional group for the thiol-functionalized compounds is the thiol group (-SH).
Particularly preferred thiol-functionalized compounds are esters of a-thioacetic acid (2
mercaptoacetates), p-thiopropionic acid (3-mercaptopropionates) and 3-thiobutryic acid (3
mercaptobutyrates) having monoalcohols, diols, triols, tetraols, pentaols or other polyols, as
well as 2-hydroxy-3-mercaptopropyl derivatives of monoalcohols, diols, triols, tetraols,
pentaols or other polyols. Mixtures of alcohols may also be used as a basis for the thiol
functionalized compound. In this respect, reference is made to WO 99/51663 Al, the
contents of which are incorporated by reference into this application.
Particularly suitable examples of thiol-functionalized compounds which may be mentioned
are: glycol-bis(2-mercaptoacetate), glycol-bis(3-mercaptopropionate), 1,2-propylene glycol
bis(2-mercaptoacetate),          1,2-propylene     glycol-bis(3-mercaptopropionate),         1,3-propylene
glycol-bis(2-mercaptoacetate),                1,3-propylene          glycol-bis(3-mercaptopropionate),
tris(hydroxymethyl)methane-tris(2-mercaptoacetate),                 tris(hydroxymethyl)methane-tris(3
mercaptopropionate),            1,1,1 -tris(hydroxymethyl)ethane-tris(2-mercaptoacetate),            1,1,1
tris(hydroxymethyl)ethane-tris(3-mercaptopropionate),                    1,1,1 -trimethylol propane-tris(2
mercaptoacetate),              ethoxylated          1,1,1 -trimethylolpropane-tris(2-mercaptoacetate),
propoxylated       1,1,1 -trimethylolpropane-tris(2-mercaptoacetate),           1,1,1 -trimethylolpropane
tris(3-mercaptopropionate), ethoxylated 1,1,1-trimethylolpropane-tris(3-mercaptopropionate),
propoxylated tri methylolpropane-tris(3-mercaptopropionate), 1,1,1-trimethylolpropane-tris(3
mercaptobutyrate),            pentaerythritol-tris(2-mercaptoacetate),          pentaerythritol-tetrakis(2
mercaptoacetate),          pentaerythritol-tris(3-mercaptopropionate),          pentaerythritol-tetrakis(3
mercaptopropionate),           pentaerythritol-tris(3-mercaptobutyrate),        pentaerythritol-tetrakis(3
mercaptobutyrate), Capcure@ 3-800 (BASF), GPM-800 (Gabriel Performance Products),
Capcure@ LOF (BASF), GPM-800LO (Gabriel Performance Products), KarenzMT PE-1
(Showa Denko), 2-ethylhexyl thioglycolate, isooctyl thioglycolate, di(n-butyl)thiodiglycolate,
glycol-di-3-mercaptopropionate, 1,6-hexanedithiol, ethylene glycol-bis(2-mercaptoacetate)
and tetra(ethylene glycol)dithiol.
                                                      10
IRactive-6830134.1

The thiol-functionalized compound may be used alone or as a mixture of two or a plurality of
different thiol-functionalized compounds.
According to the invention, the weight ratio of the at least one radically polymerizable
compound (a) and the at least one thiol-functionalized compound (b) is 10:1 to 2:1,
preferably 8:1 to 3:1.
The reaction resin mortar contains 10 to 98 wt%, preferably 30 to 80wt% of a mixture of the
at least one radically polymerizable compound (a) and the at least one thiol-functionalized
compound (b) in the above-mentioned weight ratio.
The mass information in wt% used here, unless otherwise indicated, is always based on the
total weight of the reaction resin mortar.
The curing of the reaction resin mortar according to the invention takes place by radical
polymerization. The polymerization initiators (c) used for this polymerization are compounds
which, optionally in a mixture with a catalyst or an activator as the polymerization accelerator
(d), are thermally activated and/or thermally released at a temperature above 30 'C such
that they then cause the curing of the polymerizable compounds.
The polymerization initiator (c) should have a half-life period t1/2 in the range between 1 and
200 minutes, preferably between 1 and 120 minutes, at a temperature of 100 *C in
chlorobenzene. The half-life period t1,2 is the time in which, at a given temperature, half of
the polymerization initiator (c) has decomposed.           Information    regarding the rate of
decomposition of polymerization initiators at different temperatures is available from the
manufacturers of the polymerization initiators or may be determined by a person skilled in
the art. An alternative way is also an estimation of the half-life period t1/2 from literature
values for the pre-exponential factor A and the activation energy EA which are generally also
available from the manufacturers of the polymerization initiators, by means of the following
formula:
                                                11
IRactive-6830 134.1

                                                In 2   .A::
Suitable polymerization initiators (c) are peroxides, in particular dialkyl peroxides such as di
tert-butyl peroxide, diacyl peroxides such as dibenzoyl peroxide, hydroperoxides such as
tert-butyl hydroperoxide or cumene hydroperoxide, percarbonic acid esters such as butyl
perbenzoate, perketals such as 1,1-di-tert-butylperoxy-3,3,5-trimethylcyclohexane, sodium
persulfate, potassium persulfate, an optionally organically substituted ammonium persulfate
(e.g.      tetra-n-butylammonium      persulfate)    and/or    an  azo    compound      such  as
azobisisobutyronitrile having a half-life period of tj1 in the range between 1 and 200 minutes,
preferably I to 120 minutes, at a temperature of 100 *C in chlorobenzene. These
polymerization initiators (c) may be used alone or as a mixture.
The term half-life period is correspondingly also used here for the catalyzed decomposition
of the polymerization initiator (c) in the given mixture.
The polymerization initiators (c) may also be phlegmatized by encapsulation in filler
materials (e.g. by microencapsulation) such that they become active or are released only
after being heated to a temperature above 30 *C with corresponding softening or reaction of
the filler material.
Alternatively, the polymerization initiator (c) can be an ammonium persulfate which is formed
from the corresponding raw materials only once it is in-situ. At least one organically
substituted ammonium salt and at least one inorganic persulfate are expediently used as raw
materials. This results in the organically substituted ammonium persulfate after the mixing
thereof.
Suitable organically substituted ammonium salts are: tri or in particular tetra alkyl, aryl or
aryl-alkyl ammonium salts, for example a halide, such as for example chloride, acetate,
(meth)acrylate       and/or   hydrogen     sulfate.   Particularly preferred    is  the   use  of
tetrabutylammonium        chloride, benzyl triethyl ammonium       chloride, tetrabutylammonium
hydrogen sulfate, tetradecyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride or trimethyl capryl
ammonium chloride or of mixtures of these compounds.
                                                   12
lRactive-6830 134.1

Suitable inorganic persulfates are: sodium, potassium, unsubstituted or weakly substituted
ammonium persulfate such as mono or dialkyl, aryl and/or aryl-alkyl ammonium persulfate.
These polymerization initiators (c) may be used alone or as a mixture.
According to a further preferred embodiment of the invention, a peroxide, in particular a
dialkyl peroxide such as di-tert-butyl peroxide, a diacyl peroxide such as dibenzoyl peroxide,
a hydroperoxide such as tert-butyl hydroperoxide or cumene hydroperoxide, a percarbonate
acid ester such as butyl perbenzoate, a perketal such as 1,1-di-tert-butylperoxy-3,3,5
trimethylcyclohexane and/or an azo compound such as azobisisobutyronitrile having a half
life period of tj 12 of 1 and 200 minutes, preferably 1 to 120 minutes, as defined above [are
used] in addition to ammonium persulfate, in order to improve the curing.
The polymerization initiator (c) may be contained in a quantity of 2 to 30 wt%, preferably 2 to
12 wt%, more preferably 5 to 10 wt% in the reaction resin mortar. If a mixture of
polymerization initiators is used, then the total quantity of the polymerization initiators is in
range mentioned above.
In order to accelerate the polymerization, a polymerization accelerator (d) can also be added
to the reaction resin mortar for the decomposition of the polymerization initiator (c). The half
life period thereof is thus shortened such that peroxides can be used which have a half-life
period of more than 200 minutes at 100 *C without accelerators.
Suitable polymerization accelerators (d) are in particular amines, preferably a tertiary amine
such as dimethylaniline, bis-(hydroxyethyl)-m-toluidine or similar and/or metal compounds
such as a cobalt, manganese, copper, iron and/or vanadium compound.
In order to avoid a premature triggering of the polymerization by heat input from the exterior,
a catalyst for activating the polymerization initiator can be added to the reaction resin mortar
                                                 13
IRactive-6830134.1

in a second component, in encapsulated form (e.g. microencapsulation) and/or otherwise
phlegmatized.
A particular example is the fixing of the polymerization accelerator (d) to a polymer which
releases a metal such as cobalt, manganese, copper, iron and/or vanadium which triggers
the decomposition of a peroxide polymerization initiator above the limit temperature of at
least 30     0C.  Correspondingly, the desired activation temperature of above 30      0C   can be set
in a targeted manner by a suitable combination of polymerization initiators (c) and
polymerization accelerators (d) or curing accelerators, known to the person skilled in the art,
having corresponding inhibitors.
The polymerization accelerator (d) can be contained in a quantity of 0 to 1 wt%, preferably
0.1 to 0.5 wt%, in the reaction resin mortar.
In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the reaction resin mortar according to the
invention also contains an organic and/or inorganic aggregate such as fillers and/or additives
for influencing various properties of the masses.
As fillers, conventional fillers are used, preferably mineral or mineral-like fillers such as
quartz, glass, sand, quartz sand, quartz powder, porcelain, corundum, ceramic, talcum,
silicic acid (e.g. pyrogenic silicic acid), silicates, clay, titanium dioxide, chalk, barite, feldspar,
basalt, aluminum hydroxide, granite or sandstone, polymer fillers such as duroplasts,
hydraulically curable fillers such as gypsum, quicklime or cement (e.g. alumina cement or
Portland cement), metals such as aluminum, carbon black, also wood, mineral or organic
fibers or the like, or mixtures of two or more thereof, which may be added as powder, in
granulated form or in the form of molded bodies. The fillers may be present in any forms, for
example as powder or flour or as molded bodies e.g. in cylindrical, ring, spherical, flake,
bacillar, arched or crystal form or also in fiber form (fibrillar fillers), and the corresponding
elementary particles preferably have a maximum diameter of 10 mm.
                                                    14
IRactive-6830134.1

Further conceivable additives are thixotropic agents such as optionally organically post
treated pyrogenic silicic acid, bentonite, alkyl and methyl celluloses, castor oil derivatives or
the like, softeners such as phthalic acid or sebacic acid esters, stabilizers, antistatic agents,
thickeners, flexibilizers, curing catalysts, rheological additives, wetting agents, coloring
additives such as colorants or in particular pigments, for example to dye the components
differently for improved checking of the mixing thereof or the like or mixtures of two or a
plurality thereof.
The inorganic and/or organic aggregates may be contained in the reaction resin mortar in a
quantity of up to 60 wt%.
According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the reaction resin mortar contains 10
to 98 wt% of a mixture of at least one radically polymerizable compound (a) and at least one
thiol-functionalized compound (b) in a weight ratio of 10:1 to 2:1, preferably 8:1 to 3:1, 2 to
12 wt% of at least one polymerization initiator (c), 0 to 1 wt% of at least one polymerization
accelerator (d), 0 to 60 wt% of at least one inorganic and/or organic aggregate (e) and 0 to
10 wt% of at least one solvent or diluent (f).
According to a further preferred embodiment of the invention, the reaction resin mortar
contains 30 to 80 wt% of a mixture of at least one radically polymerizable compound (a) and
at least one thiol-functionalized compound (b) in a weight ratio of 10:1 to 2:1, preferably 8:1
to 3:1, 5 to 10 wt% of at least one polymerization initiator (c), 0 to 0.5 wt% of a
polymerization accelerator (d), 20 to 60 wt% of at least one inorganic and/or organic
aggregate (e) and 0 to 10 wt% of at least one solvent or diluent (f).
The portions of the constituents are selected such that the wt% adds up to 100 wt%
respectively.
The reaction resin mortar according to the invention can be formulated in a single or multi
component manner. In the case of the single-component form, the components must
                                                15
IRactive-6830134.1

be selected such that curing of the reaction resin mortar takes place only after the supply of
heat. With respect to improved storability, it is, however, preferred to formulate the reaction
resin mortar according to the invention in a multi-component manner, in particular in two
components. Similarly, the multi-component form, in particular the two-component form, is
preferred for the reaction resin mortar if an organically substituted ammonium persulfate is
used as the polymerization initiator. In this regard, one component of the reaction resin
mortar contains at least one organically substituted ammonium salt, while another
component contains at least one inorganic persulfate, and they form the organically
substituted ammonium persulfate in a very quick reaction as soon as the components are
mixed with each other, said organically substituted ammonium persulfate then being
provided as the initiator for the radical curing of the reaction resin mortar.
A further subject matter of the invention is a method for fixing anchor rods, rebars or the like
into bore holes in different mineral subgrades which consists of introducing the reaction resin
mortar in accordance with the invention which is described above into the bore hole.
Subsequently the anchor rod, rebar or a similar fixing element is introduced into the bore
hole filled with the reaction resin mortar, whereupon the frontal polymerization is triggered by
heating the reaction resin mortar to a temperature above the reaction temperature of the
polymerization initiator and/or of the polymerization accelerator.
The mixing of the components of the reaction resin mortar may take place here e.g. by
means of a static mixer when the reaction resin mortar is present in two- or multi-component
form. When using an ammonium persulfate as the polymerization initiator, the organically
substituted ammonium salt which is contained in a component of the reaction resin mortar is
then spontaneously reacted in-situ with the inorganic persulfate which is contained in the at
least one further component of the reaction resin mortar to form the corresponding
organically substituted ammonium persulfate such that a reaction resin mortar which is
radically polymerizable by heat action develops.
In this regard, the polymerization of the reaction resin mortar may be triggered by selective
or extensive heating of the surface layer or in the inside of the reaction resin mortar.
                                                 16
IRactive-6830134.1

While it is possible to trigger the reaction resin mortar by heat input via a heat-conducting
fixing element, according to the invention it is preferred to carry out selective or extensive
heating of the surface layer of the reaction resin mortar with the aid of a flame, a soldering
tip, a hot air fan, a heating wire which extends either over the entire length or a part of the
length of the fixing element, a flash of light, a laser beam, an induction oven and/or in-situ
with the aid of a chemical reaction.
It is also possible to carry out the thermal initiation of the reaction resin mortar by heat input
via a heat-conducting fixing element, whether it is by heat conduction, by resistance heating
or with the aid of an e.g. energy field radiated via the fixing element such as an electric,
magnetic or electromagnetic field, for example by microwave radiation.
When carrying out the method according to the invention, the dimensions of the bore hole
and anchor rod are selected according to the prior art for injection systems. In this regard, a
quantity of the reaction resin mortar according to the invention is introduced into the
prepared bore hole such that the annular gap is completely filled after the setting of the
element to be fixed. According to the invention, adjustment of the element is possible since
the reaction resin mortar is cured only after brief heating for a few seconds to at least 80 *C.
The reaction resin mortar according to the invention is particularly suited for chemical fixing,
in particular for use in plugging applications in hollow bricks with a screen sleeve. It is, in
particular, thus possible here to also work with front speeds below the 10 cm/min described
in DE 100 02 367 C1.
In this manner, it is possible to carry out complete and especially even curing of the reaction
resin mortar without much foaming or smoke development and thus to achieve a compact
cured mass which leads to improved properties.
                                                 17
IRactive-6830134.1

The following examples serve to further explain the invention.
EXAMPLES
Measuring the front temperature as well as the front speed
The measurement of the front temperature takes place in a test tube with a diameter of 6
mm. Thermoelements are provided at two measuring points at a suitable distance by means
of which the change of the temperature can be measured. The reaction resin mortar to be
examined is introduced into the test tube at room temperature (23 *C). The polymerization of
the reaction resin mortar is triggered by ignition by means of a soldering iron at
approximately 200      0C  at one point on the mortar surface. The temperature can be
determined at the measuring points. The front speed can be calculated from the quotient of
the distance between the two measuring points and the time difference between the
temperature peaks.
The open time is the time period within which the finished mixed reaction resin mortar can be
processed at room temperature. In this regard, no open time can be indicated for mortar
masses which do not spontaneously cure.
Measuring the failure loads
In order to determine the failure loads of the cured mass, holes with a diameter of 16 mm
and a depth of 85 mm are drilled in hollow bricks analogous to EN 791-1, but with a
compressive strength of approximately 35 MPa, and Hilti HIT-SC 16*85 screen sleeves (1)
are used, as is schematically depicted in Fig. 1, with an insertion end (2) and an open end
(3) to fill the screen sleeve (1) with reaction resin mortar and to accommodate the anchor
rods, which are lightly wrapped with a resistance wire (resistance value approximately 10
Ohm) (4) according to Figure 1. After filling the screen sleeves (1) with the reaction resin
mortar, threaded anchor rods of the dimension M10 are set and the curing is started by
briefly applying a voltage of approx. 12 V via the heating wire (4). The average failure loads
                                                18
IRactive-6830134.1

are determined by centrically pulling out the threaded anchor rods. Three threaded anchor
rods are plugged in, in each case and the load values thereof are determined after two hours
of curing.
The failure loads (kN) determined here are given as mean values in Table 1 below.
Examples 1 to 8
Reaction resin mortars are manufactured using the constituents indicated in Table 1 below
and the front temperatures and the front speeds are determined for the polymerization as
well as the failure loads, as described above.
It is clear from the results that the front temperatures could be in part notably reduced by
using the thiol-functionalized compounds, in particular for examples 1 to 8. This leads to
reduced foaming and improved curing of the masses. Accordingly, higher failure loads could
be achieved with the reaction resin mortars according to the invention than with the reaction
resin mortars according to the comparative examples. The results also show that with the
compositions according to the invention it is no longer essential for the polymerization front
to have to progress at a determined speed in order to achieve sufficient curing of the
masses, as in the masses according to DE 100 02 367 C1. It could thus be shown that with
the reaction resin mortars according to the invention good curing is no longer dependent on
the front speed.
                                               19
IRactive-6830134.1

          0)
          w          C)                         cm     cm
         2           CIS                                       0      m) LO      I
                           S CD                 CR              -'~   - 'I '
          CL
     C    Eu
          w~         LO  0)  (Nm    00)                        C
    N                         mN                                 LO  (N   1--   00
     C
          E
         w0               ~                                N     T    C   ON    C
     0) CL
               E   u0)
0         w                   c
a)
     E                                               0
 0E
CD        0
                     cl      CN                      CN 0)       o    C(C
E        UJCL.                                     ~             N                                .
    -                                                                                               C1)
                      0))                  -                          m          e
E
(0-                           0)              0)                                     0    C
     E         U )0          (NJ oo                  (N        Co     0)-
     0                                                                                           0
En        E    ~                                CR   cm      ~     ~      1
    -5               0')      0                        4   -          L
          0     m.                                             ce     00
 on             c.                                             (6c             N   -   C- 0
             CL
0         m0
     o LE
E         E                                      m                           C
       -                                                   o                                5,O~
Fn       C.)                                 oi                Cl     q
         (D         -                   __                  ~
                                                           ~___"It    C1 C:Z-~
                                                                     EI~~       QD~

                                               CLAIMS
1.         A reaction resin mortar curable by frontal polymerization, comprising at least one
           radically polymerizable compound (a), at least one thiol-functionalized compound (b)
           and at least one polymerization initiator (c), wherein the weight ratio of the at least
           one radically polymerizable compound (a) and the least one thiol-functionalized
           compound (b) is in the range of 10:1 to 2:1 and wherein the polymerization initiator
           (c) is selected from compounds which can be thermally released at a temperature of
           30   0C  and/or ammonium persulfates which are formed in-situ from at least one
           organically substituted ammonium salt and at least one inorganic persulfate.
2.         The reaction resin mortar according to claim 1, which contains 10 to 98 wt% of a
           mixture of the at least one radically polymerizable compound (a) and the at least one
           thiol-functionalized compound (b).
3.         The reaction resin mortar according to claim 1 or 2, which contains 2 to 30 wt% of the
           polymerization initiator (c).
4.         The reaction resin mortar according to any one of the preceding claims, which
           contains an ammonium persulfate as the polymerization initiator (c), wherein the at
           least one organically substituted ammonium salt and the at least one organic
           persulfate are present separately in a reaction inhibiting manner such that the
           organically substituted ammonium persulfate is formed only after the mixing thereof.
5.         The reaction resin mortar according to claim 4, which contains, as an organically
           substituted ammonium salt, a tri or tetra alkyl, aryl or aryl-alkyl ammonium halide,
           acetate,       (hydrogen)carbonate,       (hydrogen)phosphate,       (hydrogen)sulfate,
           (meth)acrylate or mixtures of these compounds.
                                                  21
IRactive-6830134.1

6.         The reaction resin mortar according to claim 4 or 5, which contains, as an inorganic
           persulfate, ammonium, potassium or sodium persulfate or mixtures of these
           compounds.
7.         The reaction resin mortar according to any one of the preceding claims, which
           contains, as the polymerization initiator (c), a peroxide and/or an azo compound,
           which, optionally in the presence of a polymerization accelerator (d), each have a
           half-life period t112 in the range between 1 and 200 minutes at a temperature of 100
           *C in chlorobenzene.
8.         The reaction resin mortar according to any one of the preceding claims, which also
           contains a polymerization accelerator (d).
9.         The reaction resin mortar according to any one of the preceding claims, which also
           contains inorganic and/or organic aggregates.
10.        The reaction resin mortar according to claim 9, wherein the aggregate is selected
           from fillers and/or additives.
11.        The reaction resin mortar according to claim 10, wherein the aggregate is contained
           in a quantity of up to 60 wt%.
12.        The reaction resin mortar according to any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein the
           polymerization     accelerator (d) is selected from amines, sulfides, thiourea or
           mercaptans and/or metal compounds.
13.        The reaction resin mortar according to any one of claims 8 to 12, wherein the
           polymerization accelerator (d) is contained in a quantity of 0.01 to 1 wt%.
14.        A method for fixing anchor rods, rebars or the like in bore holes of different
           subgrades, wherein the reaction resin mortar according to at least one of the
           preceding claims is introduced into the bore hole, the anchor rod, the rebar or the like
                                                   22
IRactive-6830134.1

           are inserted and the frontal polymerization is triggered by heating the reaction resin
           mortar to a temperature above the reaction temperature of the polymerization initiator
           or of the polymerization accelerator.
15.        The method according to claim 13 for fixing anchor rods, rebars or the like in hollow
           subgrades.
16.        The method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the polymerization of the reaction
           resin mortar is triggered by selective or extensive heating of the surface layer or in
           the inside the mortar mass.
17.        The method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the polymerization of
           the reaction resin mortar is triggered by the supply of heat via the fixing element.
18.        The method according to any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein the selective or
           extensive heating takes place with the aid of a flame, a soldering tip, a heating wire,
           a hot air fan, an induction oven, a flash of light, a laser beam and/or in-situ by a
           chemical reaction.
                                                   23
IRactive-6830134.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
