        ABSTRACT
        The present invention relates to sustained-release formulations and dosage forms of
ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which are useful in the treatment
of Janus kinase-associated diseases such as myeloproliferative disorders.

               1/4
            FIGURE 1
                           -0-  25 mg IR
1000--A--                      25 mg SR-1
                           -+-25mg    SR-2
  10
     0    6 12    18    24  30     36
               Time (h)

                                                                                          P/00/011
                                                                                     Regulation 3.2
                                         AUSTRALIA
                                       Patents Act 1990
                     COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                         ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        INCYTE HOLDINGS CORPORATION
Actual Inventor(s):       NI, Yong
                          PARIKH, Bhavnish
                          YELESWARAM, Krishnaswamy
                          ERICKSON-VIITANEN, Susan
                          WILLIAMS, William V
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2,    Level 1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                          3104, Australia
Invention Title:          SUSTAINED-RELEASE DOSAGE FORMS OF RUXOLITINIB
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:-

                SUSTAINED-RELEASE DOSAGE FORMS OF RUXOLITINIB
            The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
 5 Application No. 2013344780. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No.
   2013344780 and its corresponding International Patent Application No.
   PCT/US2013/070012, are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10          The present invention relates to sustained-release formulations and dosage forms of
   ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which are useful in the treatment
   of Janus kinase-associated diseases such as myeloproliferative disorders.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15          Ruxolitinib ((3R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)pyrazol-1
   yl]propanenitrile) is the first FDA approved Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor and is the only
   drug currently approved for treatment of myelofibrosis. Mascarenhas, J. et al. Clin Cancer
   Res. 2012 Jun 1;18(11):3008-14. Epub 2012 Apr 2. The compound has been shown in the
   clinic to effectively reduce spleen volume and improve total symptom scores in patients
20 suffering from myelofibrosis. See, e.g., Verstovsek, S., et al. "A double-blind, placebo
   controlled trial of ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis," N. Eng. J. Med., 2012, Mar 1:366(9):799
   807, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, which reports the results of a
   Phase 3 clinical trial (COMFORT-I Study) of ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis. See also,
   Harrison, C. et al., "JAK inhibition with ruxolitinib versus best available therapy for
25 myelofibrosis," N. Eng. J. Med., 2012, Mar 1;366(9):787-98 reporting Phase 3 clinical trial
   results of the COMFORT-II study, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety.
            To date, all published human clinical data for ruxolitinib relate to dosing of an
   immediate-release formulation. However, ruxolitinib is a BCS Class I molecule with rapid
30 oral absorption and a short half-life of about 3 hours. See, Shi et al., J. Clin. Pharmacol.
   2012 Jun;52 (6):809-18. Epub 2011 May 20.         These properties result in a high peak/trough
   plasma concentration ratio in human subjects leading to multiple daily doses for optimal
   treatment, and potentially contributing to problems with patient compliance and unwanted
   side effects.
                                                   2

           Ruxolitinib therapy is often associated with the adverse events of
   thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) and anemia (low hemoglobin). Thrombocytopenia
   is dose-dependent and considered the dose-limiting toxic effect.
           Accordingly, there is a need for new and improved formulations of ruxolitinib that
 5 not only mitigate adverse side-effects in patients, but still achieve therapeutic efficacy, and
   also facilitate administration of the drug such as by reducing the number of doses required
   to achieve a therapeutic effect. The sustained-release formulations provided herein help
   meet these and other needs.
10 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is directed to a sustained-release dosage form comprising at
   least one active ingredient which is ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
   thereof, wherein the ruxolitinib, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is present in
   the dosage form in an amount of about 10 to about 60 mg on a free base basis.
15         The present invention is further directed to a method of treating a disease
   associated with JAK activity in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering the
   sustained-release dosage form of the invention to said patient.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20         Figure 1 shows a graph comparing plasma concentrations of ruxolitinib after
   administration of a single dose of either 25 mg immediate-release or 25 mg sustained
   release formulation in fasted, healthy human subjects.
           Figure 2 shows a graph comparing spleen volume responders in the COMFORT-I
   immediate-release formulation study and the sustained-release study.
25         Figure 3 shows a graph comparing total symptom scores in the COMFORT-I
   immediate-release formulation study and the sustained-release study.
           Figure 4 shows a graph comparing ruxolitinib steady state plasma concentrations in
   MF patients dosed with 25 mg immediate-release or 25 mg sustained-release formulations.
30 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Sustained-Release Dosage Forms
           The present invention provides, inter alia, an oral, sustained-release dosage form
   comprising ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as an active
   ingredient. The dosage form can contain ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
                                                  3

   thereof, in an amount of about 10 to about 60 mg, about 10 to about 40 mg, about 20 to
   about 40 mg, or about 20 to about 30 mg on a free base basis. In some embodiments, the
   dosage form contains about 10 mg, about 12.5 mg, about 20 mg, about 25 mg, about 30
   mg, about 37.5 mg, about 40 mg, about 50 mg, or about 60 mg on a free base basis. In
 5 some embodiments, the dosage form contains about 25 mg of ruxolitinib on a free base
   basis. The phrase "on a free base basis" indicates that the amount of ruxolitinib or salt
   thereof in the dosage form is measured based on the molecular weight of ruxolitinib free
   base only, even when the actual active ingredient is a salt of ruxolitinib having a different
   molecular weight than the free base. For example, the conversion factor for ruxolitinib
10 phosphate salt to free base is 0.7575.
           The structure., preparation, and characterization of ruxolitinib., and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, are described in, e.g., US Pat. No. 7,598,257 and
   US Pat. Pub. No. 2008/0312259, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety. In some embodiments, the active ingredient is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
15 of ruxolitinib, such as the maleic acid salt, sulfuric acid salt, or phosphoric acid salt. In
   some embodiments, the active ingredient is ruxolitinib phosphate (i.e., phosphoric acid salt
   of ruxolitinib).
           The dosage form of the invention comprises a sustained-release formulation of
   ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. As used herein, "sustained
20 release" is used as generally understood in the art and refers to a formulation designed to
   slowly release the active ingredient into a patient after oral administration and to maintain
   an essentially steady, therapeutically effective plasma level of active ingredient over a
   relatively long period of time, such as about 8 to about 24 hours or longer.
           The dosage forms of the invention include a sustained-release matrix former.
25 Example sustained-release matrix formers include cellulosic ethers such as hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose (HPMC, hypromellose) which is a high viscosity polymer. The sustained
   release dosage forms of the invention can include, for example, about 10 to about 30%,
   about 15 to about 25%, or about 18 to about 24 % by weight of hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose(s). In some embodiments, the formulation has about 20 % by weight of
30 one or more hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses. In further embodiments, the formulation has
   about 22 % by weight of one or more hydroxypropyl methyl celluloses. Example
   hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses include Methocel K15M, Methocel K4M, and Methocel
   K100LV.
                                                   4

           The sustained-release dosage forms of the invention can further include one or
   more fillers, glidants, disintegrants, binders, or lubricants as inactive ingredients. Fillers
   can be present in the formulations in an amount of 0 to about 85 % by weight. In some
   embodiments, the formulation has about 50 to about 80%, about 55 to about 75%, or about
 5 60 to about 70% by weight of filler. Non-limiting examples of fillers include lactose
   monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, starch 1500, and lactose anhydrous, or
   combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the filler comprises microcrystalline
   cellulose, lactose monohydrate, or both.
           Lubricants can be present in the dosage forms of the invention in an amount of 0 to
10 about 5% by weight. Non-limiting examples of lubricants include magnesium stearate,
   stearic acid (stearin), hydrogenated oil, polyethylene glycol, sodium stearyl fumarate, and
   glyceryl behenate. In some embodiments, the formulations include magnesium stearate,
   stearic acid, or both.
           Glidants can be present in the dosage forms of the invention in an amount of 0 to
15 about 5% by weight. Non-limiting examples of glidants include talc, colloidal silicon
   dioxide, and cornstarch. In some embodiments, the glidant is colloidal silicon dioxide.
           Disintegrants can be present in the dosage forms of the invention in an amount of 0
   to about 10% by weight. Non-limiting examples of disintegrants include croscarmellose
   sodium, crospovidone, starch, cellulose, and low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose.
20 Croscarmellose sodium is a preferred disintegrant.
           Film-coating agents can be present in an amount of 0 to about 5% by weight. Non
   limiting illustrative examples of film-coating agents include hypromellose or polyvinyl
   alcohol based coating with titanium dioxide, talc and optionally colorants available in
   several commercially available complete coating systems.
25         In some embodiments, the dosage form of the invention includes a sustained
   release formulation comprising about 12.2% ruxolitinib phosphate, about 20%
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, about 64.3% filler, about 2.5% lubricant, and about 1%
   glidant, all by weight.
           In some embodiments, the dosage form of the invention includes a sustained
30 release formulation comprising about 12.2% ruxolitinib phosphate, about 22%
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, about 62.3% filler, about 2.5% lubricant, and about 1%
   glidant, all by weight.
           In some embodiments, the dosage form of the invention includes a sustained
   release formulation as set out below.
                                                   5

                                  Component                          Percentage
                                                                       (wt%)
                  Ruxolitinib phosphate                          12.2
                  Microcrystalline cellulose, NF                 22.0
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K15M)              4.0
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K4M)               16.0
                  Lactose monohydrate, NF                        42.3
                  Colloidal silicon dioxide, NF                  1.0
                  Magnesium stearate, NF                         0.5
                  Stearic acid, NF                               2.0
           In some embodiments, the dosage form of the invention includes a sustained
   release formulation as set out below.
                                  Component                          Percentage
                                                                       (wt%)
                  Ruxolitinib phosphate                          12.2
                  Microcrystalline cellulose. NF                 42.3
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K100LV)            10.0
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K4M)               12.0
                  Lactose monohydrate, NF                        20.0
                  Colloidal silicon dioxide, NF                  1.0
                  Magnesium stearate, NF                         0.5
                  Stearic acid, NF                               2.0
 5         In some embodiments, the dosage form of the invention includes a sustained
   release formulation as set out below.
                                  Component                          Percentage
                                                                       (wt%)
                  Ruxolitinib phosphate                          12.2
                  Microcrystalline cellulose, NF                 22.0 - 42.3
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel KIOOLV)            0 - 10.0
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K15M)              0 - 4.0
                  Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K4M)               12.0 - 16.0
                  Lactose monohydrate, NF                        20.0 - 42.3
                  Colloidal silicon dioxide, NF                  1.0
                  Magnesium stearate, NF                         0.5
                  Stearic acid, NF                               2.0
           As used herein, the term "dosage form" is meant to refer to a physically discrete
   unit of sustained-release formulation of the invention to be administered to a patient.
10 Example dosage forms include tablets, caplets, capsules, and the like, containing any of the
   sustained-release formulations described herein. Dosage forms can further include
   pharmaceutically acceptable coatings, pigments, or dyes.
                                                 6

           The dosage forms of the invention contain a sustained-release formulation that
   results in the relatively slow release of ruxolitinib once administered, characterized by
   particular pharmacokinetic parameters different from those of an immediate-release
   formulation. The sustained-release dosage forms of the invention can minimize potentially
 5 harmful spikes in drug plasma concentrations that are associated with immediate-release
   formulations, and can help provide continuous, steady, and therapeutically effective
   plasma levels of drug. The dosage forms of the invention can be administered to a human
   patient as needed for therapeutic efficacy against the disease being treated, for example,
   once daily.
10         In some embodiments, the dosage forms of the invention are administered to fasted
   patients. As used herein, "fasted" means, in reference to a human patient or subject, that
   the patient or subject has not ingested food or drink (except water) for at least 3 hours prior
   to dosing. In some embodiments, patients are fasted for at least 10 hours prior to dosing.
           In further embodiments, the dosage forms of the invention are administered to non
15 fasted human patients or subjects. Bioavailability of ruxolitinib is high (e.g., about 70
   80%) and no food effect has been observed in immediate-release dosage forms.
   Accordingly, it is believed that the pharmacokinetics of ruxolitinib administered as a
   sustained-release dosage form would not be significantly different in fasted and non-fasted
   patients.
20         In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration      (Cmnax) of ruxolitinib of
   about 700 nM or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of ruxolitinib of
25 about 600 nM or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration      (Cmax)  of ruxolitinib of
   about 500 nM or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
30 invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of ruxolitinib of
   about 400 nM or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration      (Cmax)  of ruxolitinib of
   about 200 to about 700 nM.
                                                   7

           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of ruxolitinib of
   about 200 to about 600 nM.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
 5 invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration (Cm.ax) of ruxolitinib of
   about 300 to about 500 nM.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean peak plasma concentration       (Cmax)   of ruxolitinib of
   about 300 to about 400 nM.
10         In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results a mean time to peak plasma concentration         (Tmax)  of
   ruxolitinib of about 1.5 hours or more.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax       1,) of
15 ruxolitinib of about 1.5 hours to about 5 hours.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean time to peak plasma concentration (Tma) of
   ruxolitinib of about 2 hours to about 4 hours.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
20 invention to a human results in a ratio of mean peak plasma concentration        (Cmax)  to mean
   12-hour plasma concentration (C12h) of ruxolitinib of about 10 or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a ratio of mean peak plasma concentration (Cma,,x) to mean
   12-hour plasma concentration    (C)2h) of ruxolitinib of about 6 or less.
25         In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a ratio of mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) to mean
   12-hour plasma concentration (C 12 h) of ruxolitinib of about 5 or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a ratio of mean peak plasma concentration        (Cnax)  to mean
30 12-hour plasma concentration    (Cl2h) of ruxolitinib of about 4 or less.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a ratio of mean peak plasma concentration        (Cmax)  to mean
   12-hour plasma concentration    (C12h) of ruxolitinib of about I to 10.
                                                  8

            In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a ratio of mean peak plasma concentration       (Ciax) to mean
   12-hour plasma concentration     (Cl2h) of ruxolitinib of about 2 to 7.
            In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
 5 invention to a human results in a mean half-life    (ti/2) of from about 3.5 hours to about 11
   hours.
            In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human results in a mean half-life (t 1 2) of from about 4 hours to about 8
   hours.
10          In some embodiments, administration of a single dose of a sustained-release dosage
   form of the invention to a human results in mean bioavailability (AUCo-.) of ruxolitinib of
   at least about 3000 nM*h.
            In some embodiments, administration of a single dose of a sustained-release dosage
   form of the invention to a human results in mean bioavailability (AUCo-.) of ruxolitinib of
15 at least about 3500 nM*h.
            In some embodiments, administration of a single dose of a sustained-release dosage
   form of the invention to a human results in mean bioavailability (AUCo-.) of ruxolitinib of
   about 3000 to about 4000 nM*h.
            In some embodiments, administration of a single dose of a sustained-release dosage
20 form of the invention to a human results in mean bioavailability (AUCo-.) of ruxolitinib of
   about 3100 to about 3800 nM*h.
            In some embodiments, the sustained-release dosage form of the invention has a
   mean relative bioavailability based on A UC of from about 65 % to about 110 % or about
   75% to about 95% relative to an immediate release formulation comprising the same
25 amount of ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in patients. AUC can
   be, for example, AUCo_. (e.g., for a single dose) or AUCo-t where t is a specified time.
            As used herein, "mean" when preceding a pharmacokinetic value (e.g. mean Cmax)
   represents the arithmetic mean value of the pharmacokinetic value taken from a population
   of patients unless otherwise specified.
30          As used herein, "Cmnax" means the maximum observed plasma concentration.
            As used herein, "C12h"  refers to the plasma concentration measured at 12 hours
   from administration.
            As used herein, "Tmax" refers to the time at which the maximum blood plasma
   concentration is observed.
                                                    9

           As used herein, "TI/2" refers to the time at which the plasma concentration is half
   of the observed maximum.
           As used herein, "AUC" refers to the area under the plasma concentration-time
   curve which is a measure of total bioavailability.
 5         As used herein, "AUCo." refers to the area under the plasma concentration-time
   curve extrapolated to infinity.
           As used herein, "AUCo-t" refers to the area under the plasma concentration-time
   curve from time 0 to the last time point with a quantifiable plasma concentration, usually
   about 12-36 hours.
10         As used herein, "AUCo-" refers to the area under the plasma concentration-time
   curve from time 0 to the time of the next dose.
           As used herein, "Cl/F" refers to oral clearance.
           The sustained-release dosage forms of the invention have certain advantages over
   immediate-release dosage forms. The maintenance of steady, therapeutically effective
15 plasma levels of ruxolitinib afforded by the sustained-release dosage forms of the
   invention allows for reduced dosing, such as doing only once per day, as opposed to twice
   or more for immediate-release forms. The reduced dosing can help with patient
   compliance in their treatment regimen.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
20 invention to a human results in a therapeutically effective plasma level of ruxolitinib for at
   least about 8 hours, at least about 10 hours, at least about 12 hours, at least about 18, or at
   least about 24 hours. In some embodiments, the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention maintains a plasma level between about 75 and about 500 nM for at least about 8
   hours, at least about 12 hours, or at least about 18 hours. In some embodiments, the
25 sustained-release dosage form of the invention maintains a plasma level between about
   100 and about 400 nM for at least about 6 hours or at least about 8 hours.
           An additional advantage of the sustained-release dosage form (e.g., containing 25
   mg of ruxolitinib phosphate on a free base basis) includes a reduction in unwanted side
   effects related to thrombocytopenia and anemia while maintaining therapeutic efficacy
30 comparable with an immediate-release dosing regimen, e.g., 15 mg or 20 mg BID. It was
   not predictable that a sustained-release formulation of ruxolitinib could both maintain
   therapeutic efficacy and significantly reduce unwanted side effects related to
   thrombocytopenia or reduced hemoglobin levels. Clinical data related to efficacy and side
                                                  10

   effects in myelofibrosis patients for both sustained-release and immediate-release dosing is
   compared in the Examples.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human once daily for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
 5 base platelet count of no more than about 100 x 109/L, no more than about 80 x 109/L, no
   more than about 60 x 109/L, or no more than about 40 x 109 /L.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human once daily for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
   base platelet count of between about 0 x 109/L and about 100 x 109/L, between about 30 x
10 109/L and about 80 x 109/L, or between about 50 x 109/L and about 70 x 109/L.
           In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human once daily for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
   baseline hemoglobin (Hgb) of no more than about 15 g/L, no more than about 10 g/L, no
   more than about 8 g/L, or no more than about 6 g/L.
15         In some embodiments, administration of the sustained-release dosage form of the
   invention to a human once daily for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
   baseline hemoglobin (Hgb) of about 0 to about 15 g/L, about 5 to about 15 g/L, about 2 to
   about 12 g/L, or about 5 to about 12 g/L.
           In some embodiments, the platelet counts and hemoglobin levels are measured in
20 patients having received no blood transfusions during the treatment period.
           Mean baseline platelet counts and mean baseline hemoglobin levels are typically
   measured prior to the start of treatment.
           It is appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity,
   described in the context of separate embodiments, can also be provided in combination in a
25 single embodiment (while the embodiments are intended to be combined as if written in
   multiply dependent form). Conversely, various features of the invention which are, for
   brevity, described in the context of a single embodiment, can also be provided separately
   or in any suitable subcombination.
30 Methods
           Another aspect of the present invention pertains to methods of treating a JAK
   associated disease or disorder in an individual (e.g., patient) by administering to the
   individual in need of such treatment a sustained-release dosage form of the invention. A
   JAK-associated disease can include any disease, disorder or condition that is directly or
                                                   II

   indirectly linked to expression or activity of the JAK, including overexpression and/or
   abnormal activity levels. A JAK-associated disease can also include any disease, disorder
   or condition that can be prevented, ameliorated, or cured by modulating JAK activity.
            Examples of JAK-associated diseases include diseases involving the immune
 5 system including, for example, organ transplant rejection (e.g., allograft rejection and graft
   versus host disease).
            Further examples of JAK-associated diseases include autoimmune diseases such as
   multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, type I diabetes,
   lupus, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease,
10 myasthenia gravis, immunoglobulin nephropathies, myocarditis, autoimmune thyroid
   disorders, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and the like. In some
   embodiments, the autoimmune disease is an autoimmune bullous skin disorder such as
   pemphigus vulgaris (PV) or bullous pemphigoid (BP).
            Further examples of JAK-associated diseases include allergic conditions such as
15 asthma, food allergies, eszematous dermatitis, contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis (atropic
   eczema), and rhinitis. Further examples of JAK-associated diseases include viral diseases
   such as Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, HTLV 1, Varicella
   Zoster Virus (VZV) and Human Papilloma Virus (HPV).
            Further examples of JAK-associated disease include diseases associated with
20 cartilage turnover, for example, gouty arthritis, septic or infectious arthritis, reactive
   arthritis, reflex sympathetic dystrophy, algodystrophy, Tietze syndrome, costal athropathy,
   osteoarthritis deformans endemica, Mseleni disease, Handigodu disease, degeneration
   resulting from fibromyalgia, systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, or ankylosing
   spondylitis.
25          Further examples of JAK-associated disease include congenital cartilage
   malformations, including hereditary chrondrolysis, chrondrodysplasias, and
   pseudochrondrodysplasias (e.g., microtia, enotia, and metaphyseal chrondrodysplasia).
            Further examples of JAK-associated diseases or conditions include skin disorders
   such as psoriasis (for example, psoriasis vulgaris), atopic dermatitis, skin rash, skin
30 irritation, skin sensitization (e.g., contact dermatitis or allergic contact dermatitis). For
   example, certain substances including some pharmaceuticals when topically applied can
   cause skin sensitization. In some embodiments, co-administration or sequential
   administration of at least one JAK inhibitor of the invention together with the agent
   causing unwanted sensitization can be helpful in treating such unwanted sensitization or
                                                    12

   dermatitis. In some embodiments, the skin disorder is treated by topical administration of
   at least one JAK inhibitor of the invention.
            In further embodiments, the JAK-associated disease is cancer including those
   characterized by solid tumors (e.g., prostate cancer, renal cancer, hepatic cancer,
 5 pancreatic cancer, gastric cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, cancers of the head and neck,
   thyroid cancer, glioblastoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, Castleman's disease, uterine
   leiomyosarcoma, melanoma etc.), hematological cancers (e.g., lymphoma, leukemia such
   as acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or multiple
   myeloma), and skin cancer such as cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and cutaneous B
10 cell lymphoma. Example CTCLs include Sezary syndrome and mycosis fungoides.
            In some embodiments, the JAK inhibitors described herein, or in combination with
   other JAK inhibitors, such as those reported in U.S. Ser. No. 11/637,545, which is
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, can be used to treat inflammation
   associated cancers. In some embodiments, the cancer is associated with inflammatory
15 bowel disease. In some embodiments, the inflammatory bowel disease is ulcerative colitis.
   In some embodiments, the inflammatory bowel disease is Crohn's disease. In some
   embodiments, the inflammation-associated cancer is colitis-associated cancer. In some
   embodiments, the inflammation-associated cancer is colon cancer or colorectal cancer. In
   some embodiments, the cancer is gastric cancer, gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor,
20 gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), adenocarcinoma, small intestine cancer, or rectal
   cancer.
            JAK-associated diseases can further include those characterized by expression of:
   JAK2 mutants such as those having at least one mutation in the pseudo-kinase domain
   (e.g., JAK2V617F); JAK2 mutants having at least one mutation outside of the pseudo
25 kinase domain; JAKI mutants; JAK3 mutants; erythropoietin receptor (EPOR) mutants; or
   deregulated expression of CRLF2.
            JAK-associated diseases can further include myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs)
   such as polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), primary myelofibrosis
   (PMF), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia
30 (CMML), hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES), systemic mast cell disease (SMCD), and the
   like. In some embodiments, the myeloproliferative disorder is myelofibrosis (e.g., primary
   myelofibrosis (PMF) or post polycythemia vera/essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis
   (Post-PV/ET MF)). In some embodiments, the myeloproliferative disorder is post
                                                  13

   essential thrombocythenia myelofibrosis (Post-ET MF). In some embodiments, the
   myeloproliferative disorder is post polycythemia vera myelofibrosis (Post-PV MF).
            The present invention further provides methods of treating psoriasis or other skin
   disorders by administration of a topical formulation containing a compound of the
 5 invention.
            In some embodiments, sustained-release formulation and dosage forms described
   herein can be used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension.
            In some embodiments, the sustained-release formulation and dosage forms
   described herein can be used to treat mast cell activation syndrome.
10          The present invention further provides a method of treating dermatological side
   effects of other pharmaceuticals by administration of the sustained-release dosage form of
   the invention. For example, numerous pharmaceutical agents result in unwanted allergic
   reactions which can manifest as acneiform rash or related dermatitis. Example
   pharmaceutical agents that have such undesirable side effects include anti-cancer drugs
15 such as gefitinib, cetuximab, erlotinib, and the like. The dosage form of the invention can
   be administered in combination with (e.g., simultaneously or sequentially) the
   pharmaceutical agent having the undesirable dermatological side effect.
            Further JAK-associated diseases include inflammation and inflammatory diseases.
   Example inflammatory diseases include sarcoidosis, inflammatory diseases of the eye
20 (e.g., iritis, uveitis, scleritis, conjunctivitis, or related disease), inflammatory diseases of
   the respiratory tract (e.g., the upper respiratory tract including the nose and sinuses such as
   rhinitis or sinusitis or the lower respiratory tract including bronchitis, chronic obstructive
   pulmonary disease, and the like), inflammatory myopathy such as myocarditis, and other
   inflammatory diseases. In some embodiments, the inflammation disease of the eye is
25 blepharitis.
            The sustained-release dosage forms herein can further be used to treat ischemia
   reperfusion injuries or a disease or condition related to an inflammatory ischemic event
   such as stroke or cardiac arrest. The sustained-release dosage forms described herein can
   further be used to treat endotoxin-driven disease state (e.g., complications after bypass
30 surgery or chronic endotoxin states contributing to chronic cardiac failure). The sustained
   release dosage forms described herein can further be used to treat anorexia, cachexia, or
   fatigue such as that resulting from or associated with cancer. The sustained-release dosage
   forms described herein can further be used to treat restenosis, sclerodermitis, or fibrosis.
   The sustained-release dosage forms described herein can further be used to treat conditions
                                                       14

   associated with hypoxia or astrogliosis such as, for example, diabetic retinopathy, cancer,
   or neurodegeneration. See, e.g., Dudley, A.C. et al. Biochen. J. 2005, 390(Pt 2):427-36
   and Sriram, K. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2004, 279(19):19936-47. Epub 2004 Mar 2, both of
   which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The sustained-release dosage
 5 forms described herein can be used to treat Alzheimer's disease.
           The sustained-release dosage forms described herein can further be used to treat
   other inflammatory diseases such as systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)
   and septic shock.
           The sustained-release dosage forms described herein can further be used to treat
10 gout and increased prostate size due to, e.g., benign prostatic hypertrophy or benign
   prostatic hyperplasia.
           Further JAK-associated diseases include bone resorption diseases such as
   osteoporosis, osteoarthritis. Bone resorption can also be associated with other conditions
   such as hormonal imbalance and/or hormonal therapy, autoimmune disease (e.g. osseous
15 sarcoidosis), or cancer (e.g. myeloma). The reduction of the bone resorption due to the
   JAK inhibitors can be about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about
   60%, about 70%, about 80%, or about 90%.
           In some embodiments, sustained-release dosage forms described herein can further
   be used to treat a dry eye disorder. As used herein, "dry eye disorder" is intended to
20 encompass the disease states summarized in a recent official report of the Dry Eye
   Workshop (DEWS), which defined dry eye as "a multifactorial disease of the tears and
   ocular surface that results in symptoms of discomfort, visual disturbance, and tear film
   instability with potential damage to the ocular surface. It is accompanied by increased
   osmolarity of the tear film and inflammation of the ocular surface." Lemp, "The Definition
25 and Classification of Dry Eye Disease: Report of the Definition and Classification
   Subcommittee of the International Dry Eye Workshop", The OcularSurface, 5(2), 75-92
   April 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some
   embodiments, the dry eye disorder is selected from aqueous tear-deficient dry eye (ADDE)
   or evaporative dry eye disorder, or appropriate combinations thereof. In some
30 embodiments, the dry eye disorder is Sjogren syndrome dry eye (SSDE).            In some
   embodiments, the dry eye disorder is non-Sjogren syndrome dry eye (NSSDE).
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating
   conjunctivitis, uveitis (including chronic uveitis), chorioditis, retinitis, cyclitis, sclieritis,
   episcleritis, or iritis; treating inflammation or pain related to corneal transplant, LASIK
                                                    15

    (laser assisted in situ keratomileusis), photorefractive keratectomy, or LASEK (laser
    assisted sub-epithelial keratomileusis); inhibiting loss of visual acuity related to corneal
   transplant, LASIK, photorefractive keratectomy, or LASEK; or inhibiting transplant
   rejection in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering to the patient a
 5 therapeutically effective amount of the compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically
    acceptable salt thereof.
            Additionally, the sustained-release dosage forms of the invention, optionally in
   combination with other JAK inhibitors such as those reported in U.S. Ser. No. 11/637,545,
   which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, can be used to treat respiratory
10 dysfunction or failure associated with viral infection, such as influenza and SARS.
            As used herein, the term "individual," "subject," or "patient," refers to a human,
   who can be fasted or un-fasted when the dosage form of the invention is administered.
            As used herein the term "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to those compounds,
   materials, compositions and/or dosage forms, which are, within the scope of sound medical
15 judgment, suitable for contact humans without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic
   response and other problem complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk
   ratio.
            As used herein, the term "treating" or "treatment" refers to one or more of (1)
   preventing the disease; for example, preventing a disease, condition or disorder in an
20 individual who may be predisposed to the disease, condition or disorder but does not yet
   experience or display the pathology or symptomatology of the disease; (2) inhibiting the
   disease; for example, inhibiting a disease, condition or disorder in an individual who is
   experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease, condition or
   disorder (i.e., arresting further development of the pathology and/or symptomatology); and
25  (3) ameliorating the disease; for example, ameliorating a disease, condition or disorder in
    an individual who is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the
   disease, condition or disorder (i.e., reversing the pathology and/or symptomatology) such
    as decreasing the severity of disease.
30  Combination Therapies
            One or more additional pharmaceutical agents such as, for example,
   chemotherapeutics, anti-inflammatory agents, steroids, immunosuppressants, as well as
   Bcr-Abl, Flt-3, RAF and FAK kinase inhibitors such as, for example, those described in
   WO 2006/056399, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, or other agents
                                                   16

   can be used in combination with the sustained-release dosage forms described herein for
   treatment of JAK-associated diseases, disorders or conditions. The one or more additional
   pharmaceutical agents can be administered to a patient simultaneously or sequentially.
           Example chemotherapeutics include proteosome inhibitors (e.g., bortezomib),
 5 thalidomide, revlimid, and DNA-damaging agents such as melphalan, doxorubicin,
   cyclophosphamide, vincristine, etoposide, carmustine, and the like.
           Example steroids include coriticosteroids such as dexamethasone or prednisone.
           Example Bcr-Abl inhibitors include the compounds, and pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts thereof, of the genera and species disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,521,184,
10 WO 04/005281, and U.S. Ser. No. 60/578,491, all of which are incorporated herein by
   reference in their entirety.
           Example suitable Flt-3 inhibitors include compounds, and their pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts, as disclosed in WO 03/037347, WO 03/099771, and WO 04/046120, all
   of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
15         Example suitable RAF inhibitors include compounds, and their pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts, as disclosed in WO 00/09495 and WO 05/028444, both of which are
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
           Example suitable FAK inhibitors include compounds, and their pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts, as disclosed in WO 04/080980, WO 04/056786, WO 03/024967, WO
20 01/064655, WO 00/053595, and WO 01/014402, all of which are incorporated herein by
   reference in their entirety.
           In some embodiments, one or more of the compounds of the invention can be used
   in combination with one or more other kinase inhibitors including imatinib, particularly for
   treating patients resistant to imatinib or other kinase inhibitors.
25         In some embodiments, one or more JAK inhibitors of the invention can be used in
   combination with a chemotherapeutic in the treatment of cancer, such as multiple
   myeloma, and may improve the treatment response as compared to the response to the
   chemotherapeutic agent alone, without exacerbation of its toxic effects. Examples of
   additional pharmaceutical agents used in the treatment of multiple myeloma, for example,
30 can include, without limitation, melphalan, melphalan plus prednisone [MP], doxorubicin,
   dexamethasone, and Velcade (bortezomib). Further additional agents used in the treatment
   of multiple myeloma include Bcr-Abl, Flt-3, RAF and FAK kinase inhibitors. Additive or
   synergistic effects are desirable outcomes of combining a JAK inhibitor of the present
   invention with an additional agent. Furthermore, resistance of multiple myeloma cells to
                                                   17

   agents such as dexamethasone may be reversible upon treatment with a JAK inhibitor of
   the present invention. The agents can be combined with the present compounds in a single
   or continuous dosage form, or the agents can be administered simultaneously or
   sequentially as separate dosage forms.
 5         In some embodiments, a corticosteroid such as dexamethasone is administered to a
   patient in combination with at least one JAK inhibitor where the dexamethasone is
   administered intermittently as opposed to continuously.
           In some further embodiments, combinations of sustained-release dosage forms with
   other therapeutic agents can be administered to a patient prior to, during, and/or after a
10 bone marrow transplant or stem cell transplant.
           In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is fluocinolone acetonide
   (Retisert@), or rimexolone (AL-2178, Vexol, Alcon).
           In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is cyclosporine (Restasis@).
           In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is a corticosteroid. In some
15 embodiments, the corticosteroid is triamcinolone, dexamethasone, fluocinolone, cortisone,
   prednisolone, or flumetholone.
           In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is selected from
   DehydrexTM (Holles Labs), Civamide (Opko), sodium hyaluronate (Vismed, Lantibio/TRB
   Chemedia), cyclosporine (ST-603, Sirion Therapeutics), ARG101(T) (testosterone,
20 Argentis), AGRI012(P) (Argentis), ecabet sodium (Senju-Ista), gefarnate (Santen), 15-(s)
   hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15(S)-HETE), cevilemine, doxycycline (ALTY-0501,
   Alacrity), minocycline, iDestrinTM (NP50301, Nascent Pharmaceuticals), cyclosporine A
   (Nova22007, Novagali), oxytetracycline (Duramycin, MOLI1901, Lantibio), CF101
   (2S,3S.4R,5R)-3,4-dihydroxy-5-[6-[(3-iodophenyl)methylamino]purin-9-yl]-N-methyl
25 oxolane-2-carbamyl, Can-Fite Biopharma), voclosporin (LX212 or LX214, Lux
   Biosciences), ARG103 (Agentis), RX-10045 (synthetic resolvin analog, Resolvyx),
   DYN15 (Dyanmis Therapeutics), rivoglitazone (DEOI11, Daiichi Sanko), TB4 (RegeneRx),
   OPH-01 (Ophtalmis Monaco), PCS101 (Pericor Science), REV1-31 (Evolutec), Lacritin
   (Senju), rebamipide (Otsuka-Novartis), OT-551 (Othera), PAI-2 (University of
30 Pennsylvania and Temple University), pilocarpine, tacrolimus, pimecrolimus (AMS981,
   Novartis), loteprednol etabonate, rituximab, diquafosol tetrasodium (INS365, Inspire),
   KLS-0611 (Kissei Pharmaceuticals), dehydroepiandrosterone, anakinra, efalizumab,
   mycophenolate sodium, etanercept (Embrel®),hydroxychloroquine, NGX267
                                                18

   (TorreyPines Therapeutics), actemra, gemcitabine, oxaliplatin, L-asparaginase, or
   thalidomide.
            In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is an anti-angiogenic agent,
   cholinergic agonist, TRP- 1 receptor modulator, a calcium channel blocker, a mucin
 5 secretagogue, MUC 1 stimulant, a calcineurin inhibitor, a corticosteroid, a P2Y2 receptor
   agonist, a muscarinic receptor agonist, an mTOR inhibitor, another JAK inhibitor, Bcr-Abl
   kinase inhibitor, Flt-3 kinase inhibitor, RAF kinase inhibitor, and FAK kinase inhibitor
   such as, for example, those described in WO 2006/056399, which is incorporated herein
   by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is a
10 tetracycline derivative (e.g., minocycline or doxycline). In some embodiments, the
   additional therapeutic agent binds to FKBP12.
            In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is an alkylating agent or
   DNA cross-linking agent; an anti-metabolite/demethylating agent (e.g., 5-flurouracil,
   capecitabine or azacitidine); an anti-hormone therapy (e.g., hormone receptor antagonists,
15 SERMs, or aromotase inhibitor); a mitotic inhibitor (e.g. vincristine or paclitaxel); an
   topoisomerase (I or II) inhibitor (e.g. mitoxantrone and irinotecan); an apoptotic inducers
   (e.g. ABT-737); a nucleic acid therapy (e.g. antisense or RNAi); nuclear receptor ligands
   (e.g., agonists and/or antagonists: all-trans retinoic acid or bexarotene); epigenetic
   targeting agents such as histone deacetylase inhibitors (e.g. vorinostat), hypomethylating
20 agents (e.g. decitabine); regulators of protein stability such as Hsp90 inhibitors, ubiquitin
   and/or ubiquitin like conjugating or deconjugating molecules; or an EGFR inhibitor
   (erlotinib).
            In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent(s) are demulcent eye drops
   (also known as "artificial tears"), which include, but are not limited to, compositions
25 containing polyvinylalcohol, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, glycerin, polyethylene glycol
   (e.g. PEG400), or carboxymethyl cellulose. Artificial tears can help in the treatment of dry
   eye by compensating for reduced moistening and lubricating capacity of the tear film. In
   some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is a mucolytic drug, such as N-acetyl
   cysteine, which can interact with the mucoproteins and, therefore, to decrease the viscosity
30 of the tear film.
            In some embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent includes an antibiotic,
   antiviral, antifungal, anesthetic, anti-inflammatory agents including steroidal and non
   steroidal anti-inflammatories, and anti-allergic agents. Examples of suitable medicaments
   include aminoglycosides such as amikacin, gentamycin, tobramycin, streptomycin,
                                                   19

   netilmycin, and kanamycin; fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin,
   ofloxacin, trovafloxacin, lomefloxacin, levofloxacin, and enoxacin; naphthyridine;
    sulfonamides; polymyxin; chloramphenicol; neomycin; paramomycin; colistimethate;
    bacitracin; vancomycin; tetracyclines; rifampin and its derivatives ("rifampins");
 5 cycloserine; beta-lactams; cephalosporins; amphotericins; fluconazole; flucytosine;
   natamycin; miconazole; ketoconazole; corticosteroids; diclofenac; flurbiprofen; ketorolac;
    suprofen; cromolyn; lodoxamide; levocabastin; naphazoline; antazoline; pheniramine; or
    azalide antibiotic.
            The invention will be described in greater detail by way of specific examples. The
10 following examples are offered for illustrative purposes, and are not intended to limit the
   invention in any manner. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of non
   critical parameters which can be changed or modified to yield essentially the same results.
   EXAMPLES
15 Example I
    Sustained-Release and Immediate-Release Formulations of Ruxolitinib Phosphate
   FormulationSR-2
            A 25 mg sustained-release formulation of ruxolitinib phosphate was prepared
   according to the following protocol. The formulation components are provided in Table
20  la. Percentages are by weight.
                                              Table la
                   Component                              Function                  Percentage
   Ruxolitinib phosphatea                       Active ingredient                12.2
   Microcryrstalline cellulose, NF              Filler                           22.0
   Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K15M)            Sustained release matrix         4.0
                                                former
   Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K4M)             Sustained release matrix         16.0
                                                former
   Lactose monohydrate, NF                      Filler                           42.3
   Colloidal silicon dioxide, NF                Glidant                          1.0
   Magnesium stearate, NF                       Lubricant                        0.5
    Stearic acid, NF                            Lubricant                        2.0
   Total                                                                         100
   'On a free base basis, conversion factor for phosphate salt to free base is 0.7575.
   Protocol
                                                  20

   Step 1. Add microcrystalline cellulose, ruxolitinib phosphate, lactose monohydrate, and
   hypromelloses to a suitable blender and mix.
   Step 2. Transfer the mix from Step I to a suitable granulator and mix.
   Step 3. Add purified water while mixing.
 5 Step 4. Screen the wet granules from Step 3.
   Step 5. Transfer the granules from Step 4 into a suitable dryer and dry until LOD is no
   more than 3%.
   Step 6. Screen the granules from Step 5.
   Step 7. Mix colloidal silicon dioxide with granules in Step 6 in a suitable blender.
10 Step 8. Mix stearic acid and magnesium stearate with the blend in Step 7 and continue
   blending.
   Step 9. Compress the final blend in Step 8 on a suitable rotary tablet press.
   FormulationSR-i
15         An alternate 25 mg sustained-release formulation of ruxolitinib phosphate has been
   prepared as described below. The formulation components are provided in Table lb.
   Percentages are by weight.
                                             Table lb
                  Component                               Function                  Percentage
   Ruxolitinib phosphate                       Active ingredient                  12.2
   Microcryrstalline cellulose, NF             Filler                             42.3
   Hypromellose, USP (Methocel                 Sustained release matrix           10.0
   K100LV)                                     former
   Hypromellose, USP (Methocel K4M)            Sustained release matrix           12.0
                                               former
   Lactose monohydrate, NF                     Filler                             20.0
   Colloidal silicon dioxide, NF               Glidant                            1.0
   Magnesium stearate, NF                      Lubricant                          0.5
   Stearic acid, NF                            Lubricant                          2.0
   Total                                                                          100
   a On a free base basis, conversion factor for phosphate salt to free base is 0.7575.
20
   Protocol
   Step 1. Add microcrystalline cellulose, ruxolitinib phosphate, lactose monohydrate, and
   hypromelloses to a suitable blender and mix.
   Step 2. Transfer the mix from Step 1 to a suitable granulator and mix.
25 Step 3. Add purified water while mixing.
                                                 21

      Step 4. Screen the wet granules from Step 3.
      Step 5. Transfer the granules from Step 4 into a suitable dryer and dry until LOD is no
      more than 3%.
      Step 6. Screen the granules from Step 5.
  5   Step 7. Mix colloidal silicon dioxide with granules in Step 6 in a suitable blender.
      Step 8. Mix stearic acid and magnesium stearate with the blend in Step 7 and continue
      blending.
      Step 9. Compress the final blend in Step 8 on a suitable rotary tablet press.
10    Formulation C - Immediate Release
                 Immediate-release dosage forms of ruxolitinib phosphate can be obtained
      commercially in 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 mg doses as the drug product Jakafi@ (ruxolitinib
      phosphate (tablets)) (NDA no. N202192). The commercially available dosage forms are
      the same as used in the Phase 3 COMFORT-1 and COMFORT-II studies.
15
      Example 2
      Bioavailability Study of Sustained Release Formulation
                 A relative bioavailability study of the sustained release and immediate formulations
      of ruxolitinib phosphate was conducted in healthy adult volunteers. Subjects in the fasted
20     state were given a single oral dose of immediate-release formulation (25 mg, see Example
       1) or a single oral dose of sustained-release formulation (25 mg, see Example 1). Plasma
      concentrations of ruxolitinib were measured and are compared in Figure 1. Table 2a
      provides comparative pharmacokinetic (PK) data.
                                                        Table 2a*
Treatment      n        Cmax          Tinax       C2h      Cmax/C12h        t1/ 2     AUCo-i       AUCo-.      Cl/F
                       (nM)            (h)       (nM)                       (h)       (nM*h)       (nM*h)     (L/h)
 25 mg IR      9     1100±332      0.94±0.46   45.6±38.      40±24       2.8±0.72   4340±1990    4350±1990  22.8±10.3
                        1060          0.86          1           33          2.7         3930         3940      20.7
                                                  32.1
25 mg SR-1     8     333±76.1      2.4±0.98    121±46.8      3.0±1.0      5.3±1.8    3110±840     3180±864  27.2±6,72
             1    1     325            2.2        114          2.9          5.1         3020         3090      26.4
25 mg SR-2     8     394±126        2.9±1.6    104±43.2     4.7±3.1       6.1±2.1   3520±1260    3740±1400  24.6±9,02
                        377            2.5        96.5         3.9          5.8         3330         3520      23.2
                                P-Values from a Crossover ANOVA of Log-Transformed Data
                      <0.0001       0.0003         --           --        <0.0001      0.040        0.070     0.070
                             Geometric Mean Relative Bioavailability and 90% Cl (Reference = IR)
SR-I vs. IR            30.4%                                                           74.7%        76.2%
                    25.4-36.4%                                                      62.2-89.7%   63.1-92.0%
SR-2 vs. IR            35.2%                                                           82.5%        86.7%
                    29.5-42.2%                                                      68.7-99.1%   71.8-105%
                                                             22

   *PK values are provided as mean±SD and geometric mean
   Descriptionof BioavailabilityStudy
           This study was performed to evaluate pharmacokinetic performance of two
 5 ruxolitinib phosphate sustained release (SR) formulations compared to the ruxolitinib
   phosphate immediate release (IR) tablets. The study was conducted as a 3-period study in
   which each subject received the IR tablets, the SR-I tablets and the SR-2 tablets, all in
   fasted state. All treatments were administered as a single dose in one tablet. Nine healthy
   subjects enrolled in this study received IR tablets in Period 1, and 8 subjects continued on
10 the study were randomized into 2 sequences to receive SR-i and SR-2 tablets in Period 2
   and Period 3.
           The 9 subjects enrolled in the study received a single dose of IR tablets, SR-I
   tablets and SR-2 tablets, according to the randomization schedule (see Table 2b). Dosing
   was administered orally after at least 10 hour overnight fast, and a standardized meal was
15 served approximately 3 hours after administration. A washout period of 7 days (not less
   than 5 days) was instituted between the treatment periods.
           Blood samples for determination of plasma concentrations of ruxolitinib were
   collected at 0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 24 and 36 hours post-dose using
   lavender top (K2EDTA) Vacutainer@ tubes. No samples were collected for determination
20 of urine concentrations of ruxolitinib.
                           Table 2b. Randomization Schedule for Study
    Sequence            Period 1               Period 2              Period 3            Subject
                    25 mg IR tablet      25 mg SR-I tablet       25 mg SR-2 tablet      102*, 103,
         1
                         fasted                  fasted                fasted         106, 107, 109
                    25 mg IR tablet      25 mg SR-2 tablet       25 mg SR-I tablet    101, 104, 105,
         2
                         fasted                  fasted                fasted              108
   *Subject withdrew from the study before the start of Period 2
           Plasma and urine samples were shipped to Incyte Corporation for determination of
   ruxolitinib concentrations. The plasma samples were assayed by validated, GLP,
25 LC/MS/MS methods with a linear range of 1 to 1000 nM.
           All PK blood samples were collected within 5 minutes of their scheduled time, and
   therefore the schedule times relative to the time of dose administration were used for all
   pharmacokinetic analyses.
                                                      23

            Standard non-compartmental pharmacokinetic methods were used to analyze the
   ruxolitinib plasma concentration data using Phoenix WinNonlin version 6.0 (Pharsight
   Corporation, Mountain View, CA). Thus,       Cmax  and Tmax  were taken directly from the
   observed plasma concentration data. The absorption lag time (Tiag) was defined as the
 5 sampling time immediately preceding that corresponding to the first measurable (non-zero)
   concentration. The terminal-phase disposition rate constant (Xz) was estimated using a log
   linear regression of the concentration data in the terminal disposition phase, and t1/2 was
   estimated as ln(2)/Xz. AUCo-t was estimated using the linear trapezoidal rule for increasing
   concentrations and the log-trapezoidal rule for decreasing concentrations, and the total
10 AUCo-. was calculated as AUCo-t + Ct/z. The oral-dose clearance (Cl/F) was estimated as
   Dose/AUCo-., and the terminal-phase volume of distribution (Vz/F) was estimated as
   Dose/[AUCo-.*Xz].
            The log-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters were compared among the
   treatments using a 2-factor ANOVA with the fixed factor for treatment and random factor
15 for subject. The relative bioavailability of the fasted administration of the SR formulations
   (test treatments) compared to fasted administration of the IR tablets (reference treatment)
   were estimated using the geometric mean relative bioavailability and 90% confidence
   intervals for Cmnax, AUCo-t and AUCom, which were calculated from the adjusted means
   (least square means) from the ANOVA. All statistical analyses were performed using SAS
20 version 9.1 (SAS Institute, Inc., Cary, NC).
   Example 3
   Sustained-Release Clinical Trial
            A Phase 2 clinical trial was carried out in patients with myelofibrosis (MF). A total
25 of 41 subjects were enrolled, and spleen volume and total symptom scores were obtained
   at baseline. Tablets of sustained-release formulation SR-2 (see Example 1) were
   administered to fasted patients. All patients were treated with 25 mg once daily doses for
   8 weeks. After 8 weeks, depending upon the clinical response, the investigator was
   allowed to (a) maintain the same dose of SR-2, (b) increase the dose to 50 ing once daily,
30 (c) increase the dose to alternating doses of 25 mg and 50 mg, dosed once daily, or (d)
   switch to treatment with the immediate release formulation.
            Data related to spleen volume and total symptom scores are provided in Figures 2
   and 3 together with comparative data from the COMFORT-i Study where patients were
   dosed only with the immediate-release formulation. See Example A below for details of
                                                   24

   the COMFORT-i Study. As can be seen in Figures 2 and 3, treatment with the 25 mg
   sustained-release formulation was nearly as effective as the immediate-release formulation
   in the COMFORT-I study. Percentages of spleen volume responders in COMFORT-I as
   shown in Figure 2 were 39.4% and 43.9% at 12 weeks and 24 weeks, respectively. The
 5 percentage of spleen volume responders in the sustained-release study at week 16 was
   28.9%. Similarly, the percentages of total symptom score responders in COMFORT-I as
   shown in Figure 3 were 46.3% and 45.9% at 12 weeks and 24 weeks, respectively. The
   percentage of total symptom score responders in the sustained release study as shown in
   Figure 3 was 36.8%.
10         Data relating to mean platelet count and mean hemoglobin levels (Hgb) is
   presented below in Table 3 together with comparative data from the COMFORT-I study.
   As can be seen from the data, the mean change from baseline platelet count in the SR
   patients was about half of what was observed in COMFORT-I. Similar results are seen for
   hemoglobin levels. Data is shown as mean±SD.
15
                                               Table 3
   Parameter                   Sustained-Release       COMFORT-I Study          COMPFORT-I Study
                                      Study                    (active)               (placebo)
   N                                    41                       155                       154
   Mean Baseline                    274 193                   321 202                 280 152
   platelet count, x109/L
   Mean Baseline Hgb in              105   17                  108    20               106     22
   patient with no
   transfusions, g/L
                                    Week 16                   Week 12                  Week 12
   Mean total daily dose,               34                       30.4                       0
   mg
   Mean change from                 -65± 101                 -131 ±143                  -9    75
   baseline platelet
   count, x10 9 /L
   Mean change from                -7.4 ± 13.3              -13.2 ± 15.5              0.3     11.5
   baseline Hgb, g/L
   Example 4
   Comparison of Steady State Plasma Concentrations of Ruxolitinib between SR and
20 IR Formulations in MF Patients
            Steady state plasma concentrations of ruxolitinib in myelofibrosis (MF) patients
   receiving repeating 25 mg doses are compared in Figure 4 between sustained release (SR)
                                                 25

        and immediate release (IR) formulations. Comparative pharmacokinetic parameters are
        provided below in Table 4a.
                                                    Table 4a*
 Formula and         n        Cmax        Tinax       Cndn       t1/2      AUCo          AUC-t         Cl/F
    Regimen                   (nM)         (h)       (nM)        (h)       (nM*h)        (nM*h)       (L/h)
       SR           39      397±175    2.35±1.75   32±40.6   7.33±3.73   3650±2450     2060±1140    32.0±18.0
  25 mg QD'                    368        1.88         --       6.42         3020          1810        27.1
    IR 25 mg        27      1481±575   0.83±0.45    47±54    1.94±0.50   4363±2066     4148±1885   22.7 10.1
      BIDb                    1374        0.74         --       1.88         3949          3778        20.7
      (IA)                _
IR 25 ng QDb         6      1417±150   0.84±0.38      0±0    1.60±0.36    3567±777      3291±604     23.9±5.5
      (2A)                    1410        0.78         --       1.57         3494          3243        23.4
    IR 25 mg         7      1650±506   0.79±0.49   85±102    1.96±0.59   4939±2566     4444±1918     19.9±8.1
      BIDb                    1578        0.68         43       1.90         4463          4120        18.3
      (2C)
   SR 25   ng        8      394±126     2.9±1.6        --     6.1±2.1    3740±1400          --      24.6±9.02
  single dose'    1            377         2.5   1               5.8         3520    1                 23.2
        aFrom SR study described in Example 3
  5     bFrom IR study described below (Description of Open-Label Study in MF patients)
        'From single dose study described in Example 2 (AUCo- will be AUCo-.)
         *Values are mean±SD and geometric mean.
        Description of Open-Label Study in MF patients
10      General Description
                  This was an open-label study exploring the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of
        ruxolitinib, administered orally to patients with primary myelofibrosis (PMF) and post
        polycythemia vera/essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis (Post-PV/ET MF). The study
         was comprised of 3 parts: Part 1-dose escalation and expansion, bid dosing, Part 2
15      alternative dosing schedules (A, B and C), and Part 3-three independent patient groups
         (Group I, II and III). Eight dose regimens were evaluated in 3 parts. The Part 1 evaluated
        two dose levels of 25 mg bid and 50 mg bid, Part 2 studied five dose regimens of 10 mg
        bid, 25 mg bid, 25 mg qd, 50 mg qd and 100 mg qd and Part 3 assessed six dose regimens
        of 10 mg bid, 15 mg bid, 25 mg bid, 50 mg qd, 100 mg qd and 200 mg qd. A total of 154
20       subjects were enrolled; 32 subjects enrolled in Part 1, 29 subjects in Part 2 and 93 subjects
        in Part 3. See Table 4b (qd = once per day; bid = twice per day).
                  In Part 1, the pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected at pre-dose and 0.5, 1,
         1.5, 2, 4, 6 and 9 hours post-dose on Days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 and at pre-dose on Day 1 of
        Cycles 2 and 3, using lavender top (K3EDTA) Vacutainer@ tubes. In Part 2, the
25      pharmacokinetic samples were collected at pre-dose and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6 and 9 hours
        post-dose on Day 15 of Cycle 1 and at pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycles 2 and 3. In Part 3, the
                                                          26

   pharmacokinetic samples were collected at pre-dose and 2 hours after administration of the
   morning dose of ruxolitinib on Day 15 of Cycle 1 and Day I of Cycles 2 and 3.
            Plasma concentration data from Cycle 1 for subjects in Part I and 2 were used for
   non-compartmental analysis while all plasma concentration data were used for population
 5 PK analysis.
            Following fasting, oral, first-dose or multiple-dose administration of ruxolitinib
   phosphate tablets, the drug was absorbed rapidly, typically attaining peak plasma
   concentrations within 0.3 to 2 hours after administration in all subjects. Plasma
   concentrations subsequently declined in a monophasic or biphasic fashion.
10          The mean Cmax and AUC increased approximately linearly proportional to dose
   from 10 mg to 100 mg. The pharmacokinetics of ruxolitinib in MF patients was similar to
   that in healthy volunteers.
   Detailed Description of Clinical Trial
15          This multicenter, open-label, non-randomized, dose escalation clinical study was
   conducted by M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX and Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
   MN, according to Protocol INCB 18424-251, and 154 patients with PMF or Post-PV/ET
   MF were enrolled and received at least a single dose according to the study plan in Table
   4b. The study was comprised of 3 parts: Part 1-dose escalation and expansion cohort, bid
20 dosing, Part 2- alternative dosing schedules (A, B and C), and Part 3-three independent
   patient groups (Group I, II and III). Schedules A, B and C in Part 2 were once daily (qd)
   dosing regimens, low dose regimen of 10 mg bid and induction/maintenance regimen,
   respectively. Part 3 was studied in three separate groups of patients to further evaluate the
   safety and efficacy of selected starting dose levels and to explore dose modification on an
25 individual patient basis as appropriate. Dose hold and withdrawal for safety were defined
   in terms of platelet count and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) while provision for dose
   increase was provided based on inadequate efficacy defined by change in spleen size.
            Ruxolitinib phosphate tablets (5 and 25 mg) were administered as oral doses with
   water in an outpatient setting. Doses ranged from 10 mg bid to 50 mg bid, and from 25 mg
30 qd to
   200 mg qd. The individual patient participation was expected to be approximately 12-24
   months; patients might continue on therapy indefinitely if they did not meet any of the
   withdrawal criteria, did not have disease progression and are receiving some clinical
   benefit.
                                                   27

           In Part 1, the pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected at pre-dose and 0.5, 1,
   1.5 of the morning dose on Day 15 of Cycle I and Day 1 of Cycles 2 and 3.
                                              Table 4b
             Part               Schedule                    Dose Regimen
             1                  A                           25 mg bid
             1                  B                           50 mg bid
             2                  A                           25mgqd
             2                  A                           50 mg qd
             2                  A                           100 mg qd
             2                  B                           10 mg bid
             2                  C                           25 mg bid
             3                  I                           50 1ng  qd
             3                  I                           10 mg qd
             3                  I                           25 mg bid
             3                  II                          100 mg qd
             3                  II                          200 mg qd
             3                  III                         10 mg bid
             3                  III                         15 mg bid
 5
           Plasma samples were shipped to Incyte Corporation and assayed by a validated,
   GLP, LC/MS/MS method with a linear range of I to 1000 nM and a limit of quantification
   of 1 nM.
           Generally, the actual time post-dose was used for pharmacokinetic analyses.
10 However, the dose information on Cycle 1 Day 15 for patients in Part 2 and three
   additional patients in Part 1 were not collected. The nominal time were used for
   pharmacokinetic analyses for these patients. The dose information on Cycle I Day 15 for
   four additional patients was questionable. Hence, the nominal time were used for these
   patients also. Plasma concentrations at 12 hours post dose for bid or 24 hours post dose for
15 qd on Cycle 1, Day 15 were imputed by sample at pre-dose on Cycle I Day 15 to calculate
   steady state AUCoT.
   Standard noncompartmental pharmacokinetic methods were used to analyze the ruxolitinib
   plasma concentration data using WinNonlin version 6.0 (Pharsight Corporation, Mountain
                                                  28

   View, CA). Thus, Cmax and     Tinax were taken directly from the observed plasma
   concentration data. For single dose, the terminal-phase disposition rate constant (Xz) was
   estimated using a log-linear regression of the concentration data in the terminal disposition
   phase, and  tU2 was estimated as ln(2)/Xz. AUCot was estimated using the linear-trapezoidal
 5 rule for increasing concentrations and the log-trapezoidal rule for decreasing
   concentrations, and the total AUCo-. was calculated as AUCo-t + Ct/X,. The oral-dose
   clearance (Cl/F) was estimated as Dose/ AUCom, and the terminal-phase volume of
   distribution (VzF) was estimated as Dose/[ AUCo-. *Xz].
   For the multiple-dose data, Xz was estimated using a log-linear regression of the
10 concentration data in the terminal disposition phase, and   tv/2 was estimated as ln(2)/ Xz. The
   AUC over one dosing interval (AUCo-12h for ql2h administration, or AUCO-24h for q24h
   administration) was estimated using the linear trapezoidal rule for increasing
   concentrations and the log-trapezoidal rule for decreasing concentrations. The Cl/F was
   estimated as Dose/AUC, and Vz/F was estimated as Dose/[AUC* Xj. Additionally, the
15 Cmin and AUCo-t (Area under the steady-state plasma concentration-time curve from time
   zero to the time of the last sample obtained) were calculated for the multiple-dose data.
           The PK parameters of ruxolitinib were summarized for each dose group using
   descriptive statistics, and the log-transformed ruxolitinib PK parameters were compared
   among the dose groups using a 1-factor analysis of variance. The dose-proportionality of
20 Cm,- and AUC was evaluated using a power function regression model (eg, Cma=
   a- Dose ).
           The pharmacokinetics of ruxolitinib in MF patients was similar to that in healthy
   volunteers.
25 Example 5
   Comparative Efficacy of Sustained Release and Immediate Release Formulations
           Enlarged spleen is a common and prominent symptom of myelofibrosis. Reduction
   in spleen volume serves as a measure for assessing the effectiveness of a given treatment.
   Table 5a reports the mean reduction in spleen volume in MF patients enrolled in the
30 sustained-release study (See Example 3) at 16 weeks of treatment, while Table 5b reports
   the mean reduction in spleen volume in MF patients enrolled in the COMFORT-I study
   (immediate release, see Comparative Example A) at 24 weeks of treatment. As can be
   seen from the data, both the sustained-release and immediate release treatment regimens
   were effective in reducing spleen volume.
                                                  29

                                                 Table 5a
                      Spleen Volume      (cm 3 ) from Sustained-Release Study
 5                                  Percent Change
                                    from Baseline to
                                    Week 16 (%)
                                       n                  40
10                                     Mean                -22.3
                                       STD                 20.79
                                       Median               -21.7
                                      (MIN,MAX)             (-64.6,43.6)
15
                                                 Table 5b
                 Spleen Volume (cm 3 ) from COMFORT I (Immediate-Release)
20                                                 Treatment Group
   Percent Change
   from Baseline                  To Week 12 (%)                    To Week 24 (%)
                             Ruxolitinib          Placebo         Ruxolitinib     Placebo
25                           (N=155)              (N=154)         (N=155)        (N=154)
          n                     148                  132             139           106
          Mean                -32.0                 8.4              -31.6          8.1
          STD                   15.58               14.61             18.92         15.31
30        Min                  -74.4               -26.2              -75.9        -46.4
          Median              -31.7                 6.1               -33.0          8.5
          Max                    3.8                64.6               25.1        48.8
35         Effectiveness of a treatment regimen in an MF patient can also be assessed by
   Total Symptom Score. In calculating Total Symptom Score, symptoms of MF were
   assessed using a symptom diary (modified MFSAF v2.0 diary) where subjects recorded
   answers to queries regarding MF symptoms on a handheld device. Symptoms assessed
   included filling up quickly/early satiety, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, inactivity,
40 night sweats, itching, and bone/muscle pain.
           Table 5c reports the Total Symptom Score results in the sustained-release study
   (see Example 3) while Table 5d reports the Total Symptom Score results in the
   COMFORT-I study (immediate-release, see Comparative Example A) at 24 weeks. As
                                                    30

   can be seen from the data, both the SR and IR regimens were effective at treating MF in
   patients.
                                              Table 5c
 5                    Total Symptom Scores from Sustained-Release Study
                             Percent Change from Baseline to
                             Week 16
10                             n                            38
                               Mean                      -50.4
                               STD                         31.16
                               Median                    -48.6
                               (MIN,MAX)              (-100.0,12.7)
15
                                              Table 5d
             Total Symptom Score from COMFORT I Study (Immediate-Release)
20 __
                                                 Treatment Group
                                     Ruxolitinib        Placebo      Ruxolitinib      Placebo
25 Percent Change from Baseline             To Week 16                     To Week 24
                                       (N=155)         (N=154)      (N=155)          (N=154)
           n                              140           124            129            103
          Mean                           -40.5           37.8         -46.1           41.8
30         STD                             54.31          93.92         48.55          99.26
          Min                           -100.0           -82.5       -100.0         -100.0
          Median                         -51.1           12.7          -56.2          14.6
          Max                            292.5          464.8          108.3          511.6
35
   Example 6
   Comparison of Adverse Events in Patients Enrolled in the Sustained-Release Study
   and COMFORT-I (Immediate-Release) Study
           Data for adverse events relating to anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and all
40 Grade 3 or higher adverse events are compared for the sustained-release and COMFORT-I
   (immediate-release) studies (see Example 3 and Comparative Example A for descriptions
   of the studies) in Table 6a. Adverse events are graded according to CTCAE criteria which
   can be found online at
   ctep.cancer.gov/protocolDevelopment/electronic-applications/ctc.htm or
                                                  31

   evs.nci.nih.gov/ftpl/CTCAE/CTCAE_4.03_2010-06-14_QuickReference_5x7.pdf.                 A
   Grade 3 adverse event generally corresponds to a reaction that is severe or medically
   significant, but not immediately life-threatening where hospitalization or prolongation of
   hospitalization is indicated and where the reaction is disabling to the extent of limiting self
 5 care. Higher Grades are 4 (life-threatening requiring urgent intervention) and 5 (death).
   For anemia, Grade 3 corresponds to Hgb<8.0 g/dL; <4.9 mmol/L; <80 g/L, where a
   transfusion is indicated. For thrombocytopenia (decreased platelet count), Grade 3
   corresponds to <50,000-25,000/mm 3; <50.0-25.0x109 /L. The sustained-release data was
   evaluated for patients over the course of 16 weeks. Mean duration of exposure to
10 ruxolitinib in the COMFORT-I was approximately 242 days. Typically, the majority of
   hematologic adverse events occur within the first few months of therapy as observed in the
   COMFORT-I study.
           As can be seen from the data in Table 6a, adverse events relating to anemia,
   thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and all events that were considered Grade 3 or higher
15 occurred less frequently in the sustained-release study compared with the COMFORT-I
   immediate-release study.
                                              Table 6a
             Percent of Patients with Selected Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events
   Adverse Event                  SR Study            COMFORT I                COMFORT I
                                                       Ruxolitinib                Placebo
   All >Grade 3 Adverse             17.1%                 47.1%                    44.4%
   Events
   Anemia                            0%                   15.5%                     4.6%
   Thrombocytopenia                 2.4%                   8.4%                     2.0%
   Neutropenia                       0%                    1.3%                     0.7%
20
           The occurrence of blood-related adverse events are further compared in Tables 6b
   and 6c which report the number and percentage of patients in the studies exhibiting certain
   reactions including anemia and thrombocytopenia. The sustained-release data was
   evaluated for patients over the course of 16 weeks. Mean duration of exposure to
25 ruxolitinib in the COMFORT-I study was approximately 242 days. The vast majority of
   hematologic adverse events occur within the first few months of therapy as observed in the
   COMFORT-I study. As can be seen from the data in the tables, the number and
   percentage of patients exhibiting blood-related adverse events is lower in the sustained
                                                 32

   release study. Additionally, the severity of the adverse events is lesser in the sustained
   release study.
                                              Table 6b
 5  Treatment-Related Haematologic Adverse Events By Organ Class, Preferred Term,
          and Maximum Severity in the Sustained-Release Study (First 16 Weeks)*
                                                                  Ruxolitinib
                                                                  (N=41)
10 MedDRA System Organ Class/
   MedDRA Preferred Term                                          Mi   Mo  Se   LT Any
   Number (%) of Subjects With Any Adverse Events                  16   9  7    0 32 (78.0)
       Blood and lymphatic system disorders                         3   4  1    0    8 (19.5)
       Anaemia                                                      0   2  0    0    2(4.9)
15     Thrombocytopenia                                             3   2  1    0    6(14.6)
   *Mi (mild), Mo (moderate), Se (severe), LT (life threatening)
20                                            Table 6c
      Treatment-Related Adverse Events By MedDRA System Organ Class, Preferred
                       Term, and Maximum Severity in COMFORT I*
                                      Ruxolitinib                      Placebo
25                                    (N=155)                           (N=151)
   MedDRA System
   Organ Class/
   MedDRA Preferred Term             Mi Mo Se LT FT         Any       Mi Mo Se LT FT          Any
30
   Number (%) of Subjects
   With Any Adverse Events        20   58 55 9       9 151 (97.4)  23   58  53 4    10 148 (98.0)
   Blood and lymphatic
35 system disorders                20 28 27 10 0 85 (54.8)          18 21    15   2 0    56 (37.1)
     Anaemia                        4 20 16 8 0 48 (31.0)            4 10    7    0 0    21(13.9)
     Thrombocytopenia               21 19 11 2 0 53 (34.2)           6 5      2   1 0    14 ( 9.3)
   *Mi (mild), Mo (moderate), Se (severe), LT (life threatening), FT (fatal)
40 Comparative Example A
   COMFORT I Clinical Trial - Immediate Release Formulation
           A Phase 3 clinical trial was completed showing efficacy of ruxolitinib in
   myelofibrosis patients. In this double-blind trial, patients with intermediate-2 or high risk
   myelofibrosis were randomly assigned to twice-daily oral, immediate-release (see
45 Example 1) ruxolitinib (155 patients) or placebo (154 patients). The starting dose of
                                                  33

   ruxolitinib depended on the baseline platelet count: 15 mg twice daily for a platelet count
   of 100x109 to 200x109 per liter and 20 mg twice daily for a count that exceeded 200x109
   per liter. The dose was adjusted for lack of efficacy or excess toxicity. The primary end
   point was the proportion of patients with a reduction in spleen volume of 35% or more at
 5 24 weeks, assessed by means of magnetic resonance imaging. Secondary end points
   included the durability of response, changes in symptom burden (assessed by the total
   symptom score), and overall survival.
            The proportion of patients with a reduction of 35% or more in spleen volume at
   week 24 (primary end point) was 41.9% in the ruxolitinib group as compared with 0.7% in
10 the placebo group. The proportion of patients with a reduction of 50% or more in the total
   symptom score from baseline to week 24, a pre-specified secondary end point, was
   significantly higher in the ruxolitinib group than in the placebo group (45.9% vs. 5.3%;
   odds ratio, 15.3; 95% CI, 6.9 to 33.7; P<0.001).
            The study showed that ruxolitinib was associated with reductions in splenomegaly
15 and symptoms that are prominent manifestations of myelofibrosis and appeared to be
   associated with an improvement in overall survival. Additionally, the most common toxic
   effects of anemia and thrombocytopenia were generally managed with dose modification.
   Details regarding this study are provided in Verstovsek, S., et al. "A double-blind,
   placebo-controlled trial of ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis," N. Eng. J. Med., 2012, Mar
20 1:366(9):799-807, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   Comparative Example B
   COMFORT II Clinical Trial - Immediate Release Formulation
            A Phase 3 clinical trial was completed showing the superiority of ruxolitinib
25 treatment in myelofibrosis patients compared with best available therapy. Continuous
   ruxolitinib therapy, as compared with the best available therapy, was associated with
   marked and durable reductions in splenomegaly and disease-related symptoms,
   improvements in role functioning and quality of life, and modest toxic effects.
            Myelofibrosis patients were randomly assigned, in a 2:1 ratio, to receive ruxolitinib
30 or the best available therapy, which included any commercially available agents (as
   monotherapy or in combination) or no therapy at all and which could be changed during
   the treatment phase. The starting dose of ruxolitinib tablets was 15 mg twice daily of an
   immediate release formulation (See Example 1) if the baseline platelet count was 200x109
                                                  34

   per liter or less and 20 mg orally twice daily if the baseline platelet count was greater than
   200x109 per liter.
            The primary end point was a reduction of 35% or more in spleen volume from
   baseline at week 48. At week 48, most of the patients in the ruxolitinib group had a
 5 reduction in spleen volume. Only patients in the ruxolitinib group met the criterion for the
   primary end point, at least a 35% reduction in spleen volume from baseline at 48 weeks
   (28%, vs. 0% in the group receiving the best available therapy; P<0.001). Patients in the
   ruxolitinib group, as compared with patients receiving the best available therapy, had
   improved quality of life and role functioning. At week 48, patients receiving ruxolitinib
10 had marked reductions in myelofibrosis associated symptoms, including appetite loss,
   dyspnea, fatigue, insomnia, and pain, whereas patients receiving the best available therapy
   had worsening symptoms.
            Thrombocytopenia and anemia occurred more frequently in the patients receiving
   ruxolitinib than in those receiving the best available therapy, but these events were
15 generally manageable with dose modifications, transfusions of packed red cells, or both.
   Additional details of the study are provided in Harrison, C. et al., "JAK inhibition with
   ruxolitinib versus best available therapy for myelofibrosis," N. Eng. J. Med., 2012, Mar
   1;366(9):787-98 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            Various modifications of the invention, in addition to those described herein, will
20 be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications
   are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Each reference, including
   all patent, patent applications, and publications, cited in the present application is
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
25 in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated
   features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
                                                   35

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   I.      A sustained-release dosage form comprising at least one active ingredient which is
           ruxolitinib, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein said ruxolitinib,
           or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is present in said dosage form in an
 5         amount of about 10 to about 60 mg on a free base basis.
   2.      The sustained-release dosage form of claim I wherein said ruxolitinib, or
           pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is present in said dosage form in an
           amount of about 25 mg on a free base basis.
10
   3.      The sustained-release dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein said active ingredient is
           ruxolitinib phosphate.
   4.      The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
15         administration of said dosage form to a human results in a mean peak plasma
           concentration (Cmax) of ruxolitinib of about 700 nM or less.
   5.      The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
           administration of said dosage form to a human results in a mean peak plasma
20         concentration (Cmax) of ruxolitinib of about 200 to about 700 nM.
   6.      The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims I to 3, wherein
           administration of said dosage form to a human results in a mean peak plasma
           concentration (Cm.ax) of ruxolitinib of about 300 to about 400 nM.
25
   7.      The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein
           administration of said dosage form to a human state results in a mean time to peak
           plasma concentration (Tmnax) of ruxolitinib of about 1.5 hours or more.
30 8.      The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims I to 6, wherein
           administration of said dosage form to a human results in a mean time to peak
           plasma concentration (Tiax) of ruxolitinib of about 1.5 hours to about 5 hours.
                                                  36

   9.  The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims I to 8, wherein
       administration of said dosage form to a human results in a ratio of mean peak
       plasma concentration (Cmiax) to mean 12-hour plasma concentration    (C]2h) of
       ruxolitinib of about 10 or less.
 5
   10. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
       administration of said dosage form to a human results in a ratio of mean peak
       plasma concentration (Cmax) to mean 12-hour plasma concentration     (C12h) of
       ruxolitinib of about 4 or less.
10
   11. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims I to 10, wherein
       administration of said dosage form to a human results in a mean half-life (t/2) of
       from about 3.5 hours to about 11 hours.
15 12. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein
       administration of said dosage form to a human results in a mean half-life (ti/2) of
       from about 4 hours to about 8 hours.
   13. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein
20     administration of a single dose of said dosage form to a human results in mean
       bioavailability (AUCo-.) of ruxolitinib of about 3000 to about 4000 nM*h.
   14. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein
       administration of a single dose of said dosage form to a human results in mean
25     bioavailability (AUCo-.) of ruxolitinib of about 3100 to about 3800 nM*h.
   15. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 12 comprising one or
       more cellulosic ethers.
30 16. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 15 comprising hydroxypropyl
       methylcellulose.
   17. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 15 comprising from about 10% to
       about 30% by weight of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose.
                                             37

   18. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 17 which is in the
       form of a tablet or capsule.
 5 19. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims I to 18, comprising 25 mg
       of ruxolitinib on a free base basis, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
       wherein administration to a patient results in a mean ruxolitinib plasma level of
       about 75 to about 500 nM for at least about 8 hours.
10 20. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 19 comprising 12-13% ruxolitinib
       phosphate by weight on a free base basis and 19-23% by weight of one or more
       hypromelloses.
   21. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 19 comprising 12.2% ruxolitinib
15     phosphate by weight on a free base basis and 20% by weight or 22% by weight of
       one or more hypromelloses.
   22. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein
       administration to a patient results in a ruxolitinib plasma level of about 75 to about
20     500 nM for at least about 8 hours.
   23. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein
       administration to a patient results in a ruxolitinib plasma level of about 75 to about
       500 nM for at least about 12 hours.
25
   24. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 23 comprising 25 mg
       ruxolitinib phosphate on a free base basis, wherein administration of said dosage
       form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean base
       platelet count of no more than about 100 x 109/L.
30
   25. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 24 wherein administration of said
       dosage form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
       base platelet count of no more than about 80 x 109/L.
                                               38

   26. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 24 wherein administration of said
       dosage form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
       base platelet count of no more than about 60 x 109/L.
 5 27. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 24 wherein administration of said
       dosage form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
       base platelet count of no more than about 40 x 109/L.
   28. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 27, comprising 25 mg
10     ruxolitinib phosphate on a free base basis, wherein administration of said dosage
       form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
       hemoglobin of no more than about 15 g/L.
   29. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 28 wherein administration of said
15     dosage form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
       hemoglobin of no more than about 10 g/L.
   30. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 28 wherein administration of said
       dosage form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
20     hemoglobin of no more than about 8 g/L.
   31. The sustained-release dosage form of claim 28 wherein administration of said
       dosage form to a patient for at least 16 weeks results in a mean decrease in mean
       hemoglobin of no more than about 6 g/L.
25
   32. The sustained-release dosage form of any one of claims I to 31, comprising (1)
       ruxolitinib phosphate, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, (2)
       microcrystalline cellulose, (3) hypromellose, (4) lactose monohydrate, (5) colloidal
       silicon dioxide, (6) magnesium stearate, and (7) stearic acid.
30
   33. A method of treating a disease associated with JAK activity in a patient in need
       thereof, comprising administering the dosage form of any one of claims 1 to 32 to
       said patient, wherein said disease is selected from an autoimmune disease, a skin
       disorder, allograft rejection, graft versus host disease, multiple sclerosis,
                                               39

       rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile arthritis, type I diabetes, lupus, inflammatory bowel
       disease, Crohn's disease, myasthenia gravis, immunoglobulin nephropathies.,
       myocarditis, autoimmune thyroid disorder, a viral disease, Epstein Barr Virus
       (EBV), Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, HTLV 1, Varicella-Zoster Virus (VZV),
 5     Human Papilloma Virus (HPV), cancer, a myeloproliferative disorder, an
       inflammatory disease, an inflammatory disease of the eye, iritis, uveitis, scleritis,
       conjunctivitis, an inflammatory disease of the respiratory tract, an inflammatory
       disease of the upper respiratory tract, an inflammatory disease of the lower
       respiratory tract, an inflammatory myopathy, myocarditis., ischemia reperfusion or
10     a disorder related to an ischemic event, anorexia or cachexia resulting from or
       associated with cancer, fatigue resulting from or associated with cancer, a bone
       resorption disease, or mast cell activation syndrome.
   34. The method of claim 33, wherein said autoimmune disease is bullous skin disorder.
15
   35. The method of claim 34, wherein said bullous skin disorder is pemphigus vulgaris
       (PV) or bullous pemphigoid (BP).
   36. The method of claim 33, wherein said skin disorder is atopic dermatitis, psoriasis,
20     skin sensitization, skin irritation, skin rash, contact dermatitis or allergic contact
       sensitization.
   37. The method of claim 36, wherein said skin disorder is psoriasis.
25 38. The method of claim 33, wherein said myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) is
       polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), primary myelofibrosis
       (PMF), post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis (post PV-MF), post-essential
       thrombocythemia myelofibrosis (post ET-MF), chronic myelogenous leukemia
       (CML), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), hypereosinophilic syndrome
30     (HES), or systemic mast cell disease (SMCD).
   39. The method of claim 38, wherein said disease is primary myelofibrosis (PMF),
       post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis (post PV-MF), post-essential
                                                40

       thrombocythemia myelofibrosis (post ET-MF), polycythemia vera (PV), or
       essential thrombocythemia (ET).
   40. The method of claim 38, wherein said disease is primary myelofibrosis (PMF),
 5     post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis (post PV-MF), or post-essential
       thrombocythemia myelofibrosis (post ET-MF).
   41. The method of claim 33, wherein said cancer is a solid tumor, myeloma, prostate
       cancer, renal cancer, hepatic cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, thyroid cancer,
10     Kaposi's sarcoma, Castleman's disease, pancreatic cancer, hematological cancer,
       lymphoma, leukemia, multiple myeloma, skin cancer, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
       or cutaneous B-cell lymphoma.
   42. The method of claim 33, wherein said bone resorption disease is osteoporosis,
15     osteoarthritis, bone resorption associated with hormonal imbalance, bone resorption
       associated with hormonal therapy, bone resorption associated with autoimmune
       disease, or bone resorption associated with cancer.
   43. The method of claim 33, wherein said oral dosage form is administered once daily.
20
                                             41

                                     <U+2736><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>                     <U+274B>¦<U+25CF><U+276F>|<U+274A>
                                                          <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2660><U+2763> <U+2704><U+260E>
                                                          <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2660><U+2763> <U+2759><U+260E><U+2732><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720> <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+25BC>                                           <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2660><U+2763> <U+2759><U+260E><U+2732><U+2737>
              <U+2665><U+271F>
              <U+2665>
              <U+2666><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+275B>rt
              t
              <U+2665><U+271D>
              <U+275D>
              <U+2665>    <U+2701><U+2735>
              <U+2666>
              <U+2748>
                    <U+2701>
                        <U+2735>   <U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2737>     <U+2701><U+273D>       <U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2738><U+2735>     <U+2738><U+273B>
                                     <U+275A><U+2710><U+2706><U+2761> <U+272D><U+2764><U+272E>

                        <U+2737><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>
                      <U+274B>¦<U+25CF><U+276F>|<U+274A>
              <U+2759><U+2663><U+2767><U+2761><U+2761><U+2665> <U+2771><U+2666><U+2767><U+2709><U+2660><U+2761> |<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665><U+275E><U+2761>rs
<removed-apn>

                       <U+2738><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>
                     <U+274B>¦<U+25CF><U+276F>|<U+274A>
               <U+2666> <U+2767> <U+2759><U+2461><U+2660><U+2663>t<U+2666><U+2660> <U+2759><U+275D><U+2666>r<U+2761><U+273F>
              <U+275A> t<U+275B>
               |<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665><U+275E><U+2761>r <U+2746><U+2665><U+275B><U+2767><U+2461>s<U+2710>s
<removed-apn>

                                          <U+2739><U+2734><U+2739>
<removed-date>                          <U+274B>¦<U+25CF><U+276F>|<U+274A>     <U+2739>
                   <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>                                <U+2759>| <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2660><U+2763> <U+25D7><U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                        ¦| <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2660><U+2763> <U+25D7><U+2749>
              <U+272E><U+25BC> <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>                                   ¦| <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2660><U+2763> <U+2747>¦<U+2749>
              <U+272D><U+275D><U+2665>
              <U+2665><U+2666>
              <U+2748> <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>
                      <U+2736><U+2735>
                           <U+2735>   <U+2738>           <U+273B>        <U+273E>
                                   <U+275A><U+2710> <U+2761>

