  ABSTRACT
  Provided are compositions and methods relating to human CD30L antigen binding proteins.
  Compositions described herein include: human CD30L antigen binding proteins, polynucleotides
  encoding human CD30L antigen binding proteins, vectors comprising these polynucleotides, host
5 cells, and pharmaceutical compositions. Methods of making and using each of these compositions
  are also provided.

                         HUMAN CD30 LIGAND ANTIGEN BINDING PROTEINS
   BACKGROUND
             The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2013251541, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5           CD30 ligand (CD30L, CD153), the naturally occurring ligand for CD30, is a type II
   membrane glycoprotein that specifically binds CD30, triggering CD30 to transmit a signal via its
   cytoplasmic domain.        CD30 and CD30L are interacting cell surface glycoproteins that are
   members of the TNFR and TNF superfamilies, respectively (Durkop et al, Cell, 68:421, 1992;
   Smith et al, Cell, 73:1349, 1993; U.S. Patent Nos.: 5,480,981; 5,677,430; 6,143,869 and
10 6,652,854). The expression of CD30 and CD30L is restricted to cells of the immune system and
   is tightly regulated. CD30 is expressed primarily on activated B cells and subsets of T cells with
   an activated/memory phenotype (Ellis et al., J. Immun., 151:2380, 1993; Falini et al., Blood, 85:1,
   1995). CD30L is expressed at high levels on activated mouse and human T cells (Shimozato et
   al, Biochem. & Biophys. Res. Comm., 256:519, 1999; Armitage, J. Biological Regulators &
15 Homeostatic Agents, 14:142, 2000). Dramatic changes in the relative gene expression of CD30L
   occur as B cells transit through germinal centers (Klein et al, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., USA, 100:2639,
   2003). Thus the expression of CD30L on B cells may be stage and context specific. CD30L also
   appears to be a marker of a unique population of mouse dendritic cell-like accessory cells that are
   present in the splenic follicles where T cells interact with B cells (Kim et al., Immunity, 18:643,
20 2003).
             Interactions between cells expressing CD30/CD30L appear to be important for the
   generation of strong T-cell dependent secondary or class-switched antibody responses. Evidence
   for such a role includes data from in vitro (Shanebeck et al., Eur. J. Immunol., 25:2147-53, 1995)
   and in vivo (Gaspal et al,. J. Immunol., 174:3891-6, 2005) studies in mouse systems. In addition,
25 it has been shown that in vivo treatment of mice with a blocking, but non-depleting, rat mAb to
   mouse CD30L inhibits the development or progression of disease in a number of models of T
   and/or B cell-dependent autoimmune diseases (US Patent No. 6,667,039). In models with a
   strong humoral immune component, inhibition of disease correlates with inhibition of the disease
   associated antibody response.
30           Therefore it would be useful to have compositions comprising human antibodies and/or
   antigen binding regions that bind to CD30L for use in therapeutic and diagnostic applications.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             Antigen binding proteins that bind CD30L, particularly human CD30L are provided. The
35 human CD30L antigen binding proteins can reduce, inhibit, interfere with, and/or modulate at least
   one of the biological responses related to a CD30L/CD30 interaction, and as such, are useful for
                                                      1

   ameliorating the effects of CD30L-related diseases or disorders. CD30L antigen binding proteins
   can be used, for example, to reduce, inhibit, interfere with and/or modulate CD30L/CD30
   interactions.
 5          In one embodiment an isolated antigen binding proteins that binds a C-terminal region of
   CD30L including AA 201-234. In a further embodiment is provided an antigen binding protein that
   binds a C-terminal region of CD30L including AA 201-234 and a further region of CD30L located
   in the N-terminal part of the extracellular region, which is defined by AA 75-95. In further
   embodiments of the invention the antigen binding protein has at least one property selected from
10 the group consisting of:
                                                  1a

   a) inhibiting CD30/CD30L interaction; b) inhibiting CD30L-induced IL-8 induction; c) cross-competing
   with one of antibodies A-F for binding to human CD30L; d) a dissociation constant to human CD30L is
   at most 70 pM and e) binding to human CD30L with substantially the same or higher affinity (lower
   KD)  as one of antibodies A-F. The affinity (or KD) may be determined as known by the person skilled in
 5 the art, such as by SPR or by FACS as described in Example 4 herein.
              In a further embodiment the antigen binding protein binds CD30L, and competes with a Fab
   of one or more of antibodies A, B, C, D, E and F for binding to CD30L. Alternatively said antigen
   binding protein is characterized as an antigen binding proteins which binding to hCD30L is inhibited by
   binding of a Fab of one or more of antibodies A, B. C, D, E and F. In a further specified embdiment the
10 Fab is a Fab of antibody A including each of Al, A2, A3, A4, A5 and A6.
             In one embodiment is provided an isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L,
   comprising at least one heavy chain variable region comprising a CDRH1, a CDRH2 and a CDRH3
   selected from the group consisting of: a) a CDRH1 that differs by no more than four, three, two or one
   amino acid substitutions, insertions or deletions from a CDRH1 as shown in TABLE 3; b) a CDRH2
15 that differs by no more than seven, six, five, four, three, two or one amino acid substitutions. insertions
   and/or deletions from a CDRH2 as shown in TABLE 3; c) a CDRH3 that differs by no more than
   eleven, ten, nine, eight, seven, six,  five. four, three, two or one amino acid substitutions, insertions
   and/or deletions from a CDRH3 as shown in TABLE 3; and comprising at least one light chain variable
   region comprising a CDRL1, a CDRL2 and a CDRL3 selected from the group consisting of: d) a
20 CDRL1 that differs by no more than four. three. two or one amino acid substitutions, insertions and/or
   deletions from a CDRL1 as shown in TABLE 3; e) a CDRL2 that differs by no more than two or one
   amino acid substitution, insertion or deletion from a CDRL2 as shown in TABLE 3; f) a CDRL3 that
   differs by no more than two or one amino acid substitution, insertion or deletion from a CDRL3 as
   shown in TABLE 3. In a related embodiment is provided a CDRH1 selected from the group consisting
25 of SEQ ID NOs:14, 15. 16, 17, 18, and 33; a CDRH2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
   NOs: 19. 20, 21. 22, 23, 24 and 34; a CDRH3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 25,
   26, 27, 28. 29, and 35; a CDRL1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4., 5, 6,
   and 30; a CDRL2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7, 8 ,9, 10, and 31; and a
   CDRL3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 11. 12, 13, and 32.
30           Another embodiment provides an isolated antigen binding protein that binds human CD30L
   comprising at least one light chain variable region comprising a CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3, wherein the
   CDR1 comprising amino acid residues 23-36, the CDR2 comprising 52-58 and the CDR3 comprising
   91 -100 of SEQ ID NOs:36, 28, 40, 42, or 44; or b) a light chain variable region comprising a CDR1,
   CDR2 and CDR3, wherein the CDR1 comprising amino acid residues 25-36, the CDR2 comprising
35 amino acid resiues 52-58 and the CDR3 comprising amino acid residues 91-100 of SEQ ID NO:46;
   and at least one heavy chain variable region comprising a CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3, wherein the
   CDR1 comprising amino acid residues 31-35, the CDR2 comprising amino acid residues 50-65 and
   the CDR3 comprising amino acid residues 98-113 of SEQ ID NOs:48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64,
   66, 68, 70 or 72.      In a related embodiment is provided an antigen binding protein that comprises at
40 least one heavy chain variable region and at least one light chain variable region,             In another
                                                          2

   embodiment is provided an antigen binding protein that comprises at least two heavy chain variable
   regions and at least two light chain variable regions.
            In another embodiment is provided an isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L
   comprising a heavy chain variable region and a light chain variable region, wherein the heavy chain
 5 variable region sequence differs by no more than 31, 30, 29, 28, 27, 26, 25. 24, 23, 22, 21, 20, 19, 18,
   17, 16, 15. 14, 13, 12, 11, 10. 9 .8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1 amino acid substitutions, additions and/or
   deletions from a heavy chain variable region sequence as shown in TABLE 2; and wherein the light
   chain variable region sequence differs by no more than 30, 29, 28, 27, 26, 25, 24, 23, 22, 21, 20, 19,
   18, 17, 16. 15, 14, 13, 12, 11. 10, 9 ,8, 7, 6, 5, 4. 3. 2, or 1 amino acid substitutions, additions and/or
10 deletions from a light chain variable region sequence as shown in TABLE 1.
            Another embodiment provides an isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L
   comprising a heavy chain variable region comprising of an amino acid sequence having at least 80%
   sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:46, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64, 66, 68, 70, and 72; and a light
   chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 88% sequence identity to
15 SEQ ID NO: 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, and 46.
            In one embodiment is provided an isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L selected
   from the group consisting of a) a heavy chain variable region selected from the group consisting of of
   SEQ ID NOs:48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60 and 62 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO: 36; b) a
   heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:64 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:38: c) a
20 heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:66 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:40; d) a
   heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:68 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:42; e) a
   heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:70 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:44; and
   f) a heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:72 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:46.
   In a related embodiment, the isolated antigen binding protein is an antibody. In yet another related
25 embodiment the antibody is a monoclonal antibody, a recombinant antibody, a human antibody, a
   humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody, a multispecific antibody, or an antibody fragment thereof. In
   a further embodiment the antibody fragment is a Fab fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab') 2 fragment, a
   Fv fragment, a diabody, or a single chain antibody molecule. In a related embodiment the antigen
   binding protein is a human antibody. In yet another related embodiment the antigen binding protein is
30 a monoclonal antibody. In a further related embodiment the antigen binding protein is of the IgG1-,
   IgG2- lgG3-- or IgG4-type. In a related embodiment the antigen binding protein is of the IgG1 - or IgG2
   type.
            Another embodiment provides isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding an antigen binding
   protein as described above.       In a related embodiment at least one heavy chain variable region is
35 encoded by an isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:49,
   51, 53, 55, 57, 59. 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71 and 73 and at least one light chain variable region is encoded
   by an isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 37, 39, 41,
   43, 45, and 47. In another related embodiment the nucleic acid molecule is operably linked to a
   control sequence. In a further related embodiments are provided vectors comprising a nucleic acid
40 described above and host cells comprising such vectors. Within yet a further embodiment is provided
                                                         3

   an isolated polynucleotide sufficient for use as a hybridization probe, PCR primer or sequencing
   primer that is a fragment of the nucleic acid molecule as described above or its complement.
             Another embodiment provides a method of making the antigen binding protein as described
   above comprising the step of preparing the antigen binding protein from a host cell that secretes the
 5 antigen binding protein.
             Another embodiment provides an isolated antigen binding protein as described above wherein
   the antigen binding protein has at least one property selected from the group consisting of: a)
   inhibiting CD30/CD30L interaction; b) inhibiting CD30L-induced IL-8 induction; c) cross-competing with
   one of antibodies A-F for binding to human CD30L; d) a dissociation constant : 70pM and e) binding
10 to human CD30L with substantially the same Kd as one of antibodies A-F.
             In yet another embodiment is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one
   antigen binding protein as described above and pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. A related
   embodiment further provides such pharmaceutical compositions further comprising a labeling group or
   an effector group.     In another related embodiment the labeling group is selected from the group
15 consisting of isotopic labels, magnetic labels, redox active moieties, optical dyes, biotinylated groups
   and predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter. In a further related
   embodiment the effector group is selected from the group consisting of a radioisotope, radionuclide, a
   toxin, a therapeutic group and a chemotherapeutic group, In another related embodiment the antigen
   binding protein is coupled to a labeling group.
20          Another embodiment provides a method for treating or preventing a condition associated with
   CD30L in a patient, comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of at
   least one isolated antigen binding protein as described above. In still another related embodiment the
   isolated antigen-binding protein is administered alone or as a combination therapy.
            Another embodiment provides a method of reducing CD30L activity in a patient comprising
25 administering an effective amount of at least one antigen binding protein as described above.
             In yet another embodiment is provided an antigen binding proteins that competes with at least
   one antigen binding protein as described above.
             In another embodiment is provided an antigen binding protein as described above that is fully
   or partially afucosylated.
30
   FIGURES
   Figure 1A Ramos cells and NK effectors, Open squares: Rituxan (IgG1), Closed diamonds: Antibody
   Al IgG11, Closed squares: Antibody Al IgG1, Open circles: Antibody Al IgG2.
   Figure 1B JD38 cells and NK effectors, Open squares: Rituxan (IgG1). Closed diamonds: Antibody Al
35 IgG1f. Closed squares: Antibody Al IgG1, Open circles: Antibody Al IgG2.
   Figure 1C DS179 cells and NK effectors, Open squares: Rituxan (IgGl), Closed diamonds: Antibody
   Al IgG11, Closed squares: Antibody Al IgG1. Open circles: Antibody Al IgG2.
                                                        4

   Figure 1D EW36 cells and NK effectors, Open squares: Rituxan (IgG1), Closed diamonds: Antibody
   Al IgG1f, Closed squares: Antibody Al IgG1. Open circles: Antibody Al IgG2.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5          The present invention provides compositions, kits, and methods relating to CD30L antigen
   binding proteins, including antigen binding proteins that block the interaction between CD30L and
   CD30, such as anti-CD30L antibodies, antibody fragments, and antibody derivatives, e.g., neutralizing
   anti-CD30L antibodies,      antibody fragments,     or antibody    derivatives.     Also  provided    are
   polynucleotides, and derivatives and fragments thereof, comprising a sequence of nucleic acids that
10 encodes all or a portion of a polypeptide that binds to CD30L, e.g., a polynucleotide encoding all or
   part of an anti-CD30L antibody, antibody fragment, or antibody derivative, plasmids and vectors
   comprising such nucleic acids, and cells or cell lines comprising such polynucleotides and/or vectors
   and plasmids.      The provided methods include, for example, methods of making, identifying, or
   isolating CD30L antigen binding proteins, such as anti-CD30L antibodies, methods of determining
15 whether a molecule blocks the interaction between CD30L and CD30, methods of determining
   whether a molecule antagonizes CD30L, methods of making compositions, such as pharmaceutical
   compositions, comprising a CD30L antigen binding protein, and methods for administering a CD30L
   antigen binding protein to a subject, for example, methods for treating a condition mediated by CD30L,
   and for blocking the interaction between CD30L and CD30. in vivo or in vitro.
20          Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms used in connection with the
   present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in
   the art.   Further, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms shall include pluralities and
   plural terms shall include the singular.     Generally, nomenclatures used in connection with, and
   techniques of, cell and tissue culture, molecular biology, immunology, microbiology, genetics and
25 protein and nucleic acid chemistry and hybridization described herein are those well known and
   commonly used in the art.       The methods and techniques of the present invention are generally
   performed according to conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various
   general and more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present specification
   unless otherwise indicated. See, e.g.. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. 3rd
30 ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001) and Ausubel et al..
   Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publishing Associates (1992), and Harlow and Lane
   Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
   (1990).   Enzymatic reactions and purification techniques are performed according to manufacturer's
   specifications, as commonly accomplished in the art or as described herein. The terminology used in
35 connection with, and the laboratory procedures and techniques of, analytical chemistry, synthetic
   organic chemistry, and medicinal and pharmaceutical chemistry described herein are those well
   known and commonly used in the art.         Standard techniques can be used for chemical syntheses,
   chemical analyses. pharmaceutical preparation, formulation, and delivery, and treatment of patients.
            All documents, or portions of documents. cited in this application, including but not limited to
40 patents, patent applications, articles, books, and treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated by
                                                       5

   reference in their entirety for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for example, the methodologies
   described in such publications that might be used in connection with information described herein.
            The term "CD30-ligand" (CD30L) refers to a genus of polypeptides which are capable of
   binding 0D30, as disclosed in Smith et al., Cell 73:1349-1360, 1993 and U.S. Patent No. 5,480,981,
 5 including CD30-binding muteins thereof; such polypeptides include membrane-bound proteins
   (comprising a cytoplasmic domain, a transmembrane region, and an extracellular domain) as well as
   truncated proteins that retain the 0D30-binding property.            Such truncated proteins include, for
   example, soluble CD30L comprising only the extracellular (receptor binding) domain. Also included
   are CD30L fragments, including portions of a full-length CD30L polypeptide that retains the ability to
10 bind to CD30, or that are capable of eliciting an antibody that binds specifically with a CD30
   polypeptide or to a portion of full-length CD30 that is capable of transmitting a biological signal such as
   activation of NF-KB.
             The term "CD30" refers to a receptor that is a member of the TNF/NGF receptor superfamily,
   the cloning of which is described in Durkop et al. (Cell 68:421, 1992). The phrase "soluble 0D30"
15 (sCD30) refers to soluble molecules that comprise all or part of the extracellular domain of the CD30
   protein, and that retain the capacity to bind specifically with CD30L. Soluble CD30 polypeptides
   encompass recombinant sCD30 and naturally occurring sCD30 proteins in highly purified form.
            As used herein, the phrase "fragment of CD30" refers to a portion of a full-length CD30
   polypeptide that retains the ability to bind to CD30L or that is capable of eliciting an antibody that binds
20 specifically with a CD30 polypeptide or to a portion of full-length CD30 that is capable of transmitting a
   biological signal such as activation of NF-KB.
            The phrase "CD30/CD30L interaction" as used herein refers to the specific binding of CD30 to
   CD30L, resulting in signal transduction by 0D30. This includes instances in which at least one binding
   partner is a fragment of either CD30 or CD30L, that is, the term may refer to the binding interaction of
25 a CD30 fragment to CD30L, CD30 to a CD30L fragment, or a CD30 fragment to a CD30L fragment.
   In addition, a CD30/CD30L interaction can involve an analog of CD30 (such as an allelic variant or
   mutein) that is capable of binding specifically to CD30L, or may involve an analog of CD30L (such as
   an allelic variant or mutein) that can bind specifically with CD30. Moreover, a CD30/CD30L interaction
   can involve either endogenous CD30 or CD30L proteins or may involve recombinant CD30 or CD30L
30 expressed by a cell transfected with a nucleic acid encoding the recombinant protein.
            The term "polynucleotide" includes both single-stranded and double-stranded nucleic acids
   and includes genomic DNA. RNA, mRNA, cDNA, or synthetic origin or some combination thereof
   which is not associated with sequences normally found in nature. Isolated polynucleotides comprising
   specified sequences may include, in addition to the specified sequences, coding sequences for up to
35 ten or even up to twenty other proteins or portions thereof, or may include operably linked regulatory
   sequences that control expression of the coding region of the recited nucleic acid sequences, and/or
   may include vector sequences. The nucleotides comprising the polynucleotide can be ribonucleotides
   or deoxyribonucleotides or a modified form of either type of nucleotide. The modifications include
   base modifications such as bromouridine and inosine derivatives, ribose modifications such as 2',3'
40 dideoxyribose.      and    internucleotide     linkage    modifications   such      as    phosphorothioate,
                                                          6

   phosphorodithioate,        phosphoroselenoate,         phosphorodiselenoate,       phosphoroanilothioate,
   phoshoraniladate and phosphoroamidate.
            The term "oligonucleotide" means a polynucleotide comprising 100 or fewer nucleotides. In
   some embodiments, oligonucleotides are 10 to 60 bases in length.                 In other embodiments,
 5 oligonucleotides are 12. 13, 14, 15, 16. 17. 18. 19, or 20 to 40 nucleotides in length. Oligonucleotides
   may be single stranded or double stranded, e.g., for use in the construction of a mutant gene.
   Oligonucleotides may be sense or antisense oligonucleotides.          An oligonucleotide can include a
   detectable label, such as a radiolabel, a fluorescent label, a hapten or an antigenic label, for detection
   assays. Oligonucleotides may be used, for example, as PCR primers, cloning primers or hybridization
10 probes.
            The terms "polypeptide" or "protein" means a macromolecule having the amino acid sequence
   of a native protein, that is, a protein produced by a naturally-occurring and non-recombinant cell; or it
   is produced by a genetically-engineered or recombinant cell, and comprise molecules having the
   amino acid sequence of the native protein, or molecules having one or more deletions from, insertions
15 to, and/or substitutions of the amino acid residues of the native sequence. The term also includes
   amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acids are chemical analogs of a corresponding
   naturally-occurring amino acid and polymers.         The terms "polypeptide" and "protein" encompass
   CD30L antigen binding proteins (such as antibodies) and sequences that have one or more deletions
   from, additions to, and/or substitutions of the amino acid residues of the antigen binding protein
20 sequence.     The term polypeptidee fragment" refers to a polypeptide that has an amino-terminal
   deletion, a carboxyl-terminal deletion, and/or an internal deletion as compared with the full-length
   native protein. Such fragments may also contain modified amino acids as compared with the native
   protein. In certain embodiments, fragments are about five to 500 amino acids long. For example,
   fragments may be at least 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 50, 70, 100, 110,
25 150, 200. 250, 300, 350, 400, or 450 amino acids long.             Useful polypeptide fragments include
   immunologically functional fragments of antibodies, including binding domains.          In the case of a
   CD30L antigen binding protein, such as an antibody, useful fragments include but are not limited to
   one or more CDR regions, a variable domain of a heavy or light chain, a portion of an antibody chain,
   a portion of a variable region including less than three CDRs, and the like.
30          "Amino acid" includes its normal meaning in the art. The twenty naturally-occurring amino
   acids and their abbreviations follow conventional usage. See, Immunology-A Synthesis, 2nd Edition,
   (E. S. Golub and D. R. Gren, eds.), Sinauer Associates: Sunderland, Mass. (1991). Stereoisomers
   (e.g., D-amino acids) of the twenty conventional amino acids, unnatural amino acids such as [alpha]-,
   [alpha]-disubstituted amino acids, N-alkyl amino acids, and other unconventional amino acids may
35 also be suitable components for polypeptides. Examples of unconventional amino acids include: 4
   hydroxyproline, [gamma]-carboxyglutamate, [epsilon]-NN,N-trimethyllysine, [epsilon]-N-acetyllysine,
   0-phosphoserine, N-acetylserine, N-formylmethionine, 3-methylhistidine, 5-hydroxylysine. [sigma]-N
   methylarginine, and other similar amino acids and imino acids (e.g., 4-hydroxyproline).             In the
   polypeptide notation used herein, the left-hand direction is the amino terminal direction and the right
40 hand direction is the carboxyl-terminal direction, in accordance with standard usage and convention.
            The term "isolated protein" refers to a protein, such as an antigen binding protein (an example
                                                         7

   of which could be an antibody), that is purified from proteins or polypeptides or other contaminants
   that would interfere with its therapeutic, diagnostic, prophylactic, research or other use.       As used
   herein, "substantially pure" means that the described species of molecule is the predominant species
   present, that is, on a molar basis it is more abundant than any other individual species in the same
 5 mixture. In certain embodiments, a substantially pure molecule is a composition wherein the object
   species comprises at least 50% (on a molar basis) of all macromolecular species present. In other
   embodiments, a substantially pure composition will comprise at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of
   all macromolecular species present in the composition.          In certain embodiments, an essentially
   homogeneous substance has been purified to such a degree that contaminating species cannot be
10 detected in the composition by conventional detection methods and thus the composition consists of a
   single detectable macromolecular species.
            A "variant" of a polypeptide (e.g., an antigen binding protein such as an antibody) comprises
   an amino acid sequence wherein one or more amino acid residues are inserted into, deleted from
   and/or substituted into the amino acid sequence relative to another polypeptide sequence. Variants
15 include fusion proteins. A "derivative" of a polypeptide is a polypeptide that has been chemically
   modified in some manner distinct from insertion, deletion, or substitution variants, e.g., via conjugation
   to another chemical moiety.
            The terms "naturally occurring" or "native" as used throughout the specification in connection
   with biological materials such as polypeptides, nucleic acids. host cells, and the like. refers to
20 materials which are found in nature. In this context, a "recombinant protein" is a protein made using
   recombinant techniques, i.e., through the expression of a recombinant nucleic acid as described
   herein. Methods and techniques for the production of recombinant proteins are well known in the art.
            The term "antibody" refers to an intact immunoglobulin of any isotype, or a fragment thereof
   that can compete with the intact antibody for specific binding to the target antigen, and includes, for
25 instance, chimeric, humanized, fully human, and bispecific antibodies.         An antibody as such is a
   species of an antigen binding protein. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "antibody" includes, in
   addition to antibodies comprising two full-length heavy chains and two full-length light chains,
   derivatives, variants, fragments, and muteins thereof, examples of which are described below.           An
   intact antibody generally will comprise at least two full-length heavy chains and two full-length light
30 chains, but in some instances may include fewer chains such as antibodies naturally occurring in
   camelids which may comprise only heavy chains. Antibodies may be derived solely from a single
   source. or may be "chimeric," that is, different portions of the antibody may be derived from two
   different antibodies as described further below. The antigen binding proteins, antibodies, or binding
   fragments may be produced in hybridomas, by recombinant DNA techniques, or by enzymatic or
35 chemical cleavage of intact antibodies.
            The term "functional fragment" (or simply "fragment") of an antibody or immunoglobulin chain
   (heavy or light chain), as used herein. is an antigen binding protein comprising a portion (regardless of
   how that portion is obtained or synthesized) of an antibody that lacks at least some of the amino acids
   present in a full-length chain but which is capable of specifically binding to an antigen.           Such
40 fragments are biologically active in that they bind specifically to the target antigen and can compete
   with other antigen binding proteins, including intact antibodies, for specific binding to a given epitope.
                                                        8

   In one aspect, such a fragment will retain at least one CDR present in the full-length light or heavy
   chain, and in some embodiments will comprise a single heavy chain and/or light chain or portion
   thereof. These biologically active fragments may be produced by recombinant DNA techniques, or
   may be produced by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of antigen binding proteins, including intact
 5 antibodies. Fragments include, but are not limited to, immunologically functional fragments such as
   Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv, domain antibodies and single-chain antibodies, and may be derived from any
   mammalian source, including but not limited to human, mouse, rat, camelid or rabbit.                  It is
   contemplated further that a functional portion of the antigen binding proteins disclosed herein, for
   example, one or more CDRs, could be covalently bound to a second protein or to a small molecule to
10 create a therapeutic agent directed to a particular target in the body, possessing bifunctional
   therapeutic properties, or having a prolonged serum half-life.
            The term "compete" when used in the context of antigen binding proteins (e.g., neutralizing
   antigen binding proteins or neutralizing antibodies) means competition between antigen binding
   proteins as determined by an assay in which the antigen binding protein (e.g., antibody or
15 immunologically functional fragment thereof) under test prevents or inhibits specific binding of a
   reference antigen binding protein (e.g.. a ligand, or a reference antibody) to a common antigen (e.g., a
   CD30L protein or a fragment thereof). Numerous types of competitive binding assays can be used, for
   example: solid phase direct or indirect radioimmunoassay (RIA), solid phase direct or indirect enzyme
   immunoassay (EIA), sandwich competition assay (see, e.g., Stahli et al., 1983, Methods in
20 Enzymology 92:242-253); solid phase direct biotin-avidin EIA (see, e.g., Kirkland et al.. 1986, J.
   Immunol. 137:3614-3619) solid phase direct labeled assay, solid phase direct labeled sandwich assay
   (see, e.g., Harlow and Lane, 1988, Antibodies. A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Press); solid
   phase direct label RIA using 1-125 label (see, e.g., Morel et al.. 1988, Molec. Immunol. 25:7-15); solid
   phase direct biotin-avidin EIA (see, e.g., Cheung, et al., 1990, Virology 176:546-552); and direct
25 labeled RIA (Moldenhauer et al., 1990, Scand. J. Immunol. 32:77-82). Typically, such an assay
   involves the use of purified antigen bound to a solid surface or cells bearing either of these, an
   unlabelled test antigen binding protein and a labeled reference antigen binding protein.         Different
   approaches may be taken as known by the skilled person. An alternative option includes having the
   reference antigen binding protein bound to the plate, optionally via a flexible matrix. Further variation
30 maybe based on the order of addition ie, if the antigen is first mixed with plate bound reference
   antigen binding protein or test antigen binding protein. In all senarios saturation of antigen by antigen
   binding protein is needed to avoide false non-competitive result.
            Competitive inhibition is measured by determining the amount of label bound to the solid
   surface or cells in the presence of the test antigen binding protein. Usually the test antigen binding
35 protein is present in excess. Antigen binding proteins identified by competition assay (competing
   antigen binding proteins) include antigen binding proteins binding to the same epitope as the
   reference antigen binding proteins and antigen binding proteins binding to an adjacent epitope
   sufficiently proximal to the epitope bound by the reference antigen binding protein for steric hindrance
   to occur. Usually, when a competing antigen binding protein is present in excess, it will inhibit specific
40 binding of a reference antigen binding protein to a common antigen by at least 40%, 45%, 50%. 55%,
                                                        9

   60%, 65%, 70% or 75%. In some instance, binding is inhibited by at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%,
   92%. 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more.
            Competition experiments may be made with different types of molecules which may have
   different sensitivity. If the antigen binding protein is an antibody the molecule will be bi-valent. If the
 5 antigen binding molecule is a Fab, it is monovalent and substanitally smaller than a full length
   antibdody resulting in less sterical hinderence. In competitions experiments this may For certain
   antigen binding protein the binding to hCD30L is inhibited by binding of a Fab of an antibody antigen
   binding protein as defined herein, such as any one of antibodies A, B, C. D, E and F.
                 The term "epitope" or "antigenic determinant" refers to a site on an antigen to which an
10 antigen binding protein binds. Epitopes can be formed both from contiguous amino acids or
   noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by tertiary folding of a protein. Epitopes formed from
   contiguous amino acids are typically retained on exposure to denaturing solvents, whereas epitopes
   formed by tertiary folding are typically lost on treatment with denaturing solvents. Epitope determinants
   may include chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino acids, sugar side chains,
15 phosphoryl or sulfonyl groups, and may have specific three dimensional structural characteristics,
   and/or specific charge characteristics. An epitope typically includes at least 3, 4, 5. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
   12, 13, 14. 15. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. 25, 30. 35 amino acids in a unique spatial conformation.         Epitopes
   can be determined using methods known in the art.
                 The binding of an antigen binding protein may also be described by the region or regions
20 of the antigen that the antigen binding protein interacts with. Such region(s) of interaction may be
   determined by various methods known in the art, such as by performing binding assays using variant
   antigen molecules or by HX-MS as exemplified herein (see Example 6), whereby the region(s) of
   interaction of the antigen with the antigen binding proteins is determined.
            The HX-MS technology exploits, that hydrogen exchange (HX) of a protein can readily be
25 followed by mass spectrometry (MS). By replacing the aqueous solvent containing hydrogen with
   aqueous solvent containing deuterium, incorporation of a deuterium atom at a given site in a protein
   will give rise to an increase in mass of 1 Da. This mass increase can be monitored as a function of
   time by mass spectrometry in quenched samples of the exchange reaction. The deuterium labelling
   information can be sub-localized to regions in the protein by pepsin digestion under quench conditions
30 and following the mass increase of the resulting peptides. HX-MS may be used to probe for sites
   involved in molecular interactions by identifying regions of reduced hydrogen exchange upon protein
   protein complex formation including antibody-antigen interactions. Usually, binding interfaces will be
   revealed by marked reductions in hydrogen exchange due to steric exclusion of solvent. Protein
   protein complex formation may be detected by HX-MS simply by measuring the total amount of
35 deuterium incorporated in either protein members in the presence and absence of the respective
   binding partner as a function of time. The HX-MS technique uses the native components, i.e. protein
   and antibody or Fab fragment, and is performed in solution. Thus HX-MS provides the possibility for
   mimicking the in vivo conditions (for a review on the HX-MS technology, see e.g. Wales and Engen,
   Mass Spectrom. Rev. 25, 158 (2006)).
40               Certain antigen binding proteins as described herein interacts with or binds CD30L via a
   C-terminal region of human CD30L defined by AA201 -234. It may be that the antigen binding protein
                                                           10

   binds a C-terminal region of human CD30L defined by AA 201-234, or a smaller region such as AA
   205-230 or AA 211-226. As described above an epitope may be non-contiguous and so may the
   region of interaction. In one embodiment an antigen binding protein according to the invention binds to
   at least two regions of CD30L. Such further antigen binding proteins according to the invention may
 5 interact with a C-terminal region as defined above and a further region of human CD30L located in the
   N-terminal part of the extracellular domain, such as a region defined by AA70-1 00 of full length
   hCD30L. Such antigen binding proteins may bind to AA 75-95 or a shorter region, such as AA 80-90
   or AA 82-88 in addition to the C-terminal region defined by AA 201 -234, AA 205-230 or AA 211-226.
10 CD30L Antigen Binding Proteins
             An "antigen binding protein" as used herein means a protein that specifically binds a specified
   target antigen; the antigen as provided herein is CD30L, particularly human CD30L.          Antigen binding
   proteins include, for example, those that block or inhibit interaction of CD30L and CD30.               Such
   "blocking" antigen binding proteins may be developed towards CD30L, or a fragment, variant or
15 derivative thereof, and screened in conventional assays for the ability to interfere with interaction of
   CD30L and CD30.          Examples of suitable assays are assays that test the antigen binding proteins
   ability to inhibit interaction of CD30L and CD30 are described herein. Antigen binding proteins also
   include those that inhibit CD30L or activate CD30L.           Such inhibition or neutralization disrupts a
   biological response in the presence of the antigen binding protein compared to the response in the
20 absence of the antigen binding protein and can be determined using assays known in the art and
   described herein. Antigen binding proteins provided herein, for example, induce IL-8 production from
   CD30* cells. Antigen binding proteins as disclosed herein also do not bind other TNF superfamily
   members, particularly 4-1 BBL, OX-40L, TNFo, TNFp, RAN KL, Trail, CD40L or CD27L.
             Different CD30L antigen binding proteins may bind to different domains or epitopes of CD30L
25 or act by different mechanisms of action. A CD30L antigen binding protein need not completely inhibit
   a CD30L induced activity to find use as described herein; rather. antigen binding proteins that reduce
   a particular activity of CD30L are contemplated for use as well.     Antigen binding proteins also include
   those that cross-compete for binding with human CD30L; bind to the same epitope of human CD30L;
   bind to human CD30L with substantially the same Kd; bind to CD30L with substantially the same off
30 rate; as any of the reference antigen binding proteins described herein.              Various methods for
   measuring such characteristics are known in the art and described herein.
             Also provided are CD30L antigen binding proteins that deplete CD30L' cells. With such
   depleting CD30L antigen binding proteins, the binding of the antigen binding protein to a cell
   comprising its antigen target results in an inhibition of antigen or cellular function or results in death of
35 the cell. In one embodiment, a depleting antibody of the invention binds CD30L and may or may not
   block the binding of a CD30L ligand to CD30. Thus, depleting antigen binding proteins specifically
   include blocking and non-blocking antigen binding proteins. In one aspect, CD30L antigen binding
   proteins that deplete CD30L* cells may induce apoptosis or programmed cell death, as determined by
   apoptosis assays known in the art. Such CD30L antigen binding proteins could have an immune
40 modulatory effect by 1) eliminating cells that interact with CD30L* cells to induce an immune response
   and/or 2) eliminating cells in which CD30L is a cell surface marker of a cell type that participates in a
                                                         11

   certain immune response, but that does not necessarily need to interact with a CD30* cell to do so. In
   this case, CD30L would be a marker of cell type associated with a particular disease and the
   CD30/CD30L interaction may not be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease itself.             Another
   embodiment includes depleting antigen binding proteins that comprise conjugated toxin or cytotoxic
 5 agent, wherein the toxin or cytotoxic agent induces depletion of a cell binding the antigen binding
   protein conjugate.
            An antigen binding protein may comprise a portion that binds to an antigen and, optionally, a
   scaffold or framework portion that allows the antigen binding portion to adopt a conformation that
   promotes binding of the antigen binding protein to the antigen. Examples of antigen binding proteins
10 include antibodies, antibody fragments (e.g., an antigen binding portion of an antibody), antibody
   derivatives, and antibody analogs. The antigen binding protein can comprise an alternative protein
   scaffold or artificial scaffold with grafted CDRs or CDR derivatives. Such scaffolds include, but are not
   limited to, antibody-derived scaffolds comprising mutations introduced to. for example. stabilize the
   three-dimensional structure of the antigen binding protein as well as wholly synthetic scaffolds
15 comprising, for example, a biocompatible polymer.        See, for example, Korndorfer et al., Proteins:
   Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, (2003) Volume 53, Issue 1:121-129; Roque et al., Biotechnol.
   Prog., 2004. 20:639-654. In addition, peptide antibody mimetics ("PAMs") can be used, as well as
   scaffolds based on antibody mimetics utilizing fibronection components as a scaffold.
            Certain antigen binding proteins described herein are antibodies or are derived from
20 antibodies.    Such antigen binding proteins include, but are not limited to, monoclonal antibodies,
   bispecific antibodies, minibodies, domain antibodies, synthetic antibodies, antibody mimetics, chimeric
   antibodies, humanized antibodies, human antibodies, antibody fusions, antibody conjugates, single
   chain antibodies, and fragments thereof, respectively. In some instances, the antigen binding protein
   is an immunological fragment of an antibody (e.g., a Fab, a Fab', a F(ab')2, or a scFv). The various
25 structures are further described and defined herein.
            Certain antigen binding proteins that are provided may comprise one or more CDRs as
   described herein (e.g., 1, 2, 3., 4, 5, 6 or more CDRs). In some instances, the antigen binding protein
   comprises (a) a polypeptide structure and (b) one or more CDRs that are inserted into and/or joined to
   the polypeptide structure.       The polypeptide structure can take a variety of different forms.      For
30 example, it can be, or comprise, the framework of a naturally occurring antibody, or fragment or variant
   thereof, or may be completely synthetic in nature. Examples of various polypeptide structures are
   further described below.
            Certain of the antigen binding proteins as provided herein specifically bind to human CD30L.
   "Specifically bind" as used herein means that the equilibrium dissociation constant (Ko) is <10- to <10'
35 10 M, alternatively <109 to <1010 M. more particularly <10"'M to <10-12 M. In one embodiment the
   antigen binding proteins bind with a high affinity expressed by the equilibrium dissociation constant
   (Kr) being 10, or such as 5,0 x109 or such as 10'9 or even 5.0x10' 0 . The equilibrium dissociation
   constant may be determined as known in the art. In such embodiments Ko is typically determined by
   immobilizing a species at low density (this species can be multivalent) and injecting a titration series of
40 a monovalent species (association phase), and then allowing for a dissociation phase where the
   complexes fall apart. The rate constants corresponding to the association and the dissociation of a
                                                        12

   monovalent complex are referred to as the association rate constant k, and dissociation rate constant
   k, respectively. The resulting data are then fit to a 1:1 binding model that fits 3 parameters:
   association rate constant k, dissociation rate constant kd, and Rmax, which is related to surface
   density & stoichiometry. The ratio of k / k. is equal to the equilibrium dissociation constant K0 .
 5          K0 may also be determined using FACS analysis as described in Example 4 herein, where
   antibodies are bound to CD30L express on a Ramos cells.
            One embodiment relates to an isolated antigen binding protein as described herein, wherein
   said antigen binding protein has an affinity (or K0 ) to human CD30L of at least 75 pM. such as 50 pM,
   such as 40 pM. Infurther embodiments the dissociation constant (KC) of the antigen binding protein to
10 human CD30L is at most 35 pM, such as at most 25 pM, such as 20 pM. such as at most 15 pM.
   The affinity (or K0 ) may in such embodiement be determined by FACS as described in Example 4
   herein.
             Another aspect provides an antigen binding protein having a half-life of at least one day in
   vitro or in vivo (e.g., when administered to a human subject). In one embodiment, the antigen binding
15 protein has a half-life of at least three days. In another embodiment, the antibody or portion thereof
   has a half-life of four days or longer. In another embodiment, the antibody or portion thereof has a
   half-life of eight days or longer. In another embodiment, the antibody or antigen binding portion thereof
   is derivatized or modified such that it has a longer half-life as compared to the underivatized or
   unmodified antibody. In another embodiment, the antigen binding protein contains point mutations to
20 increase serum half life, such as described in WIPO Publication No. WO 00/09560.
             In embodiments where the antigen binding protein is used for therapeutic applications, an
   antigen binding protein can reduce, inhibit, interfere with or modulate one or more biological activities
   of CD30L, such as induction of IL-8 production from CD30* cells.
             Some of the antigen binding proteins that are provided have the structure typically associated
25 with naturally occurring antibodies. The structural units of these antibodies typically comprise one or
   more tetramers, each composed of two identical couplets of polypeptide chains, though some species
   of mammals also produce antibodies having only a single heavy chain. In a typical antibody. each pair
   or couplet includes one full-length "light" chain (in certain embodiments, about 25 kDa) and one full
   length "heavy" chain (in certain embodiments, about 50-70 kDa).           Each individual immunoglobulin
30 chain is composed of several "immunoglobulin domains", each consisting of roughly 90 to 110 amino
   acids and expressing a characteristic folding pattern. These domains are the basic units of which
   antibody polypeptides are composed. The amino-terminal portion of each chain typically includes a
   variable region that is responsible for antigen recognition.        The carboxy-terminal portion is more
   conserved evolutionarily than the other end of the chain and is referred to as the "constant region" or
35 "C region". Human light chains generally are classified as kappa and lambda light chains, and each of
   these contains one variable region and one constant domain. Heavy chains are typically classified as
   mu, delta, gamma, alpha, or epsilon chains, and these define the antibody's isotype as IgM, IgD, IgG,
   IgA, and IgE, respectively. IgG has several subtypes, including, but not limited to, IgG1, IgG2, IgG3.
   and IgG4. IgM subtypes include IgM, and IgM2. IgA subtypes include IgAl and IgA2. In humans, the
40 IgA and IgD isotypes contain four heavy chains and four light chains; the IgG and IgE isotypes contain
   two heavy chains and two light chains; and the IgM isotype contains five heavy chains and five light
                                                         13

   chains. The heavy chain constant region (CH) typically comprises one or more domains that may be
   responsible for effector function. The number of heavy chain constant region domains will depend on
   the isotype. IgG heavy chains, for example, each contains three CH region domains known as CH1,
   CH2 and CH3. The antigen binding proteins that are provided can have any of these isotypes and
 5 subtypes, for example, the CD30L antigen binding protein is of the IgG1. IgG2. or IgG4 subtype. If an
   IgG4 is desired, it may also be desired to introduce a point mutation (CPSCP->CPPCP) in the hinge
   region as described in Bloom et al., 1997, Protein Science 6:407) to alleviate a tendency to form intra
   H chain disulfide bonds that can lead to heterogeneity in the IgG4 antibodies. Antibodies provided
   herein that are of one type can be changed to a different type using subclass switching methods. See,
10 e.g., Lantto et al., 2002, Methods Mol. Biol. 178:303-316.
            In full-length light and heavy chains, the variable and constant regions are joined by a "J"
   region of about twelve or more amino acids, with the heavy chain also including a "D"region of about
   ten more amino acids. See. e.g.. Fundamental Immunology, 2nd ed., Ch. 7 (Paul, W.. ed.) 1989, New
   York: Raven Press. The variable regions of each light/heavy chain pair typically form the antigen
15 binding site.
   Variable Regions
            Various heavy chain and light chain variable regions (or domains) provided herein are
   depicted in TABLES 1 and 2. Each of these variable regions may be attached, for example, to heavy
   and light chain constant regions described above. Further, each of the so generated heavy and light
20 chain sequences may be combined to form a complete antigen binding protein structure.
   Table 1 Exemplary Variant Light Chain Region Sequences
   VL1           QSALTQPASVSGSPGQSITISC TGTSSDVGVYDYVSWYQQHPGKAPKLMIYEVSNRPS
   SEQ ID        GVSNRFSGSKSGNTASLTISGLQTEDEADYYCSSYTSRSTWVFGGGTKLTVL
   NO: 36
   VL2           QSALTQPASVSGSPGQSITISC TOTSSDVGL YNYVSWYQQHPDKAPKLMIFEVNNRPSG
   SEQ ID        VSNRFSGSNSGNTASLTISGLQAEDEADYYCSSYTSSSTWVFGGGTKLTVL
   NO:38
   VL3           QSALTQPASVSGSPGQSITISCTGTSSDIGLYDYVSWYQQHPDRAPKLIIFEVNNRPSGV
   SEQ ID        SYR FSGSNSGNTASLTISGLQAEDEADYYCSSYTSSSTWVFGGGTKLTVL
   NO:40
   VL4           QSALTQPASVSGSPGQSITISC TGTSSDIGL YNYVSWYQQHPGKAPKLIYEVINRPSGV
   SEQ ID        SNRFSGSESGNTASLTISGLQAEDEANYYCSSYTSSSTWVFGGGTKLTVL
   NO:42
   VL5           QSALTQPASVSGSPGQSITISC TGSSSDIGTYNYVSWYQQYPGKAPLMYEVNNRPSG
   SEQ ID        VSDRFSGSTSGNTASLTISGLQANDEADYYCSSYSSSSTWVFGGGTKLTVL
   NO:44
   VL6           QSALTQPASVSGSPGQSITISCTGTSSDVGLYNYVSWYQQQPGKAPKLMIYEVSKRPS
   SEQ ID        GVSNRFSGSTSGNTASLTISGLQADDEADYSCSSYTSSSTWVFGGGTKLTVL
   NO: 46
   Complementarity determining regions (CDR) are in bold italics. framework regions (FR) are in plain
   type. The order of the elements is: FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3 and FR4.
25
                                                       14

  Table 2 Exemplary Variant Heavy Chain Region Sequences
  VH1         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGNTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTISVDTSKNQFSLKLSSMTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQG
  NO:48       TTVTVSS
  VH2         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGNTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLSSMTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQ
  NO: 50      GTTVTVSS
  VH3         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGNTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQ
  NO:52       GTTVTVSS
  VH4         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGOTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLSSMTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQ
  NO: 54      GTTVTVSS
  VH5         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYlWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGOTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTISVDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQG
  NO:56       TTVTVSS
  VH6         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGNTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTISVDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQG
  NO:58       TTVTVSS
  VH7         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGOTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTISVDTSKNQFSLKLSSMTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQG
  NO:60       TTVTVSS
  VH8         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRYASGQTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCARDYRVAGTYYYYYGLDVWGQ
  NO:62       GTTVTVSS
  VH9         QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYYWTWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRIYTSGITNYN
  SEQ ID      PSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCARERVVGASRYYYYGVDVWGQG
  NO:64       TTVTVSS
  VH10        QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYYWWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRIYTSGITNYN
  SEQ ID      PSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCARERVVGASRYYYYGVDVWGQG
  NO:66       TTVTVSS
  VH11        QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYSWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRTSTSGRNN
  SEQ ID      YNPSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLKLNSVTAADTAVYYCARDFTAARRYYYYGMDWVGQ
  NO:68       GTTVTVSS
  VH12        QVQLQESGPRLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSITNNYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRVYSSGLTN
  SEQ ID      YKPSLKSRVTMSVDTSKNQFSLRLNSVTAADTAVYYCARERA TVTTRYHYDGMDVWG
  NO:70       QGTSVTVSS
  VH13        QVQLQESGPGLVKPSETLSLTCTVSGGSISSYYWSWIRQPAGKGLEWIGRIFASGSTNY
  SEQ ID      NPSLRSRVTMSRDTSKNQFSLKLSSVTAADTAVYYCAKERVGVQDYYHYSGMDVWGQ
  NO:72       GTTVTVSS
  Complementarity determining regions (CDR) are in bold italics, framework regions (FR) are in plain
  type. The order of the elements is: FR1. CDRI. FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3 and FR4.
          Provided are antigen binding proteins that contain at least one heavy chain variable region
5 (VH) selected from the group consisting of VH1, VH2, VH3, VH4, VH5, VH6, VH7, VH8, VH9. VH10.
                                                  15

   VH11, VH12 and VH13 and/or at least one light chain variable region (VL) selected from the group
   consisting of VL1, VL2, VL3. VL4, VL5. VL6 as shown in TABLES 1 and 2.
            Each of the heavy chain variable regions listed in TABLE 2 may be combined with any of the
   light chain variable regions shown in TABLE 1 to form an antigen binding protein. In some instances,
 5 the antigen binding protein includes at least one heavy chain variable region and/or one light chain
   variable region from those listed in TABLES 1 and 2. In some instances, the antigen binding protein
   includes at least two different heavy chain variable regions and/or light chain variable regions from
   those listed in TABLES 1 and 2. The various combinations of heavy chain variable regions may be
   combined with any of the various combinations of light chain variable regions.
10          In other instances, the antigen binding protein contains two identical light chain variable
   regions and/or two identical heavy chain variable regions. As an example, the antigen binding protein
   may be an antibody or immunologically functional fragment that comprises two light chain variable
   regions and two heavy chain variable regions in combinations of pairs of light chain variable regions
   and pairs of heavy chain variable regions as listed in TABLES 1 and 2. Examples of such antigen
15 binding proteins comprising two identical heavy chain and light chain variable regions include:
   Antibody A VH2NL1; Antibody Al VH1NL1; Antibody A2 VH3NL1; Antibody A3 VH4NL1; Antibody
   A4 VH5/VL1; Antibody A5 VH6NL1; Antibody A6 VH7/VL1; Antibody A7 VH8/VL1; Antibody B
   VH9NL2; Antibody C VH10/VL3; Antibody D VH11/VL4; Antibody E VH12VL5 and Antibody F
   VH13/VL6.
20          Some antigen binding proteins that are provided comprise a heavy chain variable region
   and/or a light chain variable region comprising a sequence of amino acids that differs from the
   sequence of a heavy chain variable region and/or a light chain variable region selected from TABLES
   1 and 2 at only 1, 2, 3, 4. 5. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, 30, 31 or more amino acid
   residues, wherein each such sequence difference is independently either a deletion, insertion or
25 substitution of one amino acid. The light and heavy chain variable regions, in some antigen binding
   proteins, comprise sequences of amino acids that have at least 70%, 75%, 80%. 85% 86%. 87%,
   88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% sequence identity to the amino
   acid sequences provided in TABLES 1 and 2. Still other antigen binding proteins, e.g., antibodies or
   immunologically functional fragments, also include variant heavy chain region forms and/or variant
30 light chain region forms as described herein.
            The term "identity" refers to a relationship between the sequences of two or more polypeptide
   molecules or two or more polynucleotides, as determined by aligning and comparing the sequences.
   "Percent identity" means the percent of identical residues between the amino acids or nucleotides in
   the compared molecules and is calculated based on the size of the smallest of the molecules being
35 compared.     For these calculations, gaps in alignments (if any) must be addressed by a particular
   mathematical model or computer program (i.e., an "algorithm"). Methods that can be used to calculate
   the identity of the aligned nucleic acids or polypeptides include those described in Computational
   Molecular Biology. (Lesk, A. M., ed.), 1988, New York: Oxford University Press; Biocomputing
   Informatics and Genome Projects, (Smith, D. W., ed.), 1993, New York: Academic Press; Computer
40 Analysis of Sequence Data, Part I, (Griffin. A. M., and Griffin, H. G.. eds.), 1994, New Jersey: Humana
   Press; von Heinje, G., 1987, Sequence Analysis in Molecular Biology. New York: Academic Press;
                                                        16

   Sequence Analysis Primer, (Gribskov, M. and Devereux, J., eds.), 1991, New York: M. Stockton
   Press; and Carillo et al., 1988. SIAM J. Applied Math. 48:1073.
            In calculating percent identity, the sequences being compared are aligned in a way that gives
   the largest match between the sequences. The computer program used to determine percent identity
 5 is the GCG program package, which includes GAP (Devereux et al.. 1984, Nucl. Acid Res. 12:387;
   Genetics Computer Group, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI). The computer algorithm GAP is
   used to align the two polypeptides or polynucleotides for which the percent sequence identity is to be
   determined.     The sequences are aligned for optimal matching of their respective amino acid or
   nucleotide (the "matched span", as determined by the algorithm). A gap opening penalty (which is
10 calculated as 3x the average diagonal, wherein the "average diagonal" is the average of the diagonal
   of the comparison matrix being used; the "diagonal" is the score or number assigned to each perfect
   amino acid match by the particular comparison matrix) and a gap extension penalty (which is
   usually 1/10 times the gap opening penalty), as well as a comparison matrix such as PAM 250 or
   BLOSUM 62 are used in conjunction with the algorithm.            In certain embodiments, a standard
15 comparison matrix (see, Dayhoff et al, 1978, Atlas of Protein Sequence and Structure 5:345-352 for
   the PAM 250 comparison matrix; Henikoff et al., 1992, Proc. Nat Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 89:10915-10919
   for the BLOSUM 62 comparison matrix) is also used by the algorithm.
            Recommended parameters for determining percent identity for polypeptides or nucleotide
   sequences using the GAP program are the following: Algorithm: Needleman et al, 1970, J. Mot Biol.
20 48:443-453; Comparison matrix: BLOSUM 62 from Henikoff et al, 1992, supra; Gap Penalty: 12 (but
   with no penalty for end gaps), Gap Length Penalty: 4. Threshold of Similarity: 0. Certain alignment
   schemes for aligning two amino acid sequences may result in matching of only a short region of the
   two sequences and this small aligned region may have very high sequence identity even though there
   is no significant relationship between the two full-length sequences. Accordingly, the selected
25 alignment method (GAP program) can be adjusted if so desired to result in an alignment that spans at
   least 50 contiguous amino acids of the target polypeptide.
   Complementarity determining regions
            Complementarity determining regions or "CDRs" are embedded within a framework in the
30 heavy and light chain variable regions where they constitute the regions responsible for antigen
   binding and recognition.      Variable domains of immunoglobulin chains of the same species, for
   example, generally exhibit a similar overall structure; comprising relatively conserved framework
   regions (FR) joined by hypervariable CDR regions. An antigen binding protein can have 1, 2. 3, 4. 5, 6
   or more CDRs. The variable regions discussed above, for example, typically comprise three CDRs.
35 The CDRs from heavy chain variable regions and light chain variable regions are typically aligned by
   the framework regions to form a structure that binds specifically on a target antigen (e.g., CD30L).
   From N-terminal to C-terminal, naturally-occurring light and heavy chain variable regions both typically
   conform to the following order of these elements: FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3 and FR4.
   The CDR and FR regions of exemplary light chain variable domains and heavy chain variable domains
40 are highlighted in TABLES 1 and 2. It is recognized that the boundaries of the CDR and FR regions
   can vary from those highlighted. Numbering systems have been devised for assigning numbers to
                                                       17

   amino acids that occupy positions in each of these domains. Complementarity determining regions
   and framework regions of a given antigen binding protein may be identified using these systems.
   Numbering systems are defined in Kabat et al, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest,     5 th
   Ed., US Dept. of Health and Human Services, PHS, NIH,          NIH Publication No. 91-3242, 1991. or
 5 Chothia & Lesk, 1987. J. Mol. Biot 196:901-917; Chothia et al., 1989, Nature 342:878-883. Other
   numbering systems for the amino acids in immunoglobulin chains include IMGT@ (the international
   ImMunoGeneTics information system; Lefranc et al, Dev. Comp. lmmunoL. 2005. 29:185-203); and
   AHo (Honegger and Pluckthun, J. Mo. Bio. 2001, 309(3):657-670). The CDRs provided herein may
   not only be used to define the antigen binding domain of a traditional antibody structure, but may be
10 embedded in a variety of other polypeptide structures, as described herein.
            The antigen binding proteins disclosed herein are polypeptides into which one or more CDRs
   may be grafted, inserted, embedded and/or joined. An antigen binding protein can have, for example,
   one heavy chain CDR1 ("CDR H1"), and/or one heavy chain CDR2 ("CDRH2"), and/or one heavy chain
   CDR3 ("CDRH3"), and/or one light chain CDR1 ("CDRL1"), and/or one light chain CDR2 ("CDRL2"),
15 and/or one light chain CDR3 ("CDRL3"). Some antigen binding proteins include both a CDRH3 and a
   CDRL3. Specific embodiments generally utilize combinations of CDRs that are non-repetitive, e.g.,
   antigen binding proteins are generally not made with two CDRH2 regions in one variable heavy chain
   region, etc.    Antigen binding proteins may comprise one or more amino acid sequences that are
   identical to or that differ from to the amino acid sequences of one or more of the CDRs presented in
20 TABLE 3 at only 1, 2. 3. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. 12, 13, 14. 15, 16 or more amino acid residues,
   wherein each such sequence difference is independently either a deletion, insertion or substitution of
   one amino acid. The CDRs in some antigen binding proteins comprise sequences of amino acids that
   have at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% sequence identity
   to CDRs sequence listed in TABLE 3. In some antigen binding proteins, the CDRs are embedded into
25 a "framework" region, which orients the CDR(s) such that the proper antigen binding properties of the
   CDR(s) is achieved.
                        TABLE 3 Exemplary Variant Heavy Chain Region Sequences
   SEQ   ID NO:1               TGTSSDVGVYDYVS
   SEQ   ID NO:2               TGTSSDVGLYNYVS
   SEQ   ID NO:3               TGTSSDIGLYDYVS
   SEQ   ID NO:4               TGTSSDIGLYNYVS
   SEQ   ID NO:5               TGSSSDIGTYNYVS
   SEQ   ID NO:6               TGTSSDVGLYNYVS
   SEQ   ID NO:7               EVSNRPS
   SEQ   ID NO:8               EVNNRPS
   SEQ   ID NO:9               EVINRPS
   SEQ   ID NO:10              EVSKRPS
   SEQ   ID NO:1 1             SSYTSRSTWV
   SEQ   ID NO:1 2             SSYTSSSTWV
   SEQ   ID NO:13              SSYSSSSTWV
   SEQ   ID NO:14              SYIWS
   SEQ   ID NO:1 5             SYYWT
   SEQ   ID NO:16              SYSWS
   SEQ   ID NO:1 7             NNYWS
   SEQ   ID NO:1 8             SYYWS
   SEQ   ID NO:1 9             RIYASGNTNYNPSLKS
                                                       18

   SEQ    ID NO:20           RIYASGQTNYNPSLKS
   SEQ    ID NO:21           RIYTSGITNYNPSLKS
   SEQ    ID NO:22           RTSTSGRNNYNPSLKS
   SEQ    ID NO:23           RVYSSGLTNYKPSLKS
   SEQ    ID NO:24           RIFASGSTNYNPSLRS
   SEQ    ID NO:25           DYRVAGTYYYYYGLDV
   SEQ    ID NO:26           ERVVGASRYYYYGVDV
   SEQ    ID NO:27           DFTIAARRYYYYGMDV
   SEQ    ID NO:28           ERATVTTRYHYDGMDV
   SEQ    ID NO:29          ERVGVQDYYHYSGMDV
                Provided herein are CDR1 regions comprising amino acid residues 23-36 of SEQ ID NOs:
   36, 38, 40, 42 and 44; amino acid residues 25-36 of SEQ ID NO:46 and amino acid residues 31-35 of
   SEQ ID NOs: 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60. 62, 64, 66, 68, 70 and 72. CDR2 regions are provided
 5 comprising amino acid residues 52-58 of SEQ ID NOs: 36, 38, 40, 42, 44 and 46 and amino acid
   residues 50-65 of SEQ ID NOs: 48, 50, 52, 54, 56. 58, 60, 62, 64. 66, 68, 70 and 72. CDR3 regions
   comprising amino acid residues 91.-100 of SEQ ID NOs: 36, 38, 40, 42, 44 and 46 and amino acid
   residues 98-113 of SEQ ID NOs: 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62. 64, 66, 68, 70 and 72.
                The CDRs disclosed herein include consensus sequences derived from groups of related
10 sequences. The CDRL1 consensus sequence consists of TGX1SSDX2GX3YX4YVS (SEQ ID NO:30)
   where X1 is threonine or serine. X2 is valine or isoleucine, X3 is valine, threonine or leucine, and X4 is
   aspartic acid or asparagine.
            The CDRL2 consensus sequence consists of EVX1X2RPS (SEQ ID NO:31) wherein X1 is
   serine, asparagine or isoleucine and X2 is asparagine or lysine.
15          The CDRL3 consensus sequence include SSYX1SX2STWV (SEQ IDN NO:32) wherein X1 is
   threonine or serine and X2 is arginine or serine.
            The CDRH1 consensus sequence consists of X1X2X3WX4 (SEQ ID NO:33) wherein X1 is
   serine or asparagine, X2 is tyrosine or asparagine, X3 is isoleucine, tyrosine or serine and X4 is
   threonine or serine. . In a different embodiment the CDRH1 concencus sequence consists of
20 SYX3WX5 (SEQ ID NO:75) wherein X3 is I, S or Y and X5 is T or S.
            The CDRH2 consensus sequence consists of RX1X2X3SGX4X5NYX6PSLX7S (SEQ ID
   NO:34) wherein X1 is isoleucine, valine or threonine, X2 is tyrosine, phenylanaline, or serine, X3 is
   threonine, serine or alanine, X4 is isoleucine, leucine, asparagine, serine, arginine or glutamine, X5
   is threonine or asparagine, X6 is asparagine or lysine and X7 is lysine or arginine.
25          The CDRH3 consensus sequence consists of X1X2X3X4X5X6X7X8YX9YX1 OGX1 1DV (SEQ
   ID NO:35) wherein X1 is glutamic acid or aspartic acid, X2 is arginine, tyrosine or phenylaline, X3 is
   valine, alanine, arginine or threonine,   X4 is valine, threonine, glycine or isoleucine, X5 is valine,
   alanine or glycine, X6 is alanine, theorine, glycine, or glutamine, X7 is threonine, aspartic acid, argine
   or serine, X8 is arginine or tyrosine. X9 is tyrosine or histidine, X1 0 is tyrosine, aspartic acid or serine
30 and X11 is methionine, leucine or valine.
   Monoclonal Antibodies
            The antigen binding proteins that are provided include monoclonal antibodies that bind to
   CD30L.     Monoclonal antibodies may be produced using any technique known in the art, e.g., by
                                                       19

   immortalizing spleen cells harvested from the transgenic animal after completion of the immunization
   schedule. The spleen cells can be immortalized using any technique known in the art, e.g., by fusing
   them with myeloma cells to produce hybridomas. Myeloma cells for use in hybridoma-producing
   fusion procedures preferably are non-antibody-producing, have high fusion efficiency, and enzyme
 5 deficiencies that render them incapable of growing in certain selective media which support the growth
   of only the desired fused cells (hybridomas). Examples of suitable cell lines for use in mouse fusions
   include Sp-20, P3-X63/Ag8, P3-X63--Ag8.653, NS1/1.Ag 4 1, Sp210-Ag14, FO, NSO/U, MPG-11,
   MPC11-X45-GTG 1.7 and S194/5XXO Bul; examples of cell lines used in rat fusions include
   R210.RCY3, Y3-Ag 1.2.3, IR983F and 4B2110.          Other cell lines useful for cell fusions are U-266.
10 GM1500-GRG2, LICR-LON-HMy2 and UC729-6.
             In some instances, a hybridoma cell line is produced by immunizing an animal (e.g., a
   transgenic animal having human immunoglobulin sequences) with a CD30L immunogen; harvesting
   spleen cells from the immunized animal; fusing the harvested spleen cells to a myeloma cell line,
   thereby generating hybridoma cells; establishing hybridoma cell lines from the hybridoma cells, and
15 identifying a hybridoma cell line that produces an antibody that binds a CD30L polypeptide. Such
   hybridoma cell lines, and anti-CD30L monoclonal antibodies produced by them, are aspects of the
   present application.
             Monoclonal antibodies secreted by a hybridoma cell line can be purified using any technique
   known in the art.     Hybridomas or mAbs may be further screened to identify mAbs with particular
20 properties, such as the ability to reduce, inhibit, interfere with or modulate CD30L interaction with
   CD30.
   Chimeric and Humanized Antibodies
             Chimeric and humanized antibodies based upon the foregoing sequences are also provided.
   Monoclonal antibodies for use as therapeutic agents may be modified in various ways prior to use.
25 One example is a chimeric antibody, which is an antibody composed of protein segments from
   different antibodies that are covalently joined to produce functional immunoglobulin light or heavy
   chains or immunologically functional portions thereof. Generally, a portion of the heavy chain and/or
   light chain is identical with or homologous to a corresponding sequence in antibodies derived from a
   particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the
30 chain(s) is/are identical with or homologous to a corresponding sequence in antibodies derived from
   another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass. For methods relating to chimeric
   antibodies, see. for example, US Patent No. 4,816,567; and Morrison et al., 1985, Proc. Nat/. Acad.
   Sci. USA 81:6851-6855.            CDR  grafting is described,     for example, in     US Patent Nos.
   6,180,370. 5.693,762, 5.693.761, 5,585.089, and 5,530,101.
35           One useful type of chimeric antibody is a "humanized" antibody. Generally, a humanized
   antibody is produced from a monoclonal antibody raised initially in a non-human animal.          Certain
   amino acid residues in this monoclonal antibody, typically from non-antigen recognizing portions of the
   antibody, are modified to be homologous to corresponding residues in a human antibody of
   corresponding isotype.      Humanization can be performed, for example. using various methods by
40 substituting at least a portion of a rodent variable region for the corresponding regions of a human
                                                      20

   antibody (see, e.g., US Patent Nos. 5.585,089, and No. 5,693.762; Jones et al. 1986, Nature
   321:522-525; Riechmann et al., 1988. Nature 332:323-27; Verhoeyen et al.. 1988, Science 239:1534
   1536).
             In certain embodiments, constant regions from species other than human can be used along
 5 with the human variable region(s) to produce hybrid antibodies.
   Fully Human Antibodies
             Fully human antibodies are also provided.     Methods are available for making fully human
   antibodies specific for a given antigen without exposing human beings to the antigen ("fully human
   antibodies"). One specific means provided for implementing the production of fully human antibodies
10 is the "humanization" of the mouse humoral immune system. Introduction of human immunoglobulin
   (Ig) loci into mice in which the endogenous Ig genes have been inactivated is one means of producing
   fully human monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) in mouse, an animal that can be immunized with any
   desirable antigen.      Using fully human antibodies can minimize the immunogenic and allergic
   responses that can sometimes be caused by administering mouse or mouse-derivatized mAbs to
15 humans as therapeutic agents.
             Fully human antibodies can be produced by immunizing transgenic animals (usually mice) that
   are capable of producing a repertoire of human antibodies in the absence of endogenous
   immunoglobulin production. Antigens for this purpose typically have six or more contiguous amino
   acids, and optionally are conjugated to a carrier, such as a hapten. See, e.g., Jakobovits eta., 1993,
20 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 90:2551-2555; Jakobovits et aL. 1993, Nature 362:255-258; and
   Bruggermann et al., 1993, Year in Immunol. 7:33. In one example of such a method, transgenic
   animals are produced by incapacitating the endogenous mouse immunoglobulin loci encoding the
   mouse heavy and light immunoglobulin chains therein, and inserting into the mouse genome large
   fragments of human genome DNA containing loci that encode human heavy and light chain proteins.
25 Partially modified animals, which have less than the full complement of human immunoglobulin loci,
   are then cross-bred to obtain an animal having all of the desired immune system modifications. When
   administered an immunogen, these transgenic animals produce antibodies that are immunospecific for
   the immunogen but have human rather than murine amino acid sequences, including the variable
   regions.      For further details of such methods, see, for example, WIPO patent publications
30 W096/33735 and W094/02602. Additional methods relating to transgenic mice for making human
   antibodies are described in US Patent Nos. 5,545,807; 6,713,610; 6,673,986; 6,162,963; 5.545,807;
   6,300,129;      6,255.458; 5,877,397; 5,874,299    and 5.545,806;   in  WIPO      patent   publications
   W091/10741, W090/04036, and in EP 546073B1 and EP 546073A1.
             The transgenic mice described above contain a human immunoglobulin gene minilocus that
35 encodes unrearranged human heavy ([mu] and [gamma]) and [kappa] light chain immunoglobulin
   sequences, together with targeted mutations that inactivate the endogenous [mu] and [kappa] chain
   loci (Lonberg et aL, 1994, Nature 368:856-859). Accordingly, the mice exhibit reduced expression of
   mouse 1gM or [kappa] and in response to immunization. and the introduced human heavy and light
   chain transgenes undergo class switching and somatic mutation to generate high affinity human IgG
40 [kappa] monoclonal antibodies (Lonberg et al., supra.; Lonberg and Huszar, 1995, Intern. Rev.
                                                       21

   Immuno. 13: 65-93; Harding and Lonberg, 1995, Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 764:536-546). The preparation
   of such mice is described in detail in Taylor et al., 1992, Nucleic Acids Research 20:6287-6295; Chen
   et al, 1993, international Immunology 5:647-656; Tuaillon et al., 1994, J. tmmunoL 152:2912-2920;
   Lonberg et al., 1994, Nature 368:856-859; Lonberg, 1994, Handbook of Exp. Pharmacology 113:49
 5 101; Taylor et al., 1994, International Immunology 6:579-591; Lonberg and Huszar. 1995, Intern. Rev.
   Immunol. 13:65-93; Harding and Lonberg, 1995, Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 764:536-546; Fishwild et al.,
   1996, Nature Biotechnology 14:845-85.            See, further United States Patent No. 5,545,806; No.
   5,569,825; No. 5.625,126; No. 5,633,425; No. 5,789.650; No. 5,877,397; No. 5,661,016; No.
   5,814,318; No. 5,874.299; and No. 5,770,429; as well as United States Patent No. 5,545,807; WIPO
10 Publication Nos. WO 93/1227; WO 92/22646; and WO 92/03918. Technologies utilized for producing
   human antibodies in these transgenic mice are disclosed also in WIPO Publication No. WO 98/24893,
   and Mendez et al, 1997, Nature Genetics 15:146-156. For example, the HCo7 and HCol2 transgenic
   mice strains can be used to generate anti-CD30L antibodies.
             Using hybridoma technology, antigen-specific human mAbs with the desired specificity can be
15 produced and selected from the transgenic mice such as those described above. Such antibodies
   may be cloned and expressed using a suitable vector and host cell, or the antibodies can be
   harvested from cultured hybridoma cells.
             Fully human antibodies can also be derived from phage-display libraries (such as disclosed in
   Hoogenboom et al., 1991, J Mot. Biot. 227:381; Marks et al., 1991, J. Mot Biol. 222:581; WIPO
20 Publication No. WO 99/10494).          Phage display techniques mimic immune selection through the
   display of antibody repertoires on the surface of filamentous bacteriophage, and subsequent selection
   of phage by their binding to an antigen of choice.
   Bispecific or Bifunctional Antigen Binding Proteins
             A "bispecific," "dual-specific" or "bifunctional" antigen binding protein or antibody is a hybrid
25 antigen binding protein or antibody, respectively, having two different antigen binding sites, such as
   one or more CDRs or one or more variable regions as described above. In some instances they are
   an artificial hybrid antibody having two different heavy/light chain pairs and two different binding sites.
   Multispecific antigen binding protein or "multispecific antibody" is one that targets more than one
   antigen or epitope. Bispecific antigen binding proteins and antibodies are a species of multispecific
30 antigen binding protein antibody and may be produced by a variety of methods including, but not
   limited to, fusion of hybridomas or linking of Fab' fragments. See, e.g., Songsivilai and Lachmann.,
   1990, Clin. Exp. lmmunot. 79:315-321; Kostelny et al. 1992, J. Immunol. 148:1547-1553.
   Immunological Fragments
             Antigen binding proteins also include immunological fragments of an antibody (e.g., a Fab. a
35 Fab', a F(ab') 2 , or a scFv). A "Fab fragment" is comprised one light chain (the light chain variable
   region (VL) and its corresponding constant domain (CL)) and one heavy chain (the heavy chain
   variable region (V) and first constant domain      (CHI)).  The heavy chain of a Fab molecule cannot form
   a disulfide bond with another heavy chain molecule. A "Fab' fragment" contains one light chain and a
                                                                                           2
   portion of one heavy chain that also contains the region between the CH1 and        0
                                                                                         H   domains, such that
40 an interchain disulfide bond can be formed between the two heavy chains of two Fab' fragments to
                                                          22

   form an F(ab') 2 molecule. A "F(ab') 2 fragment" thus is composed of two Fab' fragments that are held
   together by a disulfide bond between the two heavy chains. A "Fv fragment" consists of the variable
   light chain region and variable heavy chain region of a single arm of an antibody. Single-chain
   antibodies "scFv" are Fv molecules in which the heavy and light chain variable regions have been
 5 connected by a flexible linker to form a single polypeptide chain, which forms an antigen binding
   region. Single chain antibodies are discussed in detail in WIPO Publication No. WO 88/01649, U.S.
   Patent Nos. 4,946,778 and No. 5,260.203; Bird, 1988, Science 242:423; Huston et al., 1988, Proc.
   Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85:5879; Ward et al., 1989, Nature 334:544, de Graaf et a., 2002. Methods
   Mol Biol. 178:379-387; Kortt et a., 1997, Prot. Eng. 10:423; Kortt et al., 2001, Biomol. Eng. 18:95-108
10 and Kriangkum et a/,, 2001, Biomol. Eng. 18:31-40. A "Fc" region contains two heavy chain fragments
   comprising the CH2 and CH3 domains of an antibody. The two heavy chain fragments are held
   together by two or more disulfide bonds and by hydrophobic interactions of the   CH3  domains.
            Also included are domain antibodies, immunologically functional immunoglobulin fragments
   containing only the variable region of a heavy chain or the variable region of a light chain. In some
15 instances, two or more     VH regions are covalently joined with a peptide linker to create a bivalent
   domain antibody. The two VH regions of a bivalent domain antibody may target the same or different
   antigens.    Diabodies are bivalent antibodies comprising two polypeptide chains, wherein each
   polypeptide chain comprises    VH and VL domains joined by a linker that is too short to allow for pairing
   between two domains on the same chain, thus allowing each domain to pair with a complementary
20 domain on another polypeptide chain (see, e.g., Holliger et al., Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6444-48,
   1993 and Poljak et al., Structure 2:1121-23, 1994). Similarly, tribodies and tetrabodies are antibodies
   comprising three and four polypeptide chains, respectively, and forming three and four antigen binding
   sites, respectively, which can be the same or different. Maxibodies comprise bivalent scFvs covalently
   attached to the Fc region of IgG1 (see, e.g., Fredericks et al, 2004, Protein Engineering, Design &
25 Selection, 17:95-106; Powers et al.. 2001, Journal of Immunological Methods, 251:123-135; Shu et al.,
   1993, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90:7995-7999; Hayden et al., 1994, Therapeutic Immunology 1:3
   15).
   Various Other Forms
            Also provided are variant forms of the antigen binding proteins disclosed above, some of the
30 antigen binding proteins having, for example, one or more conservative amino acid substitutions in
   one or more of the heavy or light chains, variable regions or CDRs listed in TABLES 1 and 2.
            Naturally-occurring amino acids may be divided into classes based on common side chain
   properties: hydrophobic (norleucine, Met, Ala, Val, Leu, lie); neutral hydrophilic (Cys, Ser, Thr. Asn.
   GIn); acidic (Asp, Glu): basic (His, Lys, Arg): residues that influence chain orientation (Gly. Pro); and
35 aromatic (Trp, Tyr, Phe).
            Conservative amino acid substitutions may involve exchange of a member of one of these
   classes with another member of the same class.            Conservative amino acid substitutions may
   encompass non-naturally occurring amino acid residues, which are typically incorporated by chemical
   peptide synthesis rather than by synthesis in biological systems. These include peptidomimetics and
40 other reversed or inverted forms of amino acid moieties.          Such substantial modifications in the
                                                       23

   functional and/or biochemical characteristics of the antigen binding proteins described herein may be
   achieved by creating substitutions in the amino acid sequence of the heavy and light chains that differ
   significantly in their effect on maintaining (a) the structure of the molecular backbone in the area of the
   substitution, for example, as a sheet or helical conformation, (b) the charge or hydrophobicity of the
 5 molecule at the target site, or (c) the bulkiness of the side chain.
             Non-conservative substitutions may involve the exchange of a member of one of the above
   classes for a member from another class. Such substituted residues may be introduced into regions
   of the antibody that are homologous with human antibodies, or into the non-homologous regions of the
   molecule.
10           In making such changes, according to certain embodiments, the hydropathic index of amino
   acids may be considered. The hydropathic profile of a protein is calculated by assigning each amino
   acid a numerical value ("hydropathy index") and then repetitively averaging these values along the
   peptide chain.       Each amino acid has been assigned a hydropathic index on the basis of its
   hydrophobicity and charge characteristics. They are: isoleucine (+4.5); valine (+4.2); leucine (+3.8);
15 phenylalanine (+2.8); cysteine/cystine (+2.5); methionine (+1.9);            alanine (+1.8); glycine (-0.4);
   threonine (-0.7); serine (-0.8); tryptophan (-0.9); tyrosine (-1.3); proline (-1.6); histidine (-3.2);
   glutamate (-3.5); glutamine (-3.5); aspartate (-3.5); asparagine (-3.5); lysine (-3.9); and arginine (-4.5).
            The importance of the hydropathic profile in conferring interactive biological function on a
   protein is understood in the art (see, e.g., Kyte et at., 1982, J. Mol. Biol. 157:105-131). It is known that
20 certain amino acids may be substituted for other amino acids having a similar hydropathic index or
   score and still retain a similar biological activity. In making changes based upon the hydropathic index,
   in certain embodiments, the substitution of amino acids whose hydropathic indices are within 2 is
   included. In some aspects, those which are within 1 are included, and in other aspects, those within
   0.5 are included.
25           It is also understood in the art that the substitution of like amino acids can be made effectively
   on the basis of hydrophilicity, particularly where the biologically functional protein or peptide thereby
   created is intended for use in immunological embodiments, as in the present case. In certain
   embodiments, the greatest local average hydrophilicity of a protein, as governed by the hydrophilicity
   of its adjacent amino acids. correlates with its immunogenicity and antigen binding or immunogenicity,
30 that is, with a biological property of the protein.
            The following hydrophilicity values have been assigned to these amino acid residues: arginine
   (+3.0); lysine (+3.0); aspartate (+3.01); glutamate (+3.01); serine (+0.3); asparagine (+0.2);
   glutamine (+0.2); glycine (0); threonine (-0.4); proline (-0.511); alanine (-0.5); histidine (-0.5); cysteine
   (-1.0); methionine (-1.3); valine (-1.5); leucine (-1.8); isoleucine (-1.8); tyrosine (-2.3); phenylalanine (
35 2.5) and tryptophan (-3.4). In making changes based upon similar hydrophilicity values, in certain
   embodiments, the substitution of amino acids whose hydrophilicity values are within 2 is included, in
   other embodiments, those which are within 11 are included, and in still other embodiments, those
   within 0.5 are included. In some instances, one may also identify epitopes from primary amino acid
   sequences on the basis of hydrophilicity.              These regions are also referred to as "epitopic
40 core regions."
             Exemplary conservative amino acid substitutions are set forth in TABLE 4.
                                                           24

   TABLE 4
 5 Conservative Amino Acid Substitutions
   Residue       Sub           Residue       Sub           Residue          Sub           Residue         Sub
   Ala          Ser         Gin            Asn           Leu             lie, Val      Thr             Ser
   Arg          Lys         Glu            Asp           Lys             Arg,          Trp            Tyr
                                                                         Gin,
                                                                         Glu
   Asn          Gin.        Gly            Pro           Met             Leu, Ile      Tyr            Trp,
                His                                                                                    Phe
   Asp          Glu          His           Asn.          Phe             Met,          Val             lie, Leu
                                           Gin                           Leu,
                                                                         Tyr
   Cys          Ser          Ile           Leu,          Ser             Thr           Thr             Ser
                                           Val
   Residue    = Original Residue    Sub     Exemplary Substitution
            A skilled artisan will be able to determine suitable variants of polypeptides as set forth herein
   using well-known techniques. One skilled in the art may identify suitable areas of the molecule that
10 may be changed without destroying activity by targeting regions not believed to be important for
   activity. The skilled artisan also will be able to identify residues and portions of the molecules that are
   conserved among similar polypeptides. In further embodiments, even areas that may be important for
   biological activity or for structure may be subject to conservative amino acid substitutions without
   destroying the biological activity or without adversely affecting the polypeptide structure.
15          Additionally, one skilled in the art can review structure-function studies identifying residues in
   similar polypeptides that are important for activity or structure. In view of such a comparison, one can
   predict the importance of amino acid residues in a protein that correspond to amino acid residues
   important for activity or structure in similar proteins.     One skilled in the art may opt for chemically
   similar amino acid substitutions for such predicted important amino acid residues.
20           One skilled in the art can also analyze the 3-dimensional structure and amino acid sequence
   in relation to that structure in similar polypeptides. In view of such information, one skilled in the art
   may predict the alignment of amino acid residues of an antibody with respect to its three dimensional
   structure. One skilled in the art may choose not to make radical changes to amino acid residues
   predicted to be on the surface of the protein, since such residues may be involved in important
25 interactions with other molecules.        Moreover, one skilled in the art may generate test variants
   containing a single amino acid substitution at each desired amino acid residue. These variants can
   then be screened using assays for CD30L activity, (see Example section below) thus yielding
   information regarding which amino acids can be changed and which must not be changed. In other
   words, based on information gathered from such routine experiments, one skilled in the art can readily
                                                         25

   determine the amino acid positions where further substitutions should be avoided either alone or in
   combination with other mutations.
            A number of scientific publications have been devoted to the prediction of secondary structure.
   See, Moult, 1996, Curr. Op. in Biotech. 7:422.427: Chou et aL, 1974, Biochem. 13:222-245; Chou et
 5 al., 1974, Biochemistry 113:211-222; Chou et al. 1978, Adv. Enzymol. Re/at. Areas Mo. Biot 47:45
   148; Chou et at, 1979, Ann. Rev. Biochem. 47:251-276; and Chou et aL, 1979, Biophys. J. 26:367
   384.    Moreover, computer programs are currently available to assist with predicting secondary
   structure. One method of predicting secondary structure is based upon homology modeling.               For
   example, two polypeptides or proteins that have a sequence identity of greater than 30%, or similarity
10 greater than 40% often have similar structural topologies. The recent growth of the protein structural
   database (PDB) has provided enhanced predictability of secondary structure. including the potential
   number of folds within a polypeptide's or protein's structure. See, Holm et aL, 1999, Nuc. Acid. Res.
   27:244-247. It has been suggested (Brenner et al., 1997, Curr. Op. Struct. BioL 7:369-376) that there
   are a limited number of folds in a given polypeptide or protein and that once a critical number of
15 structures have been resolved, structural prediction will become dramatically more accurate.
            Additional methods of predicting secondary structure include "threading" (Jones, 1997, Curr.
   Opin. Struct. Biol 7:377-387; Sippl et at, 1996. Structure 4:15-19). "profile analysis" (Bowie et at,
   1991, Science 253:164-170; Gribskov et aL, 1990, Meth. Enzym. 183:146-159; Gribskov et aL, 1987,
   Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 84:4355-4358), and "evolutionary linkage" (See, Holm, 1999, supra; and
20 Brenner, 1997, supra).
            In some embodiments, amino acid substitutions are made that: (1) reduce susceptibility to
   proteolysis, (2) reduce susceptibility to oxidation, (3) alter binding affinity for forming protein
   complexes, (4) alter ligand or antigen binding affinities, and/or (4) confer or modify other
   physicochemical or functional properties on such polypeptides. such as maintaining the structure of
25 the molecular backbone in the area of the substitution, for example, as a sheet or helical conformation;
   maintaining or altering the charge or hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site, or maintaining or
   altering the bulkiness of a side chain.
            For example, single or multiple amino acid substitutions (in certain embodiments, conservative
   amino acid substitutions) may be made in the naturally-occurring sequence. Substitutions can be
30 made in that portion of the antibody that lies outside the domain(s) forming intermolecular contacts).
   In such embodiments, conservative amino acid substitutions can be used that do not substantially
   change the structural characteristics of the parent sequence (e.g., one or more replacement amino
   acids that do not disrupt the secondary structure that characterizes the parent or native antigen
   binding protein).    Examples of art-recognized polypeptide secondary and tertiary structures are
35 described in Proteins, Structures and Molecular Principles (Creighton, Ed.), 1984. W. H. New York:
   Freeman and Company; Introduction to Protein Structure (Branden and Tooze, eds.), 1991, New York:
   Garland Publishing; and Thornton et al., 1991, Nature 354:105.
            Additional variants include cysteine variants wherein one or more cysteine residues in the
   parent or native amino acid sequence are deleted from or substituted with another amino acid (e.g.,
40 serine). Cysteine variants are useful, inter alla when antibodies (for example) must be refolded into a
                                                      26

   biologically active conformation. Cysteine variants may have fewer cysteine residues than the native
   protein, and typically have an even number to minimize interactions resulting from unpaired cysteines.
            The heavy and light chain variable region and CDRs that are disclosed can be used to
   prepare antigen binding proteins that contain an antigen binding region that can specifically bind to a
 5 CD30L polypeptide.        "Antigen binding region" means a protein, or a portion of a protein, that
   specifically binds a specified antigen, such as the region that contains the amino acid residues that
   interact with an antigen and confer on the antigen binding protein its specificity and affinity for the
   target antigen. An antigen binding region may include one or more CDRs and certain antigen binding
   regions also include one or more "framework" regions. For example, one or more of the CDRs listed
10 in TABLE 3 can be incorporated into a molecule (e.g., a polypeptide) covalently or noncovalently to
   make an immunoadhesion. An immunoadhesion may incorporate the CDR(s) as part of a larger
   polypeptide chain, may covalently link the CDR(s) to another polypeptide chain, or may incorporate
   the CDR(s) noncovalently. The CDR(s) enable the immunoadhesion to bind specifically to a particular
   antigen of interest (e.g., a CD30L polypeptide).
15          Other antigen binding proteins include mimetics (e.g., "peptide mimetics" or "peptidomimetics")
   based upon the variable regions and CDRs that are described herein.                These analogs can be
   peptides, non-peptides or combinations of peptide and non-peptide regions. Fauchere. 1986. Adv.
   Drug Res. 15:29; Veber and Freidinger, 1985, TINS p. 392; and Evans et al., 1987, J. Med. Chem.
   30:1229. Peptide mimetics that are structurally similar to therapeutically useful peptides may be used
20 to produce a similar therapeutic or prophylactic effect. Such compounds are often developed with the
   aid of computerized molecular modeling. Generally, peptidomimetics are proteins that are structurally
   similar to an antigen binding protein displaying a desired biological activity, such as the ability to inhibit
   or block the interaction of CD30 and CD30L, but peptidomimetics have one or more peptide linkages
   optionally replaced by a linkage selected from, for example: -CH2NH-, -CH 2S-, -CHrCH2 -, -CH-CH-(cis
25 and trans), -COCH 2 , -CH(OH)CH2-, and -CH2SO-. by methods well known in the art. Systematic
   substitution of one or more amino acids of a consensus sequence with a D-amino acid of the same
   type (e.g., D-lysine in place of L-lysine) may be used in certain embodiments to generate more stable
   proteins.   In addition, constrained peptides comprising a consensus sequence or a substantially
   identical consensus sequence variation may be generated by methods known in the art (Rizo and
30 Gierasch, 1992, Ann. Rev. Biochem 61:387), for example, by adding internal cysteine residues
   capable of forming intramolecular disulfide bridges which cyclize the peptide.
            Derivatives of the antigen binding proteins that are described herein are also provided. The
   derivatized antigen binding proteins can comprise any molecule or substance that imparts a desired
   property to the antigen binding protein or fragment, such as increased half-life in a particular use. The
35 derivatized antigen binding protein can comprise, for example, a detectable (or labeling) moiety (e.g.,
   a radioactive, colorimetric, antigenic or enzymatic molecule, a detectable bead (such as a magnetic or
   electrodense (e.g., gold) bead), or a molecule that binds to another molecule (e.g., biotin or
   Streptavidin)), a therapeutic or diagnostic moiety (e.g., a radioactive, cytotoxic, or pharmaceutically
   active moiety), or a molecule that increases the suitability of the antigen binding protein for a particular
40 use (e.g., administration to a subject, such as a human subject, or other in vivo or in vitro uses).
   Examples of molecules that can be used to derivatize an antigen binding protein include albumin (e.g.,
                                                       27

   human serum albumin) and polyethylene glycol (PEG). Albumin-linked and PEGylated derivatives of
   antigen binding proteins can be prepared using techniques well known in the art. In one embodiment,
   the antigen binding protein is conjugated or otherwise linked to transthyretin (TTR) or a TTR variant.
   The TTR or TTR variant can be chemically modified with, for example. a chemical selected from the
 5 group consisting of dextran, poly(n-vinyl pyrrolidone), polyethylene glycols, propropylene glycol
   homopolymers, polypropylene oxide/ethylene oxide co-polymers, polyoxyethylated polyols and
   polyvinyl alcohols.
             Other derivatives include covalent or aggregative conjugates of CD30L antigen binding
   proteins with other proteins or polypeptides, such as by expression of recombinant fusion proteins
10 comprising heterologous polypeptides fused to the N-terminus or C-terminus of a CD30L antigen
   binding protein.     For example, the conjugated peptide may be a heterologous signal (or leader)
   polypeptide, e.g., the yeast alpha-factor leader, or a peptide such as an epitope tag. CD30L antigen
   binding protein-containing fusion proteins can comprise peptides added to facilitate purification or
   identification of the CD30L antigen binding protein (e.g., poly-His). A CD30L antigen binding protein
15 also can be linked to the FLAG peptide as described in Hopp et a., 1988. Bio/Technology 6:1204; and
   US Patent No. 5,011,912. The FLAG peptide is highly antigenic and provides an epitope reversibly
   bound by a specific monoclonal antibody (mAb). enabling rapid assay and facile purification of
   expressed recombinant protein.       Reagents useful for preparing fusion proteins in which the FLAG
   peptide is fused to a given polypeptide are commercially available (Sigma, St. Louis, MO).
20           Oligomers that contain one or more CD30L antigen binding proteins may be employed as
   CD30L antagonists.       Oligomers may be in the form of covalently-.linked or non-covalently-linked
   dimers, trimers, or higher oligomers.     Oligomers comprising two or more CD30L antigen binding
   proteins are contemplated for use, with one example being a homodimer. Other oligomers include
   heterodimers,     homotrimers, heterotrimers,    homotetramers,    heterotetramers,  etc.   Oligomers
25 comprising multiple CD30L binding proteins joined via covalent or non-covalent interactions between
   peptide moieties fused to the CD30L antigen binding proteins, are also included. Such peptides may
   be peptide linkers (spacers), or peptides that have the property of promoting oligomerization. Among
   the suitable peptide linkers are those described in US Patent. Nos. 4,751,180 and 4,935,233. Leucine
   zippers and certain polypeptides derived from antibodies are among the peptides that can promote
30 oligomerization of CD30L antigen binding proteins attached thereto.         Examples of leucine zipper
   domains suitable for producing soluble oligomeric proteins are described in WIPO Publication No. WO
   94/10308; Hoppe et al.,        1994, FEBS Letters 344:191; and Fanslow et al., 1994, Semin.
   Immunol. 6:267-278. In one approach, recombinant fusion proteins comprising a CD30L antigen
   binding protein fragment or derivative fused to a leucine zipper peptide are expressed in suitable host
35 cells, and the soluble oligomeric CD30L antigen binding protein fragments or derivatives that form are
   recovered from the culture supernatant.
             Such oligomers may comprise from two to four CD30L antigen binding proteins. The CD30L
   antigen binding protein moieties of the oligomer may be in any of the forms described above, e.g.,
   variants or fragments. Preferably, the oligomers comprise CD30L antigen binding proteins that have
40 CD30L binding activity.           Oligomers   may be prepared using polypeptides derived from
   immunoglobulins. Preparation of fusion proteins comprising certain heterologous polypeptides fused
                                                      28

   to various portions of antibody-derived polypeptides (including the Fc domain) has been described,
   e.g., by Ashkenazi et al., 1991, Proc. Nat. Acad. Scl USA 88:10535; Byrn et at, 1990, Nature
   344:677; and Hollenbaugh et al., 1992 "Construction of Immunoglobulin Fusion Proteins", in Current
   Protocols in Immunology, Suppl. 4, pages 10.19.1-10.19.11.
 5          Also included are dimers comprising two fusion proteins created by fusing a CD30L antigen
   binding protein to the Fc region of an antibody. The dimer can be made by, for example, inserting a
   gene fusion encoding the fusion protein into an appropriate expression vector, expressing the gene
   fusion in host cells transformed with the recombinant expression vector, and allowing the expressed
   fusion protein to assemble much like antibody molecules, whereupon interchain disulfide bonds form
10 between the Fc moieties to yield the dimer. Such Fc polypeptides include native and mutein forms of
   polypeptides derived from the Fc region of an antibody.          Truncated forms of such polypeptides
   containing the hinge region that promotes dimerization also are included. Fusion proteins comprising
   Fc moieties (and oligomers formed therefrom) offer the advantage of facile purification by affinity
   chromatography over Protein A or Protein G columns.           One suitable Fc polypeptide, described in
15 WIPO Publication No. WO 93/10151 and US Patent. Nos. 5,426,048 and 5,262,522, is a single chain
   polypeptide extending from the N-terminal hinge region to the native C-terminus of the Fc region of a
   human IgG1 antibody. Another useful Fc polypeptide is the Fc mutein described in US Patent No.
   5,457,035, and in Baum et al., 1994, EMBO J. 13:3992-4001.            The amino acid sequence of this
   mutein is identical to that of the native Fc sequence presented in WIPO Publication No. WO 93/10151,
20 except that amino acid 19 has been changed from Leu to Ala. amino acid 20 has been changed from
   Leu to Glu, and amino acid 22 has been changed from Gly to Ala. The mutein exhibits reduced affinity
   for Fc receptors.
   Glycosylation
            The antigen binding protein may have a glycosylation pattern that is different or altered from
25 that found in the native species. As is known in the art, glycosylation patterns can depend on both the
   sequence of the protein (e.g., the presence or absence of particular glycosylation amino acid residues.
   discussed below), or the host cell or organism in which the protein is produced. Particular expression
   systems are discussed below.
            Glycosylation of polypeptides is typically either N-linked or 0-linked. N-linked refers to the
30 attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tri-peptide
   sequences asparagine-X-serine and asparagine-X-threonine, where X is any amino acid except
   proline, are the recognition sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the
   asparagine side chain. Thus, the presence of either of these tri-peptide sequences in a polypeptide
   creates a potential glycosylation site. 0-linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the
35 sugars N-acetylgalactosamine, galactose, or xylose, to a hydroxyamino acid, most commonly serine or
   threonine, although 5-hydroxyproline or 5-hydroxylysine may also be used.
            Addition of glycosylation sites to the antigen binding protein is conveniently accomplished by
   altering the amino acid sequence such that it contains one or more of the above-described tri-peptide
   sequences (for N-linked glycosylation sites). The alteration may also be made by the addition of, or
40 substitution by, one or more serine or threonine residues to the starting sequence (for 0-linked
                                                        29

   glycosylation sites).   For ease, the antigen binding protein amino acid sequence may be altered
   through changes at the DNA level, particularly by mutating the DNA encoding the target polypeptide at
   preselected bases such that codons are generated that will translate into the desired amino acids.
            Another means of increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on the antigen binding
 5 protein is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the protein. These procedures are
   advantageous in that they do not require production of the protein in a host cell that has glycosylation
   capabilities for N- and 0-linked glycosylation. Depending on the coupling mode used, the sugar(s)
   may be attached to (a) arginine and histidine, (b) free carboxyl groups, (c) free sulihydryl groups such
   as those of cysteine, (d)free hydroxyl groups such as those of serine, threonine, or hydroxyproline, (e)
10 aromatic residues such as those of phenylalanine, tyrosine, or tryptophan, or (f) the amide group of
   glutamine.    Themethods are described in PCT Publication No. WO 87/05330, and in Aplin and
   Wriston, 1981, CRC Crit. Rev, Biochem., pp. 259-306.
            Removal of carbohydrate moieties present on the starting antigen binding protein may be
   accomplished chemically or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation requires exposure of the protein
15 to the compound trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, or an equivalent compound. This treatment results in
   the cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or N
   acetylgalactosamine). while leaving the polypeptide intact. Chemical deglycosylation is described by
   Hakimuddin et al.. 1987, Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 259:52 and by Edge et al, 1981, Anal. Biochem.
   118:131. Enzymatic cleavage of carbohydrate moieties on polypeptides can be achieved by the use
20 of a variety of endo- and exo-glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al., 1987, Meth. Enzymol.
   138:350. Glycosylation at potential glycosylation sites may be prevented by the use of the compound
   tunicamycin as described by Duskin et aL, 1982, J. iol. Chem. 257:3105. Tunicamycin blocks the
   formation of protein-N-glycoside linkages.
            Hence, aspects include glycosylation variants of the antigen binding proteins wherein the
25 number and/or type of glycosylation site(s) has been altered compared to the amino acid sequences
   of the parent polypeptide. In certain embodiments, antigen binding protein variants comprise a greater
   or a lesser number of N-linked glycosylation sites than the parent polypeptide. Substitutions that
   eliminate or alter this sequence will prevent addition of an N-linked carbohydrate chain present in the
   parent polypeptide. For example, the glycosylation can be reduced by the deletion of an Asn or by
30 substituting the Asn with a different amino acid. Antibodies typically have a N-linked glycosylation site
   in the Fc region.
   Labels And Effector Groups
            Antigen binding proteins may comprise one or more labels. The term "label" or "labeling
   group" refers to any detectable label. In general, labels fall into a variety of classes, depending on the
35 assay in which they are to be detected: a) isotopic labels, which may be radioactive or heavy isotopes;
   b) magnetic labels (e.g., magnetic particles); c) redox active moieties; d) optical dyes; enzymatic
   groups (e.g. horseradish       peroxidase, p-galactosidase,       luciferase, alkaline phosphatase); e)
   biotinylated groups; and f) predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter
   (e.g., leucine zipper pair sequences, binding sites for secondary antibodies, metal binding domains,
40 epitope tags, etc.). In some embodiments, the labeling group is coupled to the antigen binding protein
                                                       30

   via spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labeling
   proteins are known in the art. Examples of suitable labeling groups include, but are not limited to, the
                                                                 15
   following: radioisotopes or radionuclides (e.g., 3H,    14 C,   N, 35S, *Y, 99Tc. 'In 1251, 13l1). fluorescent
   groups (e.g., FITC,       rhodamine, lanthanide phosphors), enzymatic groups (e.g., horseradish
 5 peroxidase,   s-galactosidase,   luciferase, alkaline phosphatase), chemiluminescent groups, biotinyl
   groups, or predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter (e.g., leucine
   zipper pair sequences, binding sites for secondary antibodies, metal binding domains, epitope tags).
   In some embodiments, the labeling group is coupled to the antigen binding protein via spacer arms of
   various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labeling proteins are known
10 in the art and may be used as is seen fit.
            The term "effector group" means any group coupled to an antigen binding protein that acts as
   a cytotoxic agent. Examples for suitable effector groups are radioisotopes or radionuclides (e.g., 3H,
         5    35        99
   14C     N,   S, **Y,   Tc, "'In, 1251, 1311). Other suitable groups include toxins, therapeutic groups, or
   chemotherapeutic groups.           Examples of suitable groups include calicheamicin, auristatins,
15 geldanamycin and maytansine. In some embodiments, the effector group is coupled to the antigen
   binding protein via spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance.
   Polynucleotides Encoding CD30L Antigen Binding Proteins
             Polynucleotides that encode the antigen binding proteins described herein, or portions thereof,
   are also provided, including polynucleotides encoding one or both chains of an antibody, or a
20 fragment, derivative, mutein, or variant thereof, polynucleotides encoding heavy chain variable regions
   or only CDRs, polynucleotides sufficient for use as hybridization probes, PCR primers or sequencing
   primers for identifying, analyzing, mutating or amplifying a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide, anti
   sense nucleic acids for inhibiting expression of a polynucleotide, and complementary sequences of the
   foregoing. The polynucleotides can be any length. They can be, for example, 5, 10, 15. 20, 25, 30,
25 35, 40, 45, 50. 75, 85, 95, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 750. 1,000, 1,500,
   3,000, 5,000 or more nucleic acids in length, including all values in between, and/or can comprise one
   or more additional sequences, for example, regulatory sequences, and/or be part of a larger
   polynucleotide, for example, a vector. The polynucleotides can be single-stranded or double-stranded
   and can comprise RNA and/or DNA nucleic acids and artificial variants thereof (e.g., peptide nucleic
30 acids).
             Polynucleotides encoding certain antigen binding proteins, or portions thereof (e.g., full length
   antibody, heavy or light chain, variable domain, or a CDRH1, CDRH2, CDRH3. CDRL1, CDRL2. or
   CDRL3) may be isolated from B-cells of mice that have been immunized with CD30L or an
   immunogenic fragment thereof. The polynucleotide may be isolated by conventional procedures such
35 as polymerase chain reaction (PCR).           Phage display is another example of a known technique
   whereby derivatives of antibodies and other antigen binding proteins may be prepared.                   In one
   approach, polypeptides that are components of an antigen binding protein of interest are expressed in
   any suitable recombinant expression system, and the expressed polypeptides are allowed to
   assemble to form antigen binding protein molecules. Phage display is also used to derive antigen
                                                         31

   binding proteins having different properties (i.e., varying affinities for the antigen to which they bind)
   via chain shuffling, see Marks et al., 1992. BioTechnology 10:779.
            Due to the degeneracy of the genetic code, each of the polypeptide sequences depicted
   herein are also encoded by a large number of other polynucleotide sequences besides those
 5 provided.     For example, heavy chain variable domains provided herein in may be encoded by
   polynucleotide sequences SEQ ID NOs: 49, 51, 53, 55, 57, 59. 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71 and 73. Light
   chain variable domains may be encoded by polynucleotide sequences SEQ ID NOs:37, 39, 41, 43. 45,
   and 47.     One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the present application thus provides
   adequate written description and enablement for each degenerate nucleotide sequence encoding
10 each antigen binding protein.
            An aspect further provides polynucleotides that hybridize to other polynucleotide molecules
   under particular hybridization conditions.     Methods for hybridizing nucleic acids, basic parameters
   affecting the choice of hybridization conditions and guidance for devising suitable conditions are well
   known in the art. See, e.g., Sambrook, Fritsch. and Maniatis (2001, Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
15 Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor. N.Y. and Current Protocols in
   Molecular Biology, 1995, Ausubel et al. eds., John Wiley & Sons, Inc..               As defined herein, a
   moderately stringent hybridization condition uses a prewashing solution containing 5x sodium
   chloride/sodium citrate (SSC), 0.5% SDS, 1.0 mM EDTA (pH 8.0), hybridization buffer of about 50%
   formamide, 6x SSC, and a hybridization temperature of SSC (or other similar hybridization solutions.
20 such as one containing about 50% formamide, with a hybridization temperature of 42C), and washing
   conditions of 600C, in 0.5x SSC, 0.1% SDS. A stringent hybridization condition hybridizes in 6x SSC
   at 450 C, followed by one or more washes in 0.1 x SSC, 0.2% SDS at 680C. Furthermore, one of skill in
   the art can manipulate the hybridization and/or washing conditions to increase or decrease the
   stringency of hybridization such that polynucleotides comprising nucleic acid sequences that are at
25 least 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85% 90%, 91%, 92, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% identical to
   each other, including all values in between, typically remain hybridized to each other.
            Changes can be introduced by mutation into a polynucleotide, thereby leading to changes in
   the amino acid sequence of a polypeptide (e.g., an antigen binding protein or antigen binding protein
   derivative) that it encodes. Mutations can be introduced using any technique known in the art, such as
30 site-directed mutagenesis and random mutagenesis.          Mutant polypeptides can be expressed and
   selected for a desired property. Mutations can be introduced into a polynucleotide without significantly
   altering the biological activity of a polypeptide that it encodes.     For example, substitutions at non
   essential amino acid residues.       Alternatively, one or more mutations can be introduced into a
   polynucleotide that selectively change the biological activity of a polypeptide that it encodes.       For
35 example, the mutation can quantitatively or qualitatively change the biological activity, such as
   increasing, reducing or eliminating the activity and changing the antigen specificity of an antigen
   binding protein.
            Another aspect provides polynucleotides that are suitable for use as primers or hybridization
   probes for the detection of nucleic acid sequences. A polynucleotide can comprise only a portion of a
40 nucleic acid sequence encoding a full-length polypeptide, for example, a fragment that can be used as
                                                        32

   a probe or primer or a fragment encoding an active portion (e.g., a CD30L binding portion) of a
   polypeptide. Probes based on the sequence of a nucleic acid can be used to detect the nucleic acid
   or similar nucleic acids, for example, transcripts encoding a polypeptide. The probe can comprise a
   label group, e.g., a radioisotope, a fluorescent compound, an enzyme. or an enzyme co-factor. Such
 5 probes can be used to identify a cell that expresses the polypeptide.
   Methods of Expressing Antigen Binding Proteins
            The antigen binding proteins provided herein may be prepared by any of a number of
   conventional techniques.      For example. CD30L antigen binding proteins may be produced by
   recombinant expression systems, using any technique known in the art.              See, e.g., Monoclonal
10 Antibodies, Hybridomas: A New Dimension in Biological Analyses, Kennet et al.(eds.) Plenum Press,
   New York (1980); and Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual. Harlow and Lane (eds.). Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1988).
            Expression systems and constructs in the form of plasmids, expression vectors, transcription
   or expression cassettes that comprise at least one polynucleotide as described above are also
15 provided herein, as well host cells comprising such expression systems or constructs. As used herein,
   "vector" means any molecule or entity (e.g., nucleic acid, plasmid, bacteriophage or virus) suitable for
   use to transfer protein coding information into a host cell. Examples of vectors include, but are not
   limited to, plasmids, viral vectors, non-episomal mammalian vectors and expression vectors, for
   example, recombinant expression vectors. Expression vectors, such as recombinant expression
20 vectors, are useful for transformation of a host cell and contain nucleic acid sequences that direct
   and/or control (in conjunction with the host cell) expression of one or more heterologous coding
   regions operatively linked thereto.      An expression construct may include, but is not limited to,
   sequences that affect or control transcription, translation, and, if introns are present, affect RNA
   splicing of a coding region operably linked thereto. "Operably linked" means that the components to
25 which the term is applied are in a relationship that allows them to carry out their inherent functions.
   For example, a control sequence, e.g., a promoter, in a vector that is "operably linked" to a protein
   coding sequence are arranged such that normal activity of the control sequence leads to transcription
   of the protein coding sequence resulting in recombinant expression of the encoded protein.
            Another aspect provides host cells into which an expression vector, such as a recombinant
30 expression vector, has been introduced. A host cell can be any prokaryotic cell (for example, E. coh)
   or eukaryotic cell (for example, yeast, insect, or mammalian cells (e.g., CHO cells)). Vector DNA can
   be introduced into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells via conventional transformation or transfection
   techniques.    For stable transfection of mammalian cells, it is known that, depending upon the
   expression vector and transfection technique used, only a small fraction of cells may integrate the
35 foreign DNA into their genome. In order to identify and select these integrants, a gene that encodes a
   selectable marker (e.g., for resistance to antibiotics) is generally introduced into the host cells along
   with the gene of interest.     Preferred selectable markers include those which confer resistance to
   drugs, such as G418, hygromycin and methotrexate.           Cells stably transfected with the introduced
   polynucleotide can be identified by drug selection (e.g., cells that have incorporated the selectable
40 marker gene will survive, while the other cells die), among other methods.
                                                        33

            Antigen binding proteins can be expressed in hybridoma cell lines (e.g., in particular
   antibodies may be expressed in hybridomas) or in cell lines other than hybridomas.           Expression
   constructs encoding the antigen binding proteins can be used to transform a mammalian, insect or
   microbial host cell.    Transformation can be performed using any known method for introducing
 5 polynucleotides into a host cell, including, for example packaging the polynucleotide in a virus or
   bacteriophage and transducing a host cell with the construct by transfection procedures known in the
   art, as exemplified by US Patent Nos. 4.399.216; 4,912,040; 4,740,461; 4,959,455.           The optimal
   transformation procedure used will depend upon which type of host cell is being transformed.
   Methods for introduction of heterologous polynucleotides into mammalian cells are well known in the
10 art and include, but are not limited to. dextran-mediated transfection, calcium phosphate precipitation,
   polybrene     mediated    transfection,   protoplast    fusion, electroporation, encapsulation    of  the
   polynucleotide(s) in liposomes, mixing nucleic acid with positively-charged lipids, and direct
   microinjection of the DNA into nuclei.
            Recombinant      expression constructs      typically comprise a polynucleotide encoding       a
15 polypeptide. The polypeptide may comprise one or more of the following: one or more CDRs such as
   provided herein; a light chain variable region; a heavy chain variable region; a light chain constant
   region; a heavy chain constant region (e.g., CH1, 0 H2 and/or CH3 ); and/or another scaffold portion of a
   CD30L antigen binding protein.        These nucleic acid sequences are inserted into an appropriate
   expression vector using standard ligation techniques. In one embodiment, the heavy or light chain
20 constant region is appended to the C-terminus of a heavy or light chain variable region provided
   herein and is ligated into an expression vector. The vector is typically selected to be functional in the
   particular host cell employed (i.e., the vector is compatible with the host cell machinery, permitting
   amplification and/or expression of the gene can occur). In some embodiments, vectors are used that
   employ protein-fragment complementation assays using protein reporters, such as dihydrofolate
25 reductase (see, for example. U.S. Pat. No. 6,270,964).             Suitable expression vectors can be
   purchased, for example, from Invitrogen Life Technologies (Carlsbad, CA) or BD Biosciences (San
   Jose, CA).     Other useful vectors for cloning and expressing the antibodies and fragments include
   those described in Bianchi and McGrew, 2003, Biotech. Biotechnot Bioeng. 84:439-44. Additional
   suitable expression vectors are discussed, for example, in Methods Enzymo., vol. 185 (D. V. Goeddel.
30 ed.), 1990, New York: Academic Press.
            Typically, expression vectors used in any of the host cells will contain sequences for plasmid
   maintenance and for cloning and expression of exogenous nucleotide sequences. Such sequences,
   collectively referred to as "flanking sequences" in certain embodiments will typically include one or
   more of the following nucleotide sequences: a promoter, one or more enhancer sequences, an origin
35 of replication, a transcriptional termination sequence, a complete intron sequence containing a donor
   and acceptor splice site, a sequence encoding a leader sequence for polypeptide secretion, a
   ribosome binding site, a polyadenylation sequence, a polylinker region for inserting the polynucleotide
   encoding the polypeptide to be expressed, and a selectable marker element. The expression vectors
   that are provided may be constructed from a starting vector such as a commercially available vector.
40 Such vectors may or may not contain all of the desired flanking sequences. Where one or more of the
   flanking sequences described herein are not already present in the vector, they may be individually
                                                          34

   obtained and ligated into the vector. Methods used for obtaining each of the flanking sequences are
   well known to one skilled in the art,
             Optionally, the vector may contain a "tag"-encoding sequence, i.e., an oligonucleotide
   molecule located at the 5' or 3' end of the CD30L antigen binding protein coding sequence; the
 5 oligonucleotide sequence encodes polyHis (such as hexaHis), or another "tag" such as FLAG.                 HA
   (hemaglutinin influenza virus), or myc, for which commercially available antibodies exist. This tag is
   typically fused to the polypeptide upon expression of the polypeptide, and can serve as a means for
   affinity purification or detection of the CD30L antigen binding protein from the host cell.           Affinity
   purification can be accomplished, for example, by column chromatography using antibodies against
10 the tag as an affinity matrix.    Optionally, the tag can subsequently be removed from the purified
   CD30L antigen binding protein by various means such as using certain peptidases for cleavage.
             Flanking sequences may be homologous (i.e., from the same species and/or strain as the host
   cell). heterologous (i.e., from a species other than the host cell species or strain), hybrid (i.e., a
   combination of flanking sequences from more than one source), synthetic or native. As such, the
15 source of a flanking sequence may be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic organism, any vertebrate or
   invertebrate organism, or any plant, provided that the flanking sequence is functional in, and can be
   activated by, the host cell machinery.
             Flanking sequences useful in the vectors may be obtained by any of several methods well
   known in the art. Typically, flanking sequences useful herein will have been previously identified by
20 mapping and/or by restriction endonuclease digestion and can thus be isolated from the proper tissue
   source using the appropriate restriction endonucleases. In some cases, the full nucleotide sequence
   of a flanking sequence may be known. Here, the flanking sequence may be synthesized using the
   methods described herein for nucleic acid synthesis or cloning.
            Whether all or only a portion of the flanking sequence is known, it may be obtained using
25 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and/or by screening a genomic library with a suitable probe such as
   an oligonucleotide and/or flanking sequence fragment from the same or another species. Where the
   flanking sequence is not known, a fragment of DNA containing a flanking sequence may be isolated
   from a larger piece of DNA that may contain, for example, a coding sequence or even another gene or
   genes, Isolation may be accomplished by restriction endonuclease digestion to produce the proper
30 DNA fragment followed by isolation using agarose gel purification, Qiagen* column chromatography
   (Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA), or other methods known to the skilled artisan. The selection of suitable
   enzymes to accomplish this purpose will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.
            An origin of replication is typically a part of those prokaryotic expression vectors purchased
   commercially, and the origin aids in the amplification of the vector in a host cell. If the vector of choice
35 does not contain an origin of replication site, one may be chemically synthesized based on a known
   sequence, and ligated into the vector. For example, the origin of replication from the plasmid pBR322
   (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) is suitable for most gram-negative bacteria, and various viral
   origins (e.g., SV40, polyoma, adenovirus, vesicular stomatitus virus (VSV), or papillomaviruses such
   as HPV or BPV) are useful for cloning vectors in mammalian cells. Generally, the origin of replication
40 component is not needed for mammalian expression vectors (for example, the SV40 origin is often
   used only because it also contains the virus early promoter).
                                                        35

            A transcription termination sequence is typically located  3' to the end of a polypeptide coding
   region and serves to terminate transcription.         Usually, a transcription termination sequence in
   prokaryotic cells is a G-C rich fragment followed by a poly-T sequence. While the sequence is easily
   cloned from a library or even purchased commercially as part of a vector, it can also be readily
 5 synthesized using methods for nucleic acid synthesis such as those described herein.
            A selectable marker gene encodes a protein necessary for the survival and growth of a host
   cell grown in a selective culture medium. Typical selection marker genes encode proteins that (a)
   confer resistance to antibiotics or other toxins, e.g., ampicillin, tetracycline, or kanamycin for
   prokaryotic host cells; (b)complement auxotrophic deficiencies of the cell; or (c) supply critical
10 nutrients not available from complex or defined media. Specific selectable markers are the kanamycin
   resistance    gene,    the   ampicillin   resistance gene,    and  the    tetracycline  resistance   gene.
   Advantageously, a neomycin resistance gene may also be used for selection in both prokaryotic and
   eukaryotic host cells.
            Other selectable genes may be used to amplify the gene that will be expressed. Amplification
15 is the process wherein genes that are required for production of a protein critical for growth or cell
   survival are reiterated in tandem within the chromosomes of successive generations of recombinant
   cells. Examples of suitable selectable markers for mammalian cells include dihydrofolate reductase
   (DHFR) and promoterless thymidine kinase genes. Mammalian cell transformants are placed under
   selection pressure wherein only the transformants are uniquely adapted to survive by virtue of the
20 selectable gene present in the vector. Selection pressure is imposed by culturing the transformed
   cells under conditions in which the concentration of selection agent in the medium is successively
   increased, thereby leading to the amplification of both the selectable gene and the DNA that encodes
   another gene, such as an antigen binding protein that binds to CD30L.               As a result, increased
   quantities of a polypeptide such as an antigen binding protein are synthesized from the amplified DNA.
25          A ribosome-binding site is usually necessary for translation initiation of rnRNA and is
   characterized by a Shine-Dalgarno sequence (prokaryotes) or a Kozak sequence (eukaryotes). The
   element is typically located 3' to the promoter and 5' to the coding sequence of the polypeptide to be
   expressed.
            In some cases, such as where glycosylation is desired in a eukaryotic host cell expression
30 system, one may manipulate the various pre- or pro-sequences to improve glycosylation or yield. For
   example. one may alter the peptidase cleavage site of a particular signal peptide. or add
   prosequences, which also may affect glycosylation. The final protein product may have, in the -1
   position (relative to the first amino acid of the mature protein), one or more additional amino acids
   incident to expression, which may not have been totally removed.           For example. the final protein
35 product may have one or two amino acid residues found in the peptidase cleavage site. attached to
   the amino-terminus.       Alternatively, use of some enzyme cleavage sites may result in a slightly
   truncated form of the desired polypeptide, if the enzyme cuts at such area within the
   mature polypeptide.
            Expression and cloning will typically contain a promoter that is recognized by the host
40 organism and operably linked to the molecule encoding a CD30L antigen binding protein. Promoters
   are untranscribed sequences located upstream (i.e., 5') to the start codon of a structural gene
                                                        36

   (generally within about 100 to 1000 bp) that control transcription of the structural gene. Promoters are
   conventionally grouped into one of two classes: inducible promoters and constitutive promoters.
   Inducible promoters initiate increased levels of transcription from DNA under their control in response
   to some change in culture conditions, such as the presence or absence of a nutrient or a change in
 5 temperature. Constitutive promoters, on the other hand, uniformly transcribe a gene to which they are
   operably linked, that is, with little or no control over gene expression. A large number of promoters,
   recognized by a variety of potential host cells, are well known. A suitable promoter is operably linked
   to the DNA encoding a heavy chain variable region or a light chain variable region of a CD30L antigen
   binding protein by removing the promoter from the source DNA by restriction enzyme digestion and
10 inserting the desired promoter sequence into the vector.
            Suitable promoters for use with yeast hosts are also well known in the art. Yeast enhancers
   are advantageously used with yeast promoters. Suitable promoters for use with mammalian host cells
   are well known and include, but are not limited to, those obtained from the genomes of viruses such
   as polyoma virus, fowlpox virus, adenovirus (such as Adenovirus 2), bovine papilloma virus, avian
15 sarcoma virus, cytomegalovirus, retroviruses, hepatitis-B virus, and Simian Virus 40 (SV40).        Other
   suitable mammalian promoters include heterologous mammalian promoters, for example. heat-shock
   promoters and the actin promoter.
            Additional promoters which may be of interest include, but are not limited to: SV40 early
   promoter (Benoist and Chambon, 1981, Nature 290:304-310); CMV promoter (Thornsen et at., 1984,
20 Proc. Natt Acad. U.S.A. 81:659-663); the promoter contained in the 3' long terminal repeat of Rous
   sarcoma virus (Yamamoto et al., 1980, Cell 22:787-797); herpes thymidine kinase promoter (Wagner
   et at, 1981, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 78:1444-1445); promoter and regulatory sequences from the
   metallothionine gene (Prinster et al., 1982, Nature 296:39-42); and prokaryotic promoters such as the
   beta-lactamase promoter (Villa-Kamaroff et at, 1978, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 75:3727-3731); or
25 the tac promoter (DeBoer et aL, 1983, Proc. Natt Acad. ScL U.S.A. 80:21-25). Also of interest are the
   following animal transcriptional control regions, which exhibit tissue specificity and have been utilized
   in transgenic animals: the elastase I gene control region that is active in pancreatic acinar cells (Swift
   et at, 1984, Cell 38:639-646; Ornitz et al., 1986, Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol 50:399-409;
   MacDonald, 1987, Hepatology 7:425-515); the insulin gene control region that is active in pancreatic
30 beta cells (Hanahan, 1985, Nature 315:115-122); the immunoglobulin gene control region that is
   active in lymphoid cells (Grosschedl et al, 1984, Cell 38:647-658; Adames et at, 1985, Nature
   318:533-538; Alexander at at, 1987, Mot Cel. Biot 7:1436-1444); the mouse mammary tumor virus
   control region that is active in testicular, breast, lymphoid and mast cells (Leder et al, 1986, Cell
   45:485-495); the albumin gene control region that is active in liver (Pinkert et at, 1987, Genes and
35 Devel 1 :268-276); the alpha-feto-protein gene control region that is active in liver (Krumlauf et at,
   1985, Mot Cel. Biol. 5:1639-1648; Hammer et at, 1987. Science 253:53-58); the alpha 1-antitrypsin
   gene control region that is active in liver (Kelsey et al., 1987, Genes and Devel. 1:161-171); the beta
   globin gene control region that is active in myeloid cells (Mogram at al., 1985, Nature 315:338-340;
   Kollias et at, 1986. Cell 46:89-94): the myelin basic protein gene control region that is active in
40 oligodendrocyte cells in the brain (Readhead et al. 1987, Cell 48:703-712); the myosin light chain-2
   gene control region that is active in skeletal muscle (Sani, 1985, Nature 314:283-286); and the
                                                         37

   gonadotropic releasing hormone gene control region that is active in the hypothalamus (Mason et at,
   1986, Science 234:1372-1378).
             An enhancer sequence may be inserted into the vector to increase transcription by higher
   eukaryotes. Enhancers are cis-acting elements of DNA, usually about 10-300 bp in length, that act on
 5 the promoter to increase transcription. Enhancers are relatively orientation and position independent,
   having been found at positions both 5' and 3' to the transcription unit. Several enhancer sequences
   available from mammalian genes are known (e.g., globin, elastase, albumin, alpha-feto-protein and
   insulin).    Typically, however, an enhancer from a virus is used.           The SV40 enhancer, the
   cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer, the polyoma enhancer, and adenovirus enhancers known
10 in the art are exemplary enhancing elements for the activation of eukaryotic promoters. While an
   enhancer may be positioned in the vector either 5' or 3 to a coding sequence, it is typically located at
   a site 5' from the promoter.     A sequence encoding an appropriate native or heterologous signal
   sequence (leader sequence or signal peptide) can be incorporated into an expression vector, to
   promote extracellular secretion of the antibody. The choice of signal peptide or leader depends on the
15 type of host cells in which the antibody is to be produced, and a heterologous signal sequence can
   replace the native signal sequence. Examples of signal peptides that are functional in mammalian
   host cells include the following: the signal sequence for interleukin.-7 described in US Patent No.
   4,965,195; the signal sequence for interleukin-2 receptor described in Cosman et al.,1984, Nature
   312:768; the interleukin-4 receptor signal peptide described in EP Patent No. 0367 566; the type 1
20 interleukin-1 receptor signal peptide described in U.S. Patent No. 4,968,607; the type 11interleukin-1
   receptor signal peptide described in EP Patent No. 0 460 846.
             After the vector has been constructed, the completed vector may be inserted into a suitable
   host cell for amplification and/or polypeptide expression. The transformation of an expression vector
   for an antigen binding protein into a selected host cell may be accomplished by well known methods
25 including transfection, infection, calcium phosphate co-precipitation, electroporation, microinjection,
   lipofection. DEAE-dextran mediated transfection, or other known techniques. The method selected
   will in part be a function of the type of host cell to be used. These methods and other suitable
   methods are well known to the skilled artisan, and are set forth, for example, in Sambrook et al.,
   Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3rd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
30 Harbor, N.Y. (2001).
             A host cell, when cultured under appropriate conditions, synthesizes protein that can be
   subsequently collected from the culture medium (if the host cell secretes it into the medium) or directly
   from the host cell producing it (if it is not secreted). The selection of an appropriate host cell will
   depend upon various factors, such as desired expression levels, polypeptide modifications that are
35 desirable or necessary for activity (such as glycosylation or phosphorylation) and ease of folding into a
   biologically active molecule.
             Mammalian cell lines available as hosts for expression are well known in the art and include,
   but are not limited to, immortalized cell lines available from the American Type Culture Collection
   (ATCC), including but not limited to Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, HeLa cells, baby hamster
40 kidney (BHK) cells, monkey kidney cells (COS), human hepatocellular carcinoma cells (e.g., Hep G2),
   and a number of other cell lines.        In certain embodiments, cell lines may be selected through
                                                       38

   determining which cell lines have high expression levels and constitutively produce antigen binding
   proteins with CD30L binding properties. In another embodiment, a cell line from the B cell lineage that
   does not make its own antibody but has a capacity to make and secrete a heterologous antibody can
   be also selected. In another embodiment, fucosyltransferase knock-out cell lines that produce lull or
 5 partial afucolylated antibodies (US Patents 6,946,292. US 7,425,446, US 7,846,725, US 8,067,232.
   Potelligent* cells , BioWa, Princeton. NJ.
   CD30L In Vitro Bloassays
        Also provided are methods for identifying antagonists that inhibit CD30/CD30L interaction. These
10 methods make use of induction of a marker cytokine produced from CD30+ cells in response to
   CD30L. The method comprises the steps of combining a test compound of interest with a source of
   CD30L; adding the test compound/CD30L combination to CD30' cells that are capable of expressing a
   marker cytokine in response to the interaction of CD30 and CD30L: harvesting the cell supernatant;
   and determining the whether the test compound inhibits CD30/CD30L interaction by measuring the
15 amount of a marker cytokine produced and/or released into the cell supernatant. For example, such a
   CD30L-dependent in vitro bioassay may exploit human Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma (ALCL) cell
   line, Karpas-299 (K299) expression of endogenous CD30 and release of IL-8 from these cells in
   response to the interaction of CD30 and CD30L.        These methods are further exemplified in the
   Examples provided herein.
20          Test compounds include CD30L antigen binding proteins, including but not limited to
   antibodies, antigen binding fragments thereof and their derivatives. Test compounds could also
   include recombinant soluble CD30 compounds (such as CD30 extracellular domain fused with an Fc
   tag, poly-HIS tag, FLAG*-tag and the like) as well as small molecules.       Suitable CD30+ cell lines
   express a marker cytokine in response to the interaction of CD30 and CD30L; such cell lines include
25 human CD30* Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma cell line K299 (Karpas-299, DSMZ, Germany).
            Sources for CD30L include soluble CD30L constructs and membrane associated CD30L.
   Soluble CD30L includes chimeric compositions comprising a CD30L fragment, preferably a fragment
   of the extracellular region of CD30L. Such soluble constructs include multimeric leucine or isoleucine
   zipper constructs. Such constructs comprise a 33 amino acid leucine zipper motif attached to the N
30 terminus of the extracellular domain of human or cynomolgus CD30L.         Soluble recombinant CD30L
   constructs are also available commercially (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN), Other soluble CD30L
   also include CD30L extracellular domain fused to a FLAG*-tag (Axxora LLC, San Diego, CA).
   Membrane associated CD30L includes native and transfected CD30L expressing cells and cell lines.
   Such cell lines include. but are not limited to. such human cells as the CD30L* human B cell line
35 Ramos (ATCC, Manassas, VA).         Also contemplated are cynomologous monkey blood T cells and
   mouse dendritic cell lines.
            Provided herein is a method for determining CD30L induction of IL-8 production from CD30+
   cells comprising the steps of: combining a test compound with a source of CD30L; adding the test
   compound-CD30L combination to irradiated CD30           cells; harvesting the cell supernatant; and
40 determining the amount of IL-8 released into the cell supernatant. This CD30L-dependent in vitro
   bioassay exploits human Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma (ALCL) cell line. Karpas-299 (K299)
                                                      39

   expression of endogenous CD30 and release of IL-8 from these cells in response to the interaction of
   CD30 and CD30L. The released IL-8 can be quantified, for example, by an IL-8 ELISA. CD30L
   antagonists. such as antigen binding proteins described herein, are incubated with either soluble
   CD30L (single cell assay) or with a membrane associated CD30L (dual cell assay) and then cultured
 5 with K299 cells. The cell supernatants are then harvested and the inhibition of 1L8 release from K299
   cells in response to blocking by CD30L antagonists, such as the antigen binding proteins described
   herein, is determined using an IL-8 sandwich ELISA.
             For the single cell assay, CD30L antagonists are titered into 96-well microtiterplates, such as
   Costar" 96 well plates (Corning; Acton, MA) to give a desired range of final concentrations, for
10 example, from 1pg/ml to 10pg/ml. CD30L antigen binding proteins, such as those described herein,
   can be used as positive controls.         The plates were incubated for about 45 minutes at room
   temperature. To each well was then added the CD30+ cell source. The plates were incubated for 24
   hours at 370 C 5% C02.
             For the dual cell assay, the CD30L source is membrane bound and irradiated.              CD30L
15 expressing cells include, but are not limited to such cells as the human CD30L* human B cell line
   Ramos (ATCC, Manassas, VA), activated cynomologous monkey blood T cells or mouse murine DC
   cell lines. The CD30L expressing cells may be subjected to FACS sorting prior to use to select those
   cells with the highest level of cell surface CD30L expression.          The CD30L expressing cells are
   combined with the CD30L antagonist and incubated for 45 minutes prior to adding to the CD30+ cell
20 source. Again, the plates are incubated for 24 hours at 37' C. 5% C02.
             For both assays released 1L8 may be determined and quantified by any method for detecting
   IL-8, such as, for example, an IL-8 sandwich ELISA. Such assays are commercially available, such as
   those provided by R&D Systems (Minneapolis, MN).          IL-8 levels may be interpolated from the ELISA
   standard curve and ICro values determined using commercially available software, such as DeltaSoft
25 (DeltaSot, Inc., Hillsborough, NJ) and GraphPad PRISM (GraphPad Software Inc., San Diego, CA).
   Use Of Human CD30L Antigen Binding Proteins For Diagnostic And Therapeutic Purposes
            Antigen binding proteins provided herein are useful for detecting CD30L in biological samples
   and identification of cells or tissues that produce CD30L. Antigen binding proteins that specifically
30 bind to CD30L may be used in diagnosis and/or treatment of diseases related to CD30L in a patient in
   need thereof, for example, CD30L antigen binding proteins can be used in diagnostic assays, e.g.,
   induction of IL-8 from CD30* cells. Antigen binding proteins that bind to CD30L may have therapeutic
   use in ameliorating diseases related to CD30L.
   Indications
35          The present invention also relates to the use of CD30L antigen binding proteins for use in the
   prevention or therapeutic treatment of medical disorders, such as those disclosed herein. The CD30L
   antigen binding proteins are useful to treat a variety of conditions in which CD30L is associated with or
   plays a role in contributing to the underlying disease or disorder or otherwise contributes to a negative
   symptom.
40           Provided are methods for treating a variety of diseases, such as autoimmune and chronic
   inflammatory diseases and cancer by administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of
                                                       40

   a composition comprising one or more of the CD30L antigen binding proteins described herein. Such
   compositions are useful for modulating immune responses in vivo by blocking interactions between
   CD30* and CD30L* cells: depleting CD30L* cells: or by agonistic activity on CD30L* cells.
             CD30L may exhibit "reverse signaling," CD30L expressed on neutrophils and peripheral blood
 5 T cells can be activated by cross-linking to stimulate metabolic activities in those cells (Wiley et al., J
   Immunol 157: 3235-39, 1996; Cerutti et al., J. Immuno. 165: 786, 2000; Cerutti et al., Nat. Immunol. 2:
   150, 2001). As such, the antigen binding proteins described herein that bind CD30L could be used to
   block reverse CD30L signaling or stimulate CD30L* cells.
             CD30* cells are strongly associated with Hodgkin's Disease and CD30 is a widely used
10 clinical marker for a number of hematologic malignancies (for review, see Horie and Watanabe.
   Immuno. 10:457-470, 1998).        Compositions comprising one or more of the CD30L antigen binding
   proteins described herein, either alone or in combination with other therapies, may be useful in
   treating such conditions.
             CD30L is expressed on activated T cells and certain B cell and dendritic cell populations.
15 CD30 is expressed on a proportion of activated T and B cells. This expression pattern suggests that
   targeting CD30L would be useful to modulate the interaction between T cells, B cells and dendritic
   cells. CD30L has been shown to affect humoral immunity. Antigen binding proteins described herein
   would be of use in therapeutic regimes related to inflammatory diseases, particularly those driven by T
   cell-dependent B cell responses.
20          Arthritis may be treated by the methods and compositions disclosed herein. As used here, the
   term "arthritis" refers to chronic inflammatory conditions that primarily affect joints, or the connective
   tissue surrounding joints, although various body organs may also become affected. Arthritis may be
   autoimmune or traumatic in origin, or it may be triggered by exposure to a foreign antigen, thereafter
   leading to a chronic condition that is no longer dependent on the continued presence of the triggering
25 antigen. The term "arthritis," as used herein, includes: arthritis deformans osteoarthritis; rheumatoid
   arthritis (adult and juvenile); Lyme disease arthritis; reactive arthritis including Reiter's disease;
   psoriatic arthritis; arthritis nodosa; seronegative spondylarthropathies. including but not limited to
   ankylosing spondylitis.
            The antigen binding proteins described herein are useful in treating a variety of rheumatic
30 disorders, which are defined herein as any chronic disorder involving painful and often multiple
   localized inflammations of the joints, muscles, nerves, tendons, skin, eyes, connective tissues or
   various other organ systems.        These include but are not limited to: arthritis; scleroderma; gout;
   systemic lupus erythematosus; polymyalgia rheumatica; Still's disease; chronic uveitis; disorders
   resulting in inflammation of the voluntary muscle, including dermatomyositis and polymyositis,
35 including sporadic inclusion body myositis. Systemic lupus erythematosus can cause inflammation of
   the joints, skin, kidneys, heart, lungs, blood vessels and brain. In its advanced forms, systemic lupus
   erythematosus this condition can result in kidney failure.
             Provided also are methods for using the antigen binding proteins described herein in therapies
   to treat various disorders of the endocrine system, including but not limited to: juvenile or maturity
40 onset diabetes (including autoimmune, insulin-dependent types of diabetes non-insulin dependent
   types and obesity-mediated diabetes); idiopathic adrenal atrophy; Addison's disease; hypothyroidism;
                                                       41

   Grave's disease; autoimmune thyroiditis, such as Hashimoto's thyroiditis; and polyglandular
   autoimmune syndromes (types I and II).
            Antigen binding proteins described herein are also useful in therapies to treat conditions of the
   gastrointestinal system, including but not limited to: autoimmune sclerosing cholangitis; coeliac
 5 disease; inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis; autoimmune
   pancreatitis, including chronic pancreatitis: idiopathic gastroparesis; and idiopathic ulcers, including
   gastric and duodenal ulcers.
            Included also are methods for using the antigen binding proteins described herein in therapies
   for treating    disorders of the genitourinary         system,   such as autoimmune       and    idiopathic
10 glomerulonephritis; and chronic idiopathic prostatitis (non-bacterial), including benign prostatic
   hypertrophy.
            Also provided herein are methods for using the antigen binding proteins described herein in
   therapies to treat various hematologic disorders, including but not limited to: anemias and hematologic
   disorders, including pernicious anemia and aplastic anemia, and Fanconi's aplastic anemia;
15 autoimmune      hemolytic    anemia;     idiopathic thrombocytopenic   purpura    (ITP);  myelodysplastic
   syndromes (including refractory anemia, refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia
   with excess blasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation); and autoimmune
   lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS).
            The disclosed antigen binding proteins are furthermore useful to treat conditions that affect the
20 liver such as autoimmune or chronic inflammatory hepatitis,
            In addition, the disclosed antigen binding proteins and combination used to treat various
   autoimmune or chronic inflammatory disorders that involve hearing loss. One of these is inner ear or
   cochlear nerve-associated hearing loss that is thought to result from an autoimmune process, i.e.,
   autoimmune hearing loss.         This condition currently is treated with steroids, methotrexate and/or
25 cyclophosphamide. which may be administered concurrently with an inhibitor or blocker of the
   CD30/CD30L interaction.
            A number of inflammatory pulmonary disorders also can be treated with the disclosed antigen
   binding proteins, including: idiopathic lymphangioleiomyomatosis; chronic obstructive pulmonary
   disease (COPD) associated with chronic non-infectious bronchitis or with emphysema; and fibrotic
30 lung diseases, such as cystic fibrosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
            Disorders associated with transplantation also are treatable with the disclosed antigen binding
   proteins, including graft-versus-host disease.       To prevent or ameliorate graft-versus-host disease,
   compositions comprising one or more of the disclosed antigen binding proteins may be administered
   prior to, concomitantly with, or following bone marrow or solid organ transplantation, including
35 transplantation of heart, liver, lung, skin, kidney or other organs.
            The disclosed antigen binding proteins also are useful for treating chronic inflammatory eye
   diseases, including autoimmune uveitis.
            Such compounds would also be useful for treating diseases associated with airway
   inflammation, such as asthma.
                                                          42

            The antigen binding proteins described herein also are useful for treating inflammatory
   disorders that affect the female reproductive system, including: multiple implant failure/infertility; fetal
   loss syndrome or IV embryo loss (spontaneous abortion): and endometriosis.
            Other medical disorders treatable with the antigen binding proteins described herein include
 5 chronic inflammation and/or degenerative diseases of the central nervous system. This includes, for
   example, diseases associated with demyelination, such as multiple sclerosis, systemic sclerosis and
   the Guillain-Barre syndromes (including acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, acute
   motor axonal neuropathy, acute motor sensory axonal neuropathy and Fisher syndrome).               Multiple
   sclerosis is representative of a chronic, degenerative disease of the central nervous system which may
10 be treated with an agent capable of inhibiting or blocking the interaction of CD30 and CD30L. See for
   example, U.S. Patent No. 6,652,854.
            Other chronic inflammatory conditions treatable with the disclosed antigen binding proteins
   include cold agglutinin disease; Behcet's syndrome; Sjogren's syndrome; and idiopathic tenosynovitis,
   as well as various chronic inflammatory disorders associated with hereditary deficiencies. The subject
15 inhibitors, compositions and combination therapies furthermore are useful for treating Bell's palsy
   (idiopathic facial paralysis); chronic fatigue syndrome (not associated with ongoing infection); chronic
   degenerative vertebral disc disease; Gulf war syndrome; and myasthenia gravis, which may be treated
   concurrently with corticosteroids.
            Disorders involving the skin or mucous membranes also are treatable using antigen binding
20 proteins described herein. These include: acantholytic diseases, including discoid lupus, subacute
   cutaneous lupus erythematosus, cutaneous vasculitis, Darier's disease, keratosis follicularis,
   pemphigus vulgaris and paraneoplastic pemphigus; acne rosacea; alopecia areata; bullous
   pemphigoid; eczema; erythema, including erythema multiforme and erythema multiforme bullosum
   (Stevens-Johnson syndrome); inflammatory skin disease; lichen planus; linear IgA bullous disease
25 (chronic bullous dermatosis of childhood); loss of skin elasticity; neutrophilic dermatitis (Sweet's
   syndrome); pityriasis rubra pilaris; psoriasis; pyoderma gangrenosum; loss of skin elasticity; and toxic
   epidermal necrolysis.
            Other diseases that can be treated with the disclosed antigen binding proteins include:
   autoimmune-associated chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis; allergies; sarcoidosis; multicentric
30 reticulohistiocytosis; Wegener's granulomatosis; arteritis, including giant cell arteritis; vasculitis and
   chronic autoimmune myocarditis.
            To treat a medical disorder using the antigen binding proteins described herein, a
   therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent is administered to a mammal in need thereof.
   The agent is administered according to a regimen of dose and frequency of administration that is
35 adequate to induce a sustained improvement in at least one indicator that reflects the severity of the
   disorder. An improvement is considered "sustained" if the patient exhibits the improvement on at least
   two occasions separated by at least one day, but preferably that are separated by one week, two
   weeks, three weeks or four or more weeks. The severity of the disorder is determined based on signs
   or symptoms, or may be determined by questionnaires that are administered to the patient, such as
40 the quality-of-life questionnaires often used by physicians to assess the status of chronic disease
   conditions.
                                                        43

            One or more indicators that reflect the severity of a patient's illness may be assessed for
   determining whether the frequency and duration of drug treatment is sufficient. The baseline value for
   a chosen indicator is established by examination of the patient prior to administration of the first dose
   of the therapeutic agent.     Preferably, the baseline examination is done within about 60 days of
 5 administering the first dose.
            1l the condition being treated is systemic lupus erythematosus, the indicator for determining
   sufficiency of treatment may consist of an observed improvement in one of the following: fatigue;
   fever; ulcers of the mouth and nose; facial rash ("butterfly rash"); photosensitivity (SLE often flares up
   after exposure to sunlight); pleuritis; pericarditis; Raynaud's phenomenon (reduced circulation to
10 fingers and toes with exposure to cold); kidney function; and white blood cell count (SLE patients often
   have decreased numbers of white blood cells).
            Pharmaceutical compositions comprising antigen binding proteins disclosed herein formulated
   with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier are provided. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier is suitable for administration in human subjects.
15 Diagnostic Methods
            The antigen binding proteins of the described can be used for diagnostic purposes to detect,
   diagnose, or monitor diseases and/or conditions associated with the CD30/CD30L interaction.
   Examples of methods useful in the detection of the presence of CD30L include immunoassays, such
   as the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the radioimmunoassay (RIA).
20          For diagnostic applications, the antigen binding protein typically will be labeled with a
   detectable labeling group.     Suitable labeling groups include, but are not limited to, the following:
                                           3
   radioisotopes or radionuclides (e.g.,    H, 1sC. 15N, 35S, ""Y, "Tc. "'In, 1251, 131), fluorescent groups
   (e.g., FITC, rhodamine, lanthanide phosphors), enzymatic groups (e.g., horseradish peroxidase, p
   galactosidase, luciferase, alkaline phosphatase), chemiluminescent groups, biotinyl groups, or
25 predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter (e.g., leucine zipper pair
   sequences, binding sites for secondary antibodies, metal binding domains, epitope tags),          In some
   embodiments, the labelling group is coupled to the antigen binding protein via spacer arms of various
   lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labelling proteins are known in the
   art and may be used.
30          Other diagnostic methods are provided for identifying a cell or cells that express CD30L. In a
   specific embodiment, the antigen binding protein is labeled with a labeling group and the binding of the
   labeled antigen binding protein to CD30L is detected. In a further specific embodiment, the binding of
   the antigen binding protein to CD30L is detected in vivo. In a further specific embodiment, the CD30L
   antigen binding protein is isolated and measured using techniques known in the art. See, for example,
35 Harlow and Lane, 1988, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, New York: Cold Spring Harbor (ed. 1991
   and periodic supplements); John E Coligan, ed., 1993, Current Protocols in Immunology New York:
   John Wiley & Sons.
            Other methods provide for detecting the presence of a test molecule that competes for binding
   to CD30L with the antigen binding proteins provided. An example of one such assay would involve
40 detecting the amount of free antigen binding protein in a solution containing an amount of CD30L in
                                                        44

   the presence or absence of the test molecule. An increase in the amount of free antigen binding
   protein (i.e., the antigen binding protein not bound to CD30L) would indicate that the test molecule is
   capable of competing for CD30L binding with the antigen binding protein. In one embodiment, the
   antigen binding protein is labeled with a labeling group. Alternatively, the test molecule is labeled and
 5 the amount of free test molecule is monitored in the presence and absence of an antigen binding
   protein.
   Methods Of Treatment: Pharmaceutical Formulations, Routes Of Administration
             Pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a therapeutically effective amount of one or a
10 plurality of the antigen binding proteins and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent, carrier,
   solubilizer, emulsifier, preservative, and/or adjuvant are provided, In addition, methods of treating a
   patient by administering such pharmaceutical composition are included. The term "patient" includes
   human patients. The terms "treat" and "treatment" encompass alleviation or prevention of at least one
   symptom or other aspect of a disorder, or reduction of disease severity, and the like. The term
15 "therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" refers to the amount of a CD30L antigen
   binding protein determined to produce any therapeutic response in a mammal. Such therapeutically
   effective amounts are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art.      For purposes of this
   disclosure, the terms "illness," "disease," "medical condition," "abnormal condition," "malady," "medical
   disorder", "disorder" and the like are used interchangeably.
20          An antigen binding protein need not affect a complete cure, or eradicate every symptom or
   manifestation of a disease, to constitute a viable therapeutic agent. As is recognized in the pertinent
   field. drugs employed as therapeutic agents may reduce the severity of a given disease state, but
   need not abolish every manifestation of the disease to be regarded as useful therapeutic agents.
   Similarly, a prophylactically administered treatment need not be completely effective in preventing the
25 onset of a condition in order to constitute a viable prophylactic agent. Simply reducing the impact of a
   disease (for example, by reducing the number or severity of its symptoms, or by increasing the
   effectiveness of another treatment, or by producing another beneficial effect), or reducing the
   likelihood that the disease will occur or worsen in a subject, is sufficient. Certain methods provided
   herein comprise administering to a patient a CD30L antagonist (such as the antigen binding proteins
30 disclosed herein) in an amount and for a time sufficient to induce a sustained improvement over
   baseline of an indicator that reflects the severity of the particular disorder.
             As is understood in the pertinent field, pharmaceutical compositions comprising the molecules
   of the invention are administered to a patient in a manner appropriate to the indication.
   Pharmaceutical compositions may be administered by any suitable technique, including but not limited
35 to, parenterally. topically. or by inhalation.      11 injected, the pharmaceutical composition can be
   administered, for example, via intra-articular, intravenous, intramuscular, intralesional, intraperitoneal
   or subcutaneous routes, by bolus injection, or continuous infusion. Localized administration, e.g. at a
   site of disease or injury is contemplated, as are transdermal delivery and sustained release from
   implants. Delivery by inhalation includes, for example, nasal or oral inhalation, use of a nebulizer,
40 inhalation of the antagonist in aerosol form, and the like. Other alternatives include eyedrops; oral
                                                         45

   preparations including pills, syrups, lozenges or chewing gum; and topical preparations such as
   lotions, gels, sprays, and ointments.
             Use of antigen binding proteins in ex vivo procedures also is contemplated. For example, a
   patient's blood or other bodily fluid may be contacted with an antigen binding protein that binds CD30L
 5 ex vivo. The antigen binding protein may be bound to a suitable insoluble matrix or solid support
   material.
             Advantageously. antigen binding proteins are administered in the form of a composition
   comprising one or more additional components such as a physiologically acceptable carrier, excipient
   or diluent.     Optionally, the composition additionally comprises one or more physiologically active
10 agents for combination therapy.        A pharmaceutical composition may comprise a CD30L antigen
   binding protein together with one or more substances selected from the group consisting of a buffer,
   an antioxidant such as ascorbic acid, a low molecular weight polypeptide (such as those having fewer
   than 10 amino acids), a protein, an amino acid, a carbohydrate such as glucose, sucrose or dextrins. a
   chelating agent such as EDTA, glutathione, a stabilizer, and an excipient. Neutral buffered saline or
15 saline mixed with conspecific serum albumin are examples of appropriate diluents. In accordance with
   appropriate industry standards, preservatives such as benzyl alcohol may also be added.             The
   composition may be formulated as a lyophilizate using appropriate excipient solutions (e.g., sucrose)
   as diluents.      Suitable components are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations
   employed. Further examples of components that may be employed in pharmaceutical formulations
20 are presented in any Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences including the 21$ Ed. (2005), Mack
   Publishing Company, Easton, PA.
             Kits for use by medical practitioners include a CD30L antigen binding protein and a label or
   other instructions for use in treating any of the conditions discussed herein. In one embodiment, the
   kit includes a sterile preparation of one or more CD30L binding antigen binding proteins, which may be
25 in the form of a composition as disclosed above, and may be in one or more vials.
             Dosages and the frequency of administration may vary according to such factors as the route
   of administration, the particular antigen binding proteins employed, the nature and severity of the
   disease to be treated, whether the condition is acute or chronic, and the size and general condition of
   the subject. Appropriate dosages can be determined by procedures known in the pertinent art, e.g. in
30 clinical trials that may involve dose escalation studies.
             A typical dosage may range from about 0.1 pg/kg to up to about 30 mg/kg or more, depending
   on the factors mentioned above. In specific embodiments, the dosage may range from 0.1 pg/kg up to
   about 30 mg/kg, optionally from 1 pg/kg up to about 30 mg/kg, optionally from 10 pg/kg up to about 10
   mg/kg, optionally from about 0.1 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg, or optionally from about 0.3 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg.
35           Dosing frequency will depend upon the pharmacokinetic parameters of the particular CD30L
   antigen binding protein in the formulation used. Typically, a clinician administers the composition until
   a dosage is reached that achieves the desired effect. The composition may therefore be administered
   as a single dose, or as two or more doses (which may or may not contain the same amount of the
   desired molecule) over time, or as a continuous infusion via an implantation device or catheter.
40 Appropriate dosages may be ascertained through use of appropriate dose-response data. A CD30L
   antigen binding protein of the invention may be administered, for example, once or more than once,
                                                        46

   e.g., at regular intervals over a period of time, In particular embodiments, a CD30L antigen binding
   protein is administered over a period of at least a month or more, e.g., for one, two, or three months or
   even indefinitely. For treating chronic conditions, long-term treatment is generally most effective.
   However, for treating acute conditions, administration for shorter periods, e.g. from one to six weeks,
 5 may be sufficient. In general, the antigen binding protein is administered until the patient manifests a
   medically relevant degree of improvement over baseline for the chosen indicator or indicators.
             It is contemplated that a CD30L antigen binding protein be administered to the patient in an
   amount and for a time sufficient to induce an improvement, preferably a sustained improvement, in at
   least one indicator that reflects the severity of the disorder that is being treated. Various indicators
10 that reflect the extent of the patient's illness, disease or condition may be assessed for determining
   whether the amount and time of the treatment is sufficient. Such indicators include, for example,
   clinically recognized indicators of disease severity, symptoms, or manifestations of the disorder in
   question. In one embodiment, an improvement is considered to be sustained if the subject exhibits
   the improvement on at least two occasions separated by two to four weeks.                  The degree of
15 improvement generally is determined by a physician, who may make this determination based on
   signs, symptoms, biopsies. or other test results, and who may also employ questionaires that are
   administered to the subject, such as quality-of-life questionaires developed for a given disease.
   Particular embodiments of methods and compositions of the invention involve the use of a CD30L
   antigen binding protein and one or more additional CD30L antagonists, for example, two or more
20 antigen binding proteins of the invention, or an antigen binding protein of the invention and one or
   more other CD30L antagonists. Also provided are CD30L antigen binding proteins administered alone
   or in combination with other agents useful for treating the condition with which the patient is afflicted.
   Examples of such agents include both proteinaceous and non-proteinaceous drugs. Such agents
   include, for example, antagonists of TNFa. IL-1, IL-2, RANK or other cytokines that may contribute to
25 autoimmunity or chronic inflammation.        Cytokine antagonists include those that target the cytokine
   and/or its receptor. An antagonist that targets a cytokine may comprise a soluble receptor against the
   cytokine and usually includes part or all of the extracellular domain of a receptor for the cytokine. The
   soluble cytokine receptor may be used as a monomer. or as a dimer or higher multimer (for example,
   as a fusion molecule wherein the soluble receptor is attached to the dimer-promoting Fc portion of
30 human immunoglobulin).        In other embodiments, the soluble cytokine receptor is PEGylated to
   increase its serum half-life.    In some embodiments, the soluble cytokine antagonist comprises a
   soluble TNF receptor (type I or II). Small organic molecules that inhibit inflammatory cytokines may
   also be used in combination with the subject therapeutic agents. More than one CD30 ligand antigen
   binding proteins and/or antigen binding regions thereof may be administered concurrently for treating
35 autoimmune or chronic inflammatory diseases, and may be administered alone or together with other
   drugs that are effective against the same autoimmune or chronic inflammatory condition or that are
   being administered to treat a different condition in the same patient.
             When multiple therapeutics are co-administered, dosages may be adjusted accordingly, as is
   recognized or known in the pertinent art.           Such agents can be administered simultaneously,
40 consecutively, alternately, or according to any other regimen that allows the total course of therapy to
   be effective.
                                                        47

            In addition to human patients, CD30L antigen binding proteins are useful in the treatment of
   non-human animals, such as domestic pets (dogs, cats, birds, primates, etc.). domestic farm animals
   (horses cattle, sheep, pigs, birds, etc).   In such instances, an appropriate dose may be determined
   according to the animal's body weight. For example, a dose of 0.2-1 mg/kg may be used. Alternatively,
 5 the dose is determined according to the animal's surface area, an exemplary dose ranging from 0.1-20
   mg/m2, or more preferably, from 5-12 mg/m2. For small animals, such as dogs or cats, a suitable dose
   is 0.4 mg/kg. CD30L antigen binding protein (preferably constructed from genes derived from the
   recipient species) is administered by injection or other suitable route one or more times per week until
   the animal's condition is improved, or it may be administered indefinitely.
10          The following Embodiments and Examples, including the experiments conducted and the
   results achieved, are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the
   scope of the appended claims.
                                                        48

   EMBODIMENTS
      1. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L, comprising at least one heavy chain
         variable region comprising a CDRH1, a CDRH2 and a CDRH3 selected from the group
 5       consisting of:
              a) a CDRH1 that differs by no more than four amino acid substitution, insertion or
                  deletion from a CDRH1 as shown in TABLE 3;
              b) a CDRH2 that differs by no more than seven amino acid substitutions, insertions
                  and/or deletions from a CDRH2 as shown in TABLE 3;
10           c) a CDRH3 that differs by no more than eleven amino acid substitutions, insertions
                  and/or deletions from a CDRH3 as shown in TABLE 3; and
         comprising at least one light chain variable region comprising a CDRL1. a CDRL2 and a
         CDRL3 selected from the group consisting of:
              d) a CDRL1 that differs by no more than four amino acid substitutions, insertions and/or
15                deletions from a CDRL1 as shown in TABLE 3;
              e) a CDRL2 that differs by no more than two amino acid substitution, insertion or deletion
                  from a CDRL2 as shown in TABLE 3;
              f) a CDRL3 that differs by no more than two amino acid substitution, insertion or deletion
                  from a CDRL3 as shown in TABLE 3.
20
      2. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 1 comprising:
         a CDRH1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ IDNOs:14, 15, 16. 17, 18, and 33;
         a CDRH2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 34;
         a CDRH3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, and 35;
25       a CDRL1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4. 5, 6. and 30;
         a CDRL2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7, 8 ,9, 10, and 31; and
         a CDRL3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 11, 12. 13, and 32.
      3. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds human CD30L comprising at least one light
30       chain variable region selected from the group consisting of:
              a) a light chain variable region comprising a CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3, wherein the CDR1
                  comprising amino acid residues 23-36, the CDR2 comprising amino acid residues 52
                  58 and the CDR3 comprising amino acid residues 91 -100 of SEQ ID NOs:36, 28, 40,
                  42, or 44; or
                                                   49

           b) a light chain variable region comprising a CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3, wherein the CDR1
               comprising amino acid residues 25-36, the CDR2 comprising amino acid resiues 52
               58 and the CDR3 comprising amino acid residues 91-100 of SEQ ID NO:46; and
      at least one heavy chain variable region comprising a CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3, wherein the
 5    CDRI comprising amino acid residues 31-35, the CDR2 comprising amino acid residues 50
      65 and the CDR3 comprising amino acid residues 98-113 of SEQ ID NOs:48, 50, 52, 54. 56,
      58, 60, 62, 64, 66, 68, 70 or 72.
   4. An isolated antigen-binding protein of claim 1 that comprises at least one heavy chain variable
10    region and at least one light chain variable region.
   5. An isolated antigen-binding protein of embodiment 1 that comprises at least two heavy chain
      variable regions and at least two light chain variable regions.
15 6. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L comprising a heavy chain variable region
      and a light chain variable region, wherein the heavy chain variable region sequence differs by
      no more than 31 amino acid substitutions, additions and/or deletions from a heavy chain
      variable region sequence as shown in TABLE 2; and wherein the light chain variable region
      sequence differs by no more than 30 amino acid substitutions, additions and/or deletions from
20    a light chain variable region sequence as shown in TABLE 1.
   7. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L comprising
               a heavy chain variable region comprising of an amino acid sequence having at least
      80% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64, 66, 68, 70, and 72;
25    and
               a light chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 88%
      sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, and 46.
   8. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L selected from the group consisting of
30         a) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region selected
               from the group consisting of of SEQ ID NOs:48, 50. 52, 54, 56, 58. 60 and 62 and a
               light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO: 36;
           b) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ
               ID NO:64 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:38;
35         c) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ
               ID NO:66 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:40;
                                                  50

            d) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ
                 ID NO:68 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:42;
            e) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ
                 ID NO:70 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:44; and
 5          f) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ
                 ID NO:72 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:46.
   9. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 1-8, wherein said
       antigen binding protein is an antibody.
10
   10. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 9, wherein said antibody is a monoclonal
       antibody, a recombinant antibody, a human antibody, a humanized antibody, a chimeric
       antibody, a multispecific antibody, or an antibody fragment thereof.
15 11. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 10. wherein said antibody fragment is a
       Fab fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab') 2 fragment, a Fv fragment, a diabody, or a single chain
       antibody molecule.
   12. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 10, wherein said antigen binding protein is
20     a human antibody.
   13. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 10, wherein said antigen binding protein is
       a monoclonal antibody.
25 14. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 9, wherein said antigen binding protein is of
       the IgG1-, IgG2- lgG3- or IgG4-type.
   15. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 14, wherein said antigen binding protein is
       of the IgGi- or IgG2-type.
30
   16. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments, wherein said antigen
       binding protein has at least one property selected from the group consisting of:
       a) inhibiting CD30/CD30L interaction;
       b) inhibiting CD30L-induced IL-8 induction;
35     c) cross-competing with one of antibodies A-F for binding to human CD30L;
                                                   51

       d) a dissociation constant 5 70pM and
       e) binding to human CD30L with substantially the same KO as one of antibodies A-F.
   17. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L, wherein the antigen binding protein
 5     binds a C-terminal region of CD30L defined by AA 201-234, or such as AA 205-230 or AA
       211-226.
   18. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 17, wherein the antigen binding protein
       binds a further region of CD30L defined by AA 75-95 such as AA 80-90 or AA 82-88.
10
   19. An isolated antigen binding protein of embodiment 17 or 18, wherein said antigen binding
       protein has at least one property selected from the group consisting of:
       a) inhibiting CD30/CD30L interaction;
       b) inhibiting CD30L-induced IL-8 induction;
15     c) cross-competing with one of antibodies A-F for binding to human CD30L:
       d) a dissociation constant to human CD30L is at most 70pM and
       e) binding to human CD30L with substantially the same or lower Kd as one of antibodies A-F.
   20. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-19, wherein
20     binding of the antigen binding protein to hCD30L is inhibited by binding of a Fab of one or
       more of antibodies A, B, C, D, E and F.
   21. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-19, wherein the
       antigen binding protein competes with a Fab of one or more of antibodies A, B, C, D, E and F
25     for binding to CD30L.
   22. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of embodiments 20-21, wherein the Fab is a Fab of
       antibody Al.
30 23. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-22, wherein said
       antigen binding protein has a dissociation constant (K0 ) to human CD30L of at most 75 pM,
       such as at most 50 pM, such as 40 pM.
   24. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-23, comprising a
35     CDRH1. a CDR H2 and a CDRH3 and a CDRL1. a CDRL2 and a CDRL3,
       wherein CDRL1 is the CDRL1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:30.
       wherein CDRL2 is the CDRL2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:31,
       wherein CDRL3 is the CDRL3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:32.
       wherein CDRH1 is the CDRH1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:33.
40     wherein CDRH2 is the CDRH2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:34 and
       wherein CDRH3 is the CDRH3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:35.
                                                  52

   25. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-23, comprising a
       CDRH1, a CDR H2 and a CDRH3 and a CDRL1. a CDRL2 and a CDRL3,
       wherein CDRL1 is the CDRL1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:30,
 5     wherein CDRL2 is the CDRL2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:31.
       wherein CDRL3 is the CDRL3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:32,
       wherein CDRH1 is the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 17 or the CDRH1 consensus sequence of
       SEQ ID NO:75,
10     wherein CDRH2 is the CDRH2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:34 and
       wherein CDRH3 is the CDRH3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:35.
   26. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-23, comprising a
       CDRH1. a CDRH2 and a CDRH3
15     wherein CDRL1 is the CDRL1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:30,
       wherein CDRL2 is the CDRL2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:31,
       wherein CDRL3 is the CDRL3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:32.
       and a CDRL1, a CDRL2 and a CDRL3,
20     wherein CDRH1 is the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 17 or the CDRH1 consensus sequence of
       SEQ ID NO:75.
       wherein CDRH2 is seleced from sequence ID NO: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 and
       wherein CDRH3 is the CDRH3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:35.
25 27. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-23, comprising a
       CDRH1, a CDRH2 and a CDRH3
       wherein CDRL1 is the CDRL1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:30,
       wherein CDRL2 is the CDRL2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:31,
       wherein CDRL3 is the CDRL3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:32,
30
       and a CDRL1, a CDRL2 and a CDRL3,
       wherein CDRH1 is the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 17 or the CDRH1 consensus sequence of
       SEQ ID NO:75,
       wherein CDRH2 is seleced from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24
35     and
       wherein CDRH3 is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 25, 26. 27, 28 and 29.
   28. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-23 comprising:
                                                  53

       a CDRH1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:14, 15. 16, 17 and 18;
       a CDRH2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24;
       a CDRH3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29;
       a CDRL1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6;
 5     a CDRL2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7, 8 .9 and 10; and
       a CDRL3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 11, 12 and 13.
   29. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous embodiments 17-23 comprising:
       a) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs: 14, 19, 25 and CDRL1, CDRL2
10          and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 1, 7 and 11,
       b) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:15, 21, 26 and CDRL1, CDRL2
            and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 2, 8 and 12,
       c)   CDRH1. CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:15, 21, 26 and CDRL1, CDRL2
            and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 3, 8 and 12,
15     d) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:16, 22, 27 and CDRL1, CDRL2
            and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 4, 9 and 12,
       e) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:17, 23, 28 and CDRL1, CDRL2
            and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 5, 8 and 13 or
       f)   CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:18, 24, 29 and CDRL1, CDRL2
20          and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 6, 10 and 12.
   30. An antigen binding protein that competes with at least one antigen binding protein of any of
       embodiments 1 to 29.
25 31. An antigen binding protein of any of embodiments I to 29 that is fully or partially afucosylated
   32. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an antigen binding protein of any of the previous
       embodiments.
30 33. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of embodiment 32, wherein at least one heavy chain
       variable region is encoded by an isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from the group
       consisting of SEQ ID NOs:49. 51, 53, 55, 57, 59, 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71 and 73 and at least
       one light chain variable region is encoded by an isolated nucleic acid molecule selected from
       the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 37, 39, 41. 43, 45, and 47.
35
                                                  54

   34. A nucleic acid molecule according to embodiment 33, wherein said nucleic acid molecule is
       operably linked to a control sequence.
   35. A vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule according to embodiment 32.
 5
   36. A host cell comprising the nucleic acid molecule according to embodiment 32.
   37. A host cell comprising the vector according to embodiment 35.
10 38. An isolated polynucleotide sufficient for use as a hybridization probe, PCR primer or
       sequencing primer that is a fragment of the nucleic acid molecule of embodiment 33 or 34 or
       its complement.
   39. A method of making the antigen binding protein of any of embodiments 1 to 31, comprising the
15     step of preparing said antigen binding protein from a host cell that secretes said antigen
       binding protein.
   40. A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one antigen binding protein of any of
       embodiments 1 to 31 and pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
20
   41. A pharmaceutical composition of embodiment 40, further comprises a labeling group or an
       effector group.
   42. A pharmaceutical composition of embodiment 41, wherein said labeling group is selected from
25     the group consisting of isotopic labels, magnetic labels, redox active moieties, optical dyes,
       biotinylated groups and predetermined polypeptide epitope.s recognized by a secondary
       reporter.
   43. A pharmaceutical composition of embodiment 42, wherein said effector group is selected from
30     the group consisting of a radioisotope, radionuclide, a toxin, a therapeutic group and a
       chemotherapeutic group.
   44. A method for treating or preventing a condition associated with CD30L in a patient, comprising
       administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of at least one isolated antigen
35     binding protein of any of embodiments 1 to 31.
                                                  55

   45. A method of embodiment 44, wherein the isolated antigen-binding protein is administered
       alone or as a combination therapy.
 5 46. A method of reducing CD30L activity in a patient comprising administering an effective amount
       of at least one antigen binding protein of any of embodiments 1 to 31.
   47. An antigen binding protein according to any of the previous embodiments 1 to 31 for use in a
       method of treatment.
10
   48. An antigen binding protein according to any of the previous embodiments 1 to 31 for treatment
       of flammatory diseases.
   49. An antigen binding protein according to any of the previous embodiments 1 to 31 for treatment
15     of autoimmue diseases, such as arthritis (including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and Systemic
       Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease
       and ulcerative colitis.
                                                   56

   EXAMPLES
   Example 1
   Generation of Human CD30L Antibodies
 5          XenoMouseTM technology (Amgen, Thousand Oaks, CA) was used to develop human
   monoclonal antibodies that recognize and inhibit recombinant human CD30L activity. The antibodies
   selected were cross reactive with human and cynomologous CD30L, but not with mouse CD30L.
            Hybridoma supernatants were screened by fluorometric microvolume assay technology
   (FMAT) for binding to recombinant human CD30L expressed on 293T cells as well as being screened
10 by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACs) analysis for binding to native human CD30L on Ramos
   cells.   In the FMAT assay, plates are coated with 293T cells expressing CD30L, hybridoma
   supernatant was added, and a secondary anti-human Ig antibody was then added for detection via
   standard ELISA techniques. Negative controls were the corresponding non-transfected 293T cells that
   did not express CD30L.
15          The supernatants were purified and recombinant antibodies were expressed as IgG1 and
   IgG2 constructs. The antibodies were rescreened for binding to native human and cynomologous
   monkey CD30L. Briefly, human Burkitt's lymphoma Ramos cells (3x1 05/well) were incubated in round
   bottomed 96-well microtiter plates (Costar* 96 well plate (Corning; Acton, MA) with a titration
   (10pg/mL to 3.2ng/mL final concentration) of anti-CD30L IgG antibodies in blocking buffer (PBS
20 containing 0.02% sodium azide, 2% normal goat serum and 1% normal rabbit serum).               Human
   CD30.Fc fusion protein was included as a positive control for binding. Cells were incubated for 30
   minutes at 40C then washed X2 with PBS and incubated for a further 30 minutes at 40C with 30pL/well
   of anti-hu IgG-biotin (1:50 in blocking buffer; Jackson lmmunoresearch, West Grove, PA). After
   washing X2 with PBS, cells were incubated for 30 minutes at 400 with 30pL/well (1:50 dilution in PBS)
25 of Streptavidin-Phycoerythrin (PE; Molecular Probes. Eugene. OR). Cells were washed 2X with PBS
   and prepared for FACs analysis. Results can be found in Table 5.
            Cynomologous activated T cells were prepared by isolating peripheral blood mononuclear
   cells (PBMC) from heparinized cynomolgus monkey blood by density centrifugation over Isolymph
   (2000 rpm. for 20 minutes). PBMC were resuspended in 25mLs of PBS, added to 300I of a 50%
30 solution of 2-Aminoethylisothiouronium bromide (AET)-treated sheep erythrocytes and centrifuged at
   -700 rpm at 40C for 10 minutes. Pelleted cells were incubated at 44C for a further 20 minutes, gently
   resuspended and centrifuged over Isolymph. Supernatant was removed down to the T cell/erythrocyte
   pellet. The pellet was then resuspended in 25 mL of lyses buffer (0.85% ammonium chloride in water)
   and incubated at 370C for 10 minutes. The resultant T cells were pelleted and washed x2 in culture
35 medium (RPMI-1640 medium + 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum) and then cultured
   (1x0/mL) at 37C for 18hr in the presence of 10ng/mL Phorbol Myristate Acetate (PMA: Sigma
   Chemicals, St Louis, MO) and 500ng/mL lonomycin (Calbiochem, San Francisco, CA). At the end of
   the culture period, cynomolgus T cells were counted and washed 1x with PBS and incubated with 2%
   Goat serum, 1% Rabbit serum and 0.1% Human serum in PBS for 30 minutes at 4)C. Cells were then
40 stained with anti-huCD30L antibodies as described above for human Ramos cells. Results can be
   found in Table 5.
                                                    57

            The antibodies were also screened for ability to block binding of human CD30L to a soluble
   human CD30.Fc molecule. Briefly, human Ramos cells or activated cynomolgus monkey T cells were
   incubated with anti-CD30L IgGs at 50pg/mL in blocking buffer for 30 minutes at 40 C. Soluble
   huCD30.Fc-His was then added at a final concentration of 2.5ug/mL (30pL/well) and incubated for 30
 5 minutes at 40C. Cells were washed X2 with PBS and incubated with Spg/mL of a mouse anti-His
   monoclonal antibody (30pL/well in blocking buffer) and incubated for 30 minutes at 4CC. After washing
   X2 with PBS. cells were incubated with anti-mouse IgG-PE (1:50 in PBS; BD Pharmingen. San Diego,
   CA) for a further 30 minutes at 40C. Cells were then washed X2 with PBS and prepared for FACs
   analysis. The results can be found in Table 5.
10
   Example 2
   CD30L Antibody Functional Screen
            The antibodies were characterized for their ability to block CD30L/CD30 interactions using two
   IL-8 release assays. These assays exploit the human Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma (ALCL) cell
15 line Karpas-299 (K299), which expresses endogenous CD30 and releases IL-8 in response to
   CD30L. Briefly, purified anti-human CD30L IgG antibodies were incubated with either recombinant
   CD30L (single cell assay) or Ramos cells expressing native CD30L (dual cell assay) and cultured with
   K299 cells. After a defined incubation period, the cell supernatants were harvested and analyzed for
   IL-8 content using a sandwich ELISA to determine inhibition of IL-8 release from K299 cells in
20 response to CD30L by antibody candidates.
   Single cell assay
            Anti-CD30L IgG antibodies were titrated into culture diluent (RPMI-1640 medium + 10% heat
   inactivated fetal bovine serum) and placed into round-bottomed 96-well microtiter plates (Costar0 96
25 well plate (Corning; Acton, MA) to give a range of final concentrations from 1pg/ml to 1Opg/ml. As a
   positive control, a mouse anti-human CD30L monoclonal antibody was prepared as described in US
   Patent No. 5,480,981. The final volume of diluent and CD30L IgG was 100pl/well. To each well was
   then added 50pl of recombinant human CD30L isoleucine zipper (huCD30L LZ). The huCD30L LZ
   construct consists of the extracellular domain of human CD30L (see U.S. Patent No. 5,480,981) linked
30 at its N-terminus to an isoleucine zipper motif modified by replacing the leucine residues with
   isoleucine residues. The single cell assay was also used to determine cyno cross-reactivity using a
   cyno CD30L LZ instead of the huCD30L LZ. CynoCD30L LZ was prepared as described for the
   human LZ molecule.
            The plates were incubated for 45 minutes at room temperature. To each well was added 50pl
35 of K299 cells (4x1 05 cells/ml). The plates were then incubated for 24 hours at 37* C 5% CO2.
            The amount of IL-8 in the cell supernatants was determined by sandwich ELISA, using a
   CDCL8/IL-8 ELISA DuoSet kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (R&D                 Systems,
   Minneapolis, MN). IL-8 levels were interpolated from the ELISA standard curve using DeltaSoft 3
   version 2.2 software (DeltaSoft, Inc. Hillsborough, NJ). All results were expressed as the mean 
40 standard error of the mean (SEM) for 3 replicate cultures calculated by GraphPad PRISM software v.
                                                       58

   4.01 (GraphPad Software Inc., San Diego, CA) as were the ICso values. The ICso value derived using
   the huCD30L LZ for Antibody Al was 2700 pM. The results using the cynoCD30L LZ can be found in
   Table 5.
 5 Dual cell assay
            As described above, anti-CD30L IgG antibodies were titrated into culture diluent and placed
   into round-bottomed 96-well microtiter plates to give a range of final concentrations from 1pg/ml to
   1Opg/ml. The final volume of diluent and CD30L IgG was 100pI/well. To each well was added 50pI
   irradiated (5000 RADS) CD30L* Ramos cells (4x106/ml, ATCC). The Ramos cells were subjected to
10 FACS sorting to select those cells with the highest level of cell surface CD30L expression.
            The plates were incubated for 45 minutes at room temperature. To each well was added 50pl
   of K299 cells (4x10 5 cells/ml). The plates were incubated for 24 hours at 3740 5% CO2.
            The amount of IL-8 in the culture supernatants was determined by sandwich ELISA, using a
   CDCL8/IL-8 ELISA DuoSet kit according to the manufacturer's instructions (R&D                    Systems,
15 Minneapolis, MN). The amount of IL-8 and ICw values were calculated as described above, see Table
   5.
            Antibody leads were selected based on their ability to inhibit CD30L-induced IL-8 induction
   compared with the mouse anti-human CD30L monoclonal antibody control.
20 Table 5 Table of mean ICO    0 (pM) and % inhibiton for CD30L antibodies in various functional assays
                                                              Antibodies
            Assays                A        E         F         C         D       B        A1       Al
                                                      _____
                                                      ___        ___                   _____      IgG 1
   Native huCD30L
   (K299/Ramos dual            28pM     45pM     60pM       36pM      62pM    72pM     33pM     32pM
   cell, ICEo)
   Native Binding
   (FACS, ECo)
   Hu                          1.7nM    3.3nM    2.3nM      1.7nM     3.3nM   3.1nM
   Cyno                        2.2nM    2.7nM    2.9nM      1.OnM     2.7nM   4.OnM
   CD30L LZ Blocking
   (Binding to K299, IC5o)
                                                 2.OnM      1.9nM                      2.5nM     1.4nM
      u                        1.5nM    2.1nM
   Cyno                        1.4nM    1.3nM    0.45nM
   Native Blocking
   (CD3OFc binding, %
   inhibition)                 68%      80%      ND         88%       55%     70%
   Hu                          77%      87%      97%        83%       84%     88%
   Cyno
   Cyno CD30L LZ                                                                       2.4nM     1.5nM
   (K299/Single Cell,          2.OnM    5.4nM    5.5nM      3.9nM     5.4nM   5.6nM
   IGN)
      oeectr    point          8.89     8.86     8.96       8.74      9,01    8.84
                                                         59

   Example 3
   Binning of CD30L Antibodies by Binding Competition
            Inning was performed using a binding competition assay in which one labeled CD30L
   antibody competed with excess amounts of other unlabeled CD30L antibodies for binding to rhCD30L.
 5 Antibodies which competed with one another were assigned to the same bin.             Antibodies A-F
   competed with each other for binding to rhCD30L.
   Example 4
   Determining the on-cell Equilibrium Dissociation Constant (Kd) for CD30L Antibodies
10          Binding affinity of CD30L antibodies to CD30L expressed on Ramos cells were determined by
   FACS Kd method. The Ramos cells were cultured in RMP11640 media + 10%FBS + L-glut + 0.05%
   azide. Two equilibrium reactions were set up where the antibodies were titrated 1:3 from 60nM to
   338fM using cell culture media and incubated with two different constant cell concentrations (25000
   and 250000 cells). The plates were sealed with parafilm and incubated at 370C, 20h, shaking. The
15 equilibrium plates were centrifuged and cell pellets were washed twice with ice cold FACS buffer (1X
   D-PBS+2% FBS). The cells were then incubated with a secondary antibody goat anti-human Fc Cy5
   (Jackson Immuno Research, West Grove, PA,) and with 7AAD (BD-Biosciences, Rockville, MD) for 1h
   on ice in the dark. Following the incubation, the cells were washed twice with ice-cold FACS buffer
   before flow cytometry analysis.      The GeoMean values of FL4 shift gated on live cell population
20 measure the bound [Ab]. The inverse of the GeoMean values that reflects theoretical free [Ag] in the
   equilibrium solution was then calculated. The inverse values of the GeoMean read were used in
   Kin ExA software for analysis and Kd calculation for each antibody. The free [Ag] measure was plotted
   against the starting concentration of titrating component and from these plots at two different cell
   concentrations the Kd was obtained from curve fitting using n-curve analysis in KinExATM Pro
25 software. The 95% confidence interval is given as Kd low and Kd high,
            As seen in the Table 6, the antibodies have high affinity to CD30L expressed on Ramos cells.
   All had Kd values in the low pM range.
   Table 6 Table of K0 (pM) rates
   Antibody       Kd(pM)         Kd low (pM)     Kd high (pM)
   B              7.43           4.58            11.70
   A              25.46          18.15           33.10
   D              11.90          8.44            16.14
   E              52.08          38.29           69.56
   F              35.75          26.92           46.64
   C              43.99          34.15           56.02
30
                                                       60

   Example 5
   ADCC Assay
 5          The variable domains from Al were attached to a human IgG1 constant domain (Al IgG1).
   This antibody was expressed in a Fut-8 knock-out CHO cell line resulting in an afucosylated antibody,
   Al IgGlf.
            CD30L antibody mediated killing of target cells was assessed in an antibody dependend
10 cytotoxicity (ADCC) assay.       Target cell Ramos (CD30L expression level high), JD38 (CD30L
   expression level moderate), DS179 (CD30L expression level low) and EW36 (no CD30L expression),
   were harvested and resuspended at 2X10 6 cells/ml in cRPMI-10 media (RPMI (Life Technologies,
   Carlsberg, CA) +10% fetal bovine serum). Calcein-AM, 4MM in anhydrous DMSO (Sigma-Aldrich, St.
   Louis, MO) was added to final concentration of 10pM (1:400 dilution). Cells were incubated for 30
15 minutes at 37'C followed by two washes in PBS (1500rpm, 5 minutes at 4 0C each). Pellets were
   resuspended in cRPMI-10 and adjusted to a concentraton of 0.2 x 106 cells/mL placed on ice for the
   use in the next step.
            Antibody Al IgG1 and Antibody Al IgGlf were first added to U-bottom 96-well plates (D,
   Franklin Lakes, NJ) at 10 fold serial titration starting from 10ug/ml. Rituximab (Genentech, South San
20 Francisco, CA) was used as a positive antibody control. Antibody Al (IgG2) was added as a negative
   control.    Calcein-AM-labeled target cells, described above, were then added to each well
   (10,000cells/well) and incubated with antibodied for 20 minutes at 37cC. Following incubation, each
   well was added 50 pl of NK cells at a concentration of 4 x 106 cells/ml and incubated for 4 hours at
   37'C. NK cells were pelleted (1500rpm, 5 minutes at 4QQ) and resuspended in cRPMI-10, adjusting
25 the cell concentration to 4x1 06 cells/mL.
            Following incubation controls wells were prepared by adding 20pl/well 9% NP.-40 (IGEPAL CA
   630, Sigma-Aldrich) to stimulate 100% lysis. All other wells received 20pl/well of cRPMI-10 media
   alone. The plates were spun at 800 RPM for 4 minutes at 4       C. Supernatant (150pl) was removed and
   transferred to a clear bottom, black 96 well plate (Corning, Lowell, MA) and fluroresence read on plate
30 reader (Molecular Devices, Spectra max GEMINI), excitatioin 485, emission 535.
            Percent maximum lysis was calculated as (sample value-spontaneous lysis)/ (100% lysis
   spontaneous lysis) * 100.
            The results of CD30L antibody mediated killing of the four target cells are shown in Figure 1
   (A-D).   Antibody Al IgG1 did not mediate cell killing on any of the CD30L expressing cells (see
35 Figures 1A-D). Antibody Al IgG1f induced cell death on target cells with both high CD30L expression
   (see Figure 1A) and on target cells with moderate CD30L expression (see Figure 1B). Antibody Al
   IgGlf mediated a greater level of depletion on target cells with higher CD30L expression than on
   targets cells with moderate levels of CD30L (see Figures 1A and 1B). Antibody Al IgG1f did not kill
   target cells with low (C) or no (D) CD30L expression
40
                                                         61

   Example 6
   Epitope mapping by HX-MS of anti-CD30L mAbs
   The CD30L binding regions of anti-CD30L antibodies were evaluted by HX-MS to identify region or
   regionss of human CD30L involved in the molecularlar interaction with the antibodies A to F described
 5 herein.
   Materials
   hCD30L: Two different versions of the extracellular domain of hCD30Lwere used His-hCD30L-EC
   contains residues 63-234 of hCD30L as identified by SEQ ID NO: 74 and as the name indicates the
10 protein is produced with an N-terminal His-tag (RnD Systems). FLAG-hCD30L-EC contains residues
   66-234 of SEQ ID NO: 74 and was obtained from mammalian cells with an N-terminal FLAG-His-tag.
            The cDNA of extracellular domain of human CD30L was purchased from Origene. FLAG-His6
   tag and a TEV protease cleavage site was fused to the N-terminus of the coding sequence for amino
   acids 66-234 by a two-step extension PCR and cloned between EcoRi and BamHI sites of pJSV001
15 plasmid in frame with a CD33 signal peptide.
            The FLAG-hCD30L-EC used below includes an N153Q point mutation that abolishes an N
   glycosylation. The N153Q mutant was generated with Qiagen quick-change point mutagenesis Kit
   (QIAGEN).
            HEK293 6E cells were used for protein production. The cells were cultured with FreeStyleT M
20 medium (Gibco) supplemented with 25 ug /ml Geneticin 418 (Gibco) and 0.1% F-68(Gibco). On the
   day of transfection, cells were kept at a density of 1x10 6 cell/ml and transiected with 293 Fectin
   (Invitrogen) according to manufacturer's instruction. 24 hr posttransfection, peptone (Promega) was
   added to the culture to a final concentration of 0.5%. Cells were continued to grow for 5 days before
   the supernatant was collected.
25          The culture supernatant was harvested by centrifugation (15,000 rpmx20min, 4"C) and then
   cleared by the filtration with 0.22 pm cellulose nitrate membrane. The cleared supernatant was applied
   to Ni-chelated sepharose XK60 column (20ml) (GE healthcare), followed by a 10 column volume wash
   with 20mM NaH2PO4 pH7.4, 0.5M NaCl. The protein was then eluted with a 5 column volume of
   20mM NaH2PO4 pH7.4, 0.5M NaCl, 0.5M imidazole. The eluted proteins were pooled, concentrated
30 to -5ml by Amicon ultra 15 centrifugal units (10,00ODa MWCO, Millipore) and loaded onto a Hiload
   26/60 Superdex 200 318ml column (GE Healthcare) to remove aggregates and buffer-exchange to
   PBS. After concentrating, the final protein concentrations were determined by measuring 280nm
   absorbance with a NANODROP UV spectrometer. Protein purity was assessed by SDS-PAGE.
            Deglycosylations were performed for approximately 16 h at 370C using 1U PNGaseF (Roche)
35 per 5 ug hCD30L. The deglycosylated protein was stored at 4C and used for experiments within one
   week. All proteins were buffer exchanged into PBS pH 7.4 before HX-MS experiments.
   HX-MS experiments
   Instrumentation and data recording
40          The HX experiments were performed on a nanoACQUITY UPLC System with HDX
   Technology (Waters Inc.) coupled to a Synapt G2 mass spectrometer (Waters Inc.). The Waters HDX
                                                        62

   system contained a Leap robot (H/D-x PAL; Waters Inc.) operated by the LeapShell software (Leap
   Technologies Inc/Waters Inc.), which performed initiation of the deuterium exchange reaction, reaction
   time control, quench reaction, injection onto the UPLC system and digestion time control. The Leap
   robot was equipped with two temperature controlled stacks maintained at 20 OC for buffer storage and
 5 HX reactions and maintained at 2 QC for storage of protein and quench solution, respectively. The
   Waters HDX system furthermore contained a temperature controlled chamber holding the pre- and
   analytical columns, and the LC tubing and switching valves at 1 C. A separately temperature
   controlled chamber holds the pepsin column at 25 1C. For the inline pepsin digestion, 100 pL
   quenched sample containing 300 pmol hCD30L was loaded and passed over a Poroszyme@
10 Immobilized Pepsin Cartridge (2.1     x 30 mm (Applied Biosystems)) placed at 250C using a isocratic
   flow rate of 100 pL/min (0.1% formic acid:CH 3CN 95:5). The resulting peptides were trapped and
   desalted on a VanGuard pre-column BEH C18 1.7 pm (2.1         x 5 mm (Waters Inc.)). Subsequently, the
   valves were switched to place the pre-column inline with the analytical column, UPLC-BEH C18 1.7
   pm (1    x  100 mm (Waters Inc.)), and the peptides separated using a 9 min gradient of 10-50% B
15 delivered at 40 pl/min from the nanoAQUITY UPLC system (Waters Inc.). The mobile phases
   consisted of A: 0.1% formic acid and B: 0.1% formic acid in CH3CN. The ESI MS data, and the
   separate elevated energy (MSE) experiments were acquired in positive ion mode using a Synapt G2
   mass spectrometer (Waters Inc.). Leucine-enkephalin was used as the lock mass ([M+H]* ion at m/z
   556.2771) and data was collected in continuum mode (For further description, see Andersen and
20 Faber, Int. J. Mass Spec., 302, 139-148(2011)).
   Data analysis
             Peptic peptides were identified in separate experiments using standard MSE methods where
   the peptides and fragments are further aligned utilizing the ion mobility properties of the Synapt G2
25 (Waters Inc.). MSE data were processed using ProteinLynx Global Server version version 2.5 (Waters
   Inc.). The HX-MS raw data files were processed in the DynamX 2.0 software (Waters Inc.). DynamX
   automatically performs the lock mass-correction and deuterium incorporation determination, i.e.,
   centroid determination of deuterated peptides. Furthermore, all peptides were inspected manually to
   ensure correct peak and deuteration assignment by the software.
30
   Epitope mapping experment
             Amide hydrogen/deuterium exchange (HX) was initiated by a 6-fold dilution of hCD30L in the
   presence or absence of mAb A, B, C, D, E or F into the corresponding deuterated buffer (i.e. PBS
   prepared in D20, 96% D20 final, pH 7.4 (uncorrected value)). All HX reactions were carried out at
35 20'C and contained 6 pM hCD30L (monomeric Mw used) in the absence or presence of 6.6 pM mAb
   thus giving a 2.2 fold molar excess of mAb. At time intervals 0.25, 0.5, 1, 3 and 10 minutes, 50 pl
   aliquots of the HX reaction were quenched by 50 pl ice-cold quenching buffer (1.35M TCEP) resulting
   in a final pH of 2.5 (uncorrected value).
40
                                                       63

   Results
   hCD30L proteins
            The presence of glycosylations in hCD30L would hamper an HXMS analysis. Because of the
   unknown mass and often heterogeneous nature of protein glycosylations. the resulting peptic peptides
 5 cannot be identified and analyzed in MS. However, removing of the glycosylations from hCD30L could
   create a well-defined amino acid sequence suitable for HXMS as it can be identified and analyzed in
   MS.
            The hCD30L extracellular domain contains five potential N-glycosylation sites as listed in the
   first column of Table 7 below. The glycosylations were attempted removed both by treatment with
10 PNGaseF and by point mutation to obtain a protein better suited for HXMS analysis.
             MS and SEC-MALS analyses of His-hCD30L-EC showed that four out of the five potential N
   glycosylation sites was indeed glycosylated (Table 7; data not shown). Upon treating this protein with
   PNGaseF under native conditions, only two of the glycosylations could be enzymatically removed by
   PNGaseF and thus two N-glycosylations remained on the protein.
15           Upon treating FLAG-hCD30L-EC with PNGaseF under native conditions, both MS and SEC
   MALS demonstrated that this protein could be fully deglycosylated. In conclussion the N153Q
   mutation abolishes an N-glycosylation site that could not be enzymatically removed from His-hCD30L
   EC and this protein was considered optimal for HXMS. An overview of the glycosulation site(s)
   evaluation is included in Table 7.
20
   Table 7: Status of glycosylations in the different versions of hCD30L protein
   Potential N-             His-hCD30L-EC         His-hCD30L-EC      FLAG-hCD30L-       FLAG-hCD30L
   glycosylation site of                          + PNGaseF          EC (N153Q)         EC
   CD30L                                                                               + PNGaseF
             N81                    Glyc                   D                 Glyc               D
             N109                   Glyc                   D                 Glyc               D
             N153                   Glyc                   Glyc              Q                  Q
             N189                   N                      N                 N                  N
             N201                   Glyc                   Glyc              Glyc               D
   D. N, Q denotes the presence of the unmodified amino acid at the sequence position.
   Glyc denotes the presence of N-glycosylations
25 HX-MS analvsis
            After deuterium exchange reaction, hCD30L-EC is digested with pepsin yielding the peptic
   peptide regions described in Table 8. Numbering of hCD30L residues follows SEQ ID NO 74, however
   the N-terminal FLAG-His tag DYKDDDDKHHHHHHENLYFQG is not part of the hCD30L sequence.
   The HX time-course of 40 peptic peptides, covering 83% of the primary structure of FLAG-hCD30L-EC
30 were monitored in the absence or presence of mAb A, B, C, D, E or F and data included in Table 8.
            The remaining sequence not analyzed in the present study was covered with peptic peptides;
   however the signal intensity was insufficient for data analysis. The observed exchange pattern in the
   early time-points (< 10 min) in the presence or absence of mAbs Al, B, C, D, E or F can be divided
                                                       64

   into two different groups: One group of hCD3OL-EC peptic peptides display an exchange pattern that
   is unaffected by the binding of mAbs. In contrast, another group of peptides in hCD30L show
   protection from exchange upon mAb binding (Table 8). In the case of overlapping peptic peptides, the
   exchange protection information is attempted sub-localized to specific residues or stretches within the
 5 peptide assuming full back-exchange of the peptide N-terminus and first peptide bond. Exchange
   protection in a peptide is indicative of this region being involved in mAb binding. Thus the epitope is
   partly or fully located within the region defined by the specific peptides. However, since the resolution
   of HX-MS is based on pepsin digestion of the deuterated protein, exchange protection within a given
   region does not imply that every residue within the region defined by the peptic peptides necessarily is
10 involved in mAb binding.
   Epitope Mapping of mAb A1
            The epitope of mAb Al was mapped in four different experiments using FLAG-hCD30L-LC
   three times and using His-hCD30L-EC once. Both proteins were treated with PNGaseF before HX-MS
15 experiments. The outcomes of these studies were highly similar independent of the hCD30L protein
   used and all yielded the same epitope information. However, the sequence coverage was obviously
   lower in the His-hCD30L-EC experiment due to the lack of detectable peptides in the glycosylated
   regions.
20          Epitope signal for mAb Al was observed in the N-terminal region of hCD30L (Table 8) up until
   residue Cys88. The exchange protection became stronger the longer the peptides extended from the
   starting points (residues 45, 62 or 66) thus indicating exchange protection in the more C-terminal
   region of the peptides and also in residue 88. In contrast the peptides 45-65, 45-81 and 66-81 did not
   show exchange protection. Furthermore, residue D81 is the glycosylation site where glycosylated N
25 becomes D upon the action of PNGaseF. Thus N/D81 is probably not involved in mAb binding.
   Therefore the epitope signal seems to arise from residues within the region 82-88 CSEDLLC.
            Epitope signal for mAb Al was also observed in the C-terminal region of hCD30L (tableB) in
   six different peptides covering the region F211 to S226. Based on the level of exchange protection
   observed, all parts of the region seem to be involved in binding or affected by the binding of mAb A to
30 a smaller or larger extent. Regions bound by the antibody are marked by bold font in Table 8.
            In conclusion, the regions of hCD30L involved in binding mAb A is detected as region 82-88
   CSEDLLC and region 211-226 FQYIDTSTFPLENVLS.
            Epitope Mapping of mAb 8       , , E and F
35 The epitopes of mAb B. C, D, E and F were mapped using FLAG-hCD30L-EC treated with PNGaseF
   before HX-MS experiments. The epitope results of these studies were highly similar to mAb A (table 8)
   also with respect to the magnitude of the exchange protection           Epitope mapping on mAb E was
   performed two times while A, B, C and D were mapped once each.
                                                        65

           u-z                  w                           W                          z       z     z  z
           mC 2        2                     2                           2l             Z    Z   Z   Z
      !oz       z Zc iw           w     w    z          c        W IM z           w l Z zZ           z lZ z        z
                        Ct,          e~ cUo                                             ::                     Ci  r
           Im z         r_ 1W      w w         : 13     3: w l       w           1     F   ZZ    z z Z         a
               --           x     x     x               cd x     x   x            x
           <c   Z0          W W cc           Z     3:       W    W            WZ             Z   Z z2       Z    Z
0
E       0                           4   4a
-o                          LII     WW
o                        0000O
-                      n    C-    CL0     ..
                       z z        z     Z
      $   en-n-fl-n 000
          gCL               CL    CL C..                                                                Z
.Et t                  w
                       zzz w      w (0o                              Q                                  0o   -jJ
  CL0.                 222              Z                        J   J                                     0Z
              0
             3 cqom00 ee 0
                  --                    O          w    w    w   w   w                                   Cco 0
              %S   2220r
                                                                 OO     r
                                                                               i4
                                                                              0- L 0000 0 a0
                                                                                                         J    E
-J               a     a           J                        OOO              G                           0=4
o               z I         I     IIO
           e                III>                   > > > > >                           <                 z
  0             r2                                     20   20   2cQ
                                                                 0
                                                                 Q>J
           ct;~         ~ ~                       Z Z Z Z            zz    Z ZL             Z
E            C,0000a-                              M    Co       0   -  0  -0         no
                o      o    o     o     0
                                        Q    0          0     l 0       Z- ZL ZW        m    <
-U                     >                           u-          U     U    > F     o                                 -
c
CUi
           C        tflo ;-   w   i COeO      r-O   Cc   Cc  CO NCc      r CO       .    0000          0)OtO       CO
                            LO               N                               W-sF-0
                                             *D    N    N    66                          o   OD c
                                                             66

                                                            SX           X   X   X
z z     z      z    z     z    z z     z    z   z    z        w c             w  W   3
                                                              X    eX        X
  ZZ    Z      Z    Z     Z    Z Z      Z     Z   Z  Z        W          WM
                                                          ca X      m X      X   Xq
                                                              XX         X   X   X
  c   2        2    2     2    2 2      Z     2   2  2   z    w    o     w   w   w
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          E
            cZZZZZZZoZ--W                                          cWU
                        00zzzzzzz
                                                                                          o     E
                                                                                                   rd
                                                                                               CD v
                                                                                          -o
                                                  a  0oc)C                       0
                        Z Zw LL -U-           ()C) )U~ c~ u(40                            =Ua
Q                                                        z  1'
                                              >   >>a >     >    >    LJ         F-    LL r      Q)          E
MCC                                           x   xm               zS                                  0
                                                                   U -      )w    -o            -5    6
           222                                                                                  e      o
            e             oz                                             mmmz    z                           >
0   0   -1          !]2          y            0                                      2
                                                                                          g ww;
                                                                                                 0
      a   ae o         a                                                             o
  y     y      a    a                                    0
    0)      c o         0         cr Z    ) Z     N         0            N  OD   (D 10        D     -r     M
                                                                                                         0
    C/)          U)>>       li     22 _                  >-   CJ NN          .N. N   N j-.F50    w   a
                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                             c
                                                                                            006
                                                                     670
                                                                                                          a)

   In conclusion, the regions of hCD30L involved in binding mAb B, C, D, E and F is similar to to the
   regions involved in binding of mAb Al and is detected as region 82-88 CSEDLLC and region 211-226
   FQYI DTSTFPLENVLS.
 5
   Example 7
   Binning of CD30 L antibodies using an Immobilize anti-CD30L A-FAB
10           Anti-human CD30L monoclonal antibodies were epitope binned on a Biacore T200 (GE
   Healthcare 28-9750-01) using a classical sandwich approach.
             To reduce steric hindrance the immobilized antibody was used in a monovalent format. To
   determine if the antigen binding region of the anti-hCD30L antibodies bound overlapping epitopes the
   ability of the antibodies A-F to bind CD30L already bound by the Fab of antibody Al was tested.
15           Fab fragments may be obtained by digesting whole antibodies with papain which cleaves up
   stream of the cysteines of the hinge region or by recombinant expression of the heavy and light chain
   variable regions. The Fab fragment of Anti-hCD30L Al (Al-FAB) was prepared using immobilized
   papain in the presence of cysteine to enzymatically cleave the whole IgG right above the hinge region
   creating two Fab fragments and one Fc fragment per antibody molecule. The Fab was separated
20 from the Fc using Protein A affinity chromatography and then buffer exchanged into PBS. The
   procedure was performed according to manufactures instructions (Pierce Fab Preparation Kit #44985,
   US).
             The anti-human CD30L FAB (Fab of antibody Al) was immobilized and human CD30L-His 0
   trimer (R&D Systems 1028-CL) captured hereon.            Subsequently soluble anti-hCD30L A-F was
25 injected. Binding of the second antibody implies that the two antibodies are in different epitope bins.
             Anti-hCD30L Al-FAB was diluted to 40 pg/mL in 10 mM acetate buffer, pH 5.0 and amine
   coupled to a CM5 chip (GE healthcare BR-1000-12. BR-1000-50) to a level of 3566 RU, using
   standard procedures. Human CD30L-His 0 trimer (R&D Systems 1028-CL) was diluted to 10 nM in
   HBS-P+ (GE healthcare BR-1006-71) and injected over the A-FaB surface to capture -175 RU of
30 CD30L. The second antibody was injected at 75 nM over the captured hCD30L. Controls included null
   capture (buffer only) and injections of buffer instead of soluble antibody. All experiments were
   performed at 25'C.
             Coating of hCD30L with A-FAB blocked binding of a sub-group of the antibodies A-F. The
   controls using A-Fab and A where both blocked as expected. In addition also antibodies F and B were
35 prevented from binding to the captured hCD30L, whereas the antibodies E, C and D were capable of
   binding to hCD30L demonstrating that there binding epitope can be distinguished from the binding
   epitope of A, B and F. In conclusion the anitbodies A, F and B competes with the Fab of antibody Al
   for binding to hCD30L.
                                                      68

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L. wherein the antigen binding protein
        binds a C-terminal region of CD30L defined by AA 201-234.
   2. An isolated antigen binding protein of claim 1, wherein the antigen binding protein binds a
        further region of CD30L defined by AA 75-95.
   3. An isolated antigen binding protein of claim 1 or 2, wherein said antigen binding protein has at
        least one property selected from the group consisting of:
        a)   inhibiting CD30/CD30L interaction;
        b)   inhibiting CD30L-induced IL-8 induction;
        c) cross-competing with one of antibodies A-F for binding to human CD30L;
        d) a dissociation constant to human CD30L is at most 70pM and
        e) binding to human CD30L with substantially the same or lower Kd as one of antibodies
             A-F.
   4. An isolated antigen binding protein of any of the previous claims 1-3, wherein the antigen
        binding protein competes with a Fab of one or more of antibodies A, B, C, D, E and F for
        binding to CD30L.
   5. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L, comprising a CDRH1, a CDRH2 and a
        CDRH3 and a CDRL1, a CDRL2 and a CDRL3,
        wherein CDRL1 is the CDRL1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:30,
        wherein CDRL2 is the CDRL2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:31,
        wherein CDRL3 is the CDRL3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:32,
        wherein CDRH1 is the CDR H1 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:33,
        wherein CDRH2 is the CDR H2 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:34 and
        wherein CDRH3 is the CDR H3 consensus sequence of SEQ ID NO:35.
   6. An isolated antigen binding protein of claim 5 comprising:
      a CDRH1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:14, 15, 16, 17 and 18;
      a CDRH2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24;
      a CDRH3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29;
      a CDRL1 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6;
      a CDRL2 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 7. 8,9 and 10; and
      a CDRL3 selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 11, 12 and 13.
                                                 69

7. An isolated antigen binding protein of claim 5 comprising:
     a) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs: 14, 19, 25 and CDRL1,
         CDRL2 and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 1, 7 and 11,
     b)   CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:15, 21. 26 and CDRL1,
         CDRL2 and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 2, 8 and 12,
     c) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:15, 21, 26 and CDRL1, CDRL2
         and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 3, 8 and 12.
     d) CDR H1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:16, 22, 27 and CDRL1. CDRL2
         and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 4, 9 and 12,
     e) CDRH1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:17, 23, 28 and CDRL1, CDRL2
         and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 5, 8 and 13 or
     f)  CDR H1, CDRH2 and CDRH3 identified by SEQ ID NOs:18. 24, 29 and CDRL1, CDRL2
         and CDRL3 identified by SEQ ID NO: 6, 10 and 12.
8. An isolated antigen binding protein that binds CD30L selected from the group consisting of:
     a) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region selected
         from the group consisting of of SEQ ID NOs:48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60 and 62 and a
         light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO: 36;
     b) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID
         N0:64 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:38;
     c) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID
         N0:66 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:40;
     d) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID
         N0:68 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:42;
     e) an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID
         N0:70 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:44; and
     f)  an isolated antigen binding protein comprising a heavy chain variable region of SEQ ID
         N0:72 and a light chain variable region of SEQ ID NO:46.
9. An isolated antigen binding protein of claims 1, 5 or 8, wherein said antigen binding protein is
     an antibody.
10. An isolated antigen binding protein of claim 9. wherein said antigen binding protein is of the
     IgG1-, IgG2.- IgG3- or lgG4-type.
                                              70

11. A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one antigen binding protein of claim 1, 5
    or 8 and pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
12. A method for treating or preventing a condition associated with CD30L in a patient,
    comprising administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of at least one
    isolated antigen binding protein of claim 1. 5 or 8.
13. A method of reducing CD30L activity in a patient comprising administering an effective
    amount of at least one antigen binding protein of claim 1, 5 or 8.
14. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an antigen binding protein of claim 1, 5 or 8
15. A host cell comprising the nucleic acid molecule of claim 14.
                                             71

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
