                                          ABSTRACT
       The present utility model discloses a door sheet of a vending machine, including a door
  sheet body and a goods outlet, wherein an upper baffle is arranged above the goods outlet,
  and a lower baffle is arranged below the goods outlet. The door sheet further includes a
5 motor, wherein the motor drives, through a transmission rod, the lower baffle to
  longitudinally move, and the upper baffle is connected to the door sheet body through an
  elastic device. The elastic device is a spring. The top end of the goods outlet is laterally
  provided with a photoelectric device. The photoelectric device is connected to the motor,
  and can make the motor stop running.

            2/4
                 5    56
6---
                   03
               *         *
2
     a0 0
          FIG. 2

                       DOOR SHEET OF VENDING MACHINE
                                          BACKGROUND
   Technical Field
        The present invention relates to a vending machine, and in particular, to a door sheet of
 5 a vending machine.
   Related Art
        Common vending machines have goods outlets, some outlets are isolated from unsold
   goods, and the unsold goods can be obtained through outlets of some vending machines.
   Such an outlet usually has a movable baffle, reasonable time is set, and after a user obtains
10 sold goods through the outlet, the baffle is closed to prevent unsold goods from being taken
   away.
        However, such a baffle has a defect, that is, the hand of a user who acts slowly or a
   user who does not know that the baffle will be closed is likely be pinched, causing
   inconveniences. The present patent is to resolve the foregoing problem.
15                                           SUMMARY
        The present utility model discloses a door sheet of a vending machine, including a door
   sheet body and a goods outlet, wherein an upper baffle is arranged above the goods outlet,
   and a lower baffle is arranged below the goods outlet. The door sheet further includes a
   motor, wherein the motor drives, through a transmission rod, the lower baffle to
20 longitudinally move, and the upper baffle is connected to the door sheet body through an
   elastic device.
        The elastic device is a spring, the length of the elastic device being larger than 5 cm.
        The top end of the goods outlet is laterally provided with a photoelectric device. The
   photoelectric device is connected to the motor, and can make the motor stop running.
25      The present utility model can control the lower baffle to close the goods outlet, and
   therefore the palm of a user cannot be pinched, thereby facilitating the use by the user.
                                                   1

                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIG. 1 is a front schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine.
        FIG. 2 is a back schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine (a lower
   baffle is not uplifted).
 5      FIG. 3 is a back schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine (a lower
   baffle is already uplifted).
        FIG. 4 is an overall schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine mounted
   on the vending machine.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10      The detailed description is made hereinbelow in conjunction with the drawings.
        As shown in FIG. 2 and FIG. 3, a door sheet of a vending machine includes a door
   sheet body (1) and a goods outlet (2), wherein an upper baffle (3) is arranged above the
   goods outlet (2), and a lower baffle (7) is arranged below the goods outlet (2). The door
   sheet further includes a motor (4), wherein the motor (4) drives, through a transmission rod,
15 the lower baffle (7) to longitudinally move, and the upper baffle (3) is connected to the
   door sheet body (1) through an elastic device (5).
        The elastic device (5) is a spring, the length of the elastic device (5) being larger than 5
   cm.
        The top end of the goods outlet (2) is laterally provided with a photoelectric device (6),
20 and the photoelectric device (6) is connected to the motor (4), and can make the motor (4)
   stop running.
        Because of the arrangement of the elastic device, when the motor drives the
   transmission rod to move the lower baffle up to close the goods outlet, a hand that is not
   pushed out yet due to a slow action is pushed to be above the lower baffle. Because of the
25 elastic device, the upper baffle is pushed up. Since the length of the elastic device is larger
   than 5 cm and larger than the width of a common palm, the palm of a user cannot be
   pinched.
                                                   2

       On the other hand, the photoelectric device detects an area above the goods outlet, and
  when the photoelectric device detects that the hand of the user does not leave yet, the motor
  will be controlled by means of a circuit (not shown in the figures) to stop running.
       The motor reverses, and after a certain time, a door will be automatically closed, so
5 that burglary is avoided.
       The content is only basic description under the concept of the present invention, and
  any equivalent changes made according to the technical solution of the present utility
  model should fall within the scope of protection of the present invention.
                                                 3

                                               CLAIMS
         1. A door sheet of a vending machine, comprising a door sheet body (1) and a goods
   outlet (2), an upper baffle (3) being arranged above the goods outlet (2), a lower baffle (7)
   being arranged below the goods outlet (2), the door sheet further comprising a motor (4),
 5 the motor (4) driving, through a transmission rod, the lower baffle (7) to longitudinally
   move, and the door sheet of a vending machine being characterized in that the upper baffle
   (3) is connected to the door sheet body (1) through an elastic device (5).
         2. The door sheet of a vending machine of claim 1, characterized in that the elastic
   device (5) is a spring, the length of the elastic device (5) being larger than 5 cm.
10       3. The door sheet of a vending machine of claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the top
   end of the goods outlet (2) is laterally provided with a photoelectric device (6), and the
   photoelectric device (6) is connected to the motor (4), and can make the motor (4) stop
   running.
                                                    4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
