                                            ABSTRACT
        The utility model discloses an energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp. The
  energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp includes a clamp body; a placement
  table is arranged on an upper surface of the clamp body; slide rails (3) are arranged at places,
5 close to an outside of the placement table (10), of the upper surface of the clamp body (1); and
  a cleaning device (4) is installed at a place, close to certain sides of the slide rails (3), of the
  upper surface of the clamp body (1). According to the energy-saving environment-friendly
  polishing clamp, through balancing bubbles, when the clamp body is placed, whether the
  clamp body is horizontally placed or not is observed conveniently; then, with the utilization of
0 limiting blocks and reference grooves, a machining article may be horizontally placed and is
  fixed, and the machining article is prevented from forming an inclination to damage corners
  of the machining article; through the cleaning device, a surface of the machining article after
  being polished may be cleaned; and meanwhile, by employing dust absorption holes, the dust
  generated when the machining article is polished is absorbed and the dust impurities are
5 prevented from flying around to affect a work environment. The design is simple in structure,
  environment-friendly and energy-saving and further improves the accuracy of the clamp.

        2/3
   16      6 17
15
14
      Fig. 2

      ENERGY-SAVING ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY POLISHING CLAMP
   TECHNICAL FIELD
        The utility model relates to the technical field of polishing clamps, and more particularly, to
   an energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp.
 5
   BACKGROUND
        A clamp is a device for fixing a machining object during machine manufacturing so that the
   machining object has a correct position to be constructed or detected and is also referred to a
   clamping tool. In a broad sense, a device for mounting a workpiece quickly, conveniently and
 0 safely during any procedure of a process can be referred to as the clamp. And the utility model
   discloses an energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp.
        However, for the polishing clamp on an existing market, the environmental protection and
   energy conservation are relatively poor, the dust impurities generated when a clamped article is
   machined cannot be reasonably treated and the dust sweeps are scattered everywhere easily.
 5 Moreover, the generated sweeps are easily spattered on the clamp in all directions and thus the
   hygienic quality of the clamp is affected. Meanwhile, when the machining article is clamped by
   the polishing clamp and if a fixing angle is incorrect, corners of the machining article are easily
   damaged in polishing, such that the polished machining article has non-uniform comers to affect
   the machining quality of the article. The utility model makes an improvement for the traditional
20 polishing clamp. The polishing clamp not only has the energy conservation and the
   environmental protection, but also can remove the dust sweeps generated when the article is
   polished. Moreover, it makes corrections when the machining article is fixed. Therefore, the
   problem that an angle is inclined to affect the polishing quality when the machining article is
   fixed is avoided.
25
   SUMMARY
        The utility model provides an energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp, which
   may effectively solve the problems in the background.
        To this end, the technical solutions adopted by the utility model are as follows: an
30 energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp includes a clamp body; a placement table is
                                                     1

   arranged on an upper surface of the clamp body; slide rails are arranged at places, close to an
   outside of the placement table, of the upper surface of the clamp body; a cleaning device is
   installed at a place, close to certain sides of the slide rails, of the upper surface of the clamp body;
   balancing bubbles are arranged at places, close to a lower end of the cleaning device, of the
 5 upper surface of the clamp body in an embedding manner; a control switch is fixedly arranged at
   a side of the clamp body; supporting rods are arranged inside the placement table; a reference
   groove is formed at a place, close to one end of each of the supporting rods, of an inside of the
   placement table; a limiting block is arranged inside each of the reference grooves; a thread
   screwing valve is penetrated through a place, corresponding to each of the limiting blocks, of the
 0 outside of the placement table; a grid net is arranged at an inside bottom end of the placement
   table; dust absorption holes are connected on an upper surface of the grid net; a handle is
   arranged at an upper end of the cleaning device; a small blower is arranged inside the clamp
   body; a dust box is arranged at a place, close to one side of the small blower, of an inside of the
   clamp body; and an input end of the small blower is electrically connected with an output end of
 5 the control switch.
         As a preferred technical solution of the utility model, the cleaning device includes a slide
   seat, a bracket, a cleaning brush and bristles; the bracket is arranged on a lower end of the
   cleaning device; the cleaning brush is arranged on an upper end of the bracket; a lower end of the
   bracket is fixedly connected with the slide seat; a lower end of the cleaning brush is fixedly
 0 connected with the bristles; and the cleaning brush and the clamp body are slidably connected
   via the slide seat and the slide rails.
         As a preferred technical solution of the utility model, the reference grooves are fixedly
   connected with the placement table via the supporting rods; six reference grooves are provided;
   and the placement table is a cylindrical structure.
25       As a preferred technical solution of the utility model, the limiting blocks are fixedly
   connected with the placement table via the thread screwing valves; and each of the limiting
   blocks is a component made of a rubber material.
         As a preferred technical solution of the utility model, one end of the small blower is
   provided with pipes; pipe ports are arranged on an inside bottom end of the grid net; and the
30 small blower is respectively connected with the dust absorption holes and the pipe ports via the
   pipes in a penetration manner.
         As a preferred technical solution of the utility model, four balancing bubbles are provided in
   total, and are respectively and correspondingly arranged at edges of the upper surface of the
                                                       2

   clamp body.
         Compared with the prior art, the energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp
   provided by the utility model has the following beneficial effects.
         According to the utility model, through the balancing bubbles, when the clamp body is
 5 placed, whether the clamp body is horizontally placed or not is observed by a worker
   conveniently and the clamp body is prevented from being inclined to affect the polishing quality
   of the machining article; through the limiting blocks and the reference grooves, the machining
   article may be placed horizontally and is fixed, so the machining article after being fixed is
   prevented from forming an inclination to damage corners of the machining article; meanwhile,
 0 by providing multiple reference grooves, multiple articles are machined conveniently at one time;
   by virtue of the cleaning device, the surface of the machining article after being polished may be
   cleaned and the dust sweeps on the surface of the machining article are cleaned into the grid net
   conveniently; the dust when the machining article is polished is absorbed using the dust
   absorption holes, so not only is the cleanliness of the machining article improved, but the dust
 5 impurities are also prevented from scattering everywhere to affect the work environment; and the
   design is simple in structure, environment-friendly and energy-saving and further improves the
   accuracy of the clamp.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 0       The accompanying drawings are described here to provide a further understanding of the
   utility model, and form a part of the utility model. It is adopted to explain the utility model
   together with the embodiments of the utility model, and does not form improper limits to the
   utility model. In the drawings:
         Fig. 1 is a top view of the utility model;
25       Fig. 2 is a structural schematic diagram of a cleaning device of the utility model; and
         Fig. 3 is an installation schematic diagram of a small blower of the utility model.
         Reference numbers in the drawings: 1. a clamp body; 2. a threaded screwing valve; 3. a
   slide rail; 4. a cleaning device; 5. a grid net; 6. a handle; 7. a reference groove; 8. a dust
   absorption hole; 9. a limiting block; 10. a placement table; 11. a supporting rod; 12. a control
30 switch; 13. a balancing bubble; 14. a slide seat; 15. a bracket; 16. a cleaning brush; 17. bristles;
   18. a small blower; and 19. a dust box.
                                                     3

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         A clear and complete description of the technical solutions in the embodiments of the utility
   model will be given below, in combination with the accompanying drawings in the embodiments
 5 of the utility model. Apparently, the embodiments described below are a part, but not all, of the
   embodiments of the utility model.
         In the description of the utility model, it should be understood that, a direction or position
   relationship indicated by terms "Upper", "Lower", "Front", "Rear", "Left", "Right", "Top",
   "Bottom", "Inside" , "Outside" and the like are a direction or position relationship shown based
 0 on the accompanying drawings and is only intended to describe the utility model conveniently
   and simplify the description, but not indicate or imply that the directed device or component
   must have a special direction and is constructed and operated in a special direction. Therefore, it
   cannot be understood as limits to the utility model.
         Embodiment: referring to Fig. 1-3, the utility model provides a technical solution as follows:
 5 an energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp includes a clamp body 1; a placement
   table 10 is arranged on an upper surface of the clamp body 1; slide rails 3 are arranged at places,
   close to an outside of the placement table 10, of the upper surface of the clamp body 1; a
   cleaning device 4 is installed at a place, close to certain sides of the slide rails 3, of the upper
   surface of the clamp body 1; balancing bubbles 13 are arranged at places, close to a lower end of
 0 the cleaning device 4, of the upper surface of the clamp body 1 in an embedding manner; a
   control switch 12 is fixedly arranged at a side of the clamp body 1; supporting rods 11 are
   arranged inside the placement table 10; a reference groove 7 is formed at a place, close to one
   end of each of the supporting rods 11, of an inside of the placement table 10; a limiting block 9 is
   arranged inside each of the reference grooves 7; a thread screwing valve 2 is penetrated through
25 a place, corresponding to each of the limiting blocks 9, of the outside of the placement table 10;
   a grid net 5 is arranged at an inside bottom end of the placement table 10; dust absorption holes 8
   are connected on an upper surface of the grid net 5; a handle 6 is arranged at an upper end of the
   cleaning device 4; a small blower 18 is arranged inside the clamp body 1; a dust box 19 is
   arranged at a place, close to one side of the small blower 18, of an inside of the clamp body 1;
30 and an input end of the small blower 18 is electrically connected with an output end of the
   control switch 12.
         In order to clean a ground place of the polished machining article and clean the placement
   table 10 conveniently when the clamp body 1 works, in the embodiment, preferably, the cleaning
                                                      4

   device 4 includes a slide seat 14, a bracket 15, a cleaning brush 16 and bristles 17; the bracket 15
   is arranged on a lower end of the cleaning device 4; the cleaning brush 16 is arranged on an
   upper end of the bracket 15; a lower end of the bracket 15 is fixedly connected with the slide seat
   14; a lower end of the cleaning brush 16 is fixedly connected with the bristles 17; and the
 5 cleaning brush 16 and the clamp body 1 are slidably connected via the slide seat 14 and the slide
   rails 3.
         In order to place the machining article horizontally and conveniently, and prevent an
   inclination to affect the polishing of the article, in the embodiment, preferably, the reference
   grooves 7 are fixedly connected with the placement table 10 via the supporting rods 11; six
 0 reference grooves 7 are provided; and the placement table 10 is a cylindrical structure.
         In order to fix the placed article conveniently, in the embodiment, preferably, the limiting
   blocks 9 are fixedly connected with the placement table 10 via the thread screwing valves 2; and
   each of the limiting blocks 9 is a component made of a rubber material.
         In order to remove the sweeps generated when the article is polished, prevent the sweeps
 5 from affecting hygiene of the clamp body 1 and simultaneously prevent the dust impurities from
   polluting a work environment, in the embodiment, preferably, one end of the small blower 18 is
   provided with pipes; pipe ports are arranged on an inside bottom end of the grid net 5; and the
   small blower 18 is respectively connected with the dust absorption holes 8 and the pipe ports via
   the pipes in a penetration manner.
 o       In order to monitor whether the clamp body 1 is horizontally placed or not, and prevent the
   inclination to affect the polishing quality of the article, in the embodiment, preferably, four
   balancing bubbles 13 are provided in total, and are respectively and correspondingly arranged at
   edges of the upper surface of the clamp body 1.
         The principle and the use flow of the utility model are as follows: first of all, through the
25 balancing bubbles 13, when the clamp body 1 is placed, whether the clamp body 1 is
   horizontally placed or not is observed by a worker conveniently and the clamp body 1 is
   prevented from being inclined to affect the polishing quality of the machining article in work;
   then, through the limiting blocks 9 and the reference grooves 7, the machining article may be
   placed horizontally and is fixed, so the machining article is prevented from forming an
30 inclination to damage corners of the machining article; meanwhile, by providing multiple
   reference grooves 7, multiple articles are machined conveniently at one time and the machining
   efficiency of the article is improved; and at last, by virtue of the cleaning device 4, the surface of
   the machining article after being polished may be cleaned and the dust sweeps on the surface of
                                                      5

  the machining article are cleaned into the grid net 5 conveniently; furthermore, the small blower
  12 is started via the control switch 12 to work, the dust generated when the machining article is
  polished is absorbed using the dust absorption holes, and the dust sweeps fallen into the grid net
  5 also can be absorbed and collected, so the uniformly disposal is convenient; not only is the
5 cleanliness of the machining article improved, but the dust impurities are also prevented from
  scattering everywhere to affect the work environment; and the design is simple in structure,
  environment-friendly and energy-saving and further improves the accuracy of the clamp.
        The above descriptions merely are preferred specific embodiments of the utility model. The
  scope of protection of the utility model is not limited to this. Any equivalent replacement or
0 change made by a person skilled in the art according to the technical solutions of the utility
  model and a concept of the utility model within the technical scope disclosed by the utility model
  shall be included in the scope of protection of the utility model.
                                                    6

                                                 CLAIMS
         What is claimed is:
         1.   An energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp, comprising a clamp body (1),
   wherein a placement table (10) is arranged on an upper surface of the clamp body (1); slide rails
 5 (3) are arranged at places, close to an outside of the placement table (10), of the upper surface of
   the clamp body (1); a cleaning device (4) is installed at a place, close to certain sides of the slide
   rails (3), of the upper surface of the clamp body (1); balancing bubbles (13) are arranged at
   places, close to a lower end of the cleaning device (4), of the upper surface of the clamp body (1)
   in an embedding manner; a control switch (12) is fixedly arranged at a side of the clamp body (1);
 0 supporting rods (11) are arranged inside the placement table (10); a reference groove (7) is
   formed at a place, close to one end of each of the supporting rods (11), of an inside of the
   placement table (10); a limiting block (9) is arranged inside each of the reference grooves (7); a
   thread screwing valve (2) is penetrated through a place, corresponding to each of the limiting
   blocks (9), of the outside of the placement table (10); a grid net (5) is arranged at an inside
 5 bottom end of the placement table (10); dust absorption holes (8) are connected on an upper
   surface of the grid net (5); a handle (6) is arranged at an upper end of the cleaning device (4); a
   small blower (18) is arranged inside the clamp body (1); a dust box (19) is arranged at a place,
   close to one side of the small blower (18), of an inside of the clamp body (1); and an input end of
   the small blower (18) is electrically connected with an output end of the control switch (12).
 0
         2.   The energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp according to claim 1, wherein
   the cleaning device (4) comprises a slide seat (14), a bracket (15), a cleaning brush (16) and
   bristles (17); the bracket (15) is arranged on a lower end of the cleaning device (4); the cleaning
   brush (16) is arranged on an upper end of the bracket (15); a lower end of the bracket (15) is
25 fixedly connected with the slide seat (14); a lower end of the cleaning brush (16) is fixedly
   connected with the bristles (17); and the cleaning brush (16) and the clamp body (1) are slidably
   connected via the slide seat (14) and the slide rails (3).
         3.   The energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp according to claim 1, wherein
30 the reference grooves (7) are fixedly connected with the placement table (10) via the supporting
   rods (11); six reference grooves (7) are provided; and the placement table (10) is a cylindrical
   structure.
                                                     7

       4.   The energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp according to claim 1, wherein
  the limiting blocks (9) are fixedly connected with the placement table (10) via the thread
  screwing valves (2); and each of the limiting blocks (9) is a component made of a rubber
5 material.
       5.   The energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp according to claim 1, wherein
  one end of the small blower (18) is provided with pipes; pipe ports are arranged on an inside
  bottom end of the grid net (5); and the small blower (18) is respectively connected with the dust
0 absorption holes (8) and the pipe ports via the pipes in a penetration manner.
       6.   The energy-saving environment-friendly polishing clamp according to claim 1, wherein
  four balancing bubbles (13) are provided in total, and are respectively and correspondingly
  arranged at edges of the upper surface of the clamp body (1).
5
                                                    8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               3/3
Fig. 3

