                                        ABSTRACT
A method is provided for passing authentication data to a third party that processes a
transaction. More specifically, in connection with a transaction conducted between a
first party and a second party, wherein a plurality of transaction details related to the
transaction are generated, including a transaction ID which identifies the transaction
and authentication data which reflects a result of an attempt to authenticate the first
party, the method includes: providing the second party a document over a
communications network, said document requesting a transaction ID; receiving the
transaction ID over the communications network from the second party; collecting the
transaction details corresponding to the received transaction ID; identifying the
authentication data within the collected transaction details; formatting the
transaction details according to a prescribed format; and, forwarding the formatted
transaction details to the third party.

WO 2007/053223                       PCT/US2006/031090
                               313
                          :D
                          w
                   CCl)
               co,
                        zQ:
                             Lli   0
       coo

  WO 2007/053223                                                     PCT/US2006/031090
             WEB TERMINAL AND BRIDGE THAT SUPPORT PASSING
                                                                                OF
       AUTHENTICATION DATA TO ACQUIRER FOR PAYMENT PROCESSING
    [0001]     This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
   60/706,738, filed August 09, 2005, which is incorporated herein by
                                                                           reference in its
   entirety.
   FIELD
   [0002]      The present inventive subject matter relates to the art of
                                                                                   identity
   authentication. It finds particular application in conjunction
                                                                        with supporting
   cardholder authentication for payment processing of Internet based
                                                                               commercial
  transactions (i.e., electronic commerce), and it will be described
                                                                           with particular
  reference thereto. However, one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate
                                                                                  that it is
  also amenable to other like applications.
  BACKGROUND
  [0003]      Internet commerce, or e-commerce as it is otherwise known, relates
                                                                                     to the
  buying and selling of products and services between consumers
                                                                         and merchants
  over the Internet or other like transactional exchanges of
                                                                      information. The
 convenience of shopping over the Internet has sparked considerable
                                                                             interest in e
 commerce on behalf of both consumers and merchants. Internet
                                                                            sales, or like
 transactions, have been typically carried out using standard credit
                                                                          cards such as
 Visa@, MasterCard@, Discover@, American Express@, or the like,
                                                                      or standard debit
 cards, i.e., check cards or automated teller machine (ATM) cards
                                                                          which directly
 access funds from an associated deposit account or other bank
                                                                     account.
[0004]       While widely used for more traditional face-to-face transactions,
                                                                                   use of
these standard cards in connection with e-commerce
                                                           presents certain difficulties,
including difficulties concerning authentication or positive
                                                                  identification of the
cardholder. For example, maintaining consumer confidence in security
                                                                             has become
difficult with increased reports of fraud. The resulting apprehension
                                                                       is also fueled by
consumer uncertainty of the reputation or integrity of a merchant
                                                                        with whom the
consumer is dealing. Questionable security of the consumer's
                                                                   card information or

   WO 2007/053223                                                       PCT/US2006/031090
     other personal information typically submitted along with
                                                                  a traditional e-commerce
     transaction (e.g., address, card number, phone number, etc.)
                                                                         serves to increase
     apprehension even more. Additionally, cardholders, merchants
                                                                                and financial
     institutions are all concerned about safeguarding against fraudulent
                                                                                 or otherwise
    unauthorized transactions.
    [0005]       Accordingly, various credit card or payment networks have
                                                                                implemented
    initiatives or programs aimed at safeguarding against fraud.
                                                                   Payment networks (e.g.,
   Visa@ and MasterCard@) have implemented various initiatives
                                                                             (e.g., Visa 3-D
    Secure@, a.k.a. Verified by Visa@ (VbV), and MasterCard@
                                                                   SecureCode TM) to allow
   for the authentication of a cardholder priorto authorizing a
                                                                 transaction. For example,
   some of these authentication initiatives work by having a cardholder
                                                                              connect to the
   card issuing bank for authentication. The cardholder authenticates
                                                                            with the bank by
   connecting to a server over the Internet that stores authentication
                                                                         credentials for that
   cardholder, whether it be a password, public key infrastructure
                                                                           (PKI) credential,
   biometric credential, or some other credential. The
                                                                   bank then sends an
   authentication message or data (based on success or failure)
                                                                     back to the merchant.
   Often, this is all carried out over the Internet. The benefits
                                                                    of such authentication
  protocols to all the parties involved in the transaction have
                                                                   been acknowledged.
  [0006]        However, many merchants and others are still not suitably
                                                                                equipped to
  properly comply with the authentication initiatives. For example,
                                                                           many on-line or
  Internet merchants (as well as other types of merchants, e.g.,
                                                                     mobile merchants, so
  called brick and mortar merchants, etc.) employ back-end accounting
                                                                               and/or order
  managements systems which are commonly used to
                                                                  pass or transmit card
 transactions to acquirers, e.g., merchant banks, payment
                                                                processing gateways, or
 the like. On behalf of the merchant, the acquirer then
                                                               presents or submits the
 transactions over the appropriate payment network in the usual
                                                                       manner to the card
 issuing banks or the like for payment. For the merchant
                                                             to enjoy the full advantage
 of the benefits of the various authentication initiatives,
                                                                          commonly, the
 aforementioned authentication data has to accompany
                                                            the transactions submitted
 over the payment network. Nevertheless, many back-end
                                                                accounting and/or order
 management systems currently used by merchants are not
                                                                    equipped to properly
pass the authentication data to the acquirer so that it may
                                                                   be submitted with the
transaction for payment.
                                              2

 WO 2007/053223                                                       PCT/US2006/031090
   [0007]       For example, insomuch as an OMS or the like may have been
   implemented or installed prior to adoption of the authentication protocols
                                                                                             or
   initiatives, there may not be an extra place or field in which to
                                                                                  store the
   authentication data along with the particular transaction associated therewith.
                                                                                          That
   is to say, the OMS may have no means to receive and/or record the authentication
   data along with other associated transaction detail. Accordingly, the OMS
                                                                                 simply has
   no authentication data to pass to the acquirer. One solution to this problem
                                                                                    is for the
   merchant to upgrade or replace their OMS or back-end accounting system.
                                                                                          This
  solution however can be costly and therefore undesirable.
  [0008]       Even if the OMS were originally provisioned with one or more extra fields
  to accommodate future growth and/or an expanded set of data values
                                                                                   for each
  transaction, problems may still arise. For example, while the OMS
                                                                                  can now
  accommodate receipt and/or recording of the authentication data along
                                                                                    with the
  other transaction details, it may still not recognize the data as authentication
                                                                                        data.
  When provisioning an OMS for future expansion, the nature of that expansion
                                                                                        is not
  always appreciated or known at the time. Accordingly, any extra or expansion
                                                                                       fields
  provisioned are often labeled as "miscellaneous" or with another such nondescript
                                                                                            or
 generic label. That is to say, the OSM will generally have no particular
                                                                                     way to
 identify the nature or particular type of data that is recorded or contained
                                                                                   in these
 extra or spare fields. Accordingly, it may not be programmed or otherwise
                                                                                 equipped
 to pass this field to the acquirer along with the other transaction details.
                                                                                Moreover,
 even if the data in the miscellaneous field is passed to the acquirer, being
                                                                                   that the
 OMS does not recognize it as authentication data, it may not be formatted
                                                                                        as a
 particular acquirer is expecting, it may not be passed in proper sequence
                                                                                      to the
 acquirer (i.e., in the location expected by the particular acquirer relative
                                                                              to the other
transaction details), or it may not be otherwise identifiable by the
                                                                              acquirer as
authentication data. Accordingly, the acquirer may not accept the
                                                                               seemingly
extraneous data or may not known what to do with it, in which
                                                                                case the
authentication may still not be is not properly submitted with its
                                                                              associated
transaction over the payment network.
[0009] Accordingly, a new and improved system and/or method that
                                                                            supports the
passing of authentication data in conjunction with its associated transaction
                                                                                    details
                                             3

  WO 2007/053223                                                      PCT/US2006/031090
    for payment processing is disclosed that overcomes the above-referenced problems
    and others.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION
    [0010]     In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, a method is provided for
    passing authentication data to a third party that processes a transaction. More
   specifically, in connection with a transaction conducted between a first party and a
   second party, wherein a plurality of transaction details related to the transaction are
   generated, including a transaction ID which identifies the transaction and
   authentication data which reflects a result of an attempt to authenticate the first
   party, the method includes: providing the second party a document over a
   communications network, the document requesting a transaction ID; receiving the
   transaction ID over the communications network from the second party; collecting
  the transaction details corresponding to the received transaction ID; identifying the
  authentication data within the collected transaction details; formatting the transaction
  details according to a prescribed format; and, forwarding the formatted transaction
  details to the third party.
  [0011]      In accordance with another exemplary embodiment, a system is provided
  for passing authentication data to a third party which processes a transaction. More
  specifically, in connection with a transaction conducted between a first party and a
 second party, wherein a plurality of transaction details related to the transaction are
 generated, including a transaction ID which identifies the transaction and
 authentication data which reflects a result of an attempt to authenticate the first
 party, the system includes: means for providing the second party a document over a
 communications network, the document requesting a transaction ID; means for
 receiving the transaction ID over the communications network from the second
 party; means for collecting the transaction details corresponding to the received
transaction ID; means for identifying the authentication data within the collected
transaction details; means for formatting the transaction details according to
                                                                                         a
prescribed format; and, means for forwarding the formatted transaction details to the
third party.
[0012]       In-accordance with another exemplary embodiment, a method is provided
for passing transaction details to a third party which processes the transaction.
                                                                                        In
                                            4

  WO 2007/053223                                                      PCT/US2006/031090
     connection with a transaction conducted between a first
                                                                party and a second party,
    wherein a plurality of transaction details related to the transaction
                                                                            are generated,
    including a transaction ID which identifies the transaction, the method
                                                                                   includes:
    providing the second party a document over a communications
                                                                              network, the
    document requesting a transaction ID; receiving the transaction ID over
                                                                                          the
    communications network from the second party; collecting the transaction
                                                                                      details
    corresponding to the received transaction ID; identifying the collected
                                                                                transaction
    details; formatting the transaction details according to a prescribed
                                                                              format; and,
   forwarding the formatted transaction details to the third party.
   [0013]       Numerous advantages and benefits of the inventive subject matter
   disclosed herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
                                                                                   art upon
   reading and understanding the present specification.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0014]      The present inventive subject matter may take form in
                                                                                    various
  components and arrangements of components, and in various
                                                                                steps and
  arrangements of steps. The drawings are only for purposes of illustrating
                                                                                  preferred
  embodiments and are not to be construed as limiting. Further, it is to be
                                                                              appreciated
  that the drawings are not to scale.
  [0015]       FIGURE 1 is a diagrammatic illustration showing an on-line transaction
 processing system suitable for practicing aspects of the present inventive
                                                                                    subject
 matter.
 [0016]       FIGURES 2A and 2B are diagrammatic illustrations of transaction
                                                                                   records
 supported by an accounting/order management system and/or transaction
                                                                                 database
 shown in FIGURE 1.
 [0017]       FIGURE 3 is a diagrammatic illustration showing an authentication
                                                                                     bridge
and web terminal embodying aspects of the present inventive subject
                                                                             matter.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0018]        With reference to FIGURE 1, there is shown an on-line or Internet
merchant 10 or other like entity or proxy therefor employing a web server
                                                                               12 or other
similar computer operatively connected to the Internet 20 or other
                                                                         like network to
host a website 14 in the usual manner. A consumer or cardholder
                                                                                 30, e.g.,
                                           5

  WO 2007/053223                                                      PCT/US2006/031090
    employing a web or Internet browser running on a computer 32 or other like Internet
    access device, selectively connects to the server 12 over the Internet 30 to access
    and/or shop at the hosted website 14. Suitably, the server 12 provides or otherwise
    supports what is known as a shopping cart program or function 16 for the website
    14. Via the shopping cart 16, the cardholder 30 selects various items to purchase,
    and then proceeds to the website's check-out webpage 18 or the like provided
                                                                                          by
   the server 12. At the check-out page 18, the cardholder optionally provides
                                                                                       their
   card information, address, etc., and selects a check-out or other similar purchase
   completing option 18a provided on the page 18. Upon completing
                                                                          the transaction,
   transaction data and/or details 40 are generated or otherwise established,
                                                                                   e.g., by
   the server 12. The transaction data 40 typically includes a plurality of data elements
  that represent the values for the various transaction details. For example,
                                                                                         as
   illustrated, the transaction data 40 includes the following elements: a transaction
  reference number or ID 40a, a transaction date and/or time 40b, a transaction
  amount 40c, a card number 40d, a card expiration date 40e, and an
                                                                                  optional
  authentication result or data value 40f.
  [0019]       Depending on the type of card transaction executed, the authentication
  result or data value 40f may or may not be produced or otherwise established.
                                                                                        For
 example, the cardholder 30 may opt to use a card otherwise accepted
                                                                                   by the
 merchant 10 and/or website 14, but the card is not part of a payment network
                                                                                   having
 an authentication protocol or initiative supported by the website 14 or merchant
                                                                                        10.
 For distinction purposes, transactions not having an associated authentication
                                                                                    result
 or value 40f are referred to herein as non-authenticated transactions,
                                                                                     while
 transactions having an associated authentication result or value 40f are referred
                                                                                         to
 as authenticated transactions. Of course, even in an authenticated transaction,
                                                                                       the
actual result or value 40f may represent a positive authentication (e.g., meaning
                                                                                       the
cardholder 30 passed the authentication process or otherwise had the
                                                                                   proper
credentials), a negative authentication (e.g., meaning the cardholder 30
                                                                                  did not
provide the proper credentials during the authentication process), or
                                                                                 a failed
authentication (e.g., meaning authentication was attempted in accordance
                                                                                 with the
authentication protocol or initiative, but no result was achieved or obtained).
[0020]        When established, the authentication result or data value 40f is suitably
obtained from and/or otherwise corresponds to an authentication message and/or
                                            6

WO 2007/053223                                                       PCT/US2006/031090
 data returned or otherwise transmitted to the server 12 and/or merchant 10 in
 accordance with an authentication protocol or initiative supported by a payment
 network to which the card used in the transaction belongs. For example, the
 authentication result or data value 40f is optionally: (i) what is commonly known as
 an accountholder authentication value            (AAV) or a      universal  cardholder
 authentication field (UCAF) value produced in connection with the so called
 MasterCard@ SecureCodeTM initiative supported by the MasterCard@ payment
 network; (ii) what is commonly known as a cardholder authentication verification
 value (CAVV) produced in connection with the so called VbV or 3-D Secure@
 initiative supported by the Visa@ payment network; or, (iii) some other like value
 representative of a similar authentication determination or result. Optionally, the
 result or data value 40f is encoded or encrypted.
 [0021]      Suitably, the merchant 10 also employs a back-end accounting and/or
 order management system (OMS) 52, e.g., supported and/or running on a separate
 server 50 or other like computer. The OMS 52 is suitably implemented via any
 appropriate accounting or order management platform. Commercially available
 options include Mail Order Manager@ provided by Dydacomp, Everest® provided
 by iCode, Inc., etc. In the usual manner, the OMS 52 suitably includes and/or
 employs a transaction database (DB) 54 in which transaction records 56 are
 maintained (see also FIGURES 2A and 2B). As shown in FIGURES 2A and 2B,
each data record 56 includes a plurality of fields, including for example, a
transaction reference number or ID field 56a, a transaction date and/or time field
56b, a transaction amount field 56c, a card number field 56d, and a card expiration
date field 56e. Optionally, as shown in FIGURE 2A, the OMS 52 and/or DB 54 are
provisioned with and/or otherwise equipped to support a transaction record 56 with
an additional or extra miscellaneous field 56f.
[0022]       Suitably, the transaction details 40 established by the server 12 for each
transaction are transferred to or otherwise obtained by the OMS 52. When the OMS
52 receives transaction data or details 40 for a particular transaction from the server
12, they are mapped to the corresponding fields (as shown) in a transaction record
56 produced or created for that transaction in the DB 54. As previously indicated,
non-authenticated transactions have no authentication data present. Accordingly, if
the record 56 employed by the OMS 52 is structured as shown in FIGURE 2A, then
                                             7

 WO 2007/053223                                                          PCT/US2006/031090
    the miscellaneous field 56f is simply left blank, otherwise if it is structured
                                                                                    as shown
    in FIGURE 2B, then there is suitably a one-to-one mapping of the data elements
   40a through 40e into the fields 56a through 56e as illustrated. Alternately, if the
   authentication data 40f is present for the transaction and the record 56 employed
                                                                                            by
   the OMS 52 is structured as shown in FIGURE 2A, then the authentication data
                                                                                              is
   mapped to the miscellaneous field 56f, otherwise if it is structured as shown
                                                                                              in
   FIGURE 2B, then the data elements 40a through 40e are mapped into the
                                                                                        fields
   56a through 56e as illustrated, and the authentication data 40f is dropped, not
                                                                                          sent
   to, not recorded or otherwise disregarded by the OMS 52.
   [0023]     Optionally, for non-authenticated transactions, the OMS 52 passes or
  otherwise delivers the transaction records 56 and/or the transaction details 40
  contained therein to an acquirer 60 for payment processing. These records 56 may
  be passed to the acquirer periodically or at other intervals as desired, and they may
  be passed singularly or in batches. In the usual manner, the acquirer 60 (e.g.,
                                                                                             a
  merchant bank, a payment gateway, or the like) then presents or submits the
 transactions for payment over an appropriate payment network 62 to an issuer 64
  (e.g., the bank or other like entity that issued the card used in the transaction).
 Suitably, the OMS server 50 and the acquirer 60 are both operatively connected to
 the Internet 20. Accordingly, the transaction records 56 and/or the data 46 contained
 therein for non-authenticated transactions is optionally transmitted from the server
 50 to the acquirer 60 over the Internet 20.
 [0024]      With reference to FIGURE 3, the merchant 10 suitably employs an
 authentication bridge, optionally operated by a third party, to pass authenticated
transactions to the acquirer 60. As shown, the authentication bridge is software or a
set of instructions implemented via a server 70 or other like computer operatively
connected to the Internet 20. Suitably, the merchant 10 selectively accesses the
authentication bridge with a web terminal 80 (e.g., implemented as a web or Internet
browser running on a computer or other like Internet access device) by connecting
to the bridge server 70 over the Internet 20. Alternately, the authentication bridge
and/or web terminal 80 are provisioned to automatically process all or some sub-set
of the merchant's transactions, and if no relevant authentication data is found
                                                                                           or
present for a particular transaction, then the authentication bridge simply passes
                                             8

   WO 2007/053223                                                         PCT/US2006/031090
     that transaction to the acquirer 60 in the usual manner, e.g.,
                                                                          as the merchant 10
     would otherwise normally provide it.
     [0025]     As shown, when the authentication bridge is accessed, the
                                                                                   bridge server
     70 supplies the web terminal 80 with an authentication
                                                                 bridge web page 72 or the
    like, including an area or field 74 for entering a transaction
                                                                    ID (XID) and a submit or
    send option 76. Accordingly, the merchant 10, via the web
                                                                    terminal 80, manually or
    otherwise enters a transaction reference number (i.e., the XID
                                                                             value 40a for an
    authenticated transaction previously completed) in the entry
                                                                      field 74 and selects the
    send option 76 to post the page 72 back to the bridge server 70
                                                                          or otherwise deliver
   the XID value 40a entered in the field 74 to the authentication
                                                                                 bridge. While
   described with reference to a single authenticated transaction,
                                                                         optionally, a batch or
   plurality of authenticated transactions are processed together
                                                                         in similar fashion by
   entering a plurality or range of XID values 40a in the field
                                                                 74 and then selecting the
   send option 76.
   [0026]      In a suitable embodiment where the OMS 52 and/or
                                                                             DB 54 support a
  record structure as shown in FIGURE 2A, the authentication
                                                                          bridge responds to
  receipt of the XID value 40a by retrieving, obtaining or
                                                                 otherwise accessing the
  corresponding transaction record 56 (i.e., the record 56
                                                                with a matching XID value
  40a in its XID field 56a) maintained in the transaction record
                                                                     DB 54, for example, by
  connecting to the OMS server 50 with the bridge server
                                                                  70 over the Internet 20.
  Optionally, the authentication bridge is provisioned to recognize
                                                                            or know that the
 data in the miscellaneous field 56f corresponds to the
                                                                 authentication data 40f.
 Alternately, when the record 56 is obtained, the authentication
                                                                            bridge parses or
 otherwise scans the data values 40 to determine which
                                                                  one corresponds to the
 authentication data 40f, for example, by examining the
                                                                 format, structure and/or
 values of the individual data elements to find the one
                                                               that is compatible with or
 matches an accepted or prescribed format, structure and/or
                                                                   value for authentication
 data. Having identified the authentication data 40f, the authentication
                                                                               bridge formats
 and/or orders the data 40 obtained from the retrieved
                                                                record 56 (including the
 authentication data 40f) to comply with the data format and/or
                                                                     sequence prescribed
or otherwise expected by the acquirer 60. The formatted
                                                               and/or ordered data 40 is
then passed or otherwise delivered to the acquirer 60, e.g.,
                                                                  by the bridge server 70
which connects to the acquirer 60 over the Internet 20 or
                                                                alternately some form of
                                              9

   WO 2007/053223                                                         PCT/US2006/031090
     dedicated connectivity. As before, the acquirer 60 then presents
                                                                                 or submits the
    transactions for payment over the appropriate payment
                                                                 network 62 to the issuer 64,
    this time with the authentication data 40f. Accordingly, the merchant
                                                                                   10 enjoys the
    full benefit of participation in and/or compliance with the applicable
                                                                                 authentication
    protocol or initiative. Optionally, the acquirer 60 returns a response
                                                                                        from the
    payment processing to the authentication bridge and/or server 70,
                                                                                  which in turn
    optionally formats and forwards the same on to the merchant 10,
                                                                                  e.g., over the
    Internet 20 to the server 50, so that the OMS 52 and/or DB 54 may
                                                                                    be properly
    updated with the status of the transaction (e.g., indicating that payment
                                                                                     processing
   for the transaction is complete and/or indicating a payment status,
                                                                             i.e., paid, denied,
   etc.).
   [0027]      In an alternate embodiment where the OMS 52 and/or DB 54 support
                                                                                                a
   record structure as shown in FIGURE 2B, the authentication bridge
                                                                                 cannot obtain
   the authentication data 40f from the DB 54. However, at times in the
                                                                                authentication
   process itself, the authentication data 40f is optionally maintained
                                                                              by other parties
   involved in or facilitating the authentication process, e.g., in an authentication
                                                                                          results
  database 90. Suitably, the authentication results or data 40f maintained
                                                                                      in the DB
  90 are also identified by their associated XID values 40a. Accordingly,
                                                                                             the
  authentication bridge responds to receipt of the XID
                                                                  value 40a by retrieving,
  obtaining or otherwise accessing the corresponding authentication
                                                                                      data 40f
  maintained in the authentication DB 90, for example, by connecting thereto
                                                                                        with the
  server 70 over the Internet 20. The other transaction details or data
                                                                             40 are obtained
 from the DB 54 as before, or alternately, if available, from
                                                                  the DB 90. In either case,
  now having a complete set of transaction details 40 (including the
                                                                               authentication
 data 40f), the authentication bridge formats and/or orders the data
                                                                           40 to comply with
 the data format and/or sequence prescribed or otherwise expected
                                                                              by the acquirer
 60, and the formatted and/or ordered data 40 is then passed or otherwise
                                                                                     delivered
to the acquirer 60, e.g., by the bridge server 70 which connects to
                                                                             the acquirer 60
over the Internet 20. As before, the acquirer 60 then presents
                                                                             or submits the
transactions for payment over the appropriate payment network
                                                                         62 to the issuer 64,
this time with the authentication data 40f. Accordingly, the merchant
                                                                             10 again enjoys
the full benefit of participation in and/or compliance with
                                                                            the applicable
authentication protocol or initiative. Optionally, the acquirer 60
                                                                        returns a response
                                             10

   WO 2007/053223                                                        PCT/US2006/031090
     from the payment processing to the authentication bridge and/or
                                                                           server 70, which in
     turn optionally formats and forwards the same on to the merchant
                                                                             10, e.g., over the
     Internet 20 to the server 50, so that the OMS 52 and/or DB
                                                                        54 may be properly
     updated with the status of the transaction (e.g., indicating that payment
                                                                                     processing
    for the transaction is complete and/or indicating a
                                                         payment status, i.e., paid, denied,
    etc.).
    [0028]      In one suitable embodiment where the authentication bridge
                                                                                    is not aware
    of the record structure employed by the OMS 52 and/or DB
                                                                     54, the authentication
    bridge is provisioned to check the DB 54 for the authentication
                                                                            data 40f, and if it
    cannot be found there alternately check the DB 90.
    [0029]     While described herein with reference to an on-line or Internet
                                                                                      merchant
   such as the merchant 10, alternately, other types of merchants
                                                                              (e.g., a mobile
   merchant (e.g., selling goods and/or service over a wireless
                                                                       telecommunications
   network), a traditional brick and mortal merchant, etc.)
                                                                     can also beneficially
   implement and/or utilize a back-end transaction processing
                                                                     system similar to the
  one described herein. That is to say, suitably, any of a variety
                                                                     of front-end platforms
  or approaches may be optionally used to generate the transactions
                                                                               (i.e., in person
  transactions, e-commerce transactions, mobile transactions,
                                                                      etc.), while a similar
  back-end processing as described herein is still used or otherwise
                                                                             implemented in
 the manner described.
 [0030] Additionally, it is to be appreciated that the web
                                                                   terminal and/or bridge
 may be employed to enable the merchant to accept alternate
                                                                        payment methods
 (e.g., PayPal@, Bill Me Later@, Secure eBill, Google Checkout,
                                                                         NACHA, etc.) and
 submit the transaction details to the appropriate payment processing
                                                                                   network or
 entity. That is to say, in some instances the merchant's OMS
                                                                        or other back-end
 processing may not be equipped or otherwise setup to handle the
                                                                         transaction details
 associated with one or more alternate payment methods. For
                                                                      example, fields may
 not be designated or available for the various different types
                                                                         of data elements
 associated with a transaction conducted using the alternate
                                                                        payment method.
Accordingly, the web terminal is used to submit a transaction
                                                                      to the bridge which
collects the transaction details, identifies the various data elements
                                                                           and forwards the
transaction for processing to the appropriate entity or payment
                                                                       network.

 WO 2007/053223                                                       PCT/US2006/031090
   [0031]     In connection with the particular exemplary embodiments
                                                                                   presented
   herein, certain structural and/or function features and/or elements
                                                                          are described as
   being incorporated in particular embodiments. These features and/or
                                                                              elements may
   be selectively implemented via suitable software, hardware,
                                                                         firmware or any
   combination thereof. It is also to be appreciated that different aspects
                                                                                      of the
   exemplary embodiments may be selectively employed as appropriate
                                                                                  to achieve
  other alternate embodiments suited for desired applications,
                                                                      the other alternate
  embodiments thereby realizing the respective advantages
                                                                          of the aspects
  incorporated therein.
  [0032] Additionally, it is to be appreciated that certain elements
                                                                         described herein
  as incorporated together may under suitable circumstances
                                                                          be stand-alone
 elements or otherwise divided. Similarly, a plurality of particular
                                                                     functions described
 as being carried out by one particular element may be carried
                                                                     out by a plurality of
 distinct elements acting independently to carry out individual
                                                                    functions, or certain
 individual functions may be split-up and carried out by a plurality
                                                                      of distinct elements
 acting in concert. Alternately, some elements or components
                                                                   otherwise described
 and/or shown herein as distinct from one another may be physically
                                                                            or functionally
 combined where appropriate.
[0033]      In short, the present specification has been set forth with
                                                                              reference to
exemplary embodiments. Obviously, modifications and alterations
                                                                              will occur to
others upon reading and understanding the present specification.
                                                                       It is intended that
the inventive subject matter be construed as including all such
                                                                      modifications and
alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended
                                                                            claims or the
equivalents thereof.
CLAIMS:
                                           12

 WO 2007/053223                                                       PCT/US2006/031090
           1.       In connection with a transaction conducted between a first party and a
   second party, wherein a plurality of transaction details related to the transaction are
   generated, including a transaction ID which identifies the transaction and
   authentication data which reflects a result of an attempt to authenticate the first
   party, a method of passing the authentication data to a third party which processes
  the transaction comprises:
           a)      providing the second party a document over a communications
  network, said document requesting a transaction ID;
           b)      receiving the transaction ID over the communications network from
  the second party;
           c)     collecting the transaction details corresponding to the received
  transaction ID;
          d)      identifying the authentication data within the collected transaction
  details;
          e)      formatting the transaction details according to a prescribed format;
  and,
          f)      forwarding the formatted transaction details to the third party.
          2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the transaction details are collected in
 step c) from a database maintained in connection with an order management
 system, said transaction details being stored in a transaction record corresponding
 to the transaction to which the transaction details relate.
          3.     The method of claim 2, wherein the transaction record includes a
 plurality of fields, each field including a name identifying a type of the field and a
value representing an element of the transaction details.
         4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the transaction record includes a first
field having a first name and containing a first value, in which the first value
represents the authentication data but the corresponding first name identifies the
type of the field as otherwise.
                                              13

  WO 2007/053223                                                       PCT/US2006/031090
            5.    The method of claim 4, wherein step d) comprises identifying
                                                                                            the
    authentication data as the value contained in the field having
                                                                      the first name.
           6.     The method of claim 4, wherein step d) comprises parsing
                                                                                           the
   transaction details to locate a value that has an appearance
                                                                            consistent with
   authentication data.
           7.     The method of claim 2, wherein the transaction details contained
                                                                                        in the
   transaction record do not include the authentication data, and
                                                                        step c) comprises
   collecting the authentication data from a location different
                                                                     than the transaction
   record.
          8.     The method of claim 1, wherein the communications network
                                                                                       is the
  Internet and the document is a web page.
          9.     In connection with a transaction conducted between a first
                                                                                 party and a
  second party, wherein a plurality of transaction details related
                                                                    to the transaction are
 generated, including a transaction ID which identifies
                                                                   the transaction and
 authentication data which reflects a result of an attempt to authenticate
                                                                                    the first
 party, a system for passing the authentication data to a third party
                                                                         which processes
 the transaction comprises:
         means for providing the second party a document over a communications
 network, said document requesting a transaction ID;
         means for receiving the transaction ID over the communications
                                                                             network from
 the second party;
         means for collecting the transaction details corresponding
                                                                          to the received
transaction ID;
         means for identifying the authentication data within the collected
                                                                               transaction
details;
         means for formatting the transaction details according to a
                                                                       prescribed format;
and,
        means for forwarding the formatted transaction details to the
                                                                           third party.
                                           14

    WO 2007/053223                                                        PCT/US2006/031090
              10.     The system of claim 9, wherein the transaction details
                                                                                are collected in
      from a database maintained in connection with an
                                                           order management system, said
     transaction details being stored in a transaction
                                                              record corresponding to the
     transaction to which the transaction details relate.
             11.      The system of claim 10, wherein the transaction record
                                                                                     includes a
     plurality of fields, each field including a name identifying
                                                                   a type of the field and a
     value representing an element of the transaction details.
             12.     The system of claim 11, wherein the transaction record
                                                                                includes a first
    field having a first name and containing a first
                                                           value, in which the first value
    represents the authentication data but the corresponding
                                                                   first name identifies the
   type of the field as otherwise.
            13.      The system of claim 12, wherein the means for identifying
                                                                                      identifies
   the authentication data as the value contained in
                                                         the field having the first name.
            14.     The system of claim 12, wherein the means for identifying
                                                                                   parses the
  transaction details to locate a value that has
                                                        an appearance consistent with
  authentication data.
           15.      The system of claim 10, wherein the transaction
                                                                        details contained in
 the transaction record do not include the authentication
                                                                 data, and the means for
 collecting collects the authentication data from
                                                           a location different than the
 transaction record.
          16.      The system of claim 9, wherein the communications
                                                                              network is the
Internet and the document is a web page.
          17.      In connection with a transaction conducted between
                                                                          a first party and a
second party, wherein a plurality of transaction details
                                                            related to the transaction are
generated, including a transaction ID which identifies
                                                            the transaction, a method of
                                              15

WO 2007/053223                                                    PCT/US2006/031090
 passing the transaction details to a third party which processes the transaction
 comprises:
        a)       providing the second party a document over a communications
 network, said document requesting a transaction ID;
        b)      receiving the transaction ID over the communications network from
the second party;
        c)      collecting the transaction details corresponding to the received
transaction ID;
        d)      identifying the collected transaction details
       e)      formatting the transaction details according to a prescribed format;
and,
       f)      forwarding the formatted transaction details to the third party.
                                          16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
