ci     1/3
     ---
   ---  --
      - -  - - -- -- -- --- - - --
          ---

                                             ABSTRACT
A slidable pintle suitable for hingedly attaching side gates of a tray deck using a deck channel,
including: a slide base configured to slide in two opposite directions in the deck channel; a
locking mechanism for locking the slide base in a desired position in the deck channel; and a
hinging protrusion for insertion into a corresponding hole in a side gate such that the side gate
can rotate about an axis parallel with the long axis of the deck channel.

                                                       1
DETACHABLE SLIDABLE HINGE APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND METHOD
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to decks and tray decks for vehicles, and particularly relates to
decks and tray decks for utility type vehicles.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Utility vehicles, sometimes referred to as utes, pick-ups or pick-up trucks, typically are
equipped with a tray or tray deck at the rear of the vehicle, which serves to carry loads of various
types. The loads may include equipment, sand, gravel and various other kinds of items and materials.
[0003]     Some utility vehicles have a flat area, which may be referred to as a tray, a cargo bed or a
deck. Other utility vehicles have a flat area which is surrounded by up to four sides to form a container,
which may also be referred to variously as a tray or a cargo bed. The sides may be fixed or moveable,
and may be a combination of fixed and moveable sides. Sometimes the side at the back is referred to
as a tail gate.
[0004]     In this specification, for consistency and ease of understanding, the vehicle will be referred
to as a utility or utility vehicle; the flat area will be referred to as a deck; each of the sides will be
referred to as side gates (front, rear, left and right); and the deck and side gates together (whether
there be one, two, three or four side gates) will be referred to as a tray deck.
[0005]     In some utility vehicles, the sides of the tray deck are fixed in position, the deck and sides
forming what is sometimes referred to as a tub. In other utility vehicles, one or more of the sides are
moveable between open and closed configurations. In this specification, unless otherwise indicated,
the term side gate will refer to a side of a tray deck, wherein the side gate is moveable at least between
open and closed positions. Some utility vehicles have side gates which are detachable. Typically, if a
utility vehicle tray deck has a front side (usually adjacent a cab of the utility vehicle), the front side is
in a fixed position, and in this specification the front side may be referred to as a fixed side or also
referred to as a side gate, though it will be understood that the front side is typically in a fixed position.
[0006]     Typically, a deck or tray deck will be provided with a utility vehicle when sold to a customer.
The type of tray deck is either dictated by the model of the vehicle or there may be a very limited
range of options available from which a customer can select.

                                                        2
[0007]     It is also possible to buy utility vehicles without a deck or tray deck fitted, and the customer
can select a deck or tray deck for their vehicle after purchase, but the customer will have a very limited
range of options for a deck or tray deck.
[0008]     Further, decks and tray decks are typically manufactured or supplied as a single unit, and can
be fitted only to one vehicle model or a very limited range of vehicle models. Such units are bulky,
which causes them to be inconvenient and expensive to transport, for example, form a place of
manufacture to a place where the deck or tray deck is to be fitted to a utility vehicle.
[0009]     Many decks and tray decks are not configurable or may have very limited options for
configuration. A customer may want to include various features to make a deck or tray deck more
suitable for that customer's intended use of the utility vehicle.
[0010]     One limitation in configuring tray decks is with placement of side gates. With moveable side
gate tray decks the location of the gates is often fixed and cannot readily be altered by a user without
major re-engineering. Further, it can be desirable to completely remove side gates from a tray deck
so that the utility vehicle is operatable with only a deck.
[0011]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least one of
the above-mentioned problems in the prior art, and/or to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least
one problem in the prior art, which has not been mentioned above and/or to provide at least a useful
alternative to prior art devices, systems and/or methods.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a slidable pintle suitable for hingedly attaching
side gates of a tray deck using a deck channel, including:
         a slide base configured to slide in two opposite directions in the deck channel;
         a locking mechanism for locking the slide base in a desired position in the deck channel; and
         a hinging protrusion for insertion into a corresponding hole in a side gate such that the side
         gate can rotate about an axis parallel with the long axis of the deck channel.
[0013]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a slidable hinge system suitable for
hingedly attaching side gates of a tray deck, including:
         a deck channel located at the side of a deck; and,

                                                      3
         at least one slidable pintle, including
                  a slide base configured to slide in two opposite directions in the deck channel;
                  a locking mechanism for locking the slide base in a desired position in the deck
                  channel; and
                  a hinging protrusion for insertion into a corresponding hole in a side gate such that
                  the side gate can rotate about an axis parallel with the long axis of the deck channel.
SUMMARY OF SOME OPTIONAL EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0014]      In some embodiments, the slide base is a planar base adapted to slide in a channel with
flattened side sub-channels.
[0015]     In other embodiments, the locking mechanism includes one or more grub screws located in
respective threaded bores in the planar base.
[0016]     In yet other embodiments, the hinging protrusion includes a first section projecting
substantially orthogonally from the slide base, and, when located in the channel, projecting outwardly
from the channel, and a second section projection orthogonally from an end of the first section, and
when located in the channel, projecting parallel to the channel.
[0017]     In some embodiments, the side gate is connected to the hinging protrusion by suitable
means such as a locking ring, or a grub screw, when tightened, projecting into a channel around the
hinging protrusion located at or towards an end of the second section connecting to the first section.
[0018]     In some embodiments, the side gate is fitted with a gudgeon, the containing the hole for
receiving the hinging protrusion, the gudgeon having a projection which prevents the insertion or
removal of the hinging protrusion, other than at selected various angles.
[0019]     In one example use for hingedly attaching a side gate to a deck to form a tray deck for a
utility vehicle, the slidable hinges a placed in desired positions, with a least one hinge placed in its
desired position after the side gate is slid on to the slidable hinges in the channel, the at least one
hinge placed in the channel and slid into a respective hole in the side gate, wherein the second section
of the hinging protrusion is facing in an opposite direction to other of the hinging protrusions. In this
way, the slidable hinges behave somewhat like a clamp.

                                                      4
[0020]     In another example use for hingedly attaching a side gate to a deck to form a tray deck for a
utility vehicle, the side gates have holes which are shaped to allow the side gate to be pressed onto
the respective slidable hinges when the gate is in an upright position, in a plane parallel to the gate
being in a closed position if it were attached to the tray deck, and then the gate can be moved in a
direction parallel with the long axis of the deck channel, such that the side gate is locked onto the
hinges and able to rotate between open and closed positions. In this example use, the slidable hinges
are placed in the deck channel with the hinging protrusions all facing one direction.
[0021]     In yet another example use, two slidable hinges can be placed in a channel with their
respective hinging protrusions directed towards each other. An article, such as a side step with
suitable holes, can be placed adjacent the channel and the slidable hinges moved towards the article
such that the hinging protrusions insert through respective holes in the article. The slidable hinges
can then be secured in position in the channel, thus affixing the article via the channel with the slidable
hinges acting as a clamping means. It will be understood that, in this example application of the
apparatus, system and method, the channel may be other than the deck channel. For example, the
channel could be in a side gate.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022]      At least one embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to the following,
non-limiting illustrations representing the at least one embodiment of the present invention, in which:
[0023]     Figure 1 is a perspective view of a corner part of a deck for a utility vehicle showing two
slidable hinges;
[0024]     Figure 2 is a top perspective view of a tray deck for a utility vehicle with a right side gate of
the tray deck attached using slidable hinges; and,
[0025]     Figure 3 is a top perspective view showing a detail of a slidable hinge being used to attach a
side gate to the deck of a tray deck in a utility vehicle.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SOME EMBODIMENTS
[0026]      Figure 1 shows two slidable pintles 100 each with a slide base 102 and a hinging protrusion
104. The hinging protrusion is "L"-shaped with a first arm of the "L" depending from the slide base
102 and a second arm of the "L" depending from the first arm. In the slide base there are holes for
grub screws 106, which are for securing the slidable hinge when in a desired position in a channel.

                                                      5
[0027]      The front-most depicted slidable pintle 100 is shown as being moved towards channel 212
in a rear deck side 206, as indicated by broken lines 500. The rear deck side is part of a deck 200 having
a deck top 202 and a left deck side 204. In Figure 1, each deck side has a respective channel, with the
left deck side 204 having deck channel 210, and the rear deck side 206 having deck channel 212.
[0028]     The deck channels have a flattened cross-section so that the slide base 102 (which has a
substantially planar shape) of the slidable pintle 100 fits snugly in the deck channel, but is able to slide
backward and forward along the long axis of the channel. The movement of the slidable hinge in a
channel is shown by arrows 502 and 504 for the slidable hinge in deck channel 210.
[0029]     It can be seen that the deck corner 208 is incomplete, and is missing the deck corner cover.
The deck corner cover being removed allows access to the deck channels in the deck sides, so that
slidable hinges can be entered into an end of the channel. When a slidable hinge is slid into a desired
channel, then the deck corner cover may be fitted to close off the end of the channel and for retaining
the slidable hinge therein.
[0030]     When a slidable pintle is slid into a desired position in the deck channel, the grub screw 106
can be tightened to fix the slidable pintle in that position. At a later time, the grub screws can be
loosened if it is desired to slide the slidable hinge to another location.
[0031]     Figure 2 shows an example use for slidable pintle according to an embodiment of the present
invention, wherein the pintles 100 are employed to attach a right side gate 224 to the deck 200 of a
utility vehicle (not shown). A rear side gate 230 is also shown in Figure 2. In this example, three
slidable pintles 100 have been slid into three evenly spaced apart positions in the deck channel 222 of
the right deck side 220 of the deck 200. The slidable pintles are fixed into the positions by means of
their grub screws 106.
[0032]     The left side gate 224 has three slot-shaped holes 226, and the positions chosen for the
slidable pintles 100 in the channel 222 correspond to the respective positions of the holes 226 in the
left side gate.
[0033]     When attaching the side gate 224 to the deck 200, the gate is moved towards the hinging
protrusions so that the hinging protrusions 104 slide into the slot-shaped holes 226 in the side gate.
After the hinging protrusions 104 are positioned in the slot-shaped holes, the side gate is moved
sideways (in Figure 2, as depicted, the movement of the gate will be towards the front of the deck
200). The sideways movement causes the hinging protrusions to enter respective cylindrical holes
(not shown) in the body of the side gate at the side of the slot-shaped holes.

                                                       6
[0034]     Figure 3 shows a detailed view of the hinging projection 104 of a slidable pintle 100 engaging
into its respective slot-shaped hole 226 in a side gate 224. The hinging projection is configured to
have an L"-shape with a first arm 108 of the "L" depending from the slide base 102 and a second arm
110 of the "L" depending from the first arm 108.
[0035]     Also shown in more detail in Figure 3 is the slot-shaped hole 226, which has a first slot section
250 elongate in a direction parallel with the axis of the deck channel and a second slot section 252
perpendicular to the first slot section 250. The slot-shaped hole is configured to accommodate a
gudgeon 240, which slides partially into the cylindrical hole (not shown) at the side of the slot-shaped
hole (in Figure 3, this is the left side of the hole 226).
[0036]     The gudgeon 240 includes a hump 242 and depression 244 arrangement, as well as a sleeve
246 for placement in the cylindrical hole. The insert 240 also includes a rib 248 for preventing the
gudgeon from rotating when inserted into the cylindrical hole.
[0037]     The length and shape of the gudgeon 240 is selected so to permit the gudgeon 240 to be
partially inserted into the slot 226 in one orientation. In this orientation it is not possible to insert the
pintle 100 into the gudgeon 240 due to the position of the hump 242 and depression 244.
[0038]     The gudgeon 240 is then rotated within the slot which permits the rib 248 to fit within the
gate but the new position of the hump 242 and depression 244 arrangement prevents the gudgeon
from leaving the hole 226. The gudgeon 240 can be removed by reversing the operations.
[0039]     The hump 242 and depression 244 arrangement interacts with the first arm 108 and second
arm 110 of the projection 110 and normally prevents the full insertion or removal of the pintle 110. It
is only when hump 242 and depression 244 of the gudgeon 240 is located at a specific angle relative
to the pintle 110 can the first arm 108 slide past the hump 242 and thereby permit the full removal or
insertion of the pintle 240 with the gudgeon 240. This angle can achieved by the user by controllably
rotating the gate to the required release / fitting angle. At other angles, the pintle is captured within
the depression 244 and prevented from sidewise movement by the hump 242.
[0040]     The gate release angle can be set by the selection of an appropriate gudgeon. It is preferably
to set the angle at something other than vertical to avoid the inadvertent detachment and loss of the
gate, should the vehicle be driven with the gate lowered.
[0041]     By the cooperation of the gudgeon 240, the slot-shaped hole 226 and the hinging protrusion
104, the slidable pintle 100 pivots within the gudgeon 240 and can be held securely within the side

                                                   7
gate 224 using the engagement steps and movements mentioned above, and thereby to retain the
side gate onto the deck 200 to form a tray deck. It readily allows the gate to move between open and
closed positions and is retained on the slidable pintle by means of the hump and depression
arrangement, unless the gate is rotated to a specific angle which allows then pintles to avoid the
restraint humps on the gudgeons and permit the pintles to be detached from the gudgeons. The
gudgeons themselves cannot be removed from the gate when fastened to the pintles.
[0042]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0043]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                      8
CLAIMS:
1.    A slidable pintle suitable for hingedly attaching side gates of a tray deck using a deck channel,
      including:
              a slide base configured to slide in two opposite directions in the deck channel;
              a locking mechanism for locking the slide base in a desired position in the deck channel;
              and
              a hinging protrusion for insertion into a corresponding hole in a side gate such that the
              side gate can rotate about an axis parallel with the long axis of the deck channel.
2.    A slidable hinge system suitable for hingedly attaching side gates of a tray deck, including:
              a deck channel located at the side of a deck; and,
              at least one slidable pintle, including
                     a slide base configured to slide in two opposite directions in the deck channel;
                     a locking mechanism for locking the slide base in a desired position in the deck
                     channel; and
                     a hinging protrusion for insertion into a corresponding hole in a side gate such
                     that the side gate can rotate about an axis parallel with the long axis of the deck
                     channel.
   3.   The slidable pintle of claim 1 or system of claim 2 wherein the locking mechanism includes
        one or more grub screws located in respective threaded bores in the planar base.
   4.   The slidable pintle of claim 1 or system of claim 2 wherein the hinging protrusion includes a
        first section projecting substantially orthogonally from the slide base, and, when located in
        the channel, projecting outwardly from the channel, and a second section projection
        orthogonally from an end of the first section, and when located in the channel, projecting
        parallel to the channel.
   5.   The slidable pintle of claim 1 or the system of claim 2 wherein there is further provided a
        gudgeon fitted to a side gate, the gudgeon containing the hole for receiving the hinging

                                          9
protrusion, the gudgeon having a projection which prevents the insertion or removal of the
hinging protrusion, other than at selected angles.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
