                                             Abstract
An apparatus for processing plastic waste comprising: a housing comprising a chamber for
accommodating plastic waste for processing; a compactor accommodated within said chamber for
compacting and de-aerating the plastic waste; and a heating element for heating and softening the
compacted and de-aerated plastic waste.

                                         1
        Apparatus and Method for Processing Plastic waste
Field of the Invention
[0001]         The invention relates to an apparatus and method for processing
plastic waste.
Background to the Invention
[0002]         The use of plastics has become inevitable in packaging, product
manufacturing and retail sectors. This is mainly due to the flexibility of the
material,   moulding capability, light weight, long      life, hardy and   non
degradability. With all those benefits come the management issues related to
plastic waste disposal, recovery and recollection from various sources. Plastic
pollution is currently one of the major threats to environment and life on air,
water and land.
[0003]         Plastic recycling has been taken up on a large scale by
governments and industries in the waste management sector. Recovery and
recycling of plastics is limited to a few items that are uncontaminated and of
value for reprocessing. The low quality plastics are very hard to recover and
recycle due to the chances of contamination, getting mixing with other items,
light weight, small size, and their usage sector. Plastic bags, food packaging
such as wraps, sachets, lids, and all the small items separated from electronic
and electric appliances are unrecovered and end up either in landfills or are
disposed or littered on to land and water bodies.
[0004]         A highly polluting method of disposing plastic waste adopted in
developing countries is open burning, which emits carcinogenic compounds
and is a public health risk.
[0005]         However, once segregated, collected and processed, plastics are
often a hundred percent recyclable in different sectors. Reprocessing of high
grade plastics provides a raw material for product manufacturing, while low

                                           2
grade plastics can be used or mixed with bitumen, amongst other applications,
on large scale in road construction to provide better structure and durability.
The collection and pre-processing of these low grade plastics is a huge hurdle
faced by the world today, as plastic packaging is so widely used in food and
retail sectors. The source of generation of this waste can be from individual
houses, institutions, markets, public areas among several other areas. Such
packaging is a major component of littering due to the low density, low value
and small size. Among significant problems are: plastic packaging taking up
considerable volume; and difficulties in collection, storage and transport.
Summary of the Invention
[0006]         It is an object of this invention to provide an apparatus for
processing plastic waste by households, institutions, restaurants, offices as
well as in public places, which offers environmental and economic advantages
over current approaches to this waste stream.           Desirably, the apparatus
produces a product useful as a raw material for use in a range of applications.
[0007]         With this object in view, the present invention provides - in one
aspect - an apparatus for processing plastic waste comprising:
               a housing comprising a chamber for accommodating plastic
waste for processing;
               a compactor accommodated within said chamber for compacting
and de-aerating the plastic waste; and
               a heating element for heating and softening the compacted and
        de-aerated plastic waste.
[0008]         The compactor may take the form of a press, conveniently axially
movable within the chamber. A manual press is advantageous to save on costs
of an electric motor for smaller systems.          However, the press may be
hydraulically or electrically actuated if desired and depending on the amount of
plastic waste to be processed.           The compaction step, advantageously
conducted just prior to the heating and softening step, enables removal of air

                                          3
and bulk that makes plastic waste, particularly of packaging materials as
described above difficult to manage using conventional methods.
[0009]         Plastic waste     may    be   placed in    a  container   prior   to
accommodation within the housing for compaction and de-aeration.               The
container is configured to enable escape of air from the waste during
compaction. Conveniently, the container comprises a plurality of perforations
for this purpose. The housing may include an adsorber or scrubber located at
one end, conveniently the upper end, for removing odour and toxic substances
from the air prior to discharge. Where an adsorber is used, suitable adsorbents
include activated carbon and molecular sieves among others.
[0010]         Whilst plastic waste may be placed in the housing in a number of
ways, feeding through a side feed port or door is convenient. The side location
of the feed port allows convenient accommodation of the press through an
upper wall of the housing.
[0011]         The heating element may also take various forms. A resistive
heating element such as a heating coil or an element comprising a mesh or
frame of resistive members similar to those used in ovens would be suitable.
Conveniently, because heating of the whole housing is not necessary, rather
only in the portion containing compacted plastic waste, the heating element
may be located to provide heat to this portion.         The heating element is
configured to deliver sufficient heat to soften the plastic waste without
substantial melting or burning. Plastic softening point depends on the polymer
but may lie in the range 80 0 C to 2200 C for commercially available polyethylene
polymers (including LLDPE, LDPE and HDPE) and polypropylene polymers.
The heating element desirably surrounds the portion containing compacted
plastic waste.      This assists removal of the softened plastic waste as
disengagement of plastic waste from heating element is not required. The
softened and pressed plastic waste may take the form of a block, specifically in
the shape of the container where it has been placed and compacted. The block
may attain a volume reduction of 80-95% depending on the plastic material
used.

                                         4
[0012]         The apparatus may comprise a secondary processing stage in
which processed plastic waste is further processed into useful raw materials.
A range of secondary processing stages could be used if required. The plastic
waste blocks can be used as such in road construction by mixing with bitumen
where contamination with organic materials in smaller levels may be
acceptable.
[0013]         The plastic blocks can also be made in different colours and
designs, using selected materials for each batch of production and the above
described container may act as a mould for imprinting designs. These can be
used in arts and crafts. This is applicable mostly for the smaller capacity
apparatus such as on a household scale. However blocks made through larger
apparatus can be either used in the reprocessing industries or could find use in
landscaping to replace stepping stones and edges.
[0014]         In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method for
processing plastic waste comprising:
               collecting plastic waste;
               compressing and removing air from said plastic waste; and
               heating said compressed de-aerated plastic waste to soften said
waste to a mass suitable for secondary processing or as an additive to product
manufacturing.      Secondary processing may involve a range of secondary
processing stages as described above.
[0015]         The apparatus and process is particularly suitable for the
preprocessing of primarily low grade plastics from packaging and product
recycling industries.     As the volume of such plastic waste is significant, the
apparatus and process is expected to greatly assist management of such
plastic waste.

                                           5
Short Description of the Drawings
[0016]          The apparatus and process may be more fully understood from
the following description of a preferred though non-limiting embodiment thereof
made with reference to the drawings in which:
        Fig. 1 is a schematic front view of an apparatus for processing plastic
waste according to one embodiment of the present invention.
        Fig. 2 is a schematic view of the housing of the apparatus of Fig. 1 with
side door removed and showing the heating element.
        Fig. 3 is a schematic view of a container for accommodating plastic
waste during processing in the apparatus of Fig. 1.
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0017]          Figs. 1 to 3 show an apparatus 10 for processing plastic waste
comprising: a housing 11 comprising a chamber 16 for accommodating plastic
waste for processing; a heating element 15 for heating the plastic waste; and a
compactor 20 for compacting and de-aerating the plastic waste.
[0018]          Plastic waste to be processed in apparatus 10 includes smaller
plastic items such as plastic bags and those used in food and beverage
packaging. If, for example, the apparatus 10 was located at a food outlet or
households, the waste might include plastic bags, sachets, plastic cups, lids,
plastic film, wraps, small cutlery and other small items. The apparatus 10 is not
intended for use in treating larger items, particularly those made of rigid plastics
such as plastic furniture, computer hardware and the like. The main types of
plastics that can be used through this process are LDPE, PP and other types
of plastics mainly from the single use items. However the application is not
limited to any types of plastics if it is used for mixed recovery of plastic waste.
The larger items are shredded and mixed with LDPE/PP plastics prior to
processing for best impact. If occasionally necessary, larger plastic packaging
items can be shredded prior to processing in apparatus 10.

                                          6
[0019]         Housing 11 is of a suitable heat conductive material such as a
metal or metal alloy such as steel. Housing 11 has a base 12 and may be
located on any suitable support surface. Base 12 could be fitted with wheels to
enable mobility. Apparatus 10 may be moved between a number of sites if
necessary or simply maintained at one site. At the other upper end of the
housing 11 are located compactor 20 and adsorbent bed 30 further described
below. Housing 11 includes a side door 13 and handle 14 to allow introduction
of plastic waste to chamber 16 within housing 11 for processing. The shape of
the housing 11 can be square or cylindrical.
[0020]        The housing 11 also has heating element 15 on the inside. The
heating elements are restricted to the bottom half or lower of the housing. This
is because when compacted, the plastics may have reduced in volume and
compacted to less that one third of the total volume of the container 17.
[0021]         Plastic waste is placed in a further container 17 prior to feeding
through door 13 into the housing. The container 17 is substantially cylindrical
in form and has a solid base 12A for location on base 12 of housing 11. Solid
base 12A is removable to facilitate separation of processed plastic waste.
Plastic waste container 17 is formed with a plurality of perforations 19 to
facilitate removal of air from the plastic waste during the compaction step.
Container 17 is also preferably made of a heat conductive material such as a
metal or metal alloy, for example steel.
[0022]        The compactor 20 is in the form of a heat resistant metal press,
with a compactor element 22 axially movable up and down within the housing
11 and more specifically within the container 17 to compact and de-aerate
plastic waste once it is located in position within chamber 16. A manual press
is advantageous for small scale units, where possible to save on costs of an
electric motor as is expected to be possible for household use. However, the
press 20 may be hydraulically or electrically actuated if desired, for example
being operated by an electric motor for larger capacities other than household
use. Press 20 is located so as not to obstruct plastic waste container 17 as it
is being placed in chamber 16 of housing 11. Once plastic waste container is

                                         7
in position in chamber 16, press 20 is located at the top of the container 17
ready for axial movement to compact the plastic waste. The compactor element
22 has dimensions just less than the inner diameter of plastic waste container
17 to enable compaction across the surface area of the plastic waste. The
stroke of press 20 is sufficient to enable compaction into a volume 40% or less
of the plastic waste volume in container 17 prior to compaction.
[0023]         The heating element 15 is a resistive heating element similar to
an oven heating coil. As heating of the whole housing 11 is not necessary,
rather only in the lower portion 11A containing plastic waste following
compaction by press 20, the heating element 15 is located to provide heat only
to this lower portion 11A, specifically no more heat than is required to soften
the plastic waste into an amorphous mass. Odour and toxicity problems caused
by melting and burning of plastic waste and losses are thus avoided.         The
temperature in the housing 11 and thereby the heating in the container 17
should therefore be maintained below 220 0 C and power input to the heating
element 15 may be suitably controlled to achieve this. The temperature should
be in the required range prior to compaction and the press 20 is desirably kept
in compacted position during the heating and softening step. Sufficient time is
allowed for the plastic waste to soften into a block.
[0024]         The housing 11 includes an adsorbent bed 30 located at its upper
end, for removing any odour and toxic substances from the air removed from
the plastic waste during compaction prior to discharge. Suitable adsorbents
include activated carbon and like materials.        Compartment 30 may be a
removable cylindrical component which is removable from the upper end of
housing 11. It also has upper and lower perforated surfaces to enable air flow
through the adsorbent bed. It also has an inner solid surface 31 to
accommodate the axial movement of press 20. The upper surface may be in
the form of a removable lid to enable removal and refilling of adsorbent material.
Compartment 30 is designed to have a neat fit into the upper end 11B of
housing 11 to ensure preferential air flow through the adsorbent bed
compartment 30.

                                       8
[0025]         The method of operation of apparatus 10 proceeds as follows.
Heating element 15 is turned on and chamber 16 is heated to a temperature
sufficient to cause softening of the plastic waste. Plastic waste is placed in
plastic waste container 17 which is then placed into chamber 16 of housing 11.
Door 13 is closed and the adsorbent bed compartment 30 is sealed into
position. Generally, chamber 16 should be sealed to enable efficient and safe
operation of apparatus 10. Press 20 is located to enable the compaction step
and is moved downward into plastic waste container 17 so that compactor
element 22 compacts the plastic waste. Press 20 and compactor element 22 is
held in the compacted position for time sufficient, and as determined by
experiment, to enable softening of the plastic waste into a block.      Heating
element 15 is turned off and the plastic waste container 17 is allowed to cool.
Plastic waste container 17 is removed from chamber 16 and its removable base
12A removed to enable removal of the processed plastic.
[0026]         The apparatus 10 may comprise a secondary processing stage in
which processed plastic waste is further processed into useful raw materials for
recycling. A range of secondary processing stages could be used if required.
The plastic waste blocks can be used as such in road construction by mixing
with bitumen where contamination with organic materials in smaller levels may
be acceptable.
[0027]         The plastic blocks can also be made in different colours and
designs, using selected materials for each batch of production and the above
described container may act as a mould for imprinting designs. These can be
used in arts and crafts. This is applicable mostly for the smaller capacity
apparatus such as on a household scale. However blocks made through larger
apparatus can be either used in the reprocessing industries or could find use in
landscaping to replace stepping stones and edges.
[0028]         Apparatus 10, as above described, is intended to be simple to
use, user friendly, easy to transport, easy to install and cost effective.
Apparatus 10 can be scaled to a capacity suitable for use in houses,

                                      9
restaurants, retail businesses, food courts, holiday spots, festivals and
carnivals and anywhere disposable packaging is part of their trading product.
[0029]        Modifications and variations to the apparatus and method for
processing plastic waste as described in this specification may be apparent to
skilled readers of this disclosure.   Such modifications and variations are
deemed within the scope of the present invention.

                                        10
Claims:
1.     An apparatus for processing plastic waste comprising:
              a housing comprising a chamber for accommodating plastic
waste for processing;
              a compactor accommodated within said chamber for compacting
and de-aerating the plastic waste;
and
              a heating element for heating and softening the compacted and
       de-aerated plastic waste.
2.     The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a removable container into
which plastic waste is placed prior to accommodation within the housing, said
container comprising a plurality of perforations to enable escape of air during
compacting.
3.     The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein said heating element is located to
provide heating to a lower portion of the housing and delivers sufficient heat to
soften the plastic waste without substantial melting or burning.
4.     The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims further comprising an
adsorbent bed to treat air prior to discharge from said housing.
5.     A method for processing plastic waste comprising:
              collecting plastic waste;
              compressing and removing air from said plastic waste; and
              heating said compressed de-aerated plastic waste to soften said
waste to a mass suitable for secondary processing or as an additive to product
manufacturing.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
