   Abstract
   A method of gaming in a gaming system, the method
   comprising:         selecting, using a processor of the gaming
 5 system, a plurality of symbols from a set of available
   symbols for playing at least one first game, displaying,
   using the processor, selected symbols at respective ones
   of a plurality of display locations, on a display of the
   gaming system, from which game outcomes for the at least
10 one first       game can be determined by symbols occurring at
   the display locations, defining, before play of the first
   game,      at least    one symbol as a trigger     symbol,  wherein
   predefined combinations          of the trigger    symbol selected     for
   display in        the at  least  one first    game trigger  at   least
15 one second game,         determining,    using the processor the
   respective        display locations at which each of the at least
   one trigger symbol is displayed in the at least one first
   game, defining, using the processor, before play of the at
   least      one second game,     each of the determined respective
20 display locations as display locations which will result
   in a winning outcome being enhanced and highlighting each
   of the determined respective display locations on the
   display during play of the at least one second game, and
   enhancing, using the processor, an award made in respect
25 of a winning outcome in the at least one second game only
   if the winning outcome in the at least one second game
   includes a combination having one or more symbols
   respectively displayed at one or more of the highlighted
   display locations.
30

                               -   1
                               Title
              A GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
 5                             Field
   The present invention relates to a gaming system, a method
   of gaming, a game controller and computer program code.
10                      Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2013266977,
15 which in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2010202913, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2008229803.   The
   disclosures of each of these applications are incorporated
   herein by reference.
20
                   Background to the Invention
   It is known to provide a gaming system which comprises a
   game controller arranged to conduct a game that includes a
25 base game and a feature game which is triggered from the
   base game, for example if a symbol combination occurs.
   While such gaming systems provide users with enjoyment, a
   need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
30 maintain or increase player enjoyment.
                     Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of
35 gaming in a gaming system, the method comprising:
             selecting, using a processor of the gaming
   system, a plurality of symbols from a set of available
   symbols for playing at least one first game,
             displaying, using the processor, selected symbols
40 at respective ones of a plurality of display locations, on
   a display of the gaming system, from which game outcomes

                                     - 2
   for    the at  least   one first  game can be determined by
   symbols occurring at       the display locations,
                 defining, before play of the first game, at least
   one symbol as a trigger symbol, wherein predefined
 5 combinations of the trigger symbol selected for display in
   the at least one first game trigger at least one second
   game,
                 determining, using the processor the respective
   display locations at which each of the at least one
10 trigger symbol is displayed in the at least one first
   game,
                 defining, using the processor, before play of the
   at   least   one second game,    each of the determined
   respective     display locations    as display locations which
15 will result in a winning outcome being enhanced and
   highlighting each of the determined respective display
   locations on the display during play of the at least one
   second game, and
                 enhancing, using the processor, an award made in
20 respect of a winning outcome in the at least one second
   game only if the winning outcome in the at least one
   second game includes a combination having one or more
   symbols respectively displayed at one or more of the
   highlighted display locations.
25
   In an embodiment, the method also requires the concurrent
   occurrence of a further trigger symbol at one or more
   further locations, and wherein an award is made in the at
   least one second game if there is a game outcome that
30 includes any one of the particular locations where there
   has been the occurrence of a trigger symbol.
   In an embodiment, the method includes the number of
   locations for the occurrence of a trigger symbol to
35 trigger the feature game is determined by one of:
                 i.     by rules of game play,
                 ii.    variable according to bets placed,
                 iii.   variable due to a game outcome.
40 In an embodiment, the method includes that the enhance

                                      - 3
   award is based on one of:
             i.      a change to an advertised award value,
             ii.     an additional award prize,
             iii. a feature game.
 5
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a
   game controller for a gaming system, the game controller
   arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols from a set of
10 available symbols for playing at least one first game,
             display selected symbols at respective ones of a
   plurality of display locations, on a display of the gaming
   system, for game play from which game outcomes for the at
   least one first    game can be determined by symbols
15 occurring at    display locations,
             define, before play of the first game, at least
   one symbol as a trigger symbol, wherein predefined
   combinations of the trigger symbol selected for display in
   the at least one first game trigger at least one second
20 game,
             determine the respective display locations at
   which each of the at least one trigger symbol is displayed
   in the at least one first game,
             define before play of the at least one second
25 game, each of the determined respective display locations
   as display locations which will result in a winning
   outcome being enhanced and highlighting each of the
   determined respective display locations on the display
   during play of the at least one second game, and
30           enhance an award made in respect of a winning
   outcome in the at least one second game only if the
   winning outcome in the at least one second game includes a
   combination having one or more symbols respectively
   displayed at one or more of the highlighted display
35 locations
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   require the concurrent occurrence of the trigger symbol at
   one or more further locations in the at least one first
40 game before an award is made in the at least one second

                                - 4
   game if there is a game outcome that includes any one of
   the particular locations where there has been the
   occurrence of the trigger symbol in the at least one first
   game.
 5
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   determine a location for the occurrence of a trigger
   symbol by one of:
              i.    outcome of game play,
10            ii.   randomly,
              iii. by player selection,
              iv.   by rules of game play,
              v.    variable according to bets placed.
15 In an embodiment the game controller is arranged to
   determine the number of the locations to for occurrence of
   a trigger symbol by one of:
              i.    by rules of game play,
              ii.   variable according to bets placed,
20            iii. variable due to a game outcome.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising a player interface comprising a display for
   displaying game outcomes to a player, and a game
25 controller as set out as above.
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer
   program code which when executed by a processor in a
   computer implements the above method.
30
   In a fifth aspect the invention provides a computer
   readable medium comprising the program code.
   In a fifth aspect the invention provides    (i) a computer
35 readable medium comprising the program code,     (ii) a data
   signal comprising the program code, and    (iii) a method
   comprising transmitting the data signal.
                  Brief Description of the Drawings
40
   An embodiment of the invention will now be described in
   relation to the following drawings in which:
         Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of

                                              -5
   a gaming system;
           Figure 2 is a perspective view of a gaming machine;
           Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional
   components of a gaming machine;
 5         Figure 4 is a block diagram representing the
   structure of a memory;
           Figure 5 is a diagram schematic of a networked gaming
   system;
           Figure 6 is a further block diagram of the gaming
10 system;        and
           Figure 7 is a flowchart of a preferred embodiment.
                                          Embodiment
15 An embodiment provides a gaming system where a player
   plays,      at   least   one game,        and preferably         a sequence of
   games.
   A plurality          of symbols are provided for                game play and a
20 plurality of locations are provided from which game
   outcomes can be determined by symbols occurring at
   locations.           One of the symbols is allocated as a trigger
   symbol and during play of an initial game, on the
   occurrence of the trigger symbol there is triggering of
25 the playing of a feature game.                    When a game outcome occurs
   in  the feature         game,    an award is        made if      a symbol in  the
   outcome occurs at           that    particular        location.
   The gaming system may be provided in a number of different
30 forms.
   In  a first        form,  a   stand alone gaming machine is              provided
   wherein all          or most components required for implementing
   the game are present in               a player operable gaming machine.
35
   In  a second form,          a distributed         architecture       is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
   the game are present in               a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
40 game are located remotely relative                      to   the gaming machine.

                               -  6
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server;   or a "thin client"
 5 architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
10
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
15 gaming server are selectively modifiable.    For example,
   the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on.  Other variations will be apparent to persons
20 skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises
   several core components.  At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
25 60 as illustrated in Figure 1.    The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
30
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54 and a game
35 play mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions.
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62

   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display.   Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
 5 Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:             a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
10  (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   A gaming system in         the form of a   stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is    illustrated      in Figure 2.      The gaming machine
   10 includes a    console 12 having a         display 14 on which is
15 displayed representations         of a game 16 that     can be played
   by a player.     A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.    The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
20 mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.              Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   A player marketing module may be provided having a
25 reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
   reading a player tracking         device,    for  example as part  of a
   loyalty  program.        The player tracking      device may be in  the
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device.
30
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.              Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
35 panel 29 of the console 12.          A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video

                               - 8
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
 5 electromechanical device.   The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14, or of a different
   type.
10 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
15 having a processor 102.   Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
20 type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
25 player credit, an input/output  (I/O) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.  The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
   own memory for storing associated instructions and data
30 for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.  A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers for use by the processor 102.   Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
   random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
35
   In the example shown in Figure 3,  a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen 107, a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer

                               -  9
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
   coin output mechanism 111.    Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
   may be omitted as required for the specific
 5 implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
10 information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
15 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.    The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.    The
20 EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.    The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
25 or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
30 provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
35 Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
   operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have

                              - 10
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
   or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
 5
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.  The displays 204 may, for example, be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
10 associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
15 part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game.  With this embodiment, as both the game server and
   the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller.   A database
20 management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.   Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to carry out
25 the accounting in respect of the Jackpot game.   A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
30 machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
   provides only the player interface.   With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller.    The
   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
35 return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
   display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components.

                               - 11
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,   including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
 5 licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.    An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
10 The gaming network 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
15 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.    For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
20 separate server may be provided.    For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.   Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of games servers could be
25 provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
   The embodiment may be implemented in relation to a game
30 with multiple columns such as a spinning reel type game.
   Gaming systems for implementing games that involve a
   display of spinning reels as part of the display of the
   outcome of a game have either a video display or a
   mechanical display, these later machines most usually
35 being "stepper" machines which have a separate motor for
   each reel. However, persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that the invention can be implemented in
   respect if other forms of games, including:   card games;
   ball draw games  (e.g. bingo or keno);  dice games; and pin

                               - 12
   and ball games.
   In some implementations the game controllers of such
   gaming machines select symbols by employing a stop
 5 determining function that randomly determines the stop
   position for each reel.   For example, if there are five
   reels, each having twenty symbols, the stop determining
   function might determine that the stop positions are
   positions: 3,  13, 7, 9 and 17.  The spinning of the reels
10 is then controlled so that each symbol comes to a stop in
   the same row, typically a predetermined row in a  "window"
   visible to the player on the display that which
   corresponds to a player playing a single win line.    When a
   reel stops, the symbols will be in one of a plurality of
15 possible symbol positions for that reel relative to the
   stop position.
   Spinning reel type games typically allow a player to
   select how many win lines of a plurality of win lines they
20 will play in each game -  i.e. a minimum of one win line up
   to the maximum number of win lines allowed by the game.
   Persons, skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
   embodiments, the player may select a number of reels to
   play. Each win line is formed by a set of symbol positions
25 consisting of one symbol position from each reel.    That
   is, a predetermined symbol position of each reel is
   assigned to a win line.   The symbol positions that
   constitute each of the win lines are usually advertised to
   the player by markings on the display or diagrams showing
30 the symbol positions that correspond to each win line.
   Some of the win lines will be horizontal or diagonal lines
   but others may be non-linear combinations of symbols.
   Typically, the win lines will be constituted by symbol
   positions in the visible window.   A game outcome is
35 determined based on the symbols on the win lines and a
   prize table that specifies awards.
   The game controller 60 of the embodiment is shown in more
   detail in Figure 6.   It will apparent that the processor

                                         -  13
   62 implements a number of modules, namely random number
   generator module 621,         symbol selector module 622, outcome
   determiner module 623, award determiner module 624,
   sequence monitoring module 625, entitlement module 627 and
 5 display controller module 626 based on data stored in
   memory 64.      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
   that not all modules need be implemented by processor 62.
   For example, the random number generator module 621 could
   be implemented by a separate circuit or by a random number
10 generator server.
   In the embodiment, the entitlement module 627 determines
   when a player is entitled to a feature game comprising a
   sequence of games and initiates the feature.                 In other
15 embodiments a player may be entitled to a single
   subsequent game.        In  this     game,     the subsequent game
   sequence    is  started    by the symbol occurring in         the base
   game,    or a location     where a particular         symbol occurs   in
   the base game sets        a position       for   a subsequent game,   so
20 that    if there is a designated symbol combination on a game
   outcome in the subsequent game that includes the position
   where the particular symbol occurred in the base game then
   the award is made.         In a particular example, the player is
   entitled a subsequent game              (which may or may not be a
25 feature game) when a designated symbol combination occurs
   in the base game.         For example, a combination of three
   scatter    symbols.     In  the sequence         of subsequent or feature
   games the positions occupied by the symbols when the
   feature was triggered become particular locations to which
30 special prize awards attach.
   When the entitlement is established, the entitlement
   module 627 instructs the sequence monitor 625 to initiate
   a feature game having a sequence of games based on a
35 number of games specified in sequence data 643.                 The
   sequence monitor 625 is arranged to keep track of the
   sequence to ensure that all games of the sequence are
   carried out accordingly after each game in the sequence,
   and the sequence monitor 625 updates the sequence data 643

                                    - 14
   to indicate how many games remain in the sequence.
   During each game of a sequence, the symbol selector 622
   selects the symbols to appear based on symbol data 641
 5 which specifies the available symbols.         The symbols are
   selected by the symbol selector using a random number
   obtained from the random number generator 621.             The
   outcome determiner module 623 determines the game
   outcomes.       The award pay scale adjuster 624 then adjusts
10 an award for outcomes using pay scale data 644.             The
   adjustment is based on the number of win lines the player
   is playing and the symbol combinations.         Persons skilled
   in the art will also appreciate that the game outcomes and
   their associated prizes are displayed on the display 54 or
15 under control of the display controller 626.
   The method 700 of an example of an embodiment of the
   invention is summarised in Figure 7. At step 710 it is
   determined game sequence       should commence.   The game
20 controller     60 then carries    out a sequence of initial     games
   720, provides locations 730 from which initial          game
   outcomes can be determined by symbols occurring at the
   locations, allocates at least one symbol as a trigger
   symbol 740, determines if a trigger symbol appears 750
25 which will trigger a feature game 760, and determines if a
   winning outcome occurs in feature game at 770 if there is
   a feature game outcome that includes the particular
   location where there has been the occurrence of the
   trigger symbol, and provides an award allocation in the
30 feature game at 780.
   If an award winning combination then occurs with one of
   the symbols occurring at the particular location, then the
   award is increased.
35
   One or more particular locations can be nominated in any
   of the usual ways such as:
   -        By outcomes on a machine
   -        At random

                                            - 15
   -     By player selection
   -     Specified by rules of the game
   -     Variable due to bets placed
 5 The number of particular locations can be determined by
   the usual ways such as:
   -     Specified by the rules of the game
   -     Variable due to bets placed
   -     Variable due to outcomes
10
   The award can be increased in the usual ways such as:
   -     Multiply the advertised value
   -     Pay an additional bonus prize
   -     Award an additional feature game
15
   A  feature game is triggered by a certain symbol
   combination.          The feature game is played with feature wins
   interacting with the locations which triggered the feature
   game.
20
   1.    3 or more "scatters" in an initial game triggers the
         feature        game
   2.    The particular          locations      of the "scatters" are
         "highlighted".
25 3.    Free Games begin to play.
   4.    After each free game an evaluation is made.
   5.    Any game win outcome that               passes through one or more
         of the "highlighted" locations is multiplied by 5.
   6.    If the "feature" is retriggered in the feature game
30       then the new scatter locations are also highlighted.
   7.    The original trigger locations remain highlighted.
   TABLE 1
   3 scatter symbols appear on the reels in an initial game.
35 This triggers         the feature       game and in  the next 3 free
   games any winning combinations landing on those particular
   locations are multiplied by 5.

                                 - 16
   scat         A           K            Q         J
   10           9           scat         A         K
   Q            J           10           9         scat
   TABLE 2
   The particular locations where the "scatter" symbol appear
 5 are now highlighted
   scat         A           K                      J
   10           9           scat         A         K
   Q            J           10           9         scat
   TABLE 3 -  the first free game shows
   A            A           A            10        K
   K            10          9            K         J
   Q     _      9           10           9          9
10
   This pays 3 * A on the top row which pays 5 times the
   normal prize because one of the A is on a highlighted
   particular location.
15 TABLE 4  - the second free game shows
   9            10          K            J         10
   Q            A           9            K          9
   A            J           10           9         Q
   There is no prize winning combination, no prize is
   payable.
20
   TABLE 5  - the third free game shows
   J            10          9            K         A
   Q            Q           Q            Q          9
   9            A           K            J         10

                               - 17
   This pays 4 *  Q on the centre row which pays 5 times the
   normal prize because one of the Q is on a highlighted
   particular location.
 5 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the above
   examples provide locations from which game outcomes can be
   determined by symbols occurring at locations.   At least
   one symbol is allocated as a trigger symbol.   On the
   occurrence of the at least one trigger symbol at a
10 location in an initial game there is triggering of a
   feature game.   An award is then made in the feature game
   if there is a game outcome that includes the particular
   location where the trigger symbol appeared in the initial
   game.  Should the trigger symbol occur at the particular
15 location the feature game may not be triggered unless
   there is a concurrent occurrence of the trigger symbol at
   one or more further locations.
   Whilst the above example has been described in relation to
20 a five reel spinning game with three win lines, the
   spinning wheels may be replaced with columns where the
   symbols selectively appear at particular columns and
   wherein there is one or more win lines.   Further, persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that when the feature
25 game is played, the occurrence of an outcome can occur not
   only in particular rows as indicated in the preferred
   example but across multiple rows according to known game
   patterns.
30 It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication
   is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute
   an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
   other country.
35
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description, except where the context requires otherwise
   due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or

                             - 18
  "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
  specify the presence of the stated features but not to
  preclude the presence or addition of further features in
  various embodiments of the invention.
5

                                          -   19
   CLAIMS:
   1.               A method of gaming in a gaming system, the method
   comprising:
 5                  selecting, using a processor of the gaming
   system, a plurality of symbols from a set of available
   symbols for playing at least one first game,
                    displaying, using the processor, selected symbols
   at respective ones of a plurality of display locations, on
10 a display of the gaming system, from which game outcomes
   for    the at     least   one first      game can be determined by
   symbols occurring at             the display locations,
                    defining,      before play of the first        game,  at least
   one symbol as a trigger             symbol,     wherein predefined
15 combinations of the trigger symbol selected for display in
   the at     least      one first    game trigger     at  least   one second
   game,
                    determining, using the processor the respective
   display locations at which each of the at least one
20 trigger symbol is displayed in the at least one first
   game,
                    defining, using the processor, before play of the
   at   least     one second game,       each of the determined
   respective        display locations         as display locations      which
25 will result in a winning outcome being enhanced and
   highlighting each of the determined respective display
   locations on the display during play of the at least one
   second game, and
                    enhancing, using the processor, an award made in
30 respect of a winning outcome in the at least one second
   game only if the winning outcome in the at least one
   second game includes a combination having one or more
   symbols respectively displayed at one or more of the
   highlighted display locations.
35
   2.               A method as claimed in claim 1 also requiring the
   concurrent occurrence of a further trigger symbol at one
   or more further locations, and wherein an award is made in
   the at least one second game if there is a game outcome

                               - 20
   that includes any one of the particular locations where
   there has been the occurrence of a trigger symbol.
   3.         A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
 5 wherein a location for the occurrence of the trigger
   symbol is determined by one of:
              i.   outcome of game play,
              ii.  randomly,
              iii. by player selection,
10            iv.  by rules of game play
              v.   variable according to bets placed.
   4.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
   wherein:
15            the number of locations for the occurrence of a
   trigger symbol is determined by one of:
              i.   by rules of game play,
              ii.  variable according to bets placed,
              iii. variable due to a game outcome.
20
   5.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4,
   wherein the enhanced award is based on one of:
              i.   a change to an advertised award value,
              ii.  an additional award prize,
25            iii. a feature game.
   6.         A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising
   triggering a feature game if the trigger symbol occurs at
   the same particular location during play of the at least
30 one second game as the particular location in the at least
   one first game.
   7.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6,
   comprising:
35            configuring the at least  one first game and at
   least  one second game to be multiple spinning reel  type
   games.
   8.         A method as claimed in claim 7, comprising:

                               - 21
              configuring the multiple spinning reel type games
   to have multiple win lines.
   9.        A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8,
 5 wherein the at least one second game is a feature game
   triggered on the occurrence of the trigger symbol in the
   at least one first game.
   10.       A game controller for a gaming system, the game
10 controller arranged to:
              select a plurality of symbols from a set of
   available symbols for playing at least one first game,
              display selected symbols at respective ones of a
   plurality of display locations, on a display of the gaming
15 system, for game play from which game outcomes for the at
   least one first  game can be determined by symbols
   occurring at display locations,
              define, before play of the first game, at least
   one symbol as a trigger symbol, wherein predefined
20 combinations of the trigger symbol selected for display in
   the at least one first game trigger at least one second
   game,
              determine the respective display locations at
   which each of the at least one trigger symbol is displayed
25 in the at least one first game,
              define before play of the at least one second
   game, each of the determined respective display locations
   as display locations which will result in a winning
   outcome being enhanced and highlighting each of the
30 determined respective display locations on the display
   during play of the at least one second game, and
              enhance an award made in respect of a winning
   outcome in the at least one second game only if the
   winning outcome in the at least one second game includes a
35 combination having one or more symbols respectively
   displayed at one or more of the highlighted display
   locations.
   11.       A game controller as claimed in claim 10,

                              - 22
   arranged so that on the concurrent occurrence of the
   trigger symbol at one or more further locations in the at
   least one first game making an award in the at least one
   second game if there is a game outcome that includes any
 5 one of the particular locations where there has been the
   occurrence of the trigger symbol in the at least one first
   game.
   12.       A game controller as claimed in claim 10 or claim
10 11, arranged to determine a location for the occurrence of
   a trigger symbol by one of:
             i.   outcome of game play,
             ii.  randomly,
             iii. by player selection,
15           iv.  by rules of game play,
             v.   variable according to bets placed.
   13.       A game controller as claimed in any one of claims
   10 to 12, arranged to determine the number of the
20 locations for the occurrence of a trigger symbol by one
   of:
             i.   by rules of game play,
             ii.  variable according to bets placed,
             iii. variable due to a game outcome.
25
   14.       A game controller as claimed in any one of claims
   10 to 12, arranged to make the enhanced award based on one
   of:
             i.   a change to an advertised award value
30           ii.  an additional award prize
             iii. a feature game
   15.       A game controller as claimed in claim 10,
   arranged to:
35           trigger a feature game if during play of the at
   least one second game the trigger symbol should occur at
   the same particular location as in the at least one first
   game.

                              - 23
   16.       A game controller as claimed in any one of claims
   10 to 15, arranged to:
             configure the game and at least one second game
   to be multiple spinning reel type games.
 5
   17.       A game controller as claimed in claim 16,
   arranged to:
             configure the multiple spinning reel type games
   to have multiple win lines.
10
   18.       A game controller as claimed in any one of claims
   10 to 17, arranged to configure the at least one second
   game as a feature game.
15 19.       A game controller as claimed in any one of claims
   10 to 18 implemented by a processor executing program code
   stored in a memory.
   20.       A gaming system comprising:
20           a player interface comprising a display for
   displaying game outcomes to a player, and
             a game controller according to any one of claims
   10 to 19.
25 21.       Computer program code which when executed by a
   process in a computer implements the method of any one of
   claims 1 to 9.
   22.       A computer readable medium comprising the
30 computer program code of claim 21.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
