                               CANCER TREATMENT
                                      ABSTRACT
       Diagnostic methods for predicting whether a human tumor is sensitive to
treatment with axitinib, and methods of treating a human tumor are disclosed. The
methods are based on measurement of CD68 polypeptide expression levels in a tissue
sample from a tumor. CD68 expression levels can be measured using
immunohistochemistry, where the percentage of CD68-positive cells and density of
CD68-positive cells within the tumor can be determined.

                                               - 1
                                          AUSTRALIA
                                      Patents Act 1990
                                          Pfizer Inc.
       ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:               Cancer treatment
Divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2015249513
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us:

                                                  -2
                                       CANCER TREATMENT
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[001] The present application is a divisional of Australian patent application No 2015249513,
which is the national phase application of International patent application
No PCT/1B2015/052796 filed 16 April 2015, which claims priority from US Provisional
Application No 61/983,951 filed 24 April 2014, the disclosures of which are herein incorporated
by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
                                                 FIELD
[002] The field of the present disclosure involves molecular biology, oncology, and
clinical diagnostics.
                                           BACKGROUND
[003] Most cancer drugs are effective in some patients, but not in others. This can be
due to genetic variation among tumors, and can be observed even among tumors within
the same patient. Variable patient response is particularly pronounced with respect to
targeted therapeutics. Therefore, the full potential of targeted therapies cannot be
realized without suitable tests for determining which patients will benefit from which
drugs. According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the term "biomarker" is
defined as "a characteristic that is objectively measured and evaluated as an indicator of
normal biologic or pathogenic processes or pharmacological response to a therapeutic
intervention."
[004] The development of improved diagnostics based on the discovery of biomarkers
has the potential to accelerate new drug development by identifying, in advance, those
patients most likely to show a clinical response to a given drug. Such diagnostics have
the potential to significantly reduce the size, length and cost of clinical trials.
Technologies such as genomics, proteomics and molecular imaging currently enable
rapid, sensitive and reliable detection of specific gene mutations, expression levels of
particular genes, and other molecular biomarkers. Despite the availability of various
technologies for molecular characterization of tumors, the clinical utilization of cancer
biomarkers remains largely unrealized because relatively few cancer biomarkers have
been discovered. For example, a recent review article states:

                                              -3
         The challenge is discovering cancer biomarkers. Although there have
         been clinical successes in targeting molecularly defined subsets of several
         tumor types - such as chronic myeloid leukemia, gastrointestinal stromal
         tumor, lung cancer and glioblastoma multiforme - using molecularly
         targeted agents, the ability to apply such successes in a broader context is
         severely limited by the lack of an efficient strategy to evaluate targeted
         agents in patients. The problem mainly lies in the inability to select patients
         with molecularly defined cancers for clinical trials to evaluate these
         exciting new drugs. The solution requires biomarkers that reliably identify
         those patients who are most likely to benefit from a particular agent.
         (Sawyers, 2008, Nature 452:548-552, at 548.)
[005] Comments such as the foregoing illustrate the recognition of a need for the
discovery of clinically useful biomarkers and diagnostic methods based on such
biomarkers.
[006] There are three distinct types of cancer biomarkers: (1) prognostic biomarkers,
(2) predictive biomarkers, and (3) pharmacodynamic (PD) biomarkers. A prognostic
biomarker is used to classify a cancer, e.g., a solid tumor, according to aggressiveness,
i.e., rate of growth and/or metastasis, and refractiveness to treatment. This is
sometimes called distinguishing "good outcome" tumors from "poor outcome" tumors. A
predictive biomarker is used to assess the probability that a particular patient will benefit
from treatment with a particular drug. For example, patients with breast cancer in which
the ERBB2 (HER2 or NEU) gene is amplified are likely to benefit from treatment with
trastuzumab (HERCEPTIN@), whereas patients without ERBB2 gene amplification are
unlikely to benefit from treatment with trastuzumab. A PD biomarker is an indication of
the effect(s) of a drug on a patient while the patient is taking the drug. Accordingly, PD
biomarkers often are used to guide dosage level and dosing frequency, during the early
stages of clinical development of a new drug. For a discussion of cancer biomarkers,
see, e.g., Sawyers, 2008, Nature 452:548-552.
[007] Axitinib (also known as Inlyta@) is an orally administered small-molecule receptor
tyrosine kinase inhibitor that acts on vascular endothelial growth factor receptors
(VEGFRs). Axitinib is thought to reduce tumor growth and metastasis by inhibiting
angiogenesis, and to reduce tumor growth and cause regression by acting directly on
cells that express, and are dependent on, these receptors. Axitinib is approved multi-

                                             -4
nationally for the treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) after disease
progression on, or resistance to, cytokines or sunitinib (also known as Sutent@).
[008] Despite a large amount of pre-clinical and clinical research focused on VEGFR
inhibitors, the mechanisms responsible for the anti-tumor activity of such inhibitors are
not completely understood. In particular, the role of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in
influencing mRCC patients' prognosis and sensitivity/resistance to anti-angiogenic
agents is not fully understood (e.g. see Polimeno et al., 2013, BJU Int 112:686-696). As
with other types of targeted therapy, some, but not all, patients benefit from axitinib
therapy. Therefore, there is a need for diagnostic methods based on predictive
biomarkers that can be used to identify patients with tumors that are likely (or unlikely) to
respond to treatment with axitinib.
                                         SUMMARY
[009] As will be discussed in more detail herein, the present disclosure relates in part to
the finding that tumor myeloid (i.e. cluster of differentiation 68 "CD68") infiltration (e.g.,
elevated CD68 levels in terms of the percentage of CD68-positive cells and the density
of CD68-positive cells) in a tissue sample from a mammalian tumor correlates with
improved progression free survival with VEGFR inhibitors, such as axitinib. Accordingly,
the present disclosure provides methods of identifying a tumor that is more likely to
respond positively to treatment with VEGFR inhibitors, such as axitinib, and to methods
of treating subjects with tumors that have been identified as being more likely to respond
to VEGFR inhibitors, such as axitinib.
[010] For example, in one embodiment, the disclosure relates to a method of identifying
a tumor that is sensitive to treatment with a VEGFR inhibitor, comprising: (a) measuring
CD68 polypeptide expression level in a tissue sample from a tumor obtained from a
human patient being considered for treatment with a VEGFR inhibitor; and (b)
comparing the CD68 expression level in step (a) against a threshold CD68 expression
level determined by measuring CD68 polypeptide expression in tissue samples of
tumors obtained from human patients previously treated with the VEGFR inhibitor and
shown to be resistant to the VEGFR inhibitor and human patients previously treated with
VEGFR inhibitor and shown to be sensitive to the VEGFR inhibitor, wherein a CD68
expression level above the threshold level indicates that the tumor is sensitive to
treatment with the VEGFR inhibitor. In one embodiment, the VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.

                                                -5
In a further embodiment, the step of measuring CD68 polypeptide expression is
performed by immunohistochemistry. In a further embodiment, the step of measuring
CD68 polypeptide expression by immunohistochemistry is carried out by image analysis
from a whole slide scan, where the percentage of CD68-positive cells in the sample is
determined. In a further embodiment, such methods further comprise the step of
determining the density of CD68-positive cells in the sample. In a further embodiment
the tumor in any of such methods is selected from the group consisting of a breast
tumor, a lung tumor, a kidney tumor, a colorectal tumor, and a pancreatic tumor.
[011] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method of treating
mRCC comprising administering a VEGFR inhibitor to a patient determined to have a
mRCC tumor that is sensitive to the VEGFR inhibitor according any of the methods
described herein. In one embodiment, the VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.
[012] In a further embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of treating
cancer, comprising: a) determining the percentage of CD68-positive cells in a tumor
from a subject; and b) administering a VEGFR inhibitor to the subject if said percentage
is at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 4.5%, at least 4.6%, at least 4.7%, at
least 4.8%, at least 4.9%, at least 5.0%, at least 5.1%, at least 5.2%, at least 5.3%, at
least 5.4%, at least 5.5%, at least 5.6%, at least 5.7%, at least 5.8%, at least 5.9%, at
least 6.0%, at least 6.5%, at least 7.0%, at least 8%, at least 9%, at least 10%, at least
15%, or at least 20%. In one embodiment, the VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.
[013] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method of treating
cancer, comprising: a) determining the cell density of CD68-positive cells in a tumor
from a subject; and b) administering axitinib to the subject if said cell density is at least
0.05 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.06 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.07 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.08 cells/mm 2
at least 0.09 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.0 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.1 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.2
cells/mm 2 , at least 1.3 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.4 cells/mm 2 , or at least 1.5 cells/mm 2 . In
one embodiment, the VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.
[014] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method of treating
cancer comprising administering a VEGFR inhibitor to a subject with a tumor, wherein at
least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 4.5%, at least 4.6%, at least 4.7%, at least
4.8%, at least 4.9%, at least 5.0%, at least 5.1%, at least 5.2%, at least 5.3%, at least
5.4%, at least 5.5%, at least 5.6%, at least 5.7%, at least 5.8%, at least 5.9%, at least

                                                -6
6.0%, at least 6.5%, at least 7.0%, at least 8%, at least 9%, at least 10%, at least 15%,
or at least 20% of the cells in said tumor are CD68-positive. In one embodiment, the
VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.
[015] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method of treating
cancer comprising administering a VEGFR inhibitor to a subject with a tumor, wherein
the cell density of CD68-positive cells in said tumor is at least 0.05 cells/mm 2 , at least
0.06 cells/mm2 , at least 0.07 cells/mm2 , at least 0.08 cells/mm2 , at least 0.09 cells/mm 2
at least 1.0 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.1 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.2 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.3
cells/mm 2 , at least 1.4 cells/mm 2 , or at least 1.5 cells/mm 2 . In one embodiment, the
VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.
[016] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method of treating
cancer comprising: a) determining the percentage of CD68-positive cells in a tumor from
a subject; b) determining the cell density of CD68-positive cells in the tumor; and c)
administering a VEGFR inhibitor to the subject if said percentage is at least 2%, at least
3%, at least 4%, at least 4.5%, at least 4.6%, at least 4.7%, at least 4.8%, at least 4.9%,
at least 5.0%, at least 5.1%, at least 5.2%, at least 5.3%, at least 5.4%, at least 5.5%, at
least 5.6%, at least 5.7%, at least 5.8%, at least 5.9%, at least 6.0%, at least 6.5%, at
least 7.0%, at least 8%, at least 9%, at least 10%, at least 15%, or at least 20%; and
said cell density is at least 0.05 cells/mm2 , at least 0.06 cells/mm2 , at least 0.07
cells/mm 2 , at least 0.08 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.09 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.0 cells/mm 2 , at
least 1.1 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.2 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.3 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.4 cells/mm 2
or at least 1.5 cells/mm 2 . In one embodiment, the VEGFR inhibitor is axitinib.
[017] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method of treating
cancer comprising administering a VEGFR inhibitor to a subject with a tumor, wherein at
least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 4.5%, at least 4.6%, at least 4.7%, at least
4.8%, at least 4.9%, at least 5.0%, at least 5.1%, at least 5.2%, at least 5.3%, at least
5.4%, at least 5.5%, at least 5.6%, at least 5.7%, at least 5.8%, at least 5.9%, at least
6.0%, at least 6.5%, at least 7.0%, at least 8%, at least 9%, at least 10%, at least 15%,
or at least 20% of the cells in said tumor are CD68-postive; and wherein the cell density
of CD68-positive cells in said tumor is at least 0.05 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.06 cells/mm 2 , at
least 0.07 cells/mm2 , at least 0.08 cells/mm2, at least 0.09 cells/mm2 , at least 1.0
cells/mm 2 , at least 1.1 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.2 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.3 cells/mm 2 , at least

                                                -7
1.4 cells/mm 2, or at least 1.5 cells/mm 2 . In one embodiment, the VEGFR inhibitor is
axitinib.
[018] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to the use of axitinib in the
manufacture of a medicament for treating cancer in a subject with a tumor, wherein at
least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 4.5%, at least 4.6%, at least 4.7%, at least
4.8%, at least 4.9%, at least 5.0%, at least 5.1%, at least 5.2%, at least 5.3%, at least
5.4%, at least 5.5%, at least 5.6%, at least 5.7%, at least 5.8%, at least 5.9%, at least
6.0%, at least 6.5%, at least 7.0%, at least 8%, at least 9%, at least 10%, at least 15%,
or at least 20% of the cells in said tumor are CD68-positive.
[019] In a further embodiment the present disclosure relates to the use of axitinib in the
manufacture of a medicament for treating cancer in a subject with a tumor, wherein the
cell density of CD68-positive cells in said tumor is at least 0.05 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.06
cells/mm 2 , at least 0.07 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.08 cells/mm 2 , at least 0.09 cells/mm 2 , at
least 1.0 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.1 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.2 cells/mm 2 , at least 1.3 cells/mm 2
at least 1.4 cells/mm2, or at least 1.5 cells/mm 2.
[020] In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides a diagnostic test kit
comprising certain components for performing the diagnostic methods disclosed herein,
the components including, (a) for a quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction (qRT-PCR)-based kit, PCR primers for analyzing expression of the
macrophage marker CD68 and optionally buffers, reagents and detailed instructions for
measuring CD68 expression levels, using PCR technology; (b) for a DNA microarray
based kit, a microfluidic card (array) designed for use with a particular instrument; or (c)
materials for determining tumor macrophage content by IHC.
[021] In a further embodiment, the present disclosure provides any of the methods or
uses disclosed herein, wherein said tumor is selected from the group consisting of a
breast tumor, a lung tumor, a kidney tumor, a colorectal tumor, and a pancreatic tumor.
In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides any of the methods disclosed
herein, wherein the cancer or tumor is mRCC.
[022] In further embodiments, the methods disclosed herein are carried out wherein the
step of measuring the percentage or cell density of CD68 positive cells is performed
using immunohistochemistry, and further wherein the use of image analysis from a
whole slide scan from a tumor sample is employed.

                                              -8
[023] In some embodiments of the present disclosure, measuring macrophage content
is performed by measuring the presence or an amount of a macrophage marker protein.
In other embodiments, measuring macrophage content is performed by determining the
number of macrophages in a given cell population. For example, measuring
macrophage content can be performed by immunohistochemistry involving detection of
a macrophage marker protein. In another embodiment, measuring macrophage content
is performed by measuring the presence or an amount of mRNA encoding a
macrophage marker protein. Examples of macrophage marker proteins include CCR2,
CD14, CD68, CD163, CSF1 R and MSR1. The threshold determination analysis can
include a receiver operator characteristic curve analysis. Methods of the present
disclosure are useful for testing various types of tumors, including, e.g., breast tumors,
lung tumors, kidney tumors, colorectal tumors, and pancreatic tumors.
[024] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or
steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements,
integers or steps.
[025] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
of this specification.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[026] Figure 1 shows the demographic and baseline characteristics of the subjects that
were included in the A4061032 study.
[027] Figure 2 shows a summary of the percent and density of positive cells for
biomarkers CD3 and CD68 by slides versus blocks that were collected as part of the
A4061032 study.

                                             -9
[028] Figure 3 shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS for comparison of less than median
and greater than or equal to median values of percent and density of positive cells for
the biomarker CD68.
[029] Figure 4 shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS for comparison of less than median
and greater than or equal to median values of percent and density of positive cells for
the biomarker CD68 in patients with prior Sutent@ treatment.
[030] Figure 5 shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS for comparison of less than median
and greater than or equal to median values of percent and density of positive cells for
the biomarker CD3.
[031] Figure 6 shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS for comparison of less than median
and greater than or equal to median values of percent and density of positive cells for
the biomarker CD3 in patients with prior Sutent@ treatment.
[032] Figure 7 shows a summary of OS by less than and greater than or equal to
median cut point stratum for each biomarker CD3 and CD68 percent and density of
positive cells.
[033] Figure 8 shows a summary of OS by less than and greater than or equal to
median cut point stratum for each biomarker CD3 and CD68 percent and density of
positive cells in patients with prior Sutent@ treatment.
[034] Figure 9 shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of OS for comparison of less than greater
than or equal to median for biomarkers CD3 and CD68 for percent and density of
positive cells in patients with prior Sutent@ treatment.
[035] Figure 10 shows a summary of the CD3 and CD68 biomarkers, percent and
density of positive cells by response category.
[036] Figure 11 shows a summary of the CD3 and CD68 biomarkers, percent and
density of positive cells by response category in patients with prior Sutent@ treatment.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Definitions
[037] As used herein, Inlyta@, "AG-13736" and "axitinib" mean 6-[2
(methylcarbamoyl)phenylsulfanyl]-3-E-[2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethenyl]indazole, which has the
following chemical structure, including salts and polymorphs thereof:

                                              -10
                                                             H
                                            H0 HO            N,CH3
                                                      S
                                          N N
                                 -N
[038] As used herein, "macrophage marker protein" means a macrophage cell surface
protein, the detection of which is useful for identifying macrophages among the other
types of cells present in a tissue sample from a tumor. Exemplary human macrophage
marker proteins are CCR2, CD14, CD68, CD163, CSFIR and MSRI. Other macrophage
marker proteins can be employed in practicing the present disclosure.
[039] As used herein, "receiver operating characteristic" (ROC) curve means a plot of
false positive rate (sensitivity) versus true positive rate (specificity) for a binary classifier
system. In construction of an ROC curve, the following definitions apply:
[040] False negative rate "FNR" = 1 - TPR
[041] True positive rate "TPR" = true positive I (true positive + false negative)
[042] False positive rate "FPR" = false positive / (false positive + true negative)
[043] As used herein, "response" or "responding" to treatment means, with regard to a
treated tumor, that the tumor displays: (a) slowing of growth, (b) cessation of growth, or
(c) regression.
[044] As used herein, "threshold determination analysis" means analysis of a dataset
representing a given tumor type, e.g., human renal cell carcinoma, to determine a
threshold score for that particular tumor type. The dataset representing a given tumor
type can include, for each tumor from a group of such tumors: (a) actual tumor response
data (response and non-response to a treatment such as axitinib), and (b) macrophage
content and/or CD68 expression levels.
[045] As used herein, "threshold score" means a score above which a tumor is
classified as being likely sensitive to treatment, such as with axitinib.
[046] As used herein, "CD68 expression level" or "CD68 polypeptide expression level"
means the level of CD68 protein that is expressed in a tumor sample, and can be
determined by any appropriate analytical technique such as immunohistochemistry.
Furthermore, the "CD68 expression level" can be expressed in a variety of terms,

                                             - 11
including the percentage of cells in a given sample that are determined to be "CD68
positive", and the density of cells in a given sample that are determined to be "CD68
positive".
[047] As used herein, "CCR2" (chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2 also known as CD
192, CKR2, CMKBR2, MCP-1-R, CC-CKR-2, FLJ78302, MGC103828, MGC111760, and
MGC168006) means the human protein encoded by the gene identified by Entrez
GenelD No. 729230 and allelic variants thereof.
[048] As used herein, "CD14" means the human protein encoded by the gene identified
by Entrez GenelD No. 929 and allelic variants thereof.
[049] As used herein, "CD68" (also known as GP110; SCARD1; and DKFZp686M
18236) means the human protein encoded by the gene identified by Entrez GenelD No.
968 and allelic variants thereof.
[050] As used herein, a "CD68-positive" cell is a cell wherein the presence of CD68 is
detected by any appropriate analytical technique, such as immunohistochemistry.
[051] As used herein, "CD163" (also known as MI 30 and MM 130) means the human
protein encoded by the gene identified by Entrez GenelD No. 9332 and allelic variants
thereof.
[052] As used herein, "CSF1 R" (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor also known as
CSFR, FMS, FIM2, C-FMS, and CD115) means the human protein encoded by the
gene identified by Entrez GenelD No. 1436 and allelic variants thereof.
[053] As used herein, "MSR1" (macrophage scavenger receptor 1 also called CD204,
SCARA1, SR-A, phSRI and phSR2) means the human protein encoded by the gene
identified by Entrez GenelD No. 4481 and allelic variants thereof.
[054] As used herein, "HR" means hazard ratio. In Figures 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, assuming
proportional hazards, a hazard ratio greater than 1 indicates a reduction in hazard rate
in favor of < Median; a hazard ratio less than 1 indicates a reduction in hazard rate in
favor of >= Median; and logrank p-values were produced only when N>=1 0 in both
comparison groups. In Figures 7 and 8, assuming proportional hazards, a hazard ratio
greater than 1 indicates a reduction in hazard rate in favor of < Median; a hazard ratio
less than 1 indicates a reduction in hazard rate in favor of >= Median; and logrank
p-value was produced only when N>=10 in both comparison groups; and hazard ratio

                                              - 12
statistic was produced only when N>=5 in both comparison groups; however, logrank
p-value and hazard ratio were removed when zero event was observed in either group.
Clinical Studies
[055] Inlyta@, hereafter referred to as axitinib, is an orally administered small-molecule
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that acts on vascular endothelial growth factor
receptors (VEGFRs). Axitinib is expected to reduce tumor growth and metastasis by
inhibiting angiogenesis, and to reduce tumor growth and cause regression by acting
directly on cells that express, and are dependent on these receptors. Axitinib is
approved multi-nationally for the treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) after
disease progression on, or resistance to, cytokines or sunitinib.
[056] Study A4061032 (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00678392) was a phase 3
registrational trial entitled "Axitinib (AG-013736) as second line therapy for metastatic
renal cell cancer: Axis trial". The trial was designed to demonstrate that axitinib is
superior to sorafenib in delaying tumor progression in patients with mRCC after failure of
one first line regimen. A total of 650 patients were planned to be enrolled, and 723
subjects were eventually enrolled in the study.
[057] As described in further detail in the Examples, formalin-fixed paraffin embedded
(FFPE) tumor samples were collected from patients who participated in A4061032, and
who provided specific consent for collection of tumor sample. Tumor myeloid (cluster of
differentiation 68 "CD68") or lymphocyte (cluster of differentiation 3 "CD3") infiltration
was assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in tumor samples from 52 axitinib-treated
patients. The aim was to investigate the potential association of these biomarkers with
efficacy, consistent with the hypothesis that myeloid infiltration confers resistance to
anti-angiogenic agents targeting the VEGF-VEGFR2 pathway (see Shojaei et al. (2007)
Nat. Biotechnol. 25(8):911-920; and Lin et al. (2010) Eur. J. Cancer Suppl. 8(7):191).
[058] The evaluation of CD3 and CD68 was performed by image analysis from a whole
slide scan. The region of interest was circled, and an image analysis algorithm was run.
The percentage of positive cells (number of positive cells/total number of cells) and the
density of positive cells (e.g. number of positive cells/mm2) was measured. Some
patients donated FFPE blocks, and some donated slides cut from blocks. Samples from
all patients were analyzed, whether they were provided as slides or blocks.

                                             -13
[059] There were 52 evaluable patients for IHC data, 33 of which were previously
treated with Sutent@ (suntinib). There were no correlations between CD3 data and any
of the endpoints measured. As described in further detail in the Examples, for CD68 the
percentage of positive cells and cell density were closely correlated and were two-fold
higher in patients with an objective response versus non-responders.
[060] Regardless of prior treatment, median progression free survival (PFS) in patients
with   median CD68 values (cut off = 5.21 % positive cells or cell density of 0.08
cells/mm2) was 12.0 months for both cutpoints vs 3.7 and 3.8 months respectively for
patients with <median biomarker values (hazard ratio [HR]=0.42, logrank p-value 0.01).
For patients pre-treated with Sutent@ a similar trend with PFS was observed with
marginal statistical significance (p-values: 0.066 and 0.056 for % positive cells and cell
density, respectively). Similar trends of favorable efficacy were observed for objective
response and overall survival (OS) for patients with relatively higher CD68 cell count,
although these differences were not statistically significant when all patients were
assessed together or when only Sutent@ pre-treated patients were assessed.
[061] Additional receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analyses were conducted to
better understand the sensitivity and specificity of baseline tumor CD68 levels, and to
optimize definition of CD68 cut-points from the initial selected median CD68 values.
Default cut-off values of 2, 4, 6 and 8 months PFS were selected, and again patients
with higher percentage of CD68 positive cells and cell density were observed to have
longer values for PFS (or equivalently less chance of disease progression or death) at
each of the four PFS time points.
[062] As described in greater detail in the Examples, the highest observed sensitivity,
specificity and area under the curve (AUC) values were observed at 2 months PFS,
where the AUCs of the ROC curve were 0.776 and 0.809 for percentage of CD68
positive cells and cell density, respectively, which indicate compelling overall diagnostic
accuracy for PFS using CD68 expression levels. The optimal cut-off points for
predicting PFS at 6 months were 4.41 % and 0.06 cells/mm2 for CD68 percent and
density of positive cells, respectively. Values were similar for patients pre-treated with
Sutent@.
[063] ROC analysis was also used for assessment of CD68 versus ORR. As described
in greater detail in the Examples, the AUCs were 0.791 and 0.784 for percentage of

                                              - 14
CD68 positive cells and cell density, respectively, which indicate again compelling
overall accuracy for predicting ORR using the CD68 expression levels. The optimal cut
off points for predicting ORR were 9.42% and 0.13 cells/mm2 for percentage of CD68
positive cells and cell density, respectively. Values were similar for patients pre-treated
with Sutent@. For survival probability at 21 months, the median value for the trial, ROC
analysis did not show a statistically significant association, with an AUC of 0.559.
[064] In conclusion, regardless of previous treatment, favorable PFS was observed for
patients with higher tumor CD68 levels. Median PFS in patients with >median CD68
values was 12.0 months for both cutpoints versus 3.7 and 3.8 months for patients with
<median biomarker values (HR=0.42, logrank p-values0.01). ROC analysis indicated
compelling predictive value for this data at 2, 4, 6 and 8 months, and refined cut off
points (at 6 months - 4.41 % and 0.06 cells/mm2 for percentage of CD68 positive cells
and cell density).
[065] Accordingly, the present disclosure relates to the finding that higher CD68
expression is associated with higher ORR and longer PFS for patients treated with a
VEGFR inhibitor, such as axitinib. The absence of association with OS may be due to
confounding post-progression treatments after progression on axitinib. These
observations are consistent with a mechanism of increased VEGF production and
associated angiogenic status with higher macrophage infiltration, and therefore greater
sensitivity to the treatment effects of axitinib. ROC analysis of PFS, the registrational
endpoint, showed greatest sensitivity and specificity after two months of treatment.
[066] CD68 expression has previously been reported to associate with outcome for
mRCC patients receiving tivozanib treatment (Lin et al. (2010) Eur. J. Cancer Suppi.
8(7):191). Myeloid (CD11b Gr+) cells have also previously been shown to confer
resistance to bevacizumab in a lung animal model (Shojaei et al. (2007) Nat Biotechnol.
25(8):911-920). This data would be consistent with poorer outcomes for patients with
higher CD68 tumor levels. However this was not observed in this study.
[067] For RCC patients, significant progress has been made in the identification of
prognostic biomarkers, but no predictive markers of efficacy have been identified for
targeted VEGFR inhibitors such as axitinib. According to a recent review (Tonini G et al.
(2011) Exper RevAnticancer Ther 11(6):921-930), the choice of the most appropriate
therapy for RCC patients is still dependent on risk criteria (MSKCC) and other

                                            -15
prognostic criteria. Furthermore, the authors state that these combined criteria provide
information on RCC patient outcome, and that predictive factors of response to therapy
for mRCC are needed. There is a need for validation of potential markers in
randomized clinical trials (Id.). Standardization of tissue collection and analysis is also
cited as a major challenge in developing molecular biomarkers to potentially guide
therapy (Sonpavde G and Choueiri T, (2012) Br J Cancer 107(7):1009-1016).
[068] Methods and analytical techniques that can be used in carrying out the present
disclosure are further disclosed below.
Tissue Sample
[069] A tissue sample from a tumor in a human patient can be used as a source of
RNA, a source of protein, or a source of thin sections for immunohistochemistry (IHC),
so level of CD68 expression in the sample can be determined as described in the
present disclosure. The tissue sample can be obtained by using conventional tumor
biopsy instruments and procedures. Endoscopic biopsy, excisional biopsy, incisional
biopsy, fine needle biopsy, punch biopsy, shave biopsy and skin biopsy are examples of
recognized medical procedures that can be used by one of skill in the art to obtain tumor
samples. The tumor tissue sample should be large enough to provide sufficient RNA,
protein, or thin sections for measuring marker gene, e.g., CD68 expression level or
visualizing macrophages by IHC, e.g., CD68-positive cell expression.
[070] The tumor tissue sample can be in any form that allows measurement of
macrophage content, or specifically CD68. In other words, the tissue sample must be
sufficient for RNA extraction, protein extraction, or preparation of thin sections.
Accordingly, the tissue sample can be fresh, preserved through suitable cryogenic
techniques, or preserved through non-cryogenic techniques. A standard process for
handling clinical biopsy specimens is to fix the tissue sample in formalin and then
embed it in paraffin. Samples in this form are commonly known as formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue. Suitable techniques of tissue preparation for
subsequent analysis are well-known to those of skill in the art.
Macrophaqe Content
[071] In practicing the present disclosure, determining the level of macrophage content
(e.g., macrophage number or expression of a macrophage marker such as CD68, e.g.,

                                           -16
expression of a macrophage marker protein or expression of a mRNA encoding a
macrophage marker protein such as CD68) in a tissue sample (e.g., from a tumor) can
be performed by any suitable method, of which there are several. For example,
measuring macrophage content indirectly can be done by measuring the expression of
one or more genes known to be useful as macrophage markers, such as CD68.
Various methods for measuring gene expression are known in the art. Such methods
can be applied in determining the level of macrophage marker proteins or mRNA
encoding macrophage marker proteins. Exemplary human macrophage marker genes
are CCR2, CD14, CD68, CD163, CSF1R and MSR1. Other macrophage markers can
be used, as well.
RNA Analysis
[072] Conventional microarray analysis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(QPCR) are examples of methods for determining the level of macrophage marker gene
expression at the mRNA level. In some embodiments of the disclosure, RNA is
extracted from the cells, tumor or tissue of interest using standard protocols. In other
embodiments, RNA analysis is performed using techniques that do not require RNA
isolation.
RNA Isolation
[073] Methods for rapid and efficient extraction of eukaryotic mRNA, i.e., poly(a) RNA,
from tissue samples are well established and known to those of skill in the art. See,
e.g., Ausubel et al., 1997, Current Protocols of Molecular Biology, John Wiley and Sons.
The tissue sample can be fresh, frozen or fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples
such as clinical study tumor specimens. In general, RNA isolated from fresh or frozen
tissue samples tends to be less fragmented than RNA from FFPE samples. FFPE
samples of tumor material, however, are more readily available, and FFPE samples are
suitable sources of RNA for use in methods of the present disclosure. For a discussion
of FFPE samples as sources of RNA for gene expression profiling by RT-PCR, see,
e.g., Clark-Langone et al., 2007, BMC Genomics 8:279. Also see, De Andres et al.,
1995, Biotechniques 18:42044; and Baker et al., U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
2005/0095634. The use of commercially available kits with vendor's instructions for
RNA extraction and preparation is widespread and common. Commercial vendors of

                                            -17
various RNA isolation products and complete kits include Qiagen (Valencia, CA),
Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA), Ambion (Austin, TX) and Exiqon (Woburn, MA).
[074] In general, RNA isolation begins with tissue/cell disruption. During tissue/cell
disruption it is desirable to minimize RNA degradation by RNases. One approach to
limiting RNase activity during the RNA isolation process is to ensure that a denaturant is
in contact with cellular contents as soon as the cells are disrupted. Another common
practice is to include one or more proteases in the RNA isolation process. Optionally,
fresh tissue samples are immersed in an RNA stabilization solution, at room
temperature, as soon as they are collected. The stabilization solution rapidly permeates
the cells, stabilizing the RNA for storage at 4 degrees centigrade, for subsequent
isolation.
[075] In some protocols, total RNA is isolated from disrupted tumor material by cesium
chloride density gradient centrifugation. In general, mRNA makes up approximately 1
percent to 5 percent of total cellular RNA. Immobilized Oligo(dT), e.g., oligo(dT)
cellulose, is commonly used to separate mRNA from ribosomal RNA and transfer RNA.
If stored after isolation, RNA must be stored in under RNase-free conditions. Methods
for stable storage of isolated RNA are known in the art. Various commercial products
for stable storage of RNA are available.
Microarray
[076] The mRNA expression level of one or more genes encoding macrophage marker
proteins such as CD68 can be measured using conventional DNA microarray
expression profiling technology. A DNA microarray is a collection of specific DNA
segments or probes affixed to a solid surface or substrate such as glass, plastic or
silicon, with each specific DNA segment occupying a known location in the array.
Hybridization with a sample of labeled RNA, usually under stringent hybridization
conditions, allows detection and quantitation of RNA molecules corresponding to each
probe in the array. After stringent washing to remove non-specifically bound sample
material, the microarray is scanned by confocal laser microscopy or other suitable
detection method. Modern commercial DNA microarrays, often known as DNA chips,
typically contain tens of thousands of probes, and thus can measure expression of tens
of thousands of genes simultaneously. Such microarrays can be used in practicing the
present disclosure. Alternatively, custom chips containing as few probes as those

                                              -18
needed to measure expression of one or more genes encoding macrophage marker
proteins, such as CD68, plus necessary controls or standards, e.g., for data
normalization, can be used in practicing the disclosure.
[077] To facilitate data normalization, a two-color microarray reader can be used. In a
two-color (two-channel) system, samples are labeled with a first fluorophore that emits
at a first wavelength, while an RNA or cDNA standard is labeled with a second
fluorophore that emits at a different wavelength. For example, Cy3 (570 nm) and Cy5
(670 nm) often are employed together in two-color microarray systems.
[078] DNA microarray technology is well-developed, commercially available, and widely
employed. Therefore, in performing methods disclosed herein, a person of ordinary skill
in the art can use microarray technology to measure expression levels of genes
encoding macrophage marker proteins such as CD68 without undue experimentation.
DNA microarray chips, reagents (such as those for RNA or cDNA preparation, RNA or
cDNA labeling, hybridization and washing solutions), instruments (such as microarray
readers) and protocols are well known in the art and available from various commercial
sources. Commercial vendors of microarray systems include Agilent Technologies
(Santa Clara, CA) and Affymetrix (Santa Clara, CA), but other PCR systems can be
used as well.
Quantitative RT-PCR
[079] The level of mRNA representing individual genes encoding macrophage marker
proteins such as CD68 can be measured using conventional quantitative reverse
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) technology. Advantages of qRT
PCR include sensitivity, flexibility, quantitative accuracy, and ability to discriminate
between closely related mRNAs. Guidance concerning the processing of tissue samples
for quantitative PCR is available from various sources, including manufacturers and
vendors of commercial products for qRT-PCR (e.g., Qiagen (Valencia, CA) and Ambion
(Austin, TX)). Instrument systems for automated performance of qRT-PCR are
commercially available and used routinely in many laboratories. An example of a well
known commercial system is the Applied Biosystems 7900HT Fast Real-Time PCR
System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA).
[080] Once mRNA is isolated, the first step in gene expression profiling by RT- PCR is
the reverse transcription of the mRNA template into cDNA, which is then exponentially

                                            -19
amplified in a PCR reaction. Two commonly used reverse transcriptases are avilo
myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase (AMV-RT) and Moloney murine leukemia
virus reverse transcriptase (MMLV-RT). The reverse transcription reaction typically is
primed with specific primers, random hexamers, or oligo(dT) primers. The resulting
cDNA product can be used as a template in the subsequent polymerase chain reaction.
[081] The PCR step is carried out using a thermostable DNA-dependent DNA
polymerase. The polymerase most commonly used in PCR systems is a Thermus
aquaticus (Taq) polymerase. The selectivity of PCR results from the use of primers that
are complementary to the DNA region targeted for amplification, i.e., regions of the
cDNAs reverse transcribed from genes encoding macrophage marker proteins, such as
CD68. Therefore, when qRT-PCR is employed in the present disclosure primers
specific to each marker gene are based on the cDNA sequence of the gene.
Commercial technologies such as SYBR(R) green or TaqMan(R) (Applied Biosystems,
Foster City, CA) can be used in accordance with the vendor's instructions. Messenger
RNA levels can be normalized for differences in loading among samples by comparing
the levels of housekeeping genes such as beta-actin or GAPDH. The level of mRNA
expression can be expressed relative to any single control sample such as mRNA from
normal, non-tumor tissue or cells. Alternatively, it can be expressed relative to mRNA
from a pool of tumor samples, or tumor cell lines, or from a commercially available set of
control mRNA.
[082] Suitable primer sets for PCR analysis of expression levels of genes encoding
macrophage marker proteins such as CD68 can be designed and synthesized by one of
skill in the art, without undue experimentation. Alternatively, PCR primer sets for
practicing the present disclosure can be purchased from commercial sources, e.g.,
Applied Biosystems. PCR primers preferably are about 17 to 25 nucleotides in length.
Primers can be designed to have a particular melting temperature (Tm), using
conventional algorithms for Tm estimation. Software for primer design and Tm
estimation are available commercially, e.g., Primer Express T M (Applied Biosystems),
and also are available on the internet, e.g., Primer3 (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology). By applying established principles of PCR primer design, a large number
of different primers can be used to measure the expression level of any given gene,
including macrophage marker genes such as CD14, CD68, MSR1, CSFR1, CD163 and
CCR2.

                                              - 20
[083] In some embodiments of the disclosure, RNA analysis is performed using a
technology that does not involve RNA extraction or isolation. One such technology is
quantitative nuclease protection assay, which is commercially available under the name
qNPA TM (High Throughput Genomics, Inc., Tucson, AZ). This technology can be
advantageous when the tumor tissue samples to be analyzed are in the form of FFPE
material. See, e.g., Roberts et al., 2007, Laboratory Investigation 87:979-997.
Protein analysis
[084] In methods of the disclosure, macrophage marker gene expression such as
CD68 can be detected at the protein level. Examples of methods for measuring the
level of macrophage marker gene expression at the protein level include enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and IHC analysis.
ELISA
[085] Performing a macrophage marker protein ELISA, e.g., CD68 ELISA, requires at
least one antibody against a macrophage marker protein, i.e., the detection antibody. In
an exemplary embodiment, CD68 is the macrophage marker protein. CD68 protein
from a sample to be analyzed is immobilized on a solid support such as a polystyrene
microtiter plate. This immobilization can be by non-specific binding of the CD68, e.g.,
through adsorption to the surface. Alternatively, immobilization can be by specific
binding, e.g., through binding of CD68 protein from the sample by a capture antibody
(anti-CD68 antibody different from the detection antibody), in a "sandwich" ELISA. After
the CD68 is immobilized, the detection antibody is added, and the detection antibody
forms a complex with the bound CD68. The detection antibody is linked to an enzyme,
either directly or indirectly, e.g., through a secondary antibody that specifically
recognizes the detection antibody. Typically between each step, the plate, with bound
CD68, is washed with a mild detergent solution. Typical ELISA protocols also include
one or more blocking steps, which involve use of a non-specifically binding protein such
as bovine serum albumin to block unwanted non-specific binding of protein reagents to
the plate. After a final wash step, the plate is developed by addition of an appropriate
enzyme substrate, to produce a visible signal, which indicates the quantity of CD68 in
the sample. The substrate can be, e.g., a chromogenic substrate or a fluorogenic
substrate. ELISA methods, reagents and equipment are well-known in the art and
commercially available.

                                            - 21
[086] It is understood that the expression levels of other macrophage marker proteins,
e.g., CCR2, CD14, CD163, CSF1 R, and MSR1, as well as other macrophage specific
marker proteins can be measured by ELISA using detecting antibodies specific for each
macrophage marker protein.
Immunohistochemistry (IHC)
[087] The number of macrophages in a given cell population can be determined (e.g.,
visualized) by immunohistochemistry. In addition, the percentage and density of cells in
a sample that are positive for a given biomarker protein, such as CD68, can be
determined by immunochemistry. Assaying a macrophage marker protein by IHC, e.g.,
CD68 IHC, requires at least one antibody against a macrophage marker protein, e.g., at
least one anti-CD68 antibody. Numerous anti-CD68 antibodies suitable for IHC are
commercially available. For example, suitable antibodies can be purchased from Dako
North America, Inc. (Carpinteria, CA), abeam (Cambridge, MA), Abnova (Walnut, CA), R
and D Systems (Minneapolis, MN) or Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA). Using standard
techniques, the anti-CD68 antibody can be used to detect the presence of CD68 protein
in sections, e.g., 5 micron sections, obtained from tumors, including paraffin-embedded
and frozen tumor sections. Typically, the tumor sections are initially treated in such a
way as to retrieve the antigenic structure of proteins that were fixed in the initial process
of collecting and preserving the tumor material. Slides are then blocked to prevent non
specific binding by the anti-CD68 detection antibody. The presence of CD68 protein is
then detected by binding of the anti-CD68 antibody to the CD68 protein. The detection
(primary) antibody is linked to an enzyme, either directly or indirectly, e.g., through a
secondary antibody or polymer that specifically recognizes the detection (primary)
antibody. Typically, the tumor sections are washed and blocked with nonspecific protein
such as bovine serum albumin between steps. The slide is developed using an
appropriate enzyme substrate to produce a visible signal. The samples can be
counterstained with hematoxylin.
[088] It is understood that the expression of other macrophage marker proteins, e.g.,
CCR2, CD14, CD163, CSF1R, and MSR1, as well as other macrophage specific marker
proteins can be detected by IHC in a similar manner using antibodies specific for each
macrophage marker protein.

                                             - 22
Data Interpretation
[089] A macrophage score for a tumor can be interpreted with respect to a threshold
score. A macrophage score, or the expression level of a particular biomarker such as
CD68, that is equal to or higher than the threshold score can be interpreted as predictive
of the tumor being likely to be sensitive (responsive) to treatment with a VEGFR
inhibitor, such as with axitinib. Alternatively, macrophage scores, or the expression
level of a particular biomarker such as CD68, equal to or lower than the threshold score
can be interpreted as predictive of a tumor being likely to be resistant (non-responsive)
to treatment with a VEGFR inhibitor, such as axitinib.
[090] An optimum threshold macrophage score, or CD68 expression level, can be
determined (or at least approximated) empirically by performing a threshold
determination analysis. Preferably, threshold determination analysis includes receiver
operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. ROC curve analysis is an established
statistical technique, the application of which is within ordinary skill in the art. For a
discussion of ROC curve analysis, see generally Zweig et al., 1993, "Receiver operating
characteristic (ROC) plots: a fundamental evaluation tool in clinical medicine," Clin.
Chem. 39:561-577; and Pepe, 2003, The statistical evaluation of medical tests or
classification and prediction, Oxford Press, New York.
[091] Macrophage scores, CD68 expression levels, and the optimum threshold scores
may vary from tumor type to tumor type. Therefore, a threshold determination analysis
preferably is performed on one or more datasets representing any given tumor type to
be tested using the present disclosure. The dataset used for threshold determination
analysis includes: (a) actual response data (response or non-response), and (b) a
macrophage score or CD68 expression level for each tumor sample from a group of
tumors. Once a macrophage score or CD68 expression level threshold is determined
with respect to a given tumor type, that threshold can be applied to interpret
macrophage scores or CD68 expression levels from tumors of that tumor type.
[092] The ROC curve analysis can be performed as follows. Any sample with a
macrophage score or CD68 expression level greater than or equal to the threshold is
identified as a responder (sensitive). Alternatively, any sample with a macrophage
score or CD68 expression level less than or equal to the threshold is identified as a non
responder (resistant). For every macrophage score or CD68 expression level from a

                                              - 23
tested set of samples, "responders" and "non-responders" (hypothetical calls) are
classified using that score as the threshold. This process enables calculation of TPR (y
vector) and FPR (x vector) for each potential threshold, through comparison of
hypothetical calls against the actual response data for the data set. Then an ROC curve
is constructed by making a dot plot, using the TPR vector, and FPR vector. If the ROC
curve is above the diagonal from (0, 0) point to (1.0, 0.5) point, it shows that the
macrophage test result is a better test than random.
[093] The ROC curve can be used to identify the best operating point. The best
operating point is the one that yields the best balance between the cost of false
positives weighed against the cost of false negatives. These costs need not be equal.
The average expected cost of classification at point x,y in the ROC space is determined
by the following formula.
            C = (1-p) alpha*x + p*beta(I-y)
            wherein:
            alpha = cost of a false positive,
            beta = cost of missing a positive (false negative), and
            p = proportion of positive cases.
[094] False positives and false negatives can be weighted differently by assigning
different values for alpha and beta. For example, if it is decided to include more patients
in the responder group at the cost of treating more patients who are non-responders,
one can put more weight on alpha. In this case, it is assumed that the cost of false
positive and false negative is the same (alpha equals to beta). Therefore, the average
expected cost of classification at point x,y in the ROC space is:
                                     C' = (I-p)*x + p*(I-y).
[095] The smallest C' can be calculated after using all pairs of false positive and false
negative (x, y). The optimum score threshold is calculated as the score of the (x, y) at
C'.
[096] In addition to predicting whether a tumor will be sensitive or resistant to a VEGFR
inhibitor, such as axitinib, a macrophage score or CD68 expression level provides an
approximate, but useful, indication of how likely a tumor is to be sensitive or resistant.

                                            - 24
Test Kits
[097] The disclosure includes a diagnostic test kit comprising certain components for
performing methods of the present disclosure. A diagnostic test kit enhances
convenience, speed and reproducibility in the performance of diagnostic assays. For
example, in an exemplary qRT-PCR-based embodiment of the disclosure, a basic
diagnostic test kit includes PCR primers for analyzing expression of macrophage
markers, e.g., CD68. In other embodiments, a more elaborate test kit contains not only
PCR primers, but also buffers, reagents and detailed instructions for measuring CD68
expression levels, using PCR technology. In some embodiments, the kit includes a test
protocol and all the consumable components needed for the test, except the RNA
sample(s).
[098] In an exemplary DNA microarray-based embodiment of the disclosure, a test kit
includes a microfluidic card (array) designed for use with a particular instrument.
Optionally, the microfluidic card is a custom made device designed specifically for
measurement of macrophage marker gene expression. Such custom microfluidic cards
are commercially available. For example, the TaqMan Array is a 384-well microfluidic
card (array) designed for use with the Applied Biosystems 7900HT Fast Real Time PCR
System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). An exemplary fluidic card may include
any combination of probes for measuring CCR2, CD14, CD68, CD163, CSF1R and/or
MSR1 expression plus necessary controls or standards, e.g., for data normalization.
Other macrophage marker proteins can also be included on a fluidic card for practicing
the disclosure.
[099] In some embodiments of the disclosure, the test kit contains materials for
determining tumor macrophage content by IHC. An IHC kit, for example, may contain a
primary antibody against a human macrophage marker, e.g., a mouse anti-human CD68
antibody, and a secondary antibody conjugated to a reporter enzyme, e.g., horseradish
peroxidase. In some embodiments, the secondary antibody is replaced with a
conjugated polymer that specifically recognizes the primary antibody.
                                         EXAMPLES
[0100]The present disclosure is further illustrated by the following examples, which
should not be construed as limiting the scope or content of the disclosure in any way.

                                             - 25
Example 1 - Percent and Density of CD3 and CD68 Positive Cells by Slides versus
Blocks
[0101] This study was a 2-arm, randomized, open-label, multi-center phase 3 study of
axitinib versus sorafenib in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), after
failure following one prior systematic first-line regimen containing one or more of the
following agents: sunitinib, bevacizumab + IFN a, temsirolimus, or cytokine(s). Overall,
723 patients with mRCC were randomized and enrolled in this study, among which 52
axitinib-treated patients were evaluable for immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis;
further, 33 of the 52 patients were previously treated with Sutent.
[0102]As shown in Figure 1, the majority of patients included in IHC analysis were white
(90.4% of patients), male (69.2% of patients) and from North America (57.7% of
patients) and Europe (32.7%). Overall mean (standard deviation) age, height and
weight was 58.3 (11.0) years, 173.0 (10.0) cm, and 84.6 (19.1) kg, respectively. All
patients had an ECOG performance status of 0 (51.9% of patients) or 1 (48.1% of
patients). Overall, 23.1% of patients classified as favorable, and 34.6% and 42.3% of
patients as intermediate and poor, respectively, for the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center (MSKCC) prognostic group factors model for survival. In addition,
MSKCC risk groups were derived using the following four risk factors: high lactate
dehydrogenase (>1.5 x upper limit of normal), low serum hemoglobin (less than the
lower limit of normal), high corrected serum calcium (>10 mg/dL), and absence of prior
nephrectomy.
[0103]AII 52 patients were evaluable for both CD3 and CD68. Of the 52 CD3 and CD68
evaluable patients, 26 donated formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor blocks,
and 26 donated slides for analysis. Mosaic Laboratories provided FFPE material
representing human normal and human cancer. Specimens were procured under an
IRB-reviewed protocol (MOS001) that allows for use of remnant, de-identified, or
anonymized human samples for in vitro analysis under the guidelines defining
'Exemption from Human Subject Research' as defined by the Office of Human Research
Protection. The CD68 mouse monoclonal KP1 antibody (Catalog# M0814, Lot# 46406,
Expiration date: Sep 2011) was purchased from Dako (Carpinteria, California, United
States) and stored at 2-8'C in accordance with accompanying documentation. The
mouse IgG isotype control antibody (Lot# 37211, Expiration date: Jul 2010) was

                                            - 26
purchased from Dako and stored at 2-80C in accordance with accompanying
documentation. IHC was performed in accordance with Mosaic Laboratories' SOPs.
The CD68 IHC assay was designed and validated to be compatible with CLIA guidelines
for "homebrew" class I test validation.
[0104] Staining was evaluated by a pathologist and evaluation of reactivity involved a
combination of the following: cellular localization of CD68 staining; staining intensity;
subcellular localization; and percentage of cells staining in the primary component of the
tissue type of interest. Photomicrographs (20x magnification) were acquired with a Spot
Insight QE Model 4.2 cooled charge-coupled device camera (Diagnostic Instruments,
Sterling Heights, Michigan, United States) attached to a Nikon Eclipse 50i microscope.
[0105] The mean percentage of CD3 and CD68 positive cells was slightly lower in slides
than in blocks; 13.61% versus 17.95% for CD3 and 5.83% versus 8.21% for CD68.
Similarly, a slightly lower mean cell density was observed in slides than in blocks;
489.15 cells/mm2 versus 590.50 cells/mm2 for CD3, and 0.08 cells/mm2 versus
0.13 cells/mm 2 for CD68 (Figure 2).
Example 2 - Hiqher CD68 Expression Levels Correlate Positively with Favorable ORR
and PFS, but Not OS
[0106] For IHC biomarker analysis, the Biomarker Analysis Set was used, which
included all patients who received at least one dose of study treatment. The following
efficacy endpoints were analyzed: PFS, OS, and objective response rate (ORR).
Summary statistics were provided for percent and density of positive cells by response
category (complete response [CR]+partial response [PR] versus stable disease
[SD]+progressive disease [PD]) for each marker). The Wilcoxon Rank Sum test was
performed to test for difference between response categories. Fisher's exact test was
used to test for association between response category and biomarker stratum using
median value as cut off point. Distribution of OS and PFS was compared between the
biomarker stratum by biomarker median value as cut off point using the Kaplan-Meier
method; p-values were not to be displayed when N<1 0 in either stratum. The estimated
hazard ratio (HR) and its 2-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and median event time
and its 2-sided 95% Cl were reported. Best response percent change in tumor volume
was compared between the biomarker strata with median value as cut off point using
Wilcoxon Rank Sum test.

                                             - 27
[0107] For significant test results (p<0.05) in the ORR, PFS, and OS analysis between
biomarker stratum, the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve was generated to
further assess the potential for utility as patient selection markers. ROC analysis was
performed on baseline CD68 values as continuous diagnostic markers in predicting
binary patient objective response (CR+PR vs. SD+PD). For time-dependent clinical
outcomes PFS and OS, a time-dependent ROC, denoted as ROC(t), where t indicates
time point of interest, was applied to analyze baseline CD68 values in predicting survival
outcomes using the Kaplan-Meier estimator20. The optimal cut off point of the CD68
value for predicting clinical outcome was obtained from the point on the ROC curve
having the minimum distance from the point with both sensitivity and specificity values of
1. The AUC was calculated using the trapezoidal rule.
[0108] Higher CD68 expression associated with longer PFS and higher ORR was
observed, however, no correlation was observed between CD68 expression and OS in
patients. Regardless of prior treatment, median PFS in patients with median CD68
values (cut off = 5.21% cells positive or 0.08 cells/mm 2 ) was 12.0 months for both cut off
points vs 3.7 and 3.8 months respectively for patients with <median biomarker values
(HR=0.42, logrank p-values 0.01) when all patients were assessed regardless of prior
treatment (Figure 3). However, for patients pre-treated with Sutent@, a similar but not
statistically significant trend with PFS was observed (Figure 4). There were no
statistically significant associations between CD3 levels and PFS, either regardless of
prior treatment or for Sutent@-pre-treated patients (Figures 5 and 6).
[0109] Further, regardless of prior treatment, median OS in patients with >median CD68
values (cut off = 5.21% cells positive or 0.08 cells/mm2) was 20.0 months and 22.6
months versus 21.8 months or 17.8 months respectively for patients with <median
biomarker values (HR>0.6 in all cases, not statistically significant) when all patients
were assessed regardless of prior treatment (Figure 7). For patients pre-treated with
Sutent@ no statistically significant associations with OS were observed. There were no
statistically significant associations between CD3 levels and OS either, regardless of
treatment, or in Sutent@-pre-treated patients (Figure 8). Using ROC analysis, favorable
OS was observed for patients with higher CD68 cell count, although the AUC value of
0.559 indicates low confidence in the predictive value of CD68 levels (Figure 9).

                                           - 28
[0110] Lastly, regardless of prior treatment, CD68 levels measured by percentage
positive cells (p-value=0.0059) or cell density (p-value=0.0071) were 2-fold higher in
responders (CR+PR) versus non-responders (SD+PD) (Figure 10). For patients
previously treated with Sutent@, CD68 levels measured by percentage positive cells (p
value=0.407) or cell density (p-value=0.0762) were 2-fold higher in responders versus
non-responders (Figure 11). In ORR analysis for biomarker evaluable patients, patients
with higher CD68 percent and density of positive cells tend to have better chance of
tumor objective response. ROC analysis shows a predictive accuracy of 0.818 and
0.795 with CD68 percentage and density of positive cells, respectively. The AUCs of
0.791 and 0.784, indicate high overall predictive accuracy for ORR using CD68
biomarker. The optimal cutoff points for predicting ORR were 9.42% and 0.13 cells/mm 2
for percentage of CD68 positive cells and cell density, respectively.
[0111] Similar results were found in ORR analysis for biomarker evaluable patients with
prior Sutent@ treatment. Patients with higher percentage of CD68 positive cells and
density tend to have better chance of tumor objective response. ROC analysis shows a
predictive accuracy of 0.777 and 0.852 with percentage of CD68 positive cells and
density, respectively. The AUCs of 0.809 and 0.764, indicate high overall diagnostic
accuracy for ORR using CD68 biomarker. The optimal cutoff points for predicting ORR
are 5.20% and 0.16 cells/mm 2 for percentage of CD68 positive cells and density,
respectively.

                                              - 29
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method of identifying a tumor that is sensitive to treatment with axitinib,
comprising: (a) measuring CD68 polypeptide expression level in a tissue sample from a
tumor obtained from a human patient being considered for treatment with axitinib; and
(b) comparing the CD68 expression level in step (a) against a threshold CD68
expression level determined by measuring CD68 polypeptide expression in tissue
samples of tumors obtained from human patients previously treated with axitinib and
shown to be resistant to axitinib and human patients previously treated with axitinib and
shown to be sensitive to axitinib, wherein a CD68 expression level above the threshold
level indicates that the tumor is sensitive to treatment with axitinib.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the step of measuring CD68 polypeptide
expression is performed by immunohistochemistry.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the step of measuring CD68 polypeptide
expression by immunohistochemistry is carried out by image analysis from a whole slide
scan, where the percentage of CD68-positive cells in the sample is determined.
4.      The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of determining the density of
CD68-positive cells in the sample.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the tumor is selected from the group consisting of
a breast tumor, a lung tumor, a kidney tumor, a colorectal tumor, and a pancreatic
tumor.
6.      A method of treating mRCC comprising administering axitinib to a patient
determined to have a mRCC tumor that is sensitive to axitinib according to claim 1.
7.      A method of treating cancer, comprising: a) determining the percentage of
CD68-positive cells in a tumor from a subject; and b) administering axitinib to the subject
if said percentage is at least 5%.
8.      A method of treating cancer, comprising: a) determining the cell density of
CD68-positive cells in a tumor from a subject; and b) administering axitinib to the subject
if said cell density is at least 0.08 cells/mm 2.
9.      A method of treating cancer comprising administering axitinib to a subject with a
tumor, wherein at least 5% of the cells in said tumor are CD68-positive.

                                             - 30
10.     A method of treating cancer comprising administering axitinib to a subject with a
tumor, wherein the cell density of CD68-positive cells in said tumor is at least 0.08
cells/mm2
11.     A method of treating cancer comprising: a) determining the percentage of
CD68-positive cells in a tumor from a subject; b) determining the cell density of CD68
positive cells in the tumor; and c) administering axitinib to the subject if said percentage
is at least 5% and said cell density is at least 0.08 cells/mm 2.
12.     A method of treating cancer comprising administering axitinib to a subject with a
tumor, wherein at least 5% of the cells in said tumor are CD68-postive and wherein the
cell density of CD68-positive cells in said tumor is at least 0.08 cells/mm 2.
13.     The method of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein said tumor is selected from the
group consisting of a breast tumor, a lung tumor, a kidney tumor, a colorectal tumor, and
a pancreatic tumor.
14.     The method of claim 7, 8, or 11, wherein the step of measuring the percentage or
cell density of CD68 positive cells is performed using immunohistochemistry.
15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the step of measuring the percentage or cell
density of CD68 positive cells is performed using immunohistochemistry and the use of
image analysis from a whole slide scan.

<removed-date>
                                                    1/11
                  FIG. 1                                    AG-013736
                                                           5.0 mg (BID)
                                       MALE                     FEMALE                 TOTAL
              Number (%) of Subjects   38                        14                     52
              Age (years) :
<removed-apn>
                <65                    25      (65.8)             11      (78.6)        36      (69.2)
                >=65                   13      (34.2)              3      (21.4)        16     (30. 8)
                Median               61.5                       54.0                  61.0
                Mean                 59.2                       55.6                  58.3
                SD                   10.0                       13.5                  11.0
                Range               39-82                      22-78                 22-82
              Race:
                WHITE                  35      (92.1)              <U+2701>      (85.7)        47     (90.4)
                ASIAN                   2       (5.3)              2      (14.3)         4      (7. 7)
                OTHER                   1       (2.6)              0                     1       (1.9)
              Weight (kg):
                Median               87.5                        67.5                 84.8
                Mean                 90.0                        69.8                 84.6
                SD                   15.4                        20.8                 19.1
                Range          62.4-121.2                  41.0-106.2           41.0-121.2
                N                      38     (100. 0)             14   (100.0)        52     (100.0)
              Height (cm):
               Median               177.3                    159.0                    174.6
               Mean                 177.9                    159.6                    173.0
               SD                     5.7                      5.8                     10.0
               Range          169.2-194.0              151.5-174.0              151.5-194.0
               N                       38     (100. 0)          14      (100.0)         52    (100.0)
              ECOG:
                0                      20      (52.6)              7      (50.0)        27     (51.9)
                1                      18      (47.4)              7      (50.0)        25     (48.1)
              Geographic Region:
               NORTH AMERICA           23      (60.5)              7      (50.0)        30     (57.7)
               EUROPE                  13      (34.2)              4      (28.6)        17     (32.7)
               ASIA                     1       (2.6)              2      (14.3)         3      (5.8)
               OTHER                    1       (2.6)              1       (7.1)         2      (3.8)
              MSKCC:
               Favorable                8      (21.1)              4      (28.6)        12     (23.1)
               Intermediate            14      (36.8)              4      (28.6)        18     (34.6)
               Poor                    16      (42.1)              6      (42.9)        22     (42.3)

<removed-date>
                                                 2/11
                                                          AG-013736
                 FIG. 2                                   5.0 mg (BID)
                                       Slides                 Blocks            Total
              Biomarkers               N=26                    N=26             N=52
              CD3 % Positive
              n                             26                     26               52
              Mean                       13.6                   17.95            15.78
<removed-apn>
              Std                      10.328                 13.031           11.846
              %CV                         75.9                   72.6             75.1
              25th Percentile             5.00                   7.00             7.00
              Median                    11.37                   15.21            12.66
              75th Percentile           20.50                   29.40            24.00
              (Min, Max)          (0.57, 31.1)          (0.08, 44.85)    (0.08, 44.85)
              CD3 Cell density
              n                           26                      26               52
              Mean                    489.15                  590.50           539.83
              Std                    516.170                513.747          512.448
              %CV                      105.5                    87.0             94.9
              25th Percentile          77.00                  264.00           168.00
              Median                  336.50                  414.50           399.50
              75th Percentile         801.00                  775.00           781.50
              (Min, Max)           (14,2241)                (1,2056)         (1,2241)
              CD68 % Positive
              n                             26                     26               52
              Mean                        5.83                   8.21             7.02
              Std                        6.456                  6.859            6.704
              %CV                        110.8                   83.5             95.5
              25th Percentile             1.00                   4.00             2.80
              Median                      3.94                   7.08             5.21
              75th Percentile             8.10                  10.00             9.70
              (Min, Max)          (0.2, 20.92)          (2.48, 36.89)     (0.2, 36.89)
              CD68 Cell density
              n                             26                     26               52
              Mean                        0.08                   0.13             0.11
              Std                       0.087                  0.101            0.096
              %CV                       103.3                    80.5             91.2
              25th Percentile             0.00                   0.10             0.00
              Median                      0.05                   0.10             0.08
              75th Percentile             0.10                   0.20             0.20
              (Min, Max)             (0, 0.29)           (0.03, 0.53)        (0, 0.53)

                                                                                                       <removed-apn>                                        <removed-date>
                                                                    FIG. 3
    CD68 % Positive
         1.0
         0.9                                                                                                                   Logrank p = 0.0090
         0.8
         0.7                                                                    Group:         1 _<Median                                       2 _>=Median
         0.6
         0.5
         0.4
         0.3
         0.2                                                                                                                                                         3/11
    Survival Distribution Function
         0.1
         0.0
 <Median     26                                              5                   0                         0                                              0
>=Median     26                                             12                   5                         0                                              0
                                      0                     10                   20                        30                                            40
                                                                           Time (Months)
                                     Median                  Median PFS Estimate (95% Cl)          Hazard Ratio (95% Cl)
                                          5.21    <Median         3.78 (1.68, 6.50)
                                                                                            >=Median   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>    <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2720>   :    0.42 (0.22, 0.83)
                                                 >=Median        12.02 (4.60, 15.70)

                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                                         <removed-date>
                                                                  FIG. 4
    CD68 % Positive
         1.0
         0.9                                                                                                             Logrank p = 0.0664
         0.8
         0.7                                                                  Group:        1 _<Median                                     2 _>=Median
         0.6
         0.5
         0.4
         0.3
         0.2                                                                                                                                                    4/11
    Survival Distribution Function
         0.1
         0.0
 <Median     16                                            3                    0                        0                                             0
>=Median     17                                            7                    2                        0                                             0
                                      0                    10                  20                        30                                           40
                                                                         Time (Months)
                                     Median                Median PFS Estimate (95% Cl)         Hazard Ratio (95% Cl)
                                          5.2    <Median         3.68 (1.41, 6.50)
                                                                10.12 (3.78, 15.70)       >=Median   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>    <U+271D>   <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2720>   : 0.47 (0.21, 1.07)
                                                >=Median

                                                                                                    <removed-apn>                                        <removed-date>
                                                                      FIG. 5
                 CD3 % Positive
                                     1.0
                                     0.9
                                                                                                                         Logrank p = 0.3575
                                     0.8
                                     0.7                                          Group:       1 _<Median                                    2 _>=Median
                                     0.6
                                     0.5
                                     0.4
                                     0.3
                                     0.2                                                                                                                           5/11
    Survival Distribution Function
                                     0.1
                                     0.0
 <Median                                    26                 9                    2                            0                                         0
>=Median                                    26                 8                    3                            0                                         0
                                            0                  10                   20                           30                                        40
                                                                             Time (Months)
                                           Median              Median PFS Estimate (95% Cl)         Hazard Ratio (95% Cl)
                                            12.66    <Median        6.18 (2.33, 12.06)
                                                                    6.47 (2.92, 12.02)        >=Median   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2720>   : 0.74 (0.39, 1.41)
                                                    >=Median

                                                                                                    <removed-apn>                                        <removed-date>
                                                                      FIG. 6
                 CD3 % Positive
                                     1.0
                                     0.9                                                                                 Logrank p = 0.5145
                                     0.8
                                     0.7                                          Group:       1 _<Median                                    2 _>=Median
                                     0.6
                                     0.5
                                     0.4
                                     0.3
                                     0.2                                                                                                                           6/11
    Survival Distribution Function
                                     0.1
                                     0.0
 <Median                                    16                 6                   1                     0                                              0
>=Median                                    17                 4                   1                     0                                              0
                                            0                  10                  20                    30                                            40
                                                                             Time (Months)
                                           Median              Median PFS Estimate (95% Cl)         Hazard Ratio (95% Cl)
                                            11.64    <Median        6.34 (1.45, 12.06)
                                                                    6.47 (2.83, 10.12)        >=Median   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2720>   : 0.77 (0.34, 1.71)
                                                    >=Median

                                                                                  <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                          FIG. 7
                                                Median OS (Months)
                   Median          < Median BM Value            >= Median BM Value Logrank             Hazard Ratio
Variable           BM value   N        (95% CI)            N         (95% CI)       p value            (95 % CI)
CD3 % Positive        12.66   26   20.0 (11.53, 32.36)     26   21.8 (9.33, 23.82)    0.5668   1.222   (0.615, 2.426)
CD3 Cell density     399.50   26   19.2 (10.61, 32.36)     26   22.6 (13.08, 24.41)   0.8153   0.922   (0.465, 1.826)
 <U+2701>
C 68 % Positive        5.21   26   21.8 (11.53,      .)    26   20.0 (10.61, 32.36)   0.9901   0.996    (0.497, 1.994)
     <U+2702>
CD6 Cell density       0.08   23   17.8 ( 7.03, 24.41)     29   22.6 (13.47,     .)   0.1733   0.619    (0.308, 1.243)   7/11

                                                                                        <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                            FIG. 8
                                                  Median OS (Months)
                   Median          < Median BM Value             >= Median BM Value         Logrank        Hazard Ratio
Variable           BM value   N        (95% CI)              N        (95% CI)               p-value        (95 % CI)
CD3 % Positive        11.64   16   21.4    (6.87, 32.36)    17         20.0 (5.65, 23.82)    0.6444    1.225 (0.517, 2.900)
CD3 Cell density     334.00   16   19.2   (10.61, 32.36)    17         21.8 (4.73, 24.41)    0.6802    1.198 (0.508, 2.824)
 <U+2701>
C 68 % Positive        5.20   16   18.2   (7.00,       .)   17         23.8 (5.65, 32.36)    0.6576    0.818 (0.337, 1.989)
     <U+2702>
CD6 Cell density       0.06   15   16.7    (4.27, 21.82)    18         24.1 (10.61, . )      0.0777    0.451 (0.182, 1.116)   8/11

                                                                                                             <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                          FIG. 9
  CD68 Cell De sity                         <U+2720>
                                     1.0
                                     0.9                                                                             Logrank p = 0.0777
                                     0.8
                                     0.7                                                     Group:        1 _<Median          2 _>=Median
                                     0.6
                                     0.5
                                     0.4
                                     0.3
                                     0.2                                                                                                          9/11
    Survival Distribution Function
                                     0.1
                                     0.0
 <Median                                        15                  9                    3                      0                      0
>=Median                                        18                 14                    8                      3                      0
                                                0                  10                  20                      30                      40
                                                                                 Time (Months)
                                           Median                   Median OS Estimate (95% Cl)                Hazard Ratio (95% Cl)
                                                 0.06    <Median        16.72 (4.27, 21.82)
                                                        >=Median        24.12 (10.61,     .)          >=Median vs <Median:    0.45 (0.18, 1.12)

<removed-date>
                                                        10/11
                                                                  AG-013736
              FIG. 10                                             5.0 mg (BID)
                                        CR+PR                SD+PD                     Total
              Biomarkers                N=1                  N=33           *P-Value   N=44
              CD3 % Positive
              n                         11                   33               0.1364   44
              Mean                      19.54                12.93                     14.58
<removed-apn>
              Std                       13.168               10.265                    11.274
              %CV                       67.4                 79.4                      77.3
              25th Percentile           9.20                 5.00                      6.00
              Median                    11.20                11.60                     11.40
              75th Percentile           30.20                19.20                     19.90
              (Min, Max)                (5.01,44.85)         (0.57,39.15)              (0.57, 44.85)
              CD3 Cell density
              n                         11                   33               0.174    44
              Mean                      683.18               455.39                    512.34
              Std                       635.836              479.921                   524.766
              %CV                       93.1                 105.4                     102.4
              25th Percentile           223.00               93.00                     162.00
              Median                    415.00               295.00                    356.00
              75th Percentile           936.00               643.00                    715.50
              (Min, Max)                (159,2241)           (14,2056)                 (14,2241)
              CD68 % Positive
              n                         11                   33               0.0059   44
              Mean                      10.21                4.58                      5.98
              Std                       6.206                4.235                     5.328
              %CV                       60.8                 92.6                      89.0
              25th Percentile           4.40                 1. 30                     2.10
              Median                    10.02                3.73                      4.34
              75th Percentile           15.50                6.50                      8.30
              (Min, Max)                (1.18, 20.66)        (0.2, 20.92)              (0.2, 20.92)
              CD68 Cell density
              n                         11                   33               0.0071   44
              Mean                      0.15                 0.07                      0.09
              Std                       0.085                0.055                     0.072
              %CV                       58.3                 82.0                      82.4
              25th Percentile           0.10                 0.00                      0.00
              Median                    0.16                 0.05                      0.08
              75th Percentile           0.20                 0.10                      0.10
              (Min, Max)                (0.02, 0.29)         (0, 0.22)                 (0, 0.29)
              *Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test P-value is two-sided t-approximation.

<removed-date>
                                                       11/11
                                                                 AG-013736
              FIG. 11                                            5.0 mg (BID)
                                       CR+PR                SD+PD                      Total
              Biomarkers               N=05                 N=22       *P-Value        N=27
              CD3 % Positive
              n                        5                    22            0.1912       27
              Mean                     17.83                11.88                      12.98
<removed-apn>
              Std                      10.975               9.995                      10.235
              %CV                      61.6                 84.1                       78.8
              25th Percentile          9.20                 4.50                       5.00
              Median                   11.20                8.25                       9.16
              75th Percentile          29.40                18.60                      19.40
              (Min, Max)               (9.15, 30.21)        (0.57, 39.15)              (0.57, 39.15)
              CD3 Cell density
              n                        5                    22                0.4071   27
              Mean                     744.20               410.23                     472.07
              Std                      862.342              422.772                    525.592
              %CV                      115.9                103.1                      111.3
              25th Percentile          223.00               93.00                      111.00
              Median                   401.00               267.50                     271.00
              75th Percentile          697.00               643.00                     697.00
              (Min, Max)               (159,2241)           (14,1744)                  (14,2241)
              CD68 % Positive
              n                        5                    22                0.0407   27
              Mean                     10.15                3.52                       4.74
              Std                      7.429                2.611                      4.570
              %CV                      73.2                 74.3                       96.4
              25th Percentile          5.40                 0.90                       1.00
              Median                   10.81                3.47                       3.92
              75th Percentile          12.70                5.20                       6.50
              (Min, Max)               (1.18, 20.66)        (0.2, 8.71)                (0.2, 20.66)
              CD68 Cell density
              n                        5                    22                0.0762   27
              Mean                     0.14                 0.06                       0.07
              Std                      0.102                0.045                      0.066
              %CV                      74.0                 80.8                       92.6
              25th Percentile          0.10                 0.00                       0.00
              Median                   0.16                 0.05                       0.05
              75th Percentile          0.20                 0.10                       0.10
              (Min, Max)               (0.02, 0.28)         (0, 0.16)                  (0, 0.28)
              *Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test P-value is two-sided t-approximation.

