I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\ 5859428_ldocx-l8 10/2017
ABSTRACT
Disclosed are methods of making collagen 7, or functional fragments thereof, as well as
collagen 7, and functional fragments thereof produced by such methods, nucleic acids
encoding collagen 7, and functional fragments thereof, as well as vectors and host cells
comprising such nucleic acids.

                           COLLAGEN 7 AND RELATED METHODS
         This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2012289916, the entire
  contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
          The invention relates to collagen 7, collagen 7 related nucleic acids and cells, and related
methods.
                                              Background
          Collagens are a family of proteins that strengthen and support connective tissues, such as
the skin, tendons, ligaments, and bones. Collagen 7, as the major component of anchoring
fibrils, functions in strengthening and stabilizing various tissues, including the skin (Ricard
Blum, Cold Spring Harb PerspectBiol 3(1):a004978 (2011)).
          Collagen 7 is synthesized as three pro-al(VII) polypeptide chains, which are
subsequently processed and folded into a triple helical procollagen 7 protein in the endoplasmic
reticulum. Procollagen 7 is secreted into the extracellular space, where it is further processed
into mature collagen 7 (Chung et al. Dermatol Clin 28(1): 93-105 (2010)). Mature collagen 7
undergoes a multistep polymerization process to form the structural anchoring fibrils (Fritsch et
al. JBiol Chem 284(44): 30248-30256 (2009)). In the skin, these anchoring fibrils are found in
the epidermal basement membrane zone, which is the two-layer membrane located between the
top layer of skin, the epidermis, and the underlying dermis. Here the anchoring fibrils connect
the epidermal basement membrane to the papillary dermis. This connection aids in holding the
epidermal and dermal layers of the skin together, providing structure and stability to the skin
(Villone et al. JBiol Chem 283(36): 24506-24513 (2008)).
                                       Summary of the Invention
           In one aspect, the disclosure features, a method of making collagen 7, or a functional
fragment thereof. The method comprises:
           providing a cell, e.g., a mammalian cell, e.g., a CHO or HEK cell, genetically modified
to express collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof, and, optionally, one or more
polypeptides, e.g., one or more polypeptides that increase collagen 7 production in the cell (e.g.,
prolidase and/or prolyl hydroxylase); and
                                                    -1-

      WO 2013/020064                                                           PCT/US2012/049553
          culturing the cell under conditions sufficient for the production of collagen 7, or
functional fragment thereof, thereby making collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof.
         In one embodiment, the collagen 7 is human collagen 7. In an embodiment, the collagen
7 is encoded by a high glycine codon optimized sequence, e.g., a high glycine codon optimized
sequence described herein. In one embodiment, the collagen 7 has the amino acid sequence of
SEQ ID NO 2. In one embodiment, the amino acid sequence of the collagen 7 is at least 80, 90,
95, or 99% identical to SEQ ID NO 2. In one embodiment, the amino acid sequence of collagen
7 differs from SEQ ID NO 2 by no more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15 or 20 amino acid
residues.
         In an embodiment, the cell is genetically modified to express prolidase, or a functional
fragment thereof, and, e.g., the prolidase can be a mammalian, e.g., a human prolidase, or a
rodent, e.g., mouse, rat or hamster prolidase. In an embodiment the prolidase is: human
prolidase, e.g., human prolidase having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4; prolidase
having an amino acid sequence at least 80, 90, 95, or 99% identical with SEQ ID NO 4;
prolidase having an amino acid sequence that differs from SEQ ID NO 4 by no more than 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15 or 20 residues.
         In an embodiment, the cell is genetically modified to express prolyl hydroxylase, or a
functional fragment thereof, and, e.g., the prolyl hydroxylase can be a mammalian, e.g., a human
prolyl hydroxylase, or a rodent, e.g., mouse, rat or hamster prolyl hydroxylase. In an
embodiment the prolyl hydroxylase is: human prolyl hydroxylase, e.g., human prolyl
hydroxylase having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO X; prolyl hydroxylase having an
amino acid sequence at least 80, 90, 95, or 99% identical with SEQ ID NO X; prolyl hydroxylase
having an amino acid sequence that differs from SEQ ID NO X by no more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 15 or 20 residues.
         In an embodiment, the cell is genetically modified to express a glycosyl transferase, or
functional fragment thereof, e.g., a sialyltransferase, or functional fragment thereof. The
glycosyl transferase can be a mammalian, e.g., a human glycosyl transferase, e.g.,
sialyltransferase, or a rodent, e.g., mouse, rat or hamster gylcosyl transferase.
         In an embodiment, the glycosyl transferase is a sialyltransferase, e.g., a sialyltransferase
having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 5; a sialyltransferase having an amino acid
sequence at least 80, 90, 95, or 99% identical to SEQ ID NO 5; a sialyltransferase having an
                                                   -2-

     WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
amino acid sequence that differs from SEQ ID NO 5 at no more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
15 or 20 residues.
         In an embodiment, the genetically modified cell comprises a nucleic acid that encodes
collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof, e.g., a high glycine codon optimized nucleic acid
sequence, e.g., a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid
sequence is at least 80, 90, 95, or 99% identical to SEQ ID NO 1; the nucleic acid sequence
differs from SEQ ID NO 1 at no more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15 or 20 nucleotides.  In
an embodiment, at least 80, 90, 95, or 99% of the codons have the codon value of SEQ ID NO 1.
         In an embodiment the genetically modified cell comprises a nucleic acid that encodes a
prolidase, or functional fragment thereof.
         In an embodiment the genetically modified cell comprises a nucleic acid that encodes a
prolyl hydroxylase, or functional fragment thereof.
         In an embodiment the genetically modified cell comprises a nucleic acid that encodes a
glycosyl transferase, or functional fragment thereof.
         In an embodiment, the cell comprises an expression vector that comprises a nucleic acid
sequence that encodes collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof. In an embodiment said
expression vector further comprises a nucleic acid sequence that encodes prolidase, or a
functional fragment thereof. In an embodiment said expression vector further comprises a
nucleic acid sequence that encodes prolyl hydroxylase, or a functional fragment thereof. In an
embodiment, said expression vector further comprises a nucleic acid sequence that encodes
glycosyl transferase, or a functional fragment thereof. In an embodiment, said expression vector
further comprises a nucleic acid sequence that encodes prolidase, or a functional fragment
thereof, and a nucleic acid sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase, or a functional fragment
thereof. In an embodiment, said expression vector further comprises a nucleic acid sequence that
encodes prolyl hydroxylase, or a functional fragment thereof, and a nucleic acid sequence that
encodes glycosyl transferase, or a functional fragment thereof.
         In an embodiment, the cell comprises a second expression vector that comprises a nucleic
acid sequence that encodes prolidase, or a functional fragment thereof.
         In an embodiment, the cell comprises a second expression vector that comprises a nucleic
acid sequence that encodes prolyl hydroxylase, or a functional fragment thereof.
                                                 -3-

     WO 2013/020064                                                            PCT/US2012/049553
        In an embodiment, the cell comprises a third expression vector that comprises a nucleic
acid sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase, or a functional fragment thereof.
        In an embodiment, the cell comprises a second expression vector that comprises a nucleic
acid sequence that encodes prolidase, or a functional fragment thereof, and a third expression
vector that comprises a nucleic acid sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase, or a functional
fragment thereof.
        In an embodiment, the cell comprises a second expression vector that comprises a nucleic
acid sequence that encodes prolyl hydroxylase, or a functional fragment thereof, and a third
expression vector that comprises a nucleic acid sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase, or a
functional fragment thereof.
        In an embodiment, the cell is a mammalian cell, e.g., a human, or rodent, e.g., a rat,
mouse or Chinese hamster cell.
        In an embodiment, the cell is a CHO cell.
        In an embodiment, the cell is a HEK293 cell.
        In an embodiment, the method further comprising recovering collagen 7, or the functional
        fragment thereof, from said cultured cell.
        In an embodiment, the collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is recovered from
culture medium.
        In an embodiment, the method further comprises purifying collagen 7, or functional
fragment thereof, from said cultured cell.
        In an embodiment, the method further comprising purifying collagen 7, or functional
fragment thereof, from culture medium.
        In an embodiment, at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95 % of said collagen 7, or
functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into homotrimers.
        In an embodiment, at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95 % of said collagen 7, or
functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into hexamers.
        In another aspect, the disclosure features, a vector described herein.
        In another aspect, the disclosure features, a cell, or isolated preparation of cells, described
herein.
                                                  -4-

      WO 2013/020064                                                           PCT/US2012/049553
        In another aspect, the disclosure features, a high glycine optimized sequence encoding
collagen 7 described herein.
        In another aspect, the disclosure features an isolated preparation of cells described herein
which can further comprise any of culture medium, and collagen 7, or functional fragment
thereof, produce by said cell.
        In another aspect, the disclosure features, a method of making a cell suitable for
expressing collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, comprising:
        recombinantly manipulating a cell, e.g., a mammalian cell, e.g., a mammalian cell
described herein, to express recombinant collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof; and
        optionally, recombinantly manipulating said cell to express one or more polypeptides,
e.g., one or more polypeptides that increase collagen 7 production in the cell (e.g., prolidase
and/or prolyl hydroxylase);
        thereby making a cell suitable for expressing recombinant collagen 7.
        In one embodiment, the method comprises recombinantly manipulating a cell to express a
collagen 7 encoded by a high glycine codon optimized nucleic acid sequence, e.g., a high glycine
codon optimized nucleic acid sequence described herein.
        In an embodiment of the method, the cell is recombinantly manipulated to express
collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof, and the cell is recombinantly manipulated to express
one or more polypeptides, e.g., that increase the expression of collagen 7 in the cell. In one
embodiment, the cell is recombinantly manipulated to express collagen 7, or a functional
fragment thereof before said cell is recombinantly manipulated to express one or more
polypeptides, e.g., that increase the expression of collagen 7 in the cell, e.g., one or more of
prolidase, prolyl hydroxylase, glycosyl transferase, and functional fragments thereof.
        In one embodiment, the cell is recombinantly manipulated to express collagen 7, or a
functional fragment thereof after said cell is recombinantly manipulated to express one or more
polypeptides, e.g., that increase the expression of collagen 7 in the cell, e.g., one or more of
prolidase, prolyl hydroxylase, glycosyl transferase, and functional fragments thereof.
                                                  -5-

      WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
        In an embodiment of the method, the cell is recombinantly manipulated to express
collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof, at the same time said cell is recombinantly
manipulated to express one or more polypeptides, e.g., that increase the expression of collagen 7
in the cell, e.g., one or more of prolidase, prolyl hydroxylase, glycosyl transferase, and functional
fragments thereof.
        In another aspect, the invention features, collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof,
made by a method described herein.
        In another aspect, the invention features, a purified or isolated preparation of collagen 7,
or functional fragment thereof, made by a method described herein.
        In another aspect, the invention features, a purified or isolated preparation of collagen 7,
or functional fragment thereof, wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95 % of said
collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into homotrimers.
        In another aspect, the invention features, a purified or isolated preparation of collagen 7,
or a functional fragment thereof, wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95 % of said
collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into hexamers.
        In another aspect, the invention features, a method of purifying collagen 7, or a functional
fragment thereof, comprising:
        providing conditioned cell medium, e.g., from culture of a cell described herein;
        subjecting the collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, from said medium to an anion
exchange chromatography, e.g., with      Q sepharose;
thereby purifying collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof.
        In an embodiment, the method comprises:
        providing conditioned cell medium, e.g., from culture of a cell described herein;
        optionally, precipitating protein, e.g., with ammonium sulfate, to form precipitated
protein;
        solubilizing the precipitated protein to form solubilized protein;
                                                   -6-

     WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
        dialyzing the solubilized protein to form dialysate;
        sedmenting the dialyzed sample to form a supernatant; and
        subjecting the supernatant to an anion exchange chromatography, e.g., with   Q sepharose;
thereby purifying collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof.
        The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the description
below. Other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
description and the drawings, and from the claims.
                                       Detailed Description
Definitions
        "Recombinantly manipulated to express" or "genetically manipulated to express", as used
herein, refers to a cell which has been modified so as to express a protein. Exemplary
modifications include, the introduction of a nucleic acid which encodes the protein, or the
placement of an endogenous sequence encoding the protein under control of a sequence other
than the native endogenous sequence, e.g., by introduction of a sequence that activates an
endogenous gene.
        Isolated nucleic acid molecules, as used herein, means the nucleic acids have been
separated from the nucleic acids of the genomic DNA or cellular RNA of their source origin.
This includes nucleic acid molecules obtained by suitable methods, including, but not limited to,
chemical methods, combinations of chemical and biological methods, and isolated recombinant
nucleic acid molecules.
        Recombinant, as used herein, in reference to a nucleic acid molecule, pertains to nucleic
acid molecules which have been engineered using molecular biological techniques.
Recombinant, as used herein, in reference to a protein or polypeptide molecule, pertains to a
protein or polypeptide molecule expressed utilizing isolated nucleic acid molecules or
recombinant nucleic acid molecules.
        High glycine optimized or high glycine codon optimized, as used herein, refers to a
nucleic acid sequence that encodes collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof. The sequence
                                                 -7-

      WO 2013/020064                                                            PCT/US2012/049553
includes at least one glycine codon that is other than the most common glycine codon, which is
referred to herein as a less common codon. In an embodiment, the less common glycine codon is
other than the most common glycine codon for the cell in which the sequence will be expressed.
By way of example, if the sequence is to be expressed in CHO cells, the less common glycine
codon is other than the most common glycine codon in CHO cells. In an embodiment, the less
common glycine codon is a less common glycine codon for a cell referred to herein, e.g., a CHO
or HEK cell. In embodiments, the sequence includes at least one, and in embodiments, at least
10, 20 or 30, less common glycine codons that is not present in the native human sequence for
collagen 7. In an embodiment at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100% of the glycine
codons are less common glycine codons.
Collagen 7
        As a major component of anchoring fibrils, collagen 7 functions in maintaining tissue
integrity. Anchoring fibrils are structural elements that serve as attachment complexes at the
interface between the epithelial and mesenchymal layers of several tissues, including the skin,
oral mucosa, and cervix (Chung et al. Dermatol Clin 28(1): 93-105 (2010)). In the skin,
anchoring fibrils extend from the lower portion of the epidermal basement membrane to the
underlying papillary dermis, securing the association between the epidermal basement membrane
and the papillary dermis (Varki et al. JMed Genet 44:181-192 (2007)). This association aids to
provide and maintain cohesion between the epidermis and dermis, contributing to the integrity to
the skin, which is critical for its proper structure, function, and homeostasis (Villone et al. J Biol
Chem 283(36): 24506-24513 (2008)).
        Nucleic acids that encode collagen 7 can be used in the methods described herein. High
glycine codon optimized sequences are particularly suitable. An exemplary high glycine codon
optimized nucleotide sequence for human collagen 7 is as follows:
        aagcttcgaagtttaaactgagtgccgccaccatgaccctgcggctgctggtggctgccctgtgtgctggcatcctggccgagg
        ctcctagagtgcgggcccagcaccgcgagagagtgacctgcaccagactgtacgccgccgatatcgtgttcctgctggacggc
        tcctcctccatcggccggtccaacttccgggaagtgcggtccttcctggaaggcctggtgctgcctttctccggcgctgcctctgc
        ccagggcgtcagattcgccaccgtgcagtactccgacgacccccggaccgagttcggcctggatgctctgggctctggcggcg
        acgtgatccgggccatcagagagctgtcctacaagggcggcaacacccggacaggcgccgctatcctgcacgtggccgacc
                                                    -8-

WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
 atgtgtttctgccccagctggccagacccggcgtgcccaaagtgtgcatcctgatcaccgacggcaagtcccaggacctggtg
 gacaccgccgctcagagactgaagggccagggcgtgaagctgttcgccgtgggcatcaagaacgccgaccccgaggaactg
 aagcgggtggcctcccagcctacctccgatttcttcttcttcgtgaacgacttctccatcctgcggaccctgctgcccctggtgtc
 tcggagagtgtgtaccaccgctggcggcgtgccagtgacccggcctcctgacgattctacctccgcccctcgggatctggtgct
 gtccgagccttccagccagtccctgagagtgcagtggaccgccgcctctggccccgtgaccggctacaaggtgcagtacaccc
 ctctgaccggcctgggccagcctctgccttctgagcggcaagaagtgaacgtcccagccggcgagacatccgtgcggctgag
 aggcctgaggcccctgaccgagtaccaagtgaccgtgatcgccctgtacgccaacagcatcggcgaggccgtgtccggcacc
 gccagaaccacagccctggaaggacccgagctgaccatccagaacaccaccgcccactccctgctggtcgcttggagatctg
 tgcctggcgccaccggctatcgcgtgacctggcgagttctgtctggcggccctacccagcagcaagagctgggccctggacag
 ggctctgtgctgctgagggacctggaacccggcaccgactacgaagtgacagtgtccaccctgttcggcagatccgtgggccc
 tgccacctctctgatggccagaaccgacgcctccgtggaacagaccctgaggcctgtgatcctgggccccaccagcatcctgc
 tgagctggaacctggtgcccgaggccagaggctaccggctggaatggcggagagagacaggcctggaacctccccagaag
 gtggtcctgccctccgacgtgaccagataccagctggatggcctgcagcctggcaccgagtacagactgaccctgtacaccct
 gctcgagggccacgaggtggccacccctgctacagtggtgcctaccggccctgagctgcccgtgtcccctgtgaccgatctgc
 aggccaccgagctgcctggccagcgcgtcagagtgtcttggtccccagtgccaggcgctacccagtaccggatcatcgtgcgg
 tccacacagggcgtggaaagaaccctggtgctccccggctcccagaccgccttcgacctggatgatgtgcaggccggcctga
 gctacaccgtgcgggtgtccgctagagtgggccctagagaaggctccgccagcgtgctgaccgtgcgcagagagcctgaaac
 ccctctggccgtgcccggactgcgggtggtggtgtctgatgccaccagagtcagagtggcctggggccctgtgccaggggcct
 ccggcttcagaatctcctggtccaccggctctggccctgagtcctctcagaccctgccccctgactccaccgccaccgatatcac
 cggactgcagcccggaaccacctaccaggtggccgtgtctgtgctgaggggcagagaagagggcccagccgccgtgatcgt
 ggccaggacagatcctctgggcccagtgcggaccgtgcacgtgacccaggccagctccagctccgtgaccatcacctggacc
 agagtccctggcgctacaggctacagagtgtcctggcactctgcccacggccccgagaagtcccagctggtgtctggcgaggc
 caccgtggctgaactggacggcctcgagcccgacacagagtacacagtgcacgtgcgcgcccatgtggctggcgtggacgga
 cctcctgcttccgtggtcgtgcgcaccgctcctgagcccgtgggaagagtgtcccggctgcagatcctgaacgcctccagcgac
 gtgctgcggatcacctgggtcggagtgaccggcgctaccgcttacagactggcttggggcagatctgagggcggacccatgc
 ggcatcagatcctgcctggcaacaccgactccgccgagatcagaggactggaaggcggcgtgtcctactctgtgcgcgtgac
 cgccctcgtgggcgacagagaaggcacccccgtgtccatcgtggtcaccacccctccagaggcccctccagctctgggcaccc
 tgcatgtggtgcagcggggcgagcactccctgagactgagatgggagcctgtgcctcgggcccagggcttcctgctgcattgg
 cagcctgaaggcggccaagagcagtctagggtgctgggccccgagctgtccagctaccacctggacggactggaaccagcc
 acccagtacagagtgcggctgtccgtgctgggacctgccggcgagggaccttctgccgaagtgaccgccaggaccgagtccc
 ctcgggtgccctccatcgagctgagagtggtggataccagcatcgacagcgtgaccctggcctggacccctgtgtcccgggcc
 tcttcctacatcctgtcttggaggcctctgaggggcccaggccaagaggtgccaggctcccctcagacactgccaggcatcag
                                            -9-

WO 2013/020064                                                         PCT/US2012/049553
 ctcctcccagcgcgtgacaggactcgagcctggggtgtcctacatcttctccctgacccccgtcctggacggcgtgcgcggacc
 tgaggcttctgtgacccagaccccagtgtgccccagaggcctggccgacgtggtctttctgcctcacgccacccaggacaacg
 cccacagagccgaggctaccagacgggtgctcgagagactggtgctggccctgggaccactgggcccacaggctgtgcaagt
 gggcctgctgtcttactcccaccggccctcccccctgttccccctgaacggctctcacgacctgggcatcatcctgcagcggatc
 cgggacatgccctacatggacccctccggcaacaacctgggcaccgccgtggtcacagcccaccggtacatgctggcccccg
 atgctcctggcagacggcagcatgtccccggcgtgatggtgctgctcgtggacgagcccctgcggggcgacatcttcagccct
 atcagagaggcccaggctagcggcctgaacgtggtcatgctgggcatggctggcgccgaccctgagcagctgagaaggctg
 gcccctggcatggactccgtgcagaccttctttgccgtggacgacggccccagcctggatcaggctgtgtctggcctggctacc
 gccctgtgtcaggcctccttcaccacccagcccagacccgagccttgccccgtgtactgccctaagggccagaagggcgagcc
 cggcgagatgggcctgagaggacaagtgggacctccaggcgatcccggcctgcctggaagaacaggcgctcctggacctca
 gggccctcctggctctgctaccgctaagggcgagagaggcttcccaggcgccgacggcagacctggctctccaggcagagcc
 ggcaatcctggaacacctggcgccccaggcctgaagggatctcctggcttgcctggccctaggggcgaccctggcgaaagag
 gacctagaggccctaaaggcgagccaggcgcccctggccaagtgatcggcggagaaggacctggactgcccggcagaaag
 ggcgatcctggcccttctggcccacccggcccaagaggtcctctgggagatcctggaccaaggggcccaccaggcctgcccg
 gaacagctatgaagggcgataagggcgacaggggcgagcggggaccaccaggaccaggcgaaggtggaatcgctcccgg
 cgaacctgggctgccaggactgcctggatctcccggaccacagggacctgtgggcccacctggcaagaagggggagaaagg
 cgactccgaggacggggctccaggattgcccggccaaccaggctctcctggcgaacagggtcccagaggacctcccggcgct
 atcggcccaaagggggacagaggattccctggcccactgggcgaggctggcgaaaaaggcgaacgcggaccccctggccct
 gccggcagtagaggacttcctggcgttgccggcagaccaggcgccaagggacctgaaggccctccaggccctaccggaagg
 cagggcgaaaagggggaacctggcaggccaggcgacccagctgttgtgggaccagccgtggctggacccaaaggcgagaa
 aggggatgtgggacccgctgggcctagaggcgctactggcgttcagggggaaagaggcccccctggactcgtgctgcctggg
 gatccaggtcctaagggggatcccggcgatagaggcccaatcggcctgaccggcagagctggtccccctggcgattccggtc
 ctcccggggaaaaaggggaccccggtagaccaggtcccccaggccctgttggccctcgcggaagagatggcgaagtgggag
 aaaagggcgacgaaggacccccaggggacccaggacttccaggcaaggctggggagagaggactgaggggcgctccagg
 tgtcagaggccctgtcggcgagaagggggatcagggcgatccaggcgaggacggcagaaacggctcccctggctctagtgg
 tccaaaaggcgaccggggagagcctgggcctcctgggccaccaggcagactggtcgataccggacctggggccagagaga
 agggcgaaccaggggataggggccaagaaggcccacgaggaccaaagggcgacccaggattgcctggcgctcctggcgag
 aggggcatcgagggctttagaggtccacccggtccccaaggcgaccccggcgttaggggacctgctggggagaagggcgac
 agaggcccacccggactggacggcagatctggcctggatggcaagcctggcgccgctggcccatctggacctaacggcgctg
 ctggcaaagccggggaccctggacgagatggactgccagggctgcggggagaacagggccttccaggaccttcaggaccac
 ctggcctccctggcaagcccggggaggatggaaagcccggcctgaatggaaaaaacggggaacccggggatcctggggag
 gacggacgcaagggggaaaagggcgattccggcgcctctggcagagagggcagggacggaccaaaaggggagcgcgga
                                           -10-

WO 2013/020064                                                        PCT/US2012/049553
 gcacccggcattctgggtcctcaggggccacctggattgccaggtccagttggtcctcctggccaggggtttcccggcgtccca
 ggcggtacagggcctaaaggggatagaggcgagacaggcagcaaaggggaacaggggctcccaggcgaaaggggcttga
 gaggcgagcctggctccgtgcctaacgtggacagactgctggaaaccgccggcatcaaggcctccgccctgcgcgagatcgt
 ggaaacctgggacgagtcctccggctccttcctgcccgtgcctgagcgcagaaggggcccgaaaggggactctggcgagcaa
 ggaccacccggcaaagagggacccatcggcttccctggggagcgggggttgaaaggcgataggggagatccaggcccaca
 agggcctccagggctggcacttggagagcgtggtcctccaggaccaagcggactggcaggggagcccggaaagcctggaat
 ccccgggttgcctggtagagccggcggagtgggcgaagcaggcaggcctggggaacgcggagagagaggcgaaaagggc
 gaaagaggggagcagggccgcgacggtccccccggactacctggaactccagggcccccaggaccccccggacctaaggt
 gtccgtggatgagcctggccccggactgagcggagaacaaggtccacctggcttgaagggtgccaagggggagccaggctc
 taacggcgatcaagggcccaagggggatcggggagtgcctggcatcaaaggggaccggggcgaacccggtcctagagggc
 aagacggaaaccccggcttgccgggcgaacggggaatggctggtcccgagggaaagccaggcttgcagggacctaggggg
 cctcccggtcctgtgggtggacatggcgatccgggtccaccaggtgctccaggactcgctggtccagcaggccctcagggacc
 atccggcctgaaaggggaaccaggcgaaactggccccccaggcagaggcctgacaggccctactggtgctgtgggcctccct
 ggacctcctggccctagtggactcgtgggccctcagggctctcccggactgccaggccaagtgggcgagactggaaaacccg
 gggctcccggcagggatggcgcttctggaaaagacggcgataggggcagccctggcgtgcccggtagtccagggctacctgg
 ccctgtgggtcccaaaggggagcctggacctacaggcgcaccaggccaggctgtagtggggctgcctggcgctaaaggcga
 gaagggtgctcctggcggcctggctggcgatctcgttggagaacctggcgccaagggcgaccgtggcttgccaggacctcgc
 ggcgagaaaggcgaagctggcagagctggcgagcctggggacccaggcgaagatggccagaaaggcgctcccggccctaa
 gggattcaagggcgatccgggcgtgggcgtgccaggctctccaggtcctcctggaccacccggtgtcaagggcgatttgggcc
 ttcctggcctgccaggggcacctggcgtcgtgggctttcctggacagaccggcccacggggagagatgggacagccaggccc
 cagcggagaaagagggctggctggcccgcctggcagggaaggcataccaggcccattggggcctccaggcccacctggatc
 tgtggggcctcctggcgcctctggactgaaaggcgacaaaggcgatcctggtgtcggcctgccaggcccaagaggcgagagg
 ggagagcccggcatcaggggcgaagatggacggcctggccaagagggccctcggggattgaccggccctcctggatccaga
 ggcgaacggggggagaagggggacgtgggctctgctggcctcaaaggcgacaagggggactccgccgtgattctgggccct
 cccggacctcggggagctaagggggacatgggagagaggggtccacggggactggatggggacaagggaccacgcggag
 acaacggcgacccgggggataagggctccaagggcgaacctggcgataagggatccgctggactgcctggcctgaggggcc
 tgctgggacctcaaggacaaccaggcgccgcaggcatccctggcgaccctggatctcctggaaaggacggcgtgcccggcat
 ccgcggagaaaagggggatgtcggcttcatgggccccagggggctgaagggggaaaggggagtgaagggcgcttgcggcc
 tcgatggggaaaagggggacaagggggaggctggccctccaggacgacctggactggctggccacaagggcgaaatggga
 gagccaggcgtgcccggacagtccggcgctccaggcaaagagggcctgatcggccccaaaggcgatagaggatttgacggc
 cagcctggcccaaagggcgatcaaggcgaaaaaggggagagaggcacccccggcatcggcggctttccaggcccctctgga
 aacgatggctctgccggcccacctgggccacctggtagtgtgggaccaagaggccccgagggactgcagggacagaaaggc
                                            -11-

    WO 2013/020064                                                              PCT/US2012/049553
      gagagagggccccctggcgagagagttgtgggagcacctggcgttcccggcgcacccggcgaaaggggagaacaaggcag
      acctggaccagccggaccccgtggggaaaaaggcgaggccgccctgaccgaggacgacatcagaggcttcgtgcggcaag
      agatgtcccagcactgcgcctgtcagggccagtttatcgcctccggcagcagacccctgccttcctacgctgccgataccgccg
      gctctcagctgcacgctgtgcctgtgctccgggtgtcccacgccgaggaagaggaaagagtccctcctgaggacgacgagta
      cagcgagtactctgagtattccgtggaagagtaccaggatcccgaggccccttgggacagcgacgacccttgctccctgcctc
      tggatgagggctcctgcaccgcctacaccctgagatggtatcaccgggccgtgacaggctccaccgaggcctgtcaccctttc
      gtgtatggcggctgcggcggcaacgccaatagattcggcacccgcgaggcctgcgagcggagatgtcctcccagagtggtgc
      agtcccagggcaccggcacagcccaggactgatagtctagagtggccggcc
       (SEQ ID NO:1)
An amino acid sequence for human collagen 7 is as follows:
      mtlrllvaalcagilaeaprvraqhrervtctrlyaadivflldgsssigrsnfrevrsfleglvlpfsgaasaqgvrfatvqysddp
      rtefgldalgsggdvirairelsykggntrtgaailhvadhvflpqlarpgvpkvcilitdgksqdlvdtaaqrlkgqgvklfavgi
      knadpeelkrvasqptsdffffvndfsil rtl Iplvsrrvcttaggvpvtrppddstsaprdlvlsepssqslrvqwtaasgpvtg
      ykvqytpltglgqplpserqevnvpagetsvrrglrplteyqvtvialyansigeavsgtarttalegpeltiqnttahsllvaw
      rsvpgatgyrvtwrvlsggptqqqelgpgqgsvllrdlepgtdyevtvstlfgrsvgpatslmartdasveqtlrpvilgptsill
      swnlvpeargyrlewrretgleppqkvvlpsdvtryqldglqpgteyrltlytlleghevatpatvvptgpelpvspvtdlqat
      elpgqrvrvswspvpgatqyriivrstqgvertlvlpgsqtafdlddvqaglsytvrvsarvgpregsasvltvrrepetplavp
      glrvvvsdatrvrvawgpvpgasgfriswstgsgpessqtlppdstatditglqpgttyqvavsvlrgreegpaavivartdp
      gpvrtvhvtqassssvtitwtrvpgatgyrvswhsahgpeksqlvsgeatvaeldglepdteytvhvrahvagvdgppasv
      vvrtapepvgrvsrlqilnassdvlritwvgvtgatayrlawgrseggpmrhqilpgntdsaeirgleggvsysvrvtalvgdr
      egtpvsivvttppeappalgtlhvvqrgehslrlrwepvpraqgfllhwqpeggqeqsrvlgpelssyhldglepatqyrvrl
      svlgpagegpsaevtartesprvpsielrvvdtsidsvtlawtpvsrassyilswrplrgpgqevpgspqtlpgisssqrvtgle
      pgvsyifsltpvldgvrgpeasvtqtpvcprgladvvflphatqdnahraeatrrvlerlvlalgplgpqavqvgllsyshrpsp
      Ifplngshdlgiilqrirdmpymdpsgnnlgtavvtahrymlapdapgrrqhvpgvmvllvdeprgdifspireaqasgln
      vvmlgmagadpeqlrrlapgmdsvqtffavddgpsldqavsglatalcqasfttqprpepcpvycpkgqkgepgemglr
      gqvgppgdpglpgrtgapgpqgppgsatakgergfpgadgrpgspgragnpgtpgapglkgspglpgprgdpgergpr
      gpkgepgapgqviggegpglpgrkgdpgpsgppgprgplgdpgprgppglpgtamkgdkgdrgergppgpgeggiap
      gepglpglpgspgpqgpvgppgkkgekgdsedgapglpgqpgspgeqgprgppgaigpkgdrgfpgplgeagekger
      gppgpagsrglpgvagrpgakgpegppgptgrqgekgepgrpgdpavvgpavagpkgekgdvgpagprgatgvqge
      rgppglvlpgdpgpkgdpgdrgpigltgragppgdsgppgekgdpgrpgppgpvgprgrdgevgekgdegppgdpg|
      pgkagerglrgapgvrgpvgekgdqgdpgedgrngspgssgpkgdrgepgppgppgrlvdtgpgarekgepgdrgqe
                                                    -12-

     WO 2013/020064                                                           PCT/US2012/049553
         gprgpkgdpglpgapgergiegfrgppgpqgdpgvrgpagekgdrgppgldgrsgldgkpgaagpsgpngaagkagd
         pgrdglpglrgeqgl pgpsgppglpgkpgedgkpglngkngepgdpgedgrkgekgdsgasgregrdgpkgergapgil
         gpqgppglpgpvgppgqgfpgvpggtgpkgdrgetgskgeqgl pgerglrgepgsvpnvdrlletagikasalreivetw
         dessgsfl pvperrrgpkgdsgeqgppgkegpigfpgerglkgdrgdpgpqgppglalgergppgpsglagepgkpgipg
         Ipgraggvgeagrpgergergekgergeqgrdgppglpgtpgppgppgpkvsvdepgpglsgeqgppglkgakgepgs
         ngdqgpkgdrgvpgikgdrgepgprgqdgnpgpgergmagpegkpglqgprgppgpvgghgdpgppga pglagp
         agpqgpsglkgepgetgppgrgltgptgavglpgppgpsglvgpqgspglpgqvgetgkpgapgrdgasgkdgdrgspg
         vpgspglpgpvgpkgepgptgapgqavvglpgakgekgapgglagdlvgepgakgdrglpgprgekgeagragepgd
         pgedgqkgapgpkgfkgdpgvgvpgspgppgppgvkgdlgl pglpgapgvvgfpgqtgprgemgqpgpsgerglagp
         pgregipgplgppgppgsvgppgasglkgdkgdpgvglpgprgergepgirgedgrpgqegprgltgppgsrgergekg
         dvgsaglkgdkgdsavilgppgprgakgdmgergprgldgdkgprgdngdpgdkgskgepgdkgsaglpglrgllgpqg
         qpgaagipgdpgspgkdgvpgirgekgdvgfmgprglkgergvkgacgldgekgdkgeagppgrpglaghkgemgep
         gvpgqsgapgkegligpkgdrgfdgqpgpkgdqgekgergtpgiggfpgpsgndgsagppgppgsvgprgpeglqgqk
         gergppgervvgapgvpgapgergeqgrpgpagprgekgeaalteddirgfvrqemsqhcacqgqfiasgsrplpsyaa
         dtagsqlhavpvl rvshaeeeervppeddeyseyseysveeyqdpeapwdsddpcslpIdegsctaytl rwyhravtgs
         teachpfvyggcggnanrfgtreacerrcpprvvqsqgtgtaqd
         (SEQ ID NO:2)
Prolidase
         Prolidase is a cytosolic imidodipeptidase, which specifically splits imidodipeptides with
C-terminal proline or hydroxyproline residues. The enzyme plays an important role in the
recycling of proline from imidodipeptides, mostly derived from degradation products of
collagen, for resynthesis of collagen and other proline containing proteins. Specific host cells
may require supplementation of prolidase to ensure proper synthesis of the recombinant collagen
protein (as referenced in (Miltyk et al. JBiochem 144(3): 409-414 (2008)). Host cells described
herein, recombinantly manipulated to express collagen 7, may be recombinantly manipulated to
also express human prolidase.      An exemplary amino acid sequence for human prolidase is as
follows:
         maaatgpsfwlgnetlkvplalfalnrqrlcerlrknpavqagsivvlqggeetqryctdtgvlfrqesffhwafgvt
                                                 -13-

WO 2013/020064                                                     PCT/US2012/049553
  epgcygvidvdtgkstlfvprlpashatwmgkihskehfkekyavddvqdeiasvltsqkpsvlltlrgvntdsg
  svcreasfdgiskfevnntilhpeivecrvfktdmelevlrytnkisseahrevmkavkvgmkeyeleslfehyc
  ysrggmrhssytcicgsgensavlhgagapndrtiqngmclfdmggeyycfasditcsfpangkftadqkavy
  eavlrssravmgamkpgvwwpdmhrladrihleelahmgilsgsvdamvqahlgavfmphglghflgidv
  hdvggypgvridepglrslrtarhlqpgmvltvepgiyfidhlldealadparasflnrevlqrfrgfggvrieedvv
  vtdsgielltcvprtveeieacmagcdkaftpfsgpk
  (SEQ ID NO:4)
  An exemplary nucleic acid sequence encoding human prolidase is provided below:
 1 ccggtgccgg gcgaacatgg cggcggccac cggaccctcg ttttggctgg ggaatgaaac
    61 cctgaaggtg ccgctggcgc tctttgcctt gaaccggcag cgcctgtgtg agcggctgcg
  121 gaagaaccct gctgtgcagg ccggctccat cgtggtcctg cagggcgggg aggagactca
  181 gcgctactgc accgacaccg gggtcctctt cctccaggag tccttctttc actgggcgtt
  241 cggtgtcact gagccaggct gctatggtgt catcgatgtt gacactggga agtcgaccct
  301 gtttgtgccc aggcttcctg ccagccatgc cacctggatg ggaaagatcc attccaagga
  361 gcacttcaag gagaagtatg ccgtggacga cgtccagtac gtagatgaga ttgccagcgt
  421 cctgacgtca cagaagccct ctgtcctcct cactttgcgt ggcgtcaaca cggacagcgg
  481 cagtgtctgc agggaggcct cctttgacgg catcagcaag ttcgaagtca acaataccat
  541 tcttcaccca gagatcgttg agagccgagt gtttaagacg gatatggagc tggaggttct
  601 gcgctatacc aataaaatct ccagcgaggc ccaccgtgag gtaatgaagg ctgtaaaagt
  661 gggaatgaaa gaatatgggt tggaaagcct cttcgagcac tactgctact cccggggcgg
  721 catgcgccac agctcctaca cctgcatctg cggcagtggt gagaactcag ccgtgctaca
  781 ctacggacac gccggagctc ccaacgaccg aacgatccag aatggggata tgtgcctgtt
  841 cgacatgggc ggtgagtatt actctgtcgc ttccgacatc acctgctcct ttccccgcaa
  901 cggcaagttc actgcagacc agaaggccgt ctatgaggca gtgctgctga gctcccgtgc
  961 cgtcatgggt gccatgaagc caggtgactg gtggcctgac atcgaccgcc tggctgaccg
 1021 catccacctg gaggagctgg cccacatggg catcctgagc ggcagcgtgg acgccatggt
 1081 ccaggctcac ctgggggccg tgtttatgcc tcacgggctt ggccacttcc tgggcattga
 1141 cgtgcacgac gtgggaggct acccagaggg cgtggagcgc atcgacgagc ccggcctgcg
 1201 gagcctgcgc actgcacggc acctgcagcc aggcatggtg ctcaccgtgg agccgggcat
 1261 ctacttcatc gaccacctcc tggatgaggc cctggcggac ccggcccgcg cctccttcct
 1321 taaccgcgag gtcctgcagc gctttcgcgg ttttggcggg gtccgcatcg aggaggacgt
 1381 cgtggtgatc gacagcggca tagagctgct gacctgcgtg ccccgcactg tggaagagat
 1441 tgaagcatgc atggcaggct gtgacaaggc ctttaccccc ttctctggcc ccaagtagag
 1501 ccagccagaa atcccagcgc acctgggggc ctggccttgc aacctctttt cgtgatgggc
 1561 agcctgctgg tcagcactcc agtagcgaga gacggcaccc agaatcagat cccagcttcg
 1621 gcatttgatc agaccaaaca gtgctgtttc ccggggagga aacacttttt taattaccct
 1681 tttgcaggca ccacctttaa tctgttttat accttgctta ttaaatgagc gacttaaaat
 1741 gattgaaaat aatgctgtcc tttagtagca agtaaaatgt gtcttgctgt catttatatt
 1801 ccttttccca ggaaagaagc atttctgata ctttctgtca aaaatcaata tgcagaatgg
 1861 catttgcaat aaaaggtttc ctaaaatg
  (SEQ ID NO:3)
                                         -14-

      WO 2013/020064                                                       PCT/US2012/049553
Glycosyl Transferase
         Mammalian host cells, such as CHO cells, may be employed to produce glycosylated
recombinant proteins, such as collagen 7, because they are equipped with glycosylation
machinery similar to the human. However, a notable difference concerns sialylation: N-linked
glycans of human origin carry terminal sialic acid residues in both K2,3- and K2,6-linkages,
whereas only K2,3 terminal sialic acids are found in glycoproteins from CHO and BHK cells.
Indeed, these cell lines lack a functional copy of the gene encoding K2,6-sialyltransferase
(Bragonzi et al. Biochim Biophys Acta 1474(3): 273-82 (2000)). Host cells may be
recombinantly manipulated to express the human glycosyl aminotransferase, rST6Gall, before,
after, or simultaneously with manipulating said host cell to recombinantly express collagen 7 or
collagen 7 and prolidase.
         Amino acid sequence for rattus norvegicus ST6 beta-galactosamide alpha-2,6
sialyltransferase 1 (St6gall), transcript variant 1 (rST6Gall)
         mihtnlkkkfslfilvfllfavicvwkkgsdyealtlqakefqmpksqekvamgsasqvvfsnskqdpkedipil
         syhrvtakvkpqpsfqvwdkdstysklnprllkiwrnylnmnkykvsykgpgvkfsvealrchlrdhvnvsm
         ieatdfpfnttewegylpkenfrtkvgpwqrcavvssagslknsqlgreidnhdavlrfngaptdnfqqdvgsktt
         irlmnsqlvttekrflkdslytegilivwdsyhadipkwyqkpdynffetyksyrrlnpsqpfyilkpqmpwelw
         diiqeisadliqpnppssgmlgiiimmtlcdqvdiyeflpskrktdvcyyhqkffdsactmgayhpllfeknmv
         khlnegtedylfgkatlsgfrnirc
         (SEQ ID NO:5)
         Nucleotide sequence for human ST6 beta-galactosamide alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase 1
(St6gall), transcript variant 1 (rST6Gal1) can be optimized.
Prolyl Hydroxylase
         An exemplary prolyl hydroxylase is described below:
            1 mahhhhhhlp     alklaleyiv    pcmnkhgicv   vddflgketg   qqigdevral    hdtgkftdgq
           61  lvsqksdssk    dirgdkitwi    egkepgceti   gllmssmddl   irhcngklgs    ykingrtkam
         121  vacypgngtg     yvrhvdnpng    dgrcvtciyy   lnkdwdakvs   ggilrifpeg    kaqfadiepk
         181   fdrllffwsd    rrnphevqpa    yatryaitvw   yfdaderara   kvkyltgekg    vrvelnkpsd
         241   svgkdvf
                                                  -15-

     WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
(SEQ ID N: X)
Heat Shock Protein 47 (HSP47)
         HSP47 is a chaperone protein resident in the endoplasmic reticulum which functions in
procollagen formattion. HSP47 assists in the translocation of procollagen into the endoplasmic
reticulum. HSP47 also helps maintain the emerging polypeptide in an unfolded state until
synthesis is complete, and release of procollagen from HSP47 is driven by procollagen helical
formation. Host cells of the present invention may be recombinantly manipulated to express the
human HSP47, before, after, or simultaneously with manipulating said host cell to recombinantly
express collagen 7 or collagen 7 and prolidase.
Cyclophilin B (Cyp B)
         Cyclophilin B is a peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isonerase found in the endoplasmic
reticulum. Cyclophilin B functions in consort with HSP47 to facilitate the folding and transport
of procollagen. Host cells of the present invention may be recombinantly manipulated to express
the human cyclophilin B, before, after, or simultaneously with manipulating said host cell to
recombinantly express collagen 7 or collagen 7 and prolidase.
Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI)
         Protein Disulfide Isomerase (PDI) is an ER resident thiol oxidoreduciase protein. PDI
assists in protein folding in part through catalyzing of the formation, reduction, and
isomerization of disulphide bonds. PDI facilitates the stabilization of collagen trimers through
catalyzing the formation of interchain disulphide bonds between the C-propeptide domains.
Host cells of the current invention may be recombinantly manipulated to express the human PDI,
before, after, or simultaneously with manipulating said host cell to recombinantly express
collagen 7 or collagen 7 and prolidase.
Oxoglutarate carrier (OGC)
         Oxoglutarate carrier (OGC) is a mitochondrial resident protein which transports the a
ketoglutarate across the inner membrane of the mitochondria and facilitates the coupling of
decarboxylated a-ketoglutarate to proline. Host cells may be recombinantly manipulated to
                                                  -16-

     WO 2013/020064                                                           PCT/US2012/049553
express the human OGC, before, after, or simultaneously with manipulating said host cell to
recombinantly express collagen 7 or collagen 7 and prolidase.
Vectors
        Suitable vectors for use herein are those that can express collagen 7, prolidase, glycosyl
transferase, HSP47, cyclophilin B, PDI, OGC, or a molecular chaperone involved in procollagen
assembly or folding, or a functional portion thereof. In order to express the proteins described
herein, the nucleotide sequence encoding the appropriate protein, or a functional equivalent, can
be inserted into a suitable vector. A suitable vector contains the necessary and appropriate
transcriptional and translational control sequences for expression of the inserted nucleic acid
sequence. Standard methods, known to those skilled in the art, may be used to construct the
recombinant expression vectors containing the nucleic acid sequences described herein. These
methods include, but not limited to, in vitro recombinant techniques, synthetic techniques, and in
vivo recombination/genetic recombination; the choice of method depends on the nature of the
specific nucleotide fragments and may be determined by persons skilled in the art.
        Suitable vectors for use herein may contain an origin of replication and a restriction
endonuclease sequence site. Persons skilled in the art would have knowledge of suitable origin
of replication and restriction endonuclease sequences for use in the host cell. Suitable vectors for
use herein may contain sequence elements to aid transcription, including, but not limited to,
promoter and enhancer elements. Persons skilled in the art would have knowledge of various
transcriptional control elements, including but not limited to, promoters, inducible promoters,
and enhancer elements, that would be suitable in the host cell. Suitable vectors for use herein
may also contain a selectable marker gene that encodes a product necessary for the host cell to
grow and survive under specific conditions, aiding in the selection of host cells into which the
vector has been introduced. Typical selection genes may include, but not limited to, genes
encoding a protein that confers resistance to an antibiotic, drug, or toxin (e.g. tetracycline,
ampicilin, neomycin, hygromycin, etc). Persons skilled in the art would have knowledge of
coding sequences for suitable selectable markers and reporter genes for use in the host cell.
        Expression vectors described herein can be introduced into host cells via conventional
transformation or transfection techniques. Transformation and transfection techniques include,
but not limited to, calcium phosphate or calcium chloride coprecipitation, DEAE-dextran
                                                 -17-

      WO 2013/020064                                                         PCT/US2012/049553
mediated transfection, lipofectamine, electroporation, microinjection, and viral mediated
transfection (as referenced in U.S. Pat No. 6,632,637 (McGrew)). Persons skilled in the art
would have knowledge of suitable transformation and transfection methods based on the host
cell/vector combination. For long term, high yield production of recombinant proteins, stable
expression of the recombinant protein may be preferred. Host cells that stably express the
recombinant protein may be engineered.
Cells
        The recombinant expression vectors described herein may be introduced into a suitable
host cell, which may include a living cell capable of expressing the protein coding region from
the defined recombinant expression vector. The term "host cell" refers not only to the particular
subject cell but to the progeny or potential progeny of the particular subject cell. Because certain
modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental
influences, such progeny may not in fact, be identical to the parent cell, but are still included
within the scope of the term as used herein. Various host cell expression systems may be utilized
to express the nucleic acid molecules described herein. These include, but are not limited to
yeast or fungi, transformed with recombinant yeast or fungi expression vectors containing the
appropriate nucleic acid sequence; insect cell systems infected with recombinant virus
expression vectors or transformed with recombinant plasmid expression vectors containing the
appropriate nucleic acid sequence; or mammalian cell systems (e.g. primate cell, human cell,
rodent cell, etc) transfected with expression vectors containing the appropriate nucleic acid
sequence. Suitable host cells may include primary or transformed cell lines, including, but not
limited to, fibroblasts, CHO, HEK293, C127, VERO, BHK, HeLa, COS, MDCK, etc (as
referenced in U.S. Pat No. 6,632,637 (McGrew)). Other suitable host cells are known to those
skilled in the art.
        Modifications, including, but not limited to, glycosylation, phosphyorylation and
processing of protein products may be important to the function of a protein. Different host cells
have various characteristics and mechanisms for post-translational processing and modification
of proteins. A host cell that is capable of modulating expression of the nucleic acid sequences
contained in the vector, or modulating expression of the vector nucleic acid sequences, or
modifying and processing the gene product encoded in the vector sequence in a specific manner
                                                 -18-

      WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
may be chosen. Mammalian host cells may be chosen to ensure the correct modification and
processing of the recombinant protein. Such mammalian host cells may include, but not limited
to, CHO, HEK293, human fibroblasts, and human keratinocytes.
Cell Culture
        Standard cell culture procedures and conditions may be used for culture of host cells
described herein and are known to those skilled in the art. Host cells cultured for expression of
recombinant collagen 7, such as HEK293 cells, may be cultured in routinely used cell culture
media (e.g. Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)/Ham's F-12 (1:1) with suitable
supplementation of serum, antibiotics, etc, dependent on the application) as referenced in, ((Chen
et al. JBio Chem 277(18): 2118-2124 (2002)), (Chen et al. JBio Chem 275: 32(11): 24429
24435 (2000)), (Chen et al. JBio Chem 276(24): 21649-21655 (2001)).
        Host cells may be engineered to express other proteins to optimize production of the
recombinant collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof. This may include, but not limited to,
the coexpression of the processing enzymes prolidase and/or glycosyl-transferase described
herein, by exogenously introducing isolated nucleic acid or recombinant expression vectors
encoding the appropriate nucleic acid sequence, in host cells comprising collagen 7 nucleic acid
sequence or recombinant expression vector. The triple helical assembly of collagen 7 often
requires hydroxylation and the presence of ascorbic acid in the host cell growth media. As
demonstrated in the reference, (Chen et al. J Bio Chem 277 (18): 2118-2124 (2002)),
recombinant type 7 collagen produced, recovered, and purified from HEK293 cells in the
presence of ascorbic acid was secreted as an approximately 900-kDa protein, corresponding to
the association of three type 7 collagen monomers (each monomer 290-kDa). Ascorbic acid may
be used in the host cell culture conditions to aid in proper processing of the recombinant protein.
Additional supplements to the cell culture media may be added in order to aid in proper
processing of the recombinant protein, including but not limited to, phospho-ascorbate (PAA),
4mM a-ketoglutarate, FeSO 4 , or Optiferrin.
Homologous Sequences
        The methods and compositions of the present invention encompass polypeptides and nucleic
acids having the sequences specified, or sequences substantially identical or similar thereto, e.g.,
                                                  -19-

      WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
sequences at least 70%, 85%, 90%, 95% identical or higher to the sequence specified. In the context of
an amino acid sequence, the term "substantially identical" is used herein to refer to a first amino acid
that contains a sufficient or minimum number of amino acid residues that are i) identical to, or ii)
conservative substitutions of aligned amino acid residues in a second amino acid sequence such that the
first and second amino acid sequences can have a common structural domain and/or common functional
activity. For example, amino acid sequences that contain a common structural domain having at least
about 85%, 90%. 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% identity to SEQ ID NO:2, SEQ
ID NO:4 or SEQ ID NO:6 are termed substantially identical.
         In the context of nucleotide sequence, the term "substantially identical" is used herein to refer to
a first nucleic acid sequence that contains a sufficient or minimum number of nucleotides that are
identical to aligned nucleotides in a second nucleic acid sequence such that the first and second
nucleotide sequences encode a polypeptide having common functional activity, or encode a common
structural polypeptide domain or a common functional polypeptide activity. For example, nucleotide
sequences having at least about 70&,85%, 90%. 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99%
identity to SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 5 are termed substantially identical.
         The term "functional variant" refers polypeptides that have a substantially identical amino acid
sequence to the naturally-occurring sequence, or are encoded by a substantially identical nucleotide
sequence, and are capable of having one or more activities of the naturally-occurring sequence.
         Calculations of homology or sequence identity between sequences (the terms are used
interchangeably herein) are performed as follows.
         To determine the percent identity of two amino acid sequences, or of two nucleic acid sequences,
the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes (e.g., gaps can be introduced in one or both
of a first and a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment and non-homologous
sequences can be disregarded for comparison purposes). In a preferred embodiment, the length of a
reference sequence aligned for comparison purposes is at least 30%, preferably at least 40%, more
preferably at least 50%, 60%, and even more preferably at least 70%, 80%, 90%, 100% of the length of
the reference sequence. The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions
or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the
same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence, then the
molecules are identical at that position (as used herein amino acid or nucleic acid "identity" is equivalent
to amino acid or nucleic acid "homology").
                                                 -20-

     WO 2013/020064                                                            PCT/US2012/049553
        The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions
shared by the sequences, taking into account the number of gaps, and the length of each gap, which need
to be introduced for optimal alignment of the two sequences.
        The comparison of sequences and determination of percent identity between two sequences can
be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. In a preferred embodiment, the percent identity
between two amino acid sequences is determined using the Needleman and Wunsch ((1970) J. Mol.
Biol. 48:444-453 ) algorithm which has been incorporated into the GAP program in the GCG software
package (available at http://www.gcg.com), using either a Blossum 62 matrix or a PAM250 matrix, and
a gap weight of 16, 14, 12, 10, 8, 6, or 4 and a length weight of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. In yet another
preferred embodiment, the percent identity between two nucleotide sequences is determined using the
GAP program in the GCG software package (available at http://www.gcg.com), using a
NWSgapdna.CMP matrix and a gap weight of 40, 50, 60, 70, or 80 and a length weight of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
or 6. A particularly preferred set of parameters (and the one that should be used unless otherwise
specified) are a Blossum 62 scoring matrix with a gap penalty of 12, a gap extend penalty of 4, and a
frameshift gap penalty of 5.
        The percent identity between two amino acid or nucleotide sequences can be determined using
the algorithm of E. Meyers and W. Miller ((1989) CABIOS, 4:11-17) which has been incorporated into
the ALIGN program (version 2.0), using a PAM120 weight residue table, a gap length penalty of 12 and
a gap penalty of 4.
        The nucleic acid and protein sequences described herein can be used as a "query sequence" to
perform a search against public databases to, for example, identify other family members or related
sequences. Such searches can be performed using the NBLAST and XBLAST programs (version 2.0)
of Altschul, et al. (1990) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-10. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with
the NBLAST program, score = 100, wordlength = 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to
BMP- 10/BMP- 10 receptor nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO: 1) molecules of the invention. BLAST protein
searches can be performed with the XBLAST program, score = 50, wordlength = 3 to obtain amino acid
sequences homologous to BMP-10/BMP-10 receptor (SEQ ID NO: 1) protein molecules of the
invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes, Gapped BLAST can be utilized as
described in Altschul et al., (1997) Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3389-3402. When utilizing BLAST and
Gapped BLAST programs, the default parameters of the respective programs (e.g., XBLAST and
NBLAST) can be used. See http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
                                                  -21-

     WO 2013/020064                                                         PCT/US2012/049553
        Also included herein are sequences that hybridize under low, medium or high stringency to a
recited nucleic acid. As used herein, the term "hybridizes under low stringency, medium stringency,
high stringency, or very high stringency conditions" describes conditions for hybridization and
washing. Guidance for performing hybridization reactions can be found in CurrentProtocols in
Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, N.Y. (1989), 6.3.1-6.3.6, which is incorporated by reference.
Aqueous and nonaqueous methods are described in that reference and either can be used. Specific
hybridization conditions referred to herein are as follows: 1) low stringency hybridization conditions in
6X sodium chloride/sodium citrate (SSC) at about 45'C, followed by two washes in 0.2X SSC, 0.1%
SDS at least at 50'C (the temperature of the washes can be increased to 55'C for low stringency
conditions); 2) medium stringency hybridization conditions in 6X SSC at about 45'C, followed by one
or more washes in 0.2X SSC, 0.1% SDS at 60'C; 3) high stringency hybridization conditions in 6X SSC
at about 45'C, followed by one or more washes in 0.2X SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65'C; and preferably 4) very
high stringency hybridization conditions are 0.5M sodium phosphate, 7% SDS at 65'C, followed by one
or more washes at 0.2X SSC, 1% SDS at 65'C. Very high stringency conditions (4) are the preferred
conditions and the ones that should be used unless otherwise specified.
Purification of Collagen 7, or a Functional Fragment Thereof
        Proteins produced by recombinant methods described herein may be recovered from the
host cell culture system according to standard protocols known in the art (e.g., precipitation,
centrifugation, etc). Recombinant collagen 7 described herein may be secreted into the host cell
medium and recovered by ammonium sulfate precipitation and subsequent centrifugation; as
demonstrated in the following reference, (Chen et al. JBio Chem 277(18): 2118-2124 (2002)).
Proteins produced and recovered by recombinant and molecular biology methods described
herein, may be purified according to standard protocols known in the art (e.g., dialysis, ion
exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, SDS gel electrophoresis, etc). The
recombinant collagen 7 described herein may be purified to homogeneity by ion exchange
chromatography; as demonstrated in the following reference, (Chen et al. JBio Chem 277(18):
2118-2124 (2002)).
                                      EXEMPLIFICATION
Example 1. Production and Purification of Collagen 7
                                                -22-

      WO 2013/020064                                                       PCT/US2012/049553
Subculturing and Freezing the Cells
1. Wash the cells with PBS (10 ml for P150 plate).
2. Add 6 ml of trypsin (0.05% trypsin-EDTA in PBS) and incubate at 37 0C incubator for 4 to 6
minutes. Cells will detach as a layer.
3. Add 6 ml of growth medium and then spin down at conical centrifuge at 2K for 5 minutes.
4. Resuspend the cells in growth medium and subculture cells at 1:5 ratio.
5. For freezing the cells, we use growth medium with 10% DMSO. A confluent P150 plates will
give rise to approximately 20 millions of cells.
Defrost and Re-growth the Cells
1. Take a viral of RDEB/FB/C7 (5 X 106 ) and thaw in 370C water bath briefly.
2. Put into a P150 plate containing 20 ml of growth medium and incubate overnight.
3. Change to the fresh medium at second day. Cells should reach confluent after 2 to 3 days.
4. Take out 30 [[1 medium directly and subject to immunoblot with anti-type VII collagen
antibody to insure the presence of type VII collagen in the medium.
Growth and Harvest Medium
Growth medium: DMEM/F12 (1:1) with L-glutamine and L sodium bicarbonate (Mediatech,
Inc., DMEM prepares 10 L at 13.48 g/L Cat. No. 50-003-PB and Ham's F-12 Medium prepares
10 L at 10.64 g/L Cat. No. 50-040-PB), 10% FBS (Omega Scientific Cat# FB-02) and 200 [tg/ml
ascorbic acid (Sigma CAT# A4544) (1 ml stock solution of 100 mg/ml added to 500 ml
medium).
Serum free medium: DMEM/F12 without serum and ascorbic acid.
1. Grow gene-corrected RDEB fibroblasts in P150 plates in 20 ml of growth medium till
confluence.
2. Add 15 ml of serum free medium in the morning (for example Monday morning).
3. Harvest medium in the next afternoon and add back 20 ml of growth medium to the cells
(Tuesday afternoon).
4. Two days later, add serum free medium in the morning again (Thursday morning).
5. Harvest the medium again next afternoon (Friday afternoon).
                                                 -23-

      WO 2013/020064                                                         PCT/US2012/049553
6. Repeat this cycle on following Monday for at least 3 to 4 months till cells detach (some time
cells can go on for 6 months and still secrete a lot of type VII collagen).
The serum free media of gene corrected fibroblasts contain approximately 4 to 8 mg/L type VII
collagen. After purification, between 0.7 to 1 mg of type VII collagen in normally obtained from
1 liter media.
Purification of Type VII Collagen
Materials:
                Ammonium Sulfate
                EDTA: 500 mM, pH 8
                NEM: 100 mM
                PMSF: 100 mM
                Q Sepharose Tm  Fast Flow (GE Healthcare CAT# 17-0510-01)
IX Buffer A:            65 mM NaCl
                        25 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.6
                        1 mM EDTA
For 2L 1OX buffer A: 76.11 g NaCl
                        250 ml 2M Tris-HCl pH 8.6
                        40 ml 0.5M EDTA
Buffer B:               50 mM Tris pH 7.8               Buffer C:      50 mM Tris pH 7.5
                        150 mM NaCl                                    2 M Urea
                        5 mM EDTA                                      0.5 M NaCl
                        2mM MEM                                        1 mM EDTA
                        2 mM PMSF                                      2 mM MEM
                                                                       2 mM PMSF
     DAY 1
1. Collect conditioned cell medium and spin at 3000 rpm for 10 min in 40C to remove the cell
     debris.
                                                  -24-

     WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
2. Measure the harvest volume (Total Media collected)
3. Add inhibitors: 5 mM EDTA (100 fold), 50 gM NEM and 50 gM PMSF (2000 fold)
4. Slowly add Ammonium Sulfate powder on ice: 0.3 g/mL
5. Stir overnight at 40 C.
    DAY 2
6. Spin at 13,000 rpm in Beckman J2-M1 rotor 14 for 1.5 - 2 hours
7. Discard supernatant, then air -dry pellet for 10 - 15 min.
8.  Bring pellet up in Buffer A: Use 1 ml of buffer per 50 ml of the harvest volume.
9. Rinse the dialysis membrane with DI H 20
10. Dialyze against IX Buffer A for 3 times: change every 2 hours, 2 Liter for each change. Last
    change is for overnight. Add 1 ml NEM and PMSF to dialysis buffer.
    DAY 3
11. Spin down dialyzed media at 9K for 20 min. Note change in volume.
12. Remove supernatant (S1) and put in a separate tube.
13. Resuspend pellet in an equal volume of Buffer B as dialysis volume.
14. Let this sit out on top of bench for about 10 minutes.
15. Centrifuge at 9K for 20 min
16. Remove supernatant (Sl') and place in another tube.
17.      Resuspend the pellet in 2 ml of Buffer C centrifuge at 9k for 20 min and collect
    supernatant (S2). Type VII collagen will be present in all fractions with different purity. S1
    fraction contains approximately 50% type VII collagen but is very dirty. Typically the S1
    fraction is not used for further purification. With good dialysis, most will be in S1' in a purer
    form. With sub-optimal dialysis, most will be in the S1 fraction, and very dirty. Typically,
    the Sl' fraction is subject to further Q-sepharose column purification.
Type VII Collagen column purification from Sl'.
18. Fill column with sepharose beads ((beads must be shaken into solution before use) and let
    settle to desired volume.
    The column volume should be approx. 1/2 loading volume of sample from S1'.
                                                   -25-

      WO 2013/020064                                                        PCT/US2012/049553
19. The column should not be allowed to dry out. Wash with buffer B 5x column volume
    (therefore if 4 ml column then wash with 20 ml buffer B)
20. Prepare wash and elution tubes with equal volume as column volume.
21. Save 200 [[1 of protein sample in small eppendorf and store on ice (to run on gel at end for
    control)
22. Make and label tubes: 2Xwash (buffer B), 0.3M, 0.4M, and 1.0M.
    Everything with a 2X in front of it means 2 times column volume (therefore if column
    volume is 4 ml then use 8 ml) Load sample to column, being careful not to excessively
    disturb the column surface. Place tube labeled "flow through" to collect the flow through.
23. Keep everything on ice. When the sample has flowed through once, load the flow through
    again and collect flow through with tube labeled "flow through."
24. Before the column runs dry, wash with buffer B (equivalent to sample volume) TWICE and
    collect with tube labeled wash (therefore if 4 ml then 8ml buffer B). Continue eluting with
    increasing salt concentration and ending with 1.0M.2X wash (buffer B), 2X 0.3M, 2X 0.4M
    and 1.0M A, 1.0M B. (Note: most C7 comes out at 1.0 M). Everything with a 2X in front of
    it means 2 times column volume (therefore if column volume is 4 ml then use 8 ml)
25. Add inhibitors PMSF and NEM. 1:100 fold dilutions to each elution tube (therefore if 40 ml
    use 40 [[1). Most C7 will come out in 0.5-IM eluted fractions.
26. Make samples to run on gel (gel only holds 9 samples at a time). Label 9 small eppendorf
    tubes X 2 (one for western blot and the other for Coomassie staining): load on, follow
    through, 0.3M, 0.4M ... 1.OM
27. Make loading dye: 12 [[1 BME/100 [[1 of 4X sample buffer -> vortex.
28. Add 10 [[1 of the dye to all tubes.
29. Add 1Oul of sample for ECL, 40 [[1 for Coomassie Blue to tubes.
30. Run collected fractions on a 6% acrylamide gels for both Western blot analysis and
    Coomassie Blue staining.
Concentration and Filtration of Type VII Collagen
1. Combined type VII collagen fractions from 0.5, 0.7 and 1.0 M elution and dilute with buffer B
three fold (for example, 17 ml to 50 ml).
                                                 -26-

      WO 2013/020064                                                          PCT/US2012/049553
 2. Load 50 ml of diluted fraction into a 1.5 ml Q-sepharose column two times.
 3. Wash column two times with 1.5 ml buffer B.
 4. Elute column with buffer B in 1.0 M salt three times (labeling tube as 1.OA, 1.OB and 1.0C).
 5. Dialyze the concentrate with PBS.
 6. Filter with 0.2 gm Super Membrane Acrodisc Syringe Filter (Pall Life Sciences).
 7. Store at -80 0C Freezer.
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or method steps but
not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or
method steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgement or
admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or information derived from it)
or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.
 Other embodiments are within the following claims.
                                                  -27-

WO 2013/020064                                                                PCT/US2012/049553
What is claimed is:
        1. A method of making collagen 7 comprising:
         providing a cell recombinantly manipulated to express collagen 7, or a functional
fragment thereof, and, optionally one or more polypeptides that increase expression of
collagen 7, e.g., prolidase;
         culturing said cell under conditions sufficient for the production of collagen 7 and
prolidase,
thereby making collagen 7.
        2. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell is genetically manipulated to express a
glycosyl transferase.
        3. The method of claim 2, wherein said glcosyl transferase is a sialyltransferase.
        4. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell comprises exogenously introduced
nucleic acid that encodes collagen 7, or a functional fragment thereof, e.g., a high glycine
codon optimized nucleic acid sequence described herein.
        5. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell comprises exogenously introduced
nucleic acid that encodes prolidase.
        6. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell comprises exogenously introduced
nucleic acid that encodes glycosyl transferase.
        7. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell comprises an expression vector that
comprises a sequence that encodes collagen 7.
        8. The method of claim 7, wherein said cell comprises a second expression vector that
comprises a sequence that encodes prolidase.
        9. The method of claim 7, wherein said cell comprises a third expression vector that
comprises a sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase.

WO 2013/020064                                                             PCT/US2012/049553
        10. The method of claim 7, wherein said cell comprises a second expression vector
that comprises a sequence that encodes prolidase and a third expression vector that comprises
a sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase.
        11. The method of claim 7, wherein said expression vector further comprises a
sequence that encodes prolidase.
        12. The method of claim 7, wherein said expression vector further comprises a
sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase.
        13. The method of claim 7, wherein said expression vector further comprises a
sequence that encodes prolidase and a sequence that encodes glycosyl transferase.
        14. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell is a mammalian cell.
        15. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell is a CHO cell.
        16. The method of claim 1 wherein said cell is a HEK293 cell.
        17. The method of claim 1, wherein said collagen 7 is human collagen 7.
        18. The method of claim 1, wherein said prolidase is human prolidase.
        19. The method of claim 2, wherein said glycosyl transferase is human glycosyl
       transferase.
       20. The method of claim 1, further comprising recovering collagen 7, or functional
       fragment thereof, from said cultured cell.

WO 2013/020064                                                                PCT/US2012/049553
        21 The method of claim 1, wherein said collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is
recovered from culture medium.
        22 The method of claim 1, further comprising purifying collagen 7, or functional
        fragment thereof, from said cultured cell.
        23. The method of claim 1, further comprising purifying collagen 7, or functional
        fragment thereof, from culture medium.
        24. The method of claim 23, wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95 %of
        said collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into homotrimers.
        25.     The method of claim 23, wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95 %of
said collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into hexamers.
        26. A vector described herein.
        27. A collection of vectors comprising at least two of the vectors described herein.
        28. A cell described herein.
        29. An isolated preparation of cells described herein.
        30. A cell culture comprising a cell from any of the above claims, culture medium,
        and collagen 7 produce by said cell.
        31. A method of making a cell suitable for expressing collagen 7, or functional
fragment thereof, comprising
        recombinantly manipulating said cell to express recombinant collagen 7, or functional
fragment thereof,; and
        optionally, recombinantly manipulating said cell to express recombinant prolidase;

WO 2013/020064                                                                PCT/US2012/049553
       thereby making a cell suitable for expressing recombinant collagen 7, or functional
fragment thereof.
       32. The method of claim 31, wherein said cell is recombinantly manipulated to
       express collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, before said cell is recombinantly
       manipulated express recombinant glycosyl transferase.
       33. The method of claim 31, wherein said cell is recombinantly manipulated to
       express collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, after said cell is recombinantly
       manipulated express recombinant glycosyl transferase.
       34. The method of claim 31, wherein said cell is recombinantly manipulated to
       express collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, at the same time said cell is
       recombinantly manipulated express recombinant glycosyl transferase.
       35. The method of claim 31, wherein said cell is recombinantly manipulated to
       express recombinant glycosyl transferase before manipulating said cell to
       recombinantly express collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof.
       36. The method of claim 31, further comprising recombinantly manipulating said cell
       to express recombinant glycosyl transferase.
       37. The method of claim 31, wherein said cell is recombinantly manipulated to
       express recombinant glycosyl transferase before, after, or simulataneously with
       manipulating said cell to recombinantly express collagen 7, or functional fragment
       thereof.
       38. Collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, made by a method described herein.
       39. A purified or isolated preparation of collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof
made by a method described herein.

WO 2013/020064                                                               PCT/US2012/049553
        40. A purified or isolated preparation of collagen wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70,
        80, 90 or 95 % of said collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into
        homotrimers.
        41. A purified or isolated preparation of collagen wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70,
80, 90 or 95 % of said collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, is incorporated into
hexamers.
        42. A method of purifying collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof, comprising:
        providing conditioned cell medium;
        precipitating protein, e.g., with ammonium sulfate;
        solubilizing the precipitated protein;
        dialyzing the solubilized protein;
        sedmenting the dialyzed sample to form a supernatant; and
        subjecting the supernatant to an anion exchange chromatography, e.g., with    Q
sepharose;
thereby purifying collagen 7, or functional fragment thereof.

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012289916, is current as of 2017-10-17 21:00 AEST

