                                         ABSTRACT
        Techniques, systems, and devices are disclosed for ultrasound imaging using spread
spectrum, coherent, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms. In one aspect, a method of
creating an image from an acoustic waveform in an acoustic imaging device includes
setting the device into a transmit mode to transmit an acoustic waveform toward a target, in
transmitting the acoustic waveform, synthesizing, in one or more waveform synthesizers, a
plurality of substantially orthogonal coded waveforms that form a composite waveform as
the transmitted acoustic waveform toward the target, in which each waveform corresponds
to a distinct frequency band, setting the device into a receive mode to receive a returned
acoustic waveform that returns from at least part of the target, converting the received
returned acoustic waveform from analog format to digital format as a received composite
waveform comprising information of the target, and processing the received composite
waveform to produce an image of the target.

      WO 2013/066821                                               PCT/US2012/062435
                                           1/6
                                  Output Waveform Synthesizer                            100
                                 Amplifiers and Beam Controller
                                   (109)                (108)
 Transducer Array(1 11)
  Comprised Of            T/R  .                                 I Waveform
Number of Elements      Switch                                2    Generator (107)
                         (110)
                                                                         Data & Control Bus
                                                                                 (103)
   Amplifiers                              MasterSystem
     (112)                          |      Clock                                 Controller
                                            -         -0-)-(102)
       AID
   Cornverters
     (113)
                1   2 3    4I
                                                                                Display (105
                                               Digital Signal
                                                Processor                           User
                                                   (104)                          Interface (1
                                       FIG. 1A

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
          SPREAD SPECTRUM CODED WAVEFORMS IN ULTRASOUND IMAGING
                         CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001]       This patent document claims the priority of U.S. provisional application No.
   61/553,137 entitled "SPREAD SPECTRUM CODED WAVEFORMS IN ULTRASOUND
 5 IMAGING" filed on October 28, 2011, which is incorporated by reference as part of this
   document.
                                            TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0002]       This patent document relates to ultrasound imaging.
                                              BACKGROUND
10 [0003]       Ultrasound imaging is an imaging modality that employs the properties of sound
   waves traveling through a medium to render a visual image. Ultrasound imaging has been used
   as an imaging modality for decades in a variety of biomedical fields to view internal structures
   and functions of animals and humans. Ultrasound waves used in biomedical imaging may
   operate in different frequencies, e.g., between 1 and 20 MHz, or even higher frequencies. Some
15 factors including inadequate spatial resolution and tissue differentiation can lead to less than
   desirable image quality using conventional techniques of ultrasound imaging, which can limit its
   use for many clinical applications.
                                                SUMMARY
   [0004]       Techniques, systems, and apparatuses are disclosed for ultrasound imaging using
20 spread spectrum, coherent, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms that can exhibit wide
   instantaneous bandwidth.
   [0005]       In one aspect of the disclosed technology, a method of creating an image from an
   acoustic waveform in an acoustic imaging device includes setting a transmit/receive switch in the
   acoustic imaging device into a transmit mode to transmit an acoustic waveform toward a target,
25 in transmitting the acoustic waveform, synthesizing, in one or more waveform synthesizers, a
   plurality of substantially orthogonal coded waveforms that form a composite waveform as the
   transmitted acoustic waveform toward the target, in which each waveform corresponds to a
   distinct frequency band and the coded waveforms include at least one of frequency-coded
                                                      1

      WO 2013/066821                                                               PCT/US2012/062435
   waveforms or phase-coded waveforms, setting the transmit/receive switch in the acoustic
   imaging device into a receive mode to receive a returned acoustic waveform that returns from at
   least part of the target, converting the received returned acoustic waveform from analog format
   to digital format as a received composite waveform comprising information of the target, and
 5 processing the received composite waveform to produce an image of at least part of the target.
   [0006]       In another aspect, an acoustic waveform imaging system is provided to include
   waveform generation unit comprising one or more waveform synthesizers coupled to a
   waveform generator, wherein the waveform generation unit synthesizes a composite waveform
   comprising a plurality of substantially orthogonal coded waveforms corresponding to frequency
10 bands that are generated by the one or more waveform synthesizers according to waveform
   information provided by the waveform generator, the coded waveforms including at least one of
   frequency-coded waveforms or phase-coded waveforms; a transmit/receive switching unit that
   switches between a transmit mode and a receive mode; an array of transducer elements in
   communication with the transmit/receive switching unit that transmits an acoustic waveform
15 based on the composite waveform toward a target and receives a returned acoustic waveform
   returned from at least part of the target; an array of analog to digital (A/D) converters to convert
   the received returned acoustic waveform received by the array of transducer elements from
   analog format to digital format as a received composite waveform comprising information
   comprising information of the target; a controller unit in communication with the waveform
20 generation unit and the array of A/D converters comprising a processing unit that processes the
   received composite waveform to produce an image of at least part of the target; and a user
   interface unit in communication with the controller unit.
   [0007]       In another aspect, a method of creating an image from an acoustic waveform is
   provided to include setting a transmit/receive switch into transmit mode; selecting a mode of
25 operation from a plurality of operating modes; synthesizing, in one or more waveform
   synthesizers, a plurality of substantially orthogonal coded waveforms that form a composite
   waveform, wherein each waveform corresponds to a distinct frequency band, the coded
   waveforms including at least one of frequency-coded waveforms or phase-coded waveforms;
   transmitting an acoustic waveform based on the composite waveform toward a target; setting the
30 transmit/receive switch into receive mode; receiving a returned acoustic waveform returned from
   at least part of the target; converting the received returned acoustic waveform from analog
                                                       2

      WO 2013/066821                                                               PCT/US2012/062435
   format to digital format as a received composite waveform comprising information of the target;
   and processing the received composite waveform to produce an image of at least part of the
   target.
   [0008]       In another aspect, a method of creating an image from an acoustic waveform is
 5 provided to include combining a plurality of coded waveforms corresponding to different
   frequency bands to produce a composite waveform comprising substantially orthogonal wave
   signals at the different frequency bands, the coded waveforms including at least one of
   frequency-coded waveforms or phase-coded waveforms; using the composite waveform to
   produce an acoustic probe wave that includes the different frequency bands toward a target;
10 receiving acoustic energy returned from at least part of the target after the acoustic probe wave is
   sent to the target; converting the received returned acoustic energy into a digital composite
   waveform comprising information of the target; and processing the received composite
   waveform to produce an image of at least part of the target.
   [0009]       In yet another aspect, a device for creating an image from an acoustic waveform is
15 provided to include means for combining a plurality of coded waveforms corresponding to
   different frequency bands to produce a composite waveform comprising substantially orthogonal
   wave signals at the different frequency bands, the coded waveforms including at least one of
   frequency-coded waveforms or phase-coded waveforms; means for using the composite
   waveform to produce an acoustic probe wave that includes the different frequency bands toward
20 a target; means for receiving acoustic energy returned from at least part of the target after the
   acoustic probe wave is sent to the target; means for converting the received returned acoustic
   energy into a digital composite waveform comprising information of the target; and means for
   processing the received composite waveform to produce an image of at least part of the target.
   [0010]       The subject matter described in this patent document can provide one or more of the
25 following features and be used in many applications. For example, the disclosed technology can
   be used during routine primary care screenings to identify and locate early stage malignancies, as
   well as later stage cancers, which can potentially raise survival rates of hard to diagnose
   asymptomatic patients. The disclosed technology can be used by board certified radiologists to
   diagnose neoplasms as benign or malignant prior to any surgical biopsy or resection intervention,
30 which may also improve patient survival rate while reducing unnecessary biopsies. The
   disclosed technology can, when integrated with a fine needle biopsy instrument, be used in
                                                       3

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   medical procedures to confirm noninvasive diagnoses, which can reduce the level of
   invasiveness of such biopsy procedures. The disclosed technology can, when integrated with
   minimally invasive surgical high definition video instrumentation, fuse optical and ultrasound
   images, which can further give surgeons added abilities to locate and surgically excise diseased
 5 tissue without excising excessive healthy tissue. The disclosed technology can, when integrated
   with specialized surgical instrumentation, fusing ultrasound images with other data, can give
   surgeons added abilities to locate and manipulate anatomic areas of interest while minimizing
   unnecessary damage to nearby structures. The disclosed technology can reduce the amount of
   time for the brachytherapy treatment of malignant neoplasms by, for example, precisely guiding
10 the insertion of catheters and sealed radioactive sources into the proper location. Similarly, the
   disclosed technology can aid insertion of high dose, localized pharmaceuticals for treatments of
   diseases.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0011]      FIG. 1A shows a block diagram of an exemplary ultrasound imaging system using
15 spread spectrum coded waveforms.
   [0012]      FIG. 1B shows a chart for operation of an exemplary ultrasound imaging system
   using spread spectrum coded waveforms.
   [0013]      FIG. 2 shows a graph of an exemplary spread spectrum, wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveform featuring a plurality of waveforms.
20 [0014]      FIG. 3 shows ambiguity function characteristics of an exemplary spread spectrum
   coded waveform.
   [0015]      FIGS. 4A-4C show an exemplary diagram for beam steering, dynamic focusing, and
   forming.
   [0016]      FIG. 5 shows an exemplary block diagram for correlation processing of a spread
25 spectrum coded waveform.
   [0017]      Like reference symbols and designations in the various drawings indicate like
   elements.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0018]      Techniques, systems, and apparatuses are described for generating, transmitting,
                                                     4

      WO 2013/066821                                                               PCT/US2012/062435
   receiving, and processing coherent spread spectrum frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms
   used in ultrasound imaging.
   [0019]      Ultrasound imaging can be performed by emitting a time-gated, single frequency or
   narrow instantaneous bandwidth acoustic waveform (pulse), which is partly reflected from a
 5 boundary between two mediums (e.g., biological tissue structures) and partially transmitted. The
   reflection can depend on the acoustic impedance difference between the two mediums.
   Ultrasound imaging by some techniques may only use amplitude information from the reflected
   signal. For example, when one pulse is emitted, the reflected signal can be sampled
   continuously. In biological tissue, sound velocity can be considered fairly constant, in which the
10 time between the emission of a waveform and the reception of a reflected signal is dependent on
   the distance the waveform travels in that tissue structure (e.g., the depth of the reflecting
   structure). Therefore, reflected signals may be sampled at multiple time intervals to receive the
   reflected signals being reflected from multiple depths. Also, different tissues at the different
   depths can partially reflect the incident waveform with different amounts of energy, and thus the
15 reflected signal from different mediums can have different amplitudes. A corresponding
   ultrasound image can be constructed based on depth. The time before a new waveform is
   emitted can therefore be dependent of the maximum depth that is desired to image. Ultrasound
   imaging techniques employing pulsed monochromatic and/or narrow instantaneous bandwidth
   waveforms can suffer from poor resolution of image processing and production. Yet, waveforms
20 with spread spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth characteristics that can be coded (e.g., by
   frequency and/or phase) can enable real-time control of ultrasound imaging and higher quality
   resultant images.
   [0020]      FIG. 1A shows a block diagram of an exemplary ultrasound system (100) that can
   produce acoustic waveforms with enhanced waveform properties that include a spread-spectrum,
25 wide instantaneous bandwidth, coherency, pseudo-random noise characteristics, and frequency
   and/or phase-coding. System (100) can be configured in one of many system designs. In one
   example, system (100) can include a Master Clock (101) for time synchronization. The Master
   Clock (101) can be interfaced with a System Controller (102). System Controller (102) can
   include a processing unit, e.g., a central processing unit (CPU) of RISC-based or other types of
30 CPU architectures. System Controller (102) can also include at least one input/output (1/0)
   unit(s) and/or memory unit(s), which are in communication with the processing unit, to support
                                                      5

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   various functions of the System Controller (102). For example, the processing unit can be
   associated with a system control bus, e.g., Data & Control Bus (103). System Controller (102)
   can be implemented as one of various data processing architectures, such as a personal computer
   (PC), laptop, tablet, and mobile communication device architectures.
 5 [0021]      The memory unit(s) can store other information and data, such as instructions,
   software, values, images, and other data processed or referenced by the processing unit. Various
   types of Random Access Memory (RAM) devices, Read Only Memory (ROM) devices, Flash
   Memory devices, and other suitable storage media can be used to implement storage functions of
   the memory unit(s). The memory unit(s) can store pre- stored waveforms and coefficient data
10 and information, which can be used in the implementation of generating a waveform, e.g., such
   as a spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth, coherent, pseudo-random noise, and
   frequency and/or phase-coded waveform. The memory unit(s) can store data and information
   obtained from received and processed waveforms, which can be used to generate and transmit
   new waveforms. The memory unit(s) can be associated with a system control bus, e.g., Data &
15 Control Bus (103).
   [0022]      The 1/0 unit(s) can be connected to an external interface, source of data storage,
   and/or display device. The 1/0 unit(s) can be associated with a system control bus, e.g., Data &
   Control Bus (103). Various types of wired or wireless interfaces compatible with typical data
   communication standards, such as but not limited to Universal Serial Bus (USB), IEEE 1394
20 (FireWire), Bluetooth, IEEE 802.111, Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), Wireless Personal
   Area Network (WPAN), Wireless Wide Area Network (WWAN), WiMAX, IEEE 802.16
   (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), and parallel interfaces, can be
   used to implement the 1/0 unit. The 1/0 unit can interface with an external interface, source of
   data storage, or display device to retrieve and transfer data and information that can be processed
25 by the processor unit, stored in the memory unit, or exhibited on an output unit.
   [0023]      System Controller (102) can control all of the modules of system (100), e.g., through
   connection via Data & Control Bus (103). For example, Data & Control Bus (103) can link
   System Controller (102) to one or more attached digital signal processors, e.g., Digital Signal
   Processor (104), for processing waveforms for their functional control. Digital Signal Processor
30 (104) can include one or many processors, such as but not limited to ASIC (application-specific
   integrated circuit), FPGA (field-programmable gate array), DSP (digital signal processor), AsAP
                                                      6

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   (asynchronous array of simple processors), and other types of data processing architectures.
   Data & Control Bus (103) can also link System Controller (102), as well as Digital Signal
   Processor (104), to one or more display units with modules for user interfaces, e.g., Display
   (105) with a module User Interface (106) to provide information to a user or operator and to
 5 receive input/commands from the user or operator. Display (105) can include many suitable
   display units, such as but not limited to cathode ray tube (CRT), light emitting diode (LED), and
   liquid crystal display (LCD) monitor and/or screen as a visual display. Display (105) can also
   include various types of display, speaker, or printing interfaces. In other examples, Display
   (105) can include other output apparatuses, such as toner, liquid inkjet, solid ink, dye
10 sublimation, inkless (such as thermal or UV) printing apparatuses and various types of audio
   signal transducer apparatuses. User Interface (106) can include many suitable interfaces
   including various types of keyboard, mouse, voice command, touch pad, and brain-machine
   interface apparatuses.
   [0024]      The exemplary system (100) can include Waveform Generator (107), which can be
15 controlled by System Controller (102) for producing one or more digital waveforms. The one or
   more digital waveforms can be generated as analog electronic signals (e.g., analog waveforms)
   by at least one element in an array of waveform synthesizers and beam controllers, e.g.,
   represented in this example as Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108). Waveform
   Generator (107) can be at least one of a function generator and an arbitrary waveform generator
20 (AWG). For example, Waveform Generator (107) can be configured as an AWG to generate
   arbitrary digital waveforms for Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) to synthesize
   as individual analog waveforms and/or a composite analog waveform. Waveform Generator
   (107) can also include at least one memory unit(s) that can store pre-stored waveforms and
   coefficient data and information used in the generation of a digital waveform.
25 [0025]      The exemplary system (100) shown in FIG. 1A includes Waveform Synthesizer and
   Beam Controller (108) comprising I number of array elements. In one example, Waveform
   Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) can be configured to include at least one waveform
   synthesizer element on each line of the I number of array waveform synthesizers. In another
   example, Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) can include at least one beam
30 controller element on each line of the I number of array beam controllers. In another example,
   Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) can include at least one waveform synthesizer
                                                     7

      WO 2013/066821                                                             PCT/US2012/062435
   element and beam controller element on each line of the I number of array waveform
   synthesizers and beam controllers. Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) can
   include a phase-lock loop system for generation of an electronic signal, e.g., a radio frequency
   (RF) waveform. An exemplary RF waveform can be synthesized by Waveform Synthesizer and
 5 Beam Controller (108) from individual waveforms generated in the array elements of Waveform
   Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108), e.g., one individual RF waveform can be generated in
   one array element substantially simultaneously to all other individual waveforms generated by
   the other array elements of Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108). Each individual
   RF waveform can be defined for a particular frequency band, also referred to as a frequency
10 component or 'chip', and the waveform properties of each individual waveform can be
   determined by Waveform Generator (107), which can include at least one amplitude value and at
   least one phase value corresponding to the chip. Waveform Generator (107) can issue
   commands and send waveform data including information about each individual waveform's
   properties to Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) for generation of individual RF
15 waveforms that can be composited into a composite RF waveform.
   [0026]      The individual RF waveforms and/or the composite RF waveform generated by
   Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller (108) can be modified by Output Amplifiers (109),
   which includes an array of I number of amplifiers, e.g., by amplifying the gain and/or shifting the
   phase of a waveform. Output Amplifiers (109) can be used as transducer drivers. The individual
20 RF waveforms and/or the composite RF waveform can be passed to Transmit/Receive (T/R)
   switch (110), e.g., an N-pole double-throw transmit/receive switch. T/R Switch (110) that can be
   interfaced with a transducer module. A generated RF waveform, e.g., the composite RF
   waveform and/or at least one individual RF waveform, that is to be transmitted into a target
   medium can be transduced into, for example, an acoustic wave by the transducer module that can
25 include an array of transducer elements, e.g., Transducer Array (111) comprising I number of
   elements. For example, the transduced acoustic wave can be emitted in the form of an acoustic
   waveform pulse. Each array element of the Transducer Array (111) may generate one or more
   acoustic waveforms that correspond to the individual waveform chips determined by the
   Waveform Generator (107).
30 [0027]      The exemplary transduced transmitted acoustic waveform can be transmitted toward a
   target area, e.g., biological tissue, and form a spatially combined acoustic waveform. The
                                                       8

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   transmitted waveform can propagate into the target medium, which for example, can have one or
   more inhomogeneous mediums that partially transmit and partially reflect the transmitted
   acoustic waveform. Exemplary acoustic waveforms that are partially reflected, also referred to
   as returned acoustic waveforms, can be received by Transducer Array (111).       For example, each
 5 array element of I array elements of Transducer Array (111) can be configured to receive a
   returned acoustic waveform corresponding to the frequency chip and convert it to an analog RF
   waveform. The individual received (analog) RF waveforms can be modified by Pre-Amplifier
   module (112), which includes an array of I number of amplifiers, e.g., by amplifying the gain
   and/or shifting the phase of a waveform. The individual received waveforms can be converted
10 from analog format to digital format by analog to digital (A/D) Converter module (113), which
   includes an array of I number of A/D converters. A/D Converter module (113) can include A/D
   converters that have low least significant bit (LSB) jitter, spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR)
   and waveform dependency, such that the exemplary waveforms can be adequately decoded. The
   converted digital representations of the individual received waveforms can be processed by a
15 processor, e.g., Digital Signal Processor (104), in manner that creates and forms a representative
   image of the target medium.
   [0028]      The exemplary system (100) can be operated in one of many operation modes. In one
   example, Master Clock (101) can provide the time base for synchronizing the system (100), e.g.,
   as a time base for the Waveform Synthesizers (108). Master Clock (101) can be configured as a
20 low phase noise clock such that the exemplary waveforms can be phase encoded. An operator
   can select the mode of operation at User Interface (106). Exemplary modes of operation
   provided for the user to select at the User Interface (106) include Conventional A-Mode (e.g., 1D
   Depth only image), Conventional B-Mode (e.g., 2D Plane image - transverse vs. depth),
   Conventional C-Mode (e.g., 2D Plane image at selected depth), and Conventional D-Modes
25 (e.g., Doppler Modes). Exemplary Doppler modes include Color Doppler (e.g. superposition of
   color coded Doppler and B-mode images), Continuous Doppler (e.g., ID Doppler profile vs.
   depth), Pulsed Wave Doppler (e.g., Doppler vs. time for selected volume), and Duplex/Triplex
   Doppler (e.g., superposition of Conventional B-Mode, Conventional C-Mode or Color Doppler,
   and Pulsed Wave Doppler). Some other exemplary modes of operations can include
30 Conventional 3D and 4D ("real time" 3D) volume renderings of the previously described modes
   of operations. The exemplary system (100) can implement new modes of operation that can
                                                      9

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   generate spread spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth, frequency- and/or phase-coded
   waveforms. For example, a user can select exemplary ATS-Modes (Artificial Tissue Staining
   Modes) that can comprise a B-Mode, a C-Mode, a D-Mode, or other mode combined with image
   color coding to aid tissue differentiation - analogous to tissue staining for microscopic
 5 histological studies; and exemplary CAD-Modes (Computer Aided Diagnostic Modes) that
   differentiate and identify tissue type. ATS-Modes can employ the use of features for image color
   coding in image processing based on one or more of a number of measured properties that are
   obtained from the returned echo waveform from the target area, e.g., the returned echo from an
   exemplary transmitted spread spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth, coded acoustic
10 waveform. CAD-Modes can use classifiers (algorithms) to classify, for example, tissue types
   based on features of the measured properties of the returned echo from the target area, e.g., the
   returned echo from an exemplary spread spectrum, wide instantaneous bandwidth, coded
   acoustic waveforms. The features properties can include differing impedances, amplitude
   reflections (as a function of wavelength), group delay, etc. Some exemplary classifiers that can
15 be employed using CAD-Modes can include deterministic classifiers, stochastic classifiers (e.g.,
   Bayesian classifiers), and neural network classifiers.
   [0029]       FIG. lB shows an exemplary operation process (150) for operating the system (100)
   for ultrasound imaging. For each time epoch, process (150) can begin by implementing process
   (151) to switch system (100) in transmit mode. For example, the System Controller (102) can
20 command an N-pole double-throw T/R switch, e.g., T/R Switch (110), to transmit position.
   Process (150) includes a process (152) to check a user-defined mode of operation. For example,
   mode of operation can be selected by a user using User Interface (106), or the mode of operation
   can be selected by another entity or internally within system (100). Based on the selected
   operation mode, System Controller (102) can command Waveform Generator (107) to issue a
25 digital message (data) to one or more elements in Waveform Synthesizers and Beam Controllers
   (108) that defines the frequency, amplitude and phase of each of the frequency chips that form a
   desired wideband composite RF waveform commanded, e.g., implemented in a process (153).
   Process (152) can occur anywhere and implemented in multiple instances during process (150).
   Process (150) includes a process (153) to issue waveform data (e.g., the exemplary digital
30 message/data) to waveform synthesizers and beam formers, such as the Waveform Synthesizers
   and Beam Controllers (108). The issued waveform data can include the frequency, amplitude
                                                     10

      WO 2013/066821                                                            PCT/US2012/062435
   and phase information of the desired frequency chips that are synthesized as frequency- and/or
   phase-coded waveforms, in which each coded waveform corresponds to a distinct frequency
   band. Process (150) includes a process (154) to generate individual analog RF waveforms that
   correspond to defined frequency chips. For example, each element in the array of Waveform
 5 Synthesizers and Beam Controllers (108) can convert the digital message/data from the
   Waveform Generator (107) into individual analog waveforms that can make up a coherent
   analog wideband composite waveform. Process (150) includes a process (155) to amplify the
   individual analog waveforms that can make up a coherent analog wideband composite
   waveform. For example, each analog waveform and/or wideband composite waveform can be
10 amplified by an array element in Output Amplifier (109). The amplified analog wideband
   composite waveform can then pass through the T/R Switch (110) and excite its respective array
   element of the Transducer Array (111) (e.g., in an ultrasound probe). Process (150) includes a
   process (156) to transduce the composite analog waveform to an acoustic waveform that can
   propagate throughout the scanned volume. For example, each element of the Transducer Array
15 (111) can provide an acoustic waveform from each of the individual analog waveform
   corresponding to the frequency chip generated in Waveform Synthesizer and Beam Controller
   (108) that makes up the wideband composite acoustic waveform. Transducer Array (111) can
   form the acoustic beam that propagates into the target medium, e.g., biological tissue volume
   under study.
20 [0030]      At the end of process (156), process (150) can implement process (157) to switch
   system (100) in receive mode. For example, the System Controller (102) can command the N
   pole double-throw T/R Switch (110) to receive position. Process (150) includes a process (158)
   to receive a returned acoustic waveform, which can be in the form of one or more returned
   acoustic waveforms (also referred to as acoustic waveform echoes). Process (158) can also
25 include transducing the returned acoustic waveform echo(es) into individual received analog
   waveforms, e.g., corresponding to the frequency chips of the generated individual waveforms.
   For example, the returned acoustic waveform propagates back to and is received by Transducer
   Array (111). Each element of Transducer Array (111) can convert the received acoustic
   waveform it receives into an analog signal (waveform). Process (150) includes a process (159)
30 to amplify the individual received analog waveforms. For example, each received analog
   waveform can be amplified by its respective low noise pre-amplifier element in Pre-Amplifier
                                                    11

      WO 2013/066821                                                             PCT/US2012/062435
   module (112). Process (150) includes a process (160) to convert the individual received analog
   waveforms into digital waveform data. For example, each received (and amplified) analog
   waveform signal can be converted into a digital word by each respective A/D element in A/D
   Converter module (113). The digital format data can be sent to Digital Signal Processor (104)
 5 for signal processing. Process (150) includes a process (161) to process the digital waveform
   data into image frames representative of the target medium. Process (161) can also include
   compositing the digital waveform data into a composite digital signal representing the individual
   and composite received analog waveform. For example, Digital Signal Processor (104) can
   detect the amplitude and phase of each of the frequency chips that comprise the wideband
10 composite acoustic waveform received by each of the transducer array elements. Digital Signal
   Processor (104) can form the received beam and separate the amplitude and Doppler components
   of each resolution element of the beam, and can form an image frame associated with mode
   previously selected by operator. The image frame formed by Digital Signal Processor (104) can
   be displayed on Display (105) to the user. For other subsequent time epochs, System Controller
15 (102) can repeat this exemplary process, e.g., by commanding Waveform Generator (107) to
   issue to each element in Waveform Synthesizers (108) another digital message that defines the
   amplitude and phase of each of the frequency chips that comprise the wideband composite
   waveform and by commanding T/R Switch (110) back to transmit position, etc.
   [0031]      The system (100) can be implemented to produce spread-spectrum, wide
20 instantaneous bandwidth (e.g., up to 100% or more of fractional bandwidth), coherent, pseudo
   random noise (PRN), frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms for ultrasound imaging. There
   are limitless embodiments of such waveforms. One example is featured in FIG. 2, which shows
   an exemplary plot of a generated composite waveform (200) that is comprised of a plurality of
   individual waveforms (e.g., frequency chips). In some implementations, the individual
25 waveforms of the composite waveform (200) can be PRN waveforms including a sequence of
   pulses for each frequency chip that repeats itself after a sequence or code period (T), e.g., such
   that the sequence has a very low correlation with any other sequence in the set of frequency
   chips, or with the same sequence at a significantly different time frame, or with narrow band
   interference or thermal noise. For example, the system (100) can generate exactly the same
30 sequences of the exemplary PRN waveforms at both the transmitter and the receiver ends, so a
   received signal sequence (based on the transmitted signal sequence) can exhibit a high
                                                     12

       WO 2013/066821                                                                          PCT/US2012/062435
   correlation for signal processing to produce an acoustic image of the target.
   [0032]        As shown in FIG. 2, an exemplary individual waveform or chip (201) of the
   composite waveform (200) corresponds to the frequency chip                 fN-2 that is transmitted during a
   transmit period T beginning at time frame to, e.g., as described in the process (156) in FIG. lB.
 5 As shown in FIG. 2, following the transmit period T, a receive time interval Ta is exhibited, in
   which returned acoustic waveform echoes are received as described in the process (158) in FIG.
    1B. The transmit period T and the receive time interval TR form a frame period Tf, which can be
   repeated in subsequent time frames (ti,      t 2 , t 3 , ... ).
   [0033]        The exemplary composite waveform (200) can be represented by an equation for
10 waveform, W, which can be represented in the time domain as a complex number, given by
   Equation (1):
                  W(t)= Z Z        Ane j(2 Rfot-nk+C, )Ut-               kTf                                 (1)
                            k   n
   [0034]        W is comprised of M individual orthogonal waveforms (e.g., orthogonal frequency
   chips), where j = -         1 . In Equation (1), T represents the chip duration or period of the coded
15 sequence, and fo represents the fundamental chip frequency, such that fo = 1/NT, and in which
   Nfo is the maximum frequency and (M-N+1)fo is the minimum frequency. n represents a
   sequence of positive integers from N-M+1 to N. The waveform repetition frequency is 1/Tf,
   with Tf being the duration of a frame or epoch, and U(x) = 1 for 0                x    Tf. cbnk represents the
   frequency chip phase term of the nt chip in the kt time epoch, and An is the amplitude of the nth
20 chip. The frequency chip phase term cF,± can be a pseudo-random phase term, in which a
   pseudo-randomly scrambled starting phase DA              1   is a random number in the set {Ink27/N}, where
   Ink is a sequence of random, positive integers selected without replacement from the series I = 0,
    1, 2, 3 ........ , N, with N being a large number. Cn, which is an additive phase term, is a number
   between 0 and 27.       For example, the frequency chip phase pseudo-random values 4)± can be pre
25 stored in an exemplary database within a memory unit of System Controller (102) and/or
   Waveform Generator (107).
   [0035]        The composite waveform, W, can be formed by synthesizing substantially orthogonal
   coded waveforms (e.g., frequency chips), in which each coded waveform corresponds to a
   distinct frequency band, and the coded waveforms includes at least one of frequency-coded
30 waveforms or phase-coded waveforms, e.g., the coded waveforms synthesized in the Waveform
                                                                13

      WO 2013/066821                                                             PCT/US2012/062435
   Synthesizers (108). The coded waveforms can be synthesized as frequency-coded waveforms by
   selecting two or more frequencies that define the carrier frequencies of the frequency chips (e.g.,
   including selecting the minimum and maximum frequency) and determining the A, amplitude
   values of the frequency chips. The synthesis of the frequency-coded can also include
 5 determining a time-bandwidth product (MfoT) parameter of each waveform of the coded
   waveforms. In some implementations, the amplitude for a particular frequency chip can be
   determined as a single value for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch and repeated
   in subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. In other implementations, the
   amplitude for a particular frequency chip can be determined as a single value for that frequency
10 chip during a particular time epoch and assigned a different single value in subsequent time
   epochs for the particular frequency chip. And in other implementations, the amplitude for a
   particular frequency chip can be determined to include multiple amplitude values for that
   frequency chip during a particular time epoch, in which the multiple values of the An can be
   repeated or varied in subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. The selection of
15 the range of frequencies from the maximum frequency (Nfo) to the minimum frequency ((M
   N+1)fo) plus the set of individual waveform amplitude terms (An) can utilize one of many
   known code sequences (e.g. including pushing sequences, Barker Codes, etc.) or, for example,
   utilize a numerical search on pseudo-random codes or any other codes for minimum ambiguity
   sidelobes.
20 [0036]       The coded waveforms can additionally or alternatively be synthesized as phase-coded
   waveforms by determining individual waveform phase terms (taO) of each waveform of the
   coded waveforms. For example, to provide variation of the composite waveform, W, the phase
   Ga± can include one or more phase values for a frequency chip within the transmit period T. In
   some implementations, the phase    Pnk for a particular frequency chip can be determined as a
25 single value for that frequency chip during a particular time epoch and repeated in subsequent
   time epochs for the particular frequency chip. In other implementations, the phase    Pnk  for a
   particular frequency chip can be determined as a single value for that frequency chip during a
   particular time epoch and assigned a different single value in subsequent time epochs for the
   particular frequency chip. And in other implementations, the phase    tk  for a particular
30 frequency chip can be determined to include multiple values for that frequency chip during a
   particular time epoch, in which the multiple values of the 4Dnk can be repeated or varied in
                                                     14

      WO 2013/066821                                                                  PCT/US2012/062435
   subsequent time epochs for the particular frequency chip. For example, the waveform (201) in
   the first time epoch (to) can include a first phase  (A,  for example, as its phase shift for the
   beginning portion of the transmit period T and a second phase       OB,  for example, as its phase shift
   for the latter portion of the transmit period T. The waveform (201) in the next time epoch (ti)
 5 can repeat the exemplary phases    (PA  and @PB as its beginning and latter phase shifts or include
   another phase shift sequence (e.g., such as (A,       B  Dc, or such as tB  and (DA, or other
   configurations). The synthesis of the frequency-coded can also include determining a time
   bandwidth product (MfoT) parameter of each waveform of the coded waveforms.
   [0037]       An exemplary transmitted waveform, W, can be comprised of the set of M individual
10 waveforms that are orthogonal and completely span the frequency range          fN-M+1  to  fN, as seen in
   FIG. 2. The parameter N can be chosen to be a large number to give W a wide instantaneous
   bandwidth. In the special case when the lowest frequency fN-M+1 = l/T, then W can describe any
   wideband waveform that may be contained within this range of frequencies. For any waveform
   among the M individual waveforms, one or more phases (e.g., OIk) can be encoded in a single
15 waveform during the interval T. Additionally, any waveform among the M individual
   waveforms can include multiple amplitudes encoded in a single waveform. This can be
   implemented by amplitude weighting and phase weighting.
   [0038]       The family of individual waveforms described by Equation (1) can form a coherent,
   pseudo-random noise, frequency- and/or phase-coded, spread spectrum composite waveform.
20 Based on the selection of parameters, the individual waveforms can be made to be statistically
   orthogonal to any degree desired. For example, the sidelobe levels of the ambiguity function,
   described later in Equation (2), for a given waveform represents the degree of orthogonality of
   that waveform. By determining particular parameters of the waveforms, medical ultrasound
   image resolution can be significantly improved. For example, parameters that affect the
25 resolution of medical ultrasound images include the time-bandwidth product (MfoT) parameter,
   which determines the inherent combined axial range (e.g., Doppler resolution) and the speckle
                                                                                        1
   reduction ability of the waveform, and the individual waveform phase terms          (q k),  which
   determine the statistical degree of orthogonality, e.g., which in turn determines the degree that
   the waveform can function in inhomogeneous media of biological tissues. For example, the
30 lower the sidelobes, the greater the orthogonality and greater the resolution (less noise). The
   selection of the set of individual waveform phase terms (Ink) can utilize one of many known
                                                       15

       WO 2013/066821                                                             PCT/US2012/062435
   code sequences (e.g. including Barker, Frank, Golay, etc.) or, for example, utilize a numerical
   search on pseudo-random codes or any other codes for minimum ambiguity sidelobes.
   [0039]      In some implementations, the composite waveform (200), e.g., described by Equation
   (1), can be a single wideband, coherent, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveform. For example,
 5 based on the selection of parameters, the single waveform can be made to be statistically
   orthogonal to any other signal waveform or noise signal present in the target medium.
   [0040]      The parameter A,, which is the amplitude of the nt chip, and C,, which is an additive
   phase term, in combination can provide pre-emphasis of the analog signal that excites each
   individual element of Transducer Array (111) to produce a transmitted acoustic waveform that
10 has the desired amplitude and phase characteristics over the frequency range of W. Pre
   emphasis of the transmitted waveform can compensate for both the non-constant amplitude and
   phase response of transducer elements as a function of frequency, and the non-uniform
   propagation characteristics of intervening tissue layers. For example, the pre-emphasis terms can
   provide an acoustic waveform that has equal amplitude chips with constant (e.g., flat) amplitude
15 and a known phase versus frequency characteristic. Such constant amplitude versus frequency
   acoustic waveforms can be referred to as 'white' waveforms. Alternatively, if pre-emphasis is
   not provided, then the transmitted acoustic waveform can replicate the frequency response of the
   transducer, and such waveforms are referred to as 'colored' waveforms. De-emphasis of the
   received waveform can permit determination of the reflection characteristic of the target
20 medium's volume, e.g., biological tissue volume.
   [0041]      By inspection, single frequency modes (e.g., Conventional A-, B- and C-Mode), due
   to their monochromatic nature, do not need pre-emphasis. Such single frequency waveforms
   may require amplitude control, for example, to ensure biologically safe sound intensity limits.
   [0042]      If the phase of each chip is random, the transmitted waveform, W, can have random
25 noise-like characteristics. If the phases (<Pnk + Cn) of each chip are uniquely determined,
   repeatable and synchronized to the Master Clock (as shown in FIG. 1A), the transmitted
   waveform, W, can be classified as pseudo-random noise. Such pseudo-random noise waveforms
   are coherent permitting implementation of coherent receivers.
   [0043]      Image processing advantages of wide instantaneous bandwidth, pseudo-random noise
30 waveforms can include reduction, with proper waveform selection, and potential elimination of
   speckle, e.g., speckles / speckle patterns, which are random intensity patterns produced by the
                                                      16

      WO 2013/066821                                                             PCT/US2012/062435
   mutual interference waveforms, which are commonly associated with conventional medical
   ultrasound images. This exemplary reduction in speckle can be an analogous comparison of a
   scene illuminated by wide band, Gaussian noise-like white light, which has no observable
   speckle to narrow band laser illumination with exhibits strong speckle of the same scene.
 5 [0044]       Signal processing advantages of coherent, pseudo-random noise, frequency- and
   phase-coded waveforms can include waveforms having very low time and Doppler sidelobes.
   For example, an ambiguity function, A(t,t), can be a two-dimensional representation that shows
   the distortion of a received waveform processed by a matched filter in the receiver due to the
   effect of Doppler shift (j) or propagation delay (t). Specifically, the exemplary ambiguity
10 function A(T,)    is defined by Equation (2) and is determined solely by the waveform properties
   and the receiver characteristics and not by the scenario. The ambiguity function of A(t,u) is
   defined by
15
   where X k (t)-=         e j[2=  (tt )++,] for 0 ! t   T, Xk (t)= 0 otherwise.
   [0045]       For waveforms of the type described by Equation (1), the following equation can be
   obtained:
                A(r, V,t,,,,,,T)=
20                   1-      -(At)    Sin[27c(Af)(T   - At1)] j2[Af(T+At)-f0 At+vt+Ao]        (3)
                               T        [2ff(Af)(T-|At)]                                      (
   where At= r- t, Af = V-(f, -f,,), and AG = On -(DM'                 which can resultin the
   complete ambiguity equation shown in Equation (4):
                              1
                x(Zr'V) =     - I     A(r,V, t,fs,,@,,f, ,@,,T)                               (4)
                            M nm
   where both n and m are a sequence of positive integers from N-M+1 to N.
25 [0046]       FIG. 3 shows exemplary ambiguity function characteristics of a pseudo-random
                                                     17

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   noise, frequency-coded waveform (301), represented by an equation for waveform, W. The
   exemplary coded waveform (301) includes a code length of 128. As shown in FIG. 3, the
   sidelobes (302) of this ambiguity function are due to chip-to-chip phase interactions and have a
   plateau level below the peak that is a function of N22
 5 [0047]       By inspection, many waveforms (W) are possible depending on the specific random
   number codes    (Ink) selected. However, the sidelobe performance cannot be guaranteed for every
   waveform defined, and therefore only those codes which give sufficiently low sidelobes as
   determined by a numerical search of a set of possible codes should be used.
   [0048]       For example, in medical ultrasound applications, living tissue as a propagation
10 medium is inhomogeneous. Propagation medium inhomogeneity can introduce differential time
   delays, and living tissue can introduce unwanted motion induced Doppler. Ultrasound
   transducer arrays also can have undesirable side lobes and grating lobes (e.g., due to physical
   size limitations) in the off axis portions of ultrasound beam that add unwanted time delay and
   Doppler returns to the returns of the main lobe. Waveforms that exhibit low ambiguity function
15 sidelobes can significantly improve focusing and target contrast due through the reduction
   interference from differential time delays, motion induced Doppler, transducer side lobe effects.
   [0049]       Coherent pseudo-random noise, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms can
   enable higher order cross range focusing techniques to be employed that can improve the lateral
   resolution of size limited ultrasound transducer arrays, e.g., medical ultrasound transducer arrays.
20 [0050]       For example, each biological tissue type and each diseased tissue types may exhibit
   their own unique ultrasound echo return as a function of frequency and spatial morphology.
   Using conventional Elastograph-Mode (E-Mode) modalities, it can be difficult to take advantage
   of such properties to classify tissues, e.g., due to measurement errors such as the inability to
   accurately characterize the ultrasound wave propagation through overlaying inhomogeneous
25 media. Exemplary waveforms produced by the exemplary system (100), e.g., wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, coherent pseudo-random noise, frequency- and/or phase-coded waveforms, can
   enable tissue differentiation by simultaneously determining the propagation delay for each
   acoustic ray through intervening tissue layers and accurately determining the spatial echo
   features of the target volume under investigation. Classifiers, one example being Bayesian
30 inference Classifiers among others, can be applied to the feature data obtained from the
   measured characteristics of the received echo to automatically classify tissue types observed in
                                                       18

      WO 2013/066821                                                                   PCT/US2012/062435
   the target volume providing a Computer Aided Diagnostic-Mode (CAD-Mode).
   [0051]      Unlike conventional E-Modes, which inherently have significantly reduced image
   quality and rely on individual operator technique, the exemplary waveforms described by
   Equation (1) can inherently provide improved image quality while simultaneously colorizing the
 5 resultant image by tissue type in the ATS and/or CAD-Modes. With this advantage, user
   technique can be mitigated and the margins of a lesion are discernible thus permitting improved
   diagnoses.
   [0052]      In addition, Waveform Synthesizers (108) positioned on transmit and Digital Signal
   Processor (104) positioned on receive (as shown in FIG. 1A), can also perform beam control
10 (e.g., beam steering, dynamic beam focusing, and beam forming) functions. FIGS. 4A-4C show
   the basics of these digital electronic functions by introducing a differential time delay, or
   equivalently a phase shift, and amplitude weighting between each of the elements of the phased
   array. As can be seen in FIG. 4A, the differential phase shift can compensate for the differential
   change in distance (d) each acoustic ray (ri, r 2, ... ri, ...) travels from it element to the point of
15 focus (p). An angle (0) is formed as the point of focus (p) is not along the z-axis direction of
   direct aim/alignment of the Transducer Array (111) toward a target in the target medium.
   Additionally, a differential amplitude weight can be applied to each element to control the beam
   shape and suppress side and grating lobes. Also, for one or more chips in an exemplary
   waveform, Waveform Generator (107) can pre-encode a phase delay to delay the phase of the
20 one or more chips transmitted at each transducer element in Transducer Array (111). An
   exemplary result of this feature can be seen in FIGS. 4B and 4C. The exemplary phase delay
   values for the one or more chips can be communicated to Digital Signal Processor (104) and/or
   System Controller (102) to incorporate the phase delay values in the signal processing of the
   received composite waveform.
25 [0053]      For narrow instantaneous bandwidth ultrasound devices, this function can be
   accomplished by introducing phase shift and amplitude attenuation on the composite analog
   signal driving each element. However, for the exemplary spread-spectrum, wide instantaneous
   bandwidth, frequency- and phase-coded waveforms generated by system (100), each individual
   chip of the waveform (Wi) is individually amplitude weighted (Bni) and phase weighted (Dni) as a
30 function of frequency (n) for each array element (i) individually for all I elements, as indicated
   by Equation (5).
                                                       19

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
               Wi (t)=    Z ZA, Bie         2 mf     "(
                                                  tk+Cn+DnUi)Ut        - kTf                     (5)
                          k   n
   [0054]      On transmit, the amplitude and phase weighting required of each chip can be
   computed by the System Controller (102) and can be sent as an instruction to the Waveform
   Generator (107). Waveform Generator (107) can then send the digital words (real and imaginary
 5 components) to the Waveform Synthesizers and Beam Controller (108) that produces the analog
   drive signal that is amplified by Amplifier (109) and sent to each element of the array of
   Transducer Array (111).
   [0055]      On receive, the reverse process takes place. The A/D Converter module (113) can
   send the digital words that represent the amplitude and phase information of each chip for each
10 array element to the Digital Signal Processor (104), which in turn can digitally form the receive
   beam for each chip.
   [0056]      A multitude of ways can be used to process the received waveforms, e.g., wide
   bandwidth, spread-spectrum, frequency and/or phase-coded waveforms. FIG. 5 shows an
   exemplary correlation processing technique. For example, an input to the exemplary correlation
15 processing technique can include a digitized received signal, Yi(c,'u), which can be multiplied by
   the complex conjugate replica of the transmitted digital waveform, Wi'(t). The complex
   conjugate replica Wi*(t) can be time shifted by 1-To prior to multiplication. This multiplication
   operation can be repeated multiple times for multiple time shifts, e.g., J times, as seen in FIG. 5.
   The multiple multiplication operations for the multiple time shifts can be repeated in parallel, but
20 for each operation the replica is shifted in time by an increment, mo, from the previous one, as
   shown in the figure. For each time step, the resultant products can be filtered with a window
   function, such as a Hann, Hamming, Tukey, Kaiser Bessel, Dolph-Chebyshev, Blackman-Harris
   window, etc., a fast Fourier Transform (FFT) integrator, and passed through a digital filter. For
   example, a digital filter of a type that is dependent of the specific waveform, W, can be
25 employed to filter and decimate the inputted signal. The exemplary process can result in the
   range-Doppler return for each individual if element of the transducer array. The output data
   stream from the exemplary detection algorithm can then be processed using conventional
   techniques to form an image for display. The processed range and Doppler waveforms can be
   further processed by partitioning the I number of transducer elements into two or more
30 subarrays. The processed range-Doppler return for the if0 element can be weighted in amplitude
                                                      20

      WO 2013/066821                                                                PCT/US2012/062435
   and/or phase depending on which subarray that iVelement belongs. These weighted returns can
   then be summed and differenced. These sum and differences can then be processed to improve
   the cross range image resolution of the system.
   [0057]      Several applications and uses of the disclosed technology can be implemented to
 5 exploit the described features of the aforementioned systems, methods, and devices. Some
   examples are described for clinical use of the disclosed technology.
   [0058]      In one exemplary application, the resultant image quality, the ATS and CAD modes
   of an exemplary spread spectrum ultrasound device can enable the primary care physician to
   incorporate this modality into a routine examination screening protocol to locate early stage
10 malignancies (e.g., Stage 0 or 1), as well as later stage cancers. As the result of this application,
   the device can potentially, for example, enhance the survival rate of hard to diagnose
   asymptomatic patients suffering from such malignancies such as stomach, pancreatic, bladder
   cancers, etc.
   [0059]      In another exemplary application, the resultant image quality, ATS and CAD modes
15 of an exemplary spread spectrum ultrasound device can permit board certified radiologists to
   diagnose neoplasms as benign or malignant prior to any surgical biopsy or resection intervention.
   As a result of this application, the ability of radiologists to locate and diagnose early stage
   malignancies (e.g., Stage 0 or 1) can potentially improve patient survival rate. Additionally,
   unnecessary biopsies can potentially be avoided, along with their attendant risk of hard to treat or
20 even lethal complications such as, for example, methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus
   (MRSA staph) infections.
   [0060]      In another exemplary application, the resultant 3D image quality of an exemplary
   spread spectrum ultrasound device and its 4D imaging capability can be used in fine needle
   biopsy and other medical procedures. For example, the exemplary spread spectrum ultrasound
25 device can be integrated into an exemplary fine needle biopsy instrument (e.g., with the device's
   transducer probe), which can permit the fine needle biopsy of very small, early stage (e.g., Stage
   0 or 1) neoplasms to confirm noninvasive diagnoses. As a result of this application, the ability of
   surgeons to avoid open biopsies and the potential for hard to treat and lethal complications that
   may result is clearly beneficial to the patient.
30 [0061]      In another exemplary application, the integration of this device's spread spectrum
   transducer probe with minimally invasive surgical high definition video instrumentation can
                                                       21

      WO 2013/066821                                                             PCT/US2012/062435
   permit the fusing of the optical and ultrasound images. Given the improved 3D image quality of
   this spread spectrum ultrasound device, its 4D imaging capability, the ATS and CAD modes,
   such fused video and ultrasound images can give surgeons the added ability to locate and
   surgically excise diseased tissue without excising excessive healthy tissue.
 5 [0062]      In another exemplary application, given the improved 3D image quality of this spread
   spectrum ultrasound device, its 4D imaging capability, and its ATS modes, an exemplary spread
   spectrum ultrasound device can reduce the amount of time for the brachytherapy treatment of
   malignant neoplasms by precisely guiding the insertion of catheters and sealed radioactive
   sources into the proper location. The application of this spread spectrum ultrasound device to
10 brachytherapy can be especially useful for the treatment of small, hard to locate neoplasms and
   their margins.
   [0063]      In another exemplary application, given the improved 3D image quality of this spread
   spectrum ultrasound device, its 4D imaging capability, and its ATS modes, an exemplary spread
   spectrum ultrasound device can enable the effective insertion of high dose, localized
15 pharmaceutical treatments of diseases by precisely guiding the insertion of catheters and
   pharmaceuticals into the proper location. The application of this spread spectrum ultrasound
   device to brachytherapy can be especially useful for the treatment of small, hard to locate
   neoplasms.
   [0064]      Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this
20 specification, such as various modules, can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in
   computer software, firmware, or hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification
   and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of
   the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer
   program products, e.g., one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a
25 tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium for execution by, or to control the
   operation of, data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine
   readable storage device, a machine-readable storage substrate, a memory device, a composition
   of matter affecting a machine-readable propagated signal, or a combination of one or more of
   them. The term "data processing apparatus" encompasses all apparatus, devices, and machines
30 for processing data, including by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, or
   multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include, in addition to hardware, code that
                                                     22

      WO 2013/066821                                                               PCT/US2012/062435
   creates an execution environment for the computer program in question, e.g., code that
   constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an operating
   system, or a combination of one or more of them.
   [0065]       A computer program (also known as a program, software, software application,
 5 script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or
   interpreted languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand alone program or
   as a module, component, subroutine, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.
   A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be
   stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a
10 markup language document), in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple
   coordinated files (e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub programs, or portions of code).
   A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers
   that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a
   communication network.
15 [0066]       The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one
   or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform
   functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can
   also be performed by, and apparatus can also be implemented as, special purpose logic circuitry,
   e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application specific integrated
20 circuit).
   [0067]       Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way of
   example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, such as, for example, digital signal
   processors (DSP), and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally, a
   processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access
25 memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing
   instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally, a
   computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or
   both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto optical disks, or
   optical disks. However, a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media
30 suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile
   memory, media and memory devices, including by way of example semiconductor memory
                                                      23

      WO 2013/066821                                                              PCT/US2012/062435
   devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices. The processor and the memory
   can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.
   [0068]      While this patent document contains many specifics, these should not be construed as
   limitations on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of
 5 features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features
   that are described in this patent document in the context of separate embodiments can also be
   implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features that are
   described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple
   embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover, although features may be
10 described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more
   features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the
   claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
   [0069]      Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order, this
   should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order
15 shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve desirable
   results. In certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.
   Moreover, the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above
   should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments.
   [0070]      Only a few implementations and examples are described and other implementations,
20 enhancements and variations can be made based on what is described and illustrated in this
   patent document.
                                                      24

CLAIMS
1.      An acoustic imaging system, comprising:
        a waveform generation unit comprising one or more waveform synthesizers and
amplifiers coupled to a waveform generator, wherein the waveform generation unit
synthesizes a composite waveform comprising individual orthogonal coded waveforms
corresponding to distinct frequency bands that are generated by the one or more waveform
synthesizers according to waveform information provided by the waveform generator,
wherein the individual orthogonal coded waveforms include one or both of frequency
coded or phase-coded waveforms;
        a transmitter array of transducer elements in communication with the waveform
generation unit to transmit acoustic waveforms forming a composite acoustic waveform
based on drive signals produced from the individual orthogonal coded waveforms toward a
biological material, wherein the transmitter array of transducer elements is partitioned into
two or more subarrays such that at least one of the two or more subarrays is individually
amplitude weighted and at least one of the two or more subarrays is individually phase
weighted for at least one frequency band of the frequency bands corresponding to the
transmitted acoustic waveforms and combined, thereby providing enhanced cross-range
resolution;
        a receiver array of transducer elements to receive returned acoustic waveforms
returned from at least part of the biological material, wherein the received returned acoustic
waveforms correspond to at least some of the transmitted acoustic waveforms of the
composite acoustic waveform, wherein the receiver array of transducer elements is
partitioned into two or more subarrays such that at least one of the two or more subarrays is
individually amplitude weighted and at least one of the two or more subarrays is
individually phase weighted for at least one frequency band of the frequency bands
corresponding to the received returned acoustic waveforms and combined, thereby
providing enhanced cross-range resolution; and
        a controller unit in communication with the waveform generation unit and the
transmitter and receiver arrays, the controller unit including a processing unit to process the
received returned acoustic waveforms to produce an image of at least part of the biological
material.
                                               25

2.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
        a user interface unit including a display and in communication with the controller
unit to display the produced image.
3.      The system of claim 2, wherein the user interface unit includes one or more user
interface devices in communication with the controller unit to receive input from an
operator of the system.
4.      The system of claim 3, wherein the input includes a mode of operation, including:
        an ATS-Mode (Artificial Tissue Staining Mode) for imaging biological tissue that
enables image color coding based on at least one feature of one or more measured
properties that are obtained from the returned acoustic waveforms, or
        a CAD-Mode (Computer Aided Diagnostic Mode) for imaging biological tissue that
uses one or more algorithmic classifiers to classify biological tissue types using at least one
feature of one or more measured properties that are obtained from the returned acoustic
waveforms.
5.      The system of claim 2, wherein the display of the user interface unit is operable to
display a color coded image of the biological tissue based on the classified biological tissue
types.
6.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
        an array of analog to digital (A/D) converters in communication with the receiver
array and the controller unit to convert the received returned acoustic waveforms from
analog format to digital format.
7.      The system of claim 2, wherein the transmitter array and the receiver array include
the same transducer elements, and the system further comprises:
        a transmit/receive switching unit in communication with the waveform generation
unit and the transmitter and receiver arrays to switch between a transmit mode to transmit
the acoustic waveforms and a receive mode to receive the returned acoustic waveforms.
                                              26

8.      The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more amplifiers of the waveform
generation unit are communicatively coupled between the transmit/receive switching unit
and the one or more waveform synthesizers to modify the individual orthogonal coded
waveforms of the composite waveform.
9.      The system of claim 7, further comprising:
        an array of analog to digital (A/D) converters in communication with the receiver
array and the controller unit to convert the received returned acoustic waveforms from
analog format to digital format; and
        an array of one or more pre-amplifiers configured between the transmit/receive
switching unit and the array of A/D converters that modifies the received returned acoustic
waveforms.
10.     The system of claim 1, wherein each of the phase-coded waveforms includes a
frequency chip phase component that a pseudo-random number.
                                             27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
