Abstract:
A nickel base casting alloy is proposed consisting of the composition, by
weight percent: 19.0 - 22.5 chromium, 7.0 - 9.5 molybdenum,
2.75 - 4.0 niobium, 1.0 - 1.7 titanium, 0.35 - 1.0 manganese, 0.2 - 1.0 silicon,
0 - 0.03 carbon, 0 - 0.015 phosphorus, 0 - 0.01 sulfur, 0 - 0.35 aluminum, 0
13.25 iron, the balance being nickel and incidental impurities. In addition, a
casting made from such an alloy is proposed as well as a method for
manufacturing an impeller of a rotary machine by means of such an alloy.

   Nickel base casting alloy, casting, and method for manufacturing an impeller
   of a rotary machine
   1.       FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The invention relates to a nickel base casting alloy suitable for manufacturing
 5 castings and to a casting made from such an alloy. Furthermore, the invention
   relates to a method for manufacturing an impeller of a rotary machine by
   means of such an alloy.
   2.       BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   For manufacturing an impeller of a rotary machine such as a single stage or a
10 multistage centrifugal pump, a turbine, a compressor, an expander or the like,
   it is known to use a casting or investment casting process. In such a process
   a metallic material, for example an alloy, of a desired composition is provided
   as a melt. The melt is poured in a mold, e.g. a sand mold, a metallic mold or a
   combination thereof, and the melt in the mold is allowed to solidify. After
15 solidification of the material in the mold the casting is removed from the mold.
   In many cases the casting is subsequently subjected to a densification or
   consolidation process in order to reduce the porosity of the casting and to
   remove undesired internal cavities or holes. The densification may be
   achieved by applying an isostatic pressure to the casting. Usually the
20 densification takes place at elevated temperatures of some hundreds and
   sometimes even more than 1000 degree Celsius. A known process for the
   densification of metallic casting is hot isostatic pressing (HIP). After the
   densification step a finishing procedure may be applied comprising for
   example milling or machining or grinding or polishing.
25 The choice of an appropriate metallic material for manufacturing the impeller
   depends on the application for which the impeller is used. For example, in the
   oil and gas industry it is often a requirement that the rotary machine has to be
   able to handle sour fluids. Such environments may comprise high
   concentrations of hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide and chlorides creating very
30 aggressive conditions for the impeller.
                                          - 1 -

   Therefore, corrosion resistance is a very important aspect when choosing an
   appropriate material for manufacturing impellers.
   In particular, the impeller should have a high resistance against localized
   corrosion such as pitting corrosion or crevice corrosion. The resistance of a
 5 material against localized corrosion is quite often characterized by the pitting
   resistance equivalent number (PREN). The higher the PREN value the more
   corrosion resistant is a metallic material. A well-known material with a high
   corrosion resistance, which is often used for casting impellers, is duplex steel
   or super duplex steel. These are stainless steels having a mixed
10 microstructure of austenite and ferrite. Typically, super duplex has a PREN
   value of at least 40 indicating its high resistance against corrosion.
   Another very important aspect when choosing an impeller material are the
   mechanical properties of the material, such as the tensile strength, the yield
   strength or the fatigue strength. Usually these properties are measured by
15 parameters like the 0.2 % proof stress or the ultimate tensile strength.
   Duplex and super duplex steel have proven to be very good materials for
   casting impellers, for example pump impellers. However today's and future
   applications require even stronger pumps, i.e. high energy pumps, producing
   such enormous heads and/or flows that the resulting loads exceed the
20 maximum stress or strength that an impeller made of super duplex may
   withstand. For example there is a desire to manufacture pumps that can
   create a head of at least 800 meter per stage or even more. The mechanical
   properties of duplex or super duplex steels may not be sufficient to handle the
   resulting huge loads over an economically reasonable lifetime.
25 There are other materials known in the art having mechanical properties
   exceeding those of super duplex, for example hyper duplex, titanium alloys
   and such superalloys that are available under the tradename Rene 41 or
   Inconel 725. However, these alloys are either based on titanium, contain
   significant amounts of cobalt, or cannot be processed by casting or it is at
30 least extremely laborious and expensive to process these materials by means
   of casting or investment casting. Today, these nickel or iron based alloys are
                                          -  2  -

   usually processed by hot working or a powder metallurgy process, for
   example by hot isostatic pressing of a powder.
   Starting from this state of the art, it will be beneficial to propose a new casting
   alloy suitable for manufacturing castings by a conventional casting or
 5 investment casting process. In one embodiment, such alloy should have
   mechanical properties, in particular strength, exceeding the mechanical
   properties of super duplex steel. Concurrently, the corrosion resistance of the
   alloy could be at least approximately the same as the one of super duplex
   steel. Castings made of such an alloy will have advantageous properties in
10 their application. In addition, it would prove advantageous to propose a
   method for manufacturing an impeller of a rotary machine using such casting
   alloy.
   3.      SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   According to a first aspect of the invention, a nickel base casting alloy is
15 proposed consisting of the composition, by weight percent: 19.0 - 22.5
   chromium, 7.0 - 9.5 molybdenum, 2.75 - 4.0 niobium, 1.0 - 1.7 titanium, 0.35
   - 1.0 manganese, 0.2 - 1.0 silicon, 0 - 0.03 carbon, 0 - 0.015 phosphorus,
   0 -0.01 sulfur, 0 - 0.35 aluminum, 0 - 13.25 iron, and the balance being nickel
   and incidental impurities.
20 Surprisingly, it has been found that such a nickel base alloy is suitable for a
   conventional casting or investment casting process, in which a melt of the
   alloy is introduced into a mold for solidification. In addition, the alloy according
   to the invention has mechanical properties, in particular with respect to its
   strength, that clearly exceed the mechanical properties of super duplex, at
25 least at an ambient temperature, for example at 20 0 C. The corrosion
   resistance of the alloy according to the invention is at least approximately the
   same as the corrosion resistance of super duplex steel.
   Preferably, the alloy comprises 57 - 61 weight percent nickel.
                                           - 3 -

   According to a preferred embodiment, the alloy comprises at least 0.25 weight
   percent silicon, preferably at least 0.50 weight percent silicon.
   According to a preferred embodiment, the alloy comprises at least 0.40 weight
   percent manganese, preferably at least 0.60 weight percent manganese.
 5 It is preferred when the alloy comprises at least 0.25 weight percent silicon
   and at least 0.40 weight percent manganese.
   In a preferred embodiment the alloy comprises at most 10 weight percent iron,
   preferably at most 8 weight percent iron.
   Preferably, the alloy comprises 4 - 6 weight percent iron.
10 In a preferred embodiment, the alloy has a 0.2% proof stress of at least 750
   MPa, preferably at least 850 MPa, at 200 Celsius.
   In addition, according to the invention a casting is proposed cast from an alloy
   according to the invention.
   According to a preferred embodiment, the casting is an impeller of a rotary
15 machine.
   In addition, according to another aspect of the invention, a method is
   proposed for manufacturing an impeller of a rotary machine comprising the
   steps of:
   - providing a melt of an alloy in accordance with the invention,
20 - introducing the melt into a mold for producing a casting,
   - removing the casting from the mold after solidification of the melt,
   - finishing the casting to produce the impeller.
   Preferably, the solidified casting is densified by applying an isostatic pressure
   of at least 10 MPa.
                                           -4-

   Preferably, the casting is densified by hot isostatic pressing at a temperature
   of at least 7000C.
   Furthermore, according to yet another aspect of the invention, an impeller of a
   rotary machine, in particular of a pump, is proposed, manufactured with a
 5 method as set-out above.
   Further advantageous measures and embodiments of the invention will
   become apparent from the following, more detailed description of preferred
   embodiments thereof.
   4.      DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT(S)
10 According to the invention a casting alloy is proposed that is a nickel base
   alloy. The term "casting alloy" shall mean that the alloy is suitable for
   manufacturing castings in a usual casting procedure where a melt of the alloy
   is introduced in a mold and allowed to solidify in the mold. After solidification
   the casting is removed from the mold. I.e. a casting alloy shall have the
15 property that it can be processed in a usual casting or investment casting
   method.
   It goes without saying that the casting alloy may also be used for other
   manufacturing methods than casting. For example the casting alloy may also
   be processed by means of a powder metallurgy process, in which a powder
20 blend of the nominal composition of the alloy is subjected to pressure, in
   particular isostatic pressure, to form a work piece. In particular the casting
   alloy according to the invention may also be used for manufacturing a work
   piece from a powder blend by means of hot isostatic pressing (HIP).
   The nickel base casting alloy according to the invention consists of the
25 following composition, by weight percent: 19.0 - 22.5 chromium (Cr), 7.0 - 9.5
   molybdenum (Mo), 2.75 - 4.0 niobium (Nb), 1.0 - 1.7 titanium (Ti), 0.35 - 1.0
   manganese (Mn), 0.2 - 1.0 silicon (Si), 0 - 0.03 carbon (C), 0 - 0.015
   phosphorus (P), 0 - 0.01 sulfur (S), 0 - 0.35 aluminum (AI), 0 - 13.25 iron (Fe),
   the balance being nickel (Ni) and incidental impurities.
                                         - 5 -

   The resulting alloy is in particular characterized by a very high corrosion
   resistance, particularly against localized corrosion such as pitting corrosion or
   crevice corrosion, in combination with very good mechanical properties.
   The corrosion resistance of the nickel base alloy according to the invention is
 5 at least approximately the same as the corrosion resistance of super duplex
   steel, whereas the mechanical properties of the nickel base alloy exceed the
   mechanical properties of super duplex. In particular, the mechanical strength
   of the alloy according to the invention is remarkably higher than the
   mechanical strength of super duplex.
10 Super duplex steel designates the steel with the UNS S32750 and the UNS
   S32760. UNS (unified numbering system for metals and alloys) is a widely
   accepted designation system for alloys.
   It is usual to measure the localized corrosion resistance of a metallic material
   by its pitting resistance equivalent number (PREN). Super duplex steel has a
15 PREN of at least 40. The PREN of the nickel base alloy according to the
   invention is also at least 40.
   The mechanical properties of a metallic material are usually characterized by
   its yield strength and its tensile strength at an ambient temperature of 20
   degree Celsius. As a measure for the yield strength of a metallic material it is
20 common use to indicate the 0.2% proof stress of the material. The 0.2% proof
   stress is the mechanical stress at which the relative elongation of a sample of
   the material remaining after releasing the stress is 0.2% relative to the original
   length of the sample. Thus, the 0.2% proof stress is the mechanical stress at
   which a 0.2% plastic elongation occurs. The ultimate tensile strength is
25 usually considered as the maximum in the stress-strain curve of a material.
   This ultimate tensile strength is sometimes also referred to as tensile strength.
   The 0.2% proof stress for super duplex steel at 200C is typically around
   550 MPa and its ultimate tensile strength around 750 MPa at 200C.
                                           -  6 -

   The mechanical properties of the alloy according to the invention are better as
   those of super duplex steel. In particular, the mechanical strength of the alloy
   according to the invention is considerably higher than the strength of super
   duplex steel. Typically an alloy with the composition according to the invention
 5 has a 0.2% proof stress of at least 750 MPa at 200C. The 0.2% proof stress
   may even exceed 850 MPa. The tensile strength of the alloy according to the
   invention is at least 1000 MPa at 200C.
   Due to the higher yield and tensile strength the alloy according to the
   invention also has a higher fatigue strength than super duplex steel.
10 The preferred range for the nickel content of the alloy according to the
   invention is 57 to 61 weight percent.
   The preferred range for the silicon content is at least 0.25 and at most 1.0
   weight percent. It is particularly preferred that the silicon content is at least 0.5
   weight percent.
15 Regarding the manganese content the preferred range is at least 0.40 and at
   most 1.0 weight percent. Particularly preferred the manganese content is at
   least 0.6 weight percent.
   In addition, it is preferred when the silicon content is at least 0.25 weight
   percent and concurrently the manganese content is at least 0.40 weight
20 percent.
   According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention the nickel base
   casting alloy consists of the following nominal composition by weight percent:
   Example :
   C: 0.01%; Mn: 0.8%; P: 0.008%; S: 0.005%; Si: 0.7%; Cr: 21%; Mo: 8.5%; Nb:
25 3.3%; Ti: 1.3%; Al: 0.2%; Fe: 5.2%; Ni: balance. This results in a Ni content of
   approximately 59 weight percent. The PREN of this specific example is
   approximately 49.1.
                                            -7-

   The nickel base casting alloy according to the invention is particularly suited
   for the casting or the investment casting of impellers of a rotary machine, for
   example pump impellers.
   According to an embodiment of the method for manufacturing an impeller, a
 5 melt is provided for the casting process, the melt having the nominal
   composition of a nickel base casting alloy according to the invention. E.g. the
   melt has the composition as given in the Example above. The melt may be
   produced in any known manner. For example, a feedstock is prepared from
   different components that might be powders, or grains, or pellets or other
10 pieces of material, or combinations thereof. Each component may contain one
   or more of the elements used for the alloy. For example, ferroalloys may be
   used for preparing the feedstock. The feedstock is proportioned to attain the
   nominal composition of the alloy to be produced.
   The feedstock is molten and stirred to produce a homogeneous melt. The
15 melt is poured in a casting mold which is designed for creating the desired
   shape of the impeller. Of course, the mold may comprise a plurality of
   compartments each of which is designed for forming an impeller such that a
   plurality of impellers may be produced in a single casting step. After the melt
   has solidified the casting or the castings is/are removed from the mold.
20 Preferably the casting(s) is/are subjected to a densification or consolidation
   process after being removed from the mold. The densification for reducing the
   porosity of the casting(s) or for reducing internal and undesired cavities in the
   structure of the casting(s) is preferably performed by applying an isostatic
   pressure of at least 10 MPa to the casting(s). Most preferred the densification
25 is performed at an elevated temperature of at least 7000C, preferably of at
   least 7500C. The densification may be achieved by hot isostatic pressing
   (HIP) of the casting(s). The HIP process for densifying castings as such is
   known in the art and therefore not explained in more detail. Typically, in such
   a HIP process an isostatic pressure in the range of 10 to 200 MPa is applied.
30 After the densification, the impeller may be finished by machining, grinding
   polishing or other known finishing methods.
                                          - 8 -

   Patent claims
   1.    A nickel base casting alloy having a composition, by weight percent, of
         19.0 to 22.5 chromium, 7.0 to 9.5 molybdenum, 2.75 to 4.0 niobium,
         1.0 to 1.7 titanium, 0.35 to 1.0 manganese, 0.2 tol.0 silicon, 0 to 0.03
 5       carbon, 0 to 0.015 phosphorus, 0 to 0.01 sulfur, 0 to 0.35 aluminum, 0
         to 13.25 iron, and any balance being nickel and incidental impurities.
   2.    An alloy in accordance with claim 1, comprising 57 to 61 weight percent
         nickel.
   3.    An alloy in accordance with claim 1 or 2, comprising at least 0.25
10       weight percent silicon.
   4.    An alloy in accordance with claim 3, comprising at least 0.50 weight
         percent silicon.
   5.    An alloy in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, comprising
         at least 0.40 weight percent manganese
15 6.    An alloy in accordance with claim 5, comprising at least 0.60 weight
         percent manganese.
   7.    An alloy in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, comprising
         at least 0.25 weight percent silicon and at least 0.40 weight percent
         manganese.
20 8.    An alloy in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, comprising
         at most 10 weight percent iron.
   9.    An alloy in accordance with claim 8, comprising at most 8 weight
         percent iron.
   10.   An alloy in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, comprising
25       4 to 6 weight percent iron.
                                         - 9-

   11. An alloy in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims having a
       0.2% proof stress of at least 750 MPa, at 200 Celsius.
   12. An alloy in accordance with claim 11, wherein the 0.2% proof stress is
       at least 850 MPa, at 200 Celsius.
 5 13. A casting cast from an alloy according to anyone of the preceding
       claims.
   14. A casting in accordance with claim 13 being an impeller of a rotary
       machine.
   15. A method for manufacturing an impeller of a rotary machine comprising
10     the steps of:
       - providing a melt of an alloy in accordance with anyone of claims 1 to
       12,
       - introducing the melt into a mold for producing a casting,
       - removing the casting from the mold after solidification of the melt, and
15     - finishing the casting to produce the impeller.
   16. A method in accordance with claim 15, wherein the solidified casting is
       densified by applying an isostatic pressure of at least 10 MPa.
   17. A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein the casting is densified
       by hot isostatic pressing at a temperature of at least 7000C.
20 18. An impeller of a rotary machine, in particular of a pump, manufactured
       with a method according to anyone of claims 15 to 17.
                                      -  10 -

