APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR AN IMPROVED COFFEE MAKER
ABSTRACT
      An espresso machine device (1800) with a boiler (1803), controller (1817) and a steam
wand (1811), the device including: a solenoid activated valve (1805) located between the boiler
(1803) and an output of the steam wand (1811), the solenoid activated valve (1805) being
operated by the controller (1817), the controller (1817) causing, after a steam cycle, a burst of
steam for purging the steam wand (1811) of frothing debris.

                                                  1
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR AN IMPROVED COFFEE MAKER
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, filed 12
January 2017, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to fluid boilers and in particular to regulated control of fluid
boilers.
The invention has been developed primarily for use as a controlled boiler method and apparatus
of an espresso machine and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application.
However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as
an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field.
Known espresso machine control both the pressure and dose of water delivered in producing a
shot of espresso coffee. It will be appreciated that the pressure is typically set to between nine
and ten bar. The dose is typically about 30mL, and is delivered in between twenty to forty
seconds.
A pre-infusion stage has been used to wet the coffee grinds to allow expansion within a filter
basket, thereby assisting in trapping fine grinds and restricting water from tracking though the
filter. To enable wetting without forcing water though the coffee grinds, the water delivered in
this pre-infusion stage usually has a pressure between one to five bar.
There is a need for an efficient method and apparatus for providing a dose having a regulated
pressure and volume. There is also a need to provide an efficient method and apparatus for
enabling an espresso machine water pumps to deliver a controlled low pressure pre-infusion.

                                                    2
Espresso machines are also known to have steam wands. The steam wand omits steam that can
be used, for example, to heat and froth milk. In some machines, the steam output is regulated by
a valve such as a needle valve. A needle valve provides a variable steam output but must be
rotated numerous times when proceeding from a closed state to a fully opened state.
Accordingly, there is also a need for a steam output control that provides greater ease of use
than a needle valve.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
It is an object of some embodiments of the invention in a preferred form to provide an improved
coffee machine. It is an object of some embodiments of the invention in a preferred form to
provide an improved espresso coffee machine.
It is an object of some embodiments of the invention in a preferred form to provide an espresso
machine that can provide a dose having a regulated pressure and volume.
It is an object of other embodiments of the invention in a preferred form to provide an espresso
machine that can provide a controlled low pressure pre-infusion.
It is a further object of the invention in a preferred form to provide an espresso machine that
represents a reasonable alternative to a needle valve controller for the steam output.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In accordance with the present invention, there is provided an espresso machine device with a
boiler, controller and a steam wand, the device including:
        a solenoid activated valve located between the boiler and an output of the steam wand, the
solenoid activated valve being operated by the controller,
          the controller causing, after a steam cycle, a burst of steam for purging the steam wand
of frothing debris.

                                                   3
There is also disclosed herein a coffee making apparatus for providing pressure feedback control
of brew water output during a coffee production cycle, the apparatus comprising:
       a pump for supplying water; the pump being in fluid flow connection with a water flow
line;
       a pressure sensor element that provides a pressure signal indicative of water pressure in
the water flow line;
       a processor module coupled to the pressure sensor element to receive the pressure signal
as real-time pressure feedback for controlling power supplied the pump to thereby enable a
predetermined water pressure to be substantially maintained in the water flow line;
      the water flow line being in fluid communication with a boiler that supplies heated brew
water to a filter basket adapted to hold coffee grounds;
      wherein heated brew water supplied to the coffee grounds is substantially maintained at
the predetermined water pressure.
Preferably, predetermined water pressure is a pressure profile, the processor module enabling
brew water to be supplied according to the pressure profile during a production cycle. More
preferably, the pressure profile is the form of pressure-time profile used to control electrical
power delivered to the pump. More, preferably, the pressure profile is preset. More preferably,
the pressure profile is user selected using a user interface.
More preferably, the pressure profile is user configurable. More preferably, the pressure profile
is user configurable using a user interface.
Preferably, a pressure profile is user selected using a user interface.
Preferably, a pressure profile is user configurable using a user interface.
Preferably, the processor module can enable brew water to be supplied according to a pressure
profile during a pre-infusion cycle. More preferably, the pressure profile during the pre-infusion
cycle provides a controlled low pressure pre-infusion.
More preferably, the pressure profile during the pre-infusion cycle provides a controlled low
pressure pre-infusion that enables the coffee grounds to be wet without forcing water through.
More preferably, water delivered in the pre-infusion stage is provided at a pressure of about

                                                  4
three bar. More preferably, water delivered in this pre-infusion stage is provided at a pressure
from one to five bar.
Preferably, the processor module is coupled to a power modification module for controlling
electrical power delivered to the pump; the processor module controls the power modification
module to enable brew water to be supplied according to the predetermined water pressure.
There is also disclosed herein a flow measurement apparatus for measuring a resultant flow
delivered by a pump coupled to an over pressure valve, the apparatus comprising:
       a first flow meter for measuring feed flow to the pump;
       a second flow meter for measuring return flow from the over pressure valve; and
       wherein a resultant flow delivered by a pump can be determined by subtracting measured
return flow from measured feed flow.
Preferably, resultant flow can be determined (or calculated) in real time, and used to stop the
operation of the pump when a suitable dose has been delivered.
There is also disclosed herein an espresso machine comprising a flow measurement apparatus as
herein disclosed, for measuring a shot dose delivered by a pump coupled to an over pressure
valve. Preferably, the espresso machine further comprises a pump power modification module
as herein disclosed, for providing pre-infusion.
There is also disclosed herein an espresso machine comprising a pump power modification
module as herein disclosed, for providing preinfusion. Preferably, the espresso machine further
comprises a flow measurement apparatus as herein disclosed, for measuring a shot dose
delivered by a pump coupled to an over pressure valve.
Preferably, the pump power modification module can enable pressure profiling during an
espresso production cycle. More preferably, the pressure profile can be preset or user
configurable. Most preferably, the pressure profile can take the form of power-time profile
indicative of electrical power delivered to a respective pump.

                                                   5
There is also disclosed herein a method of flow measurement for measuring a resultant flow
delivered by a pump coupled to an over pressure valve, the method comprising the steps of:
      (a)       measuring, using a first flow meter, feed flow to the pump;
      (b)       measuring, using a second flow meter, return flow from the over pressure valve;
                and
      (c)       calculating resultant flow, at least in part, by subtracting measured return flow
                from measured feed flow.
Preferably, calculating resultant flow can be performed in real time, and used to stop the
operation of the pump when a suitable dose has been delivered.
There is also disclosed herein an espresso machine comprising a processor device adapted to
perform a method of flow measurement as herein disclosed, for measuring a shot dose delivered
by a pump coupled to an over pressure valve.
There is also disclosed herein an apparatus for controlling overflow from a fluid reservoir, the
apparatus comprising:
      a body;
      a removable fluid reservoir;
      a fluid refill aperture in fluid communication with the reservoir; and
      a drip tray, wherein the reservoir includes a overflow aperture in fluid communication
with the drip tray.
There is also disclosed herein an espresso machine comprising:
      an espresso machine body;
      a removable water tank;
      a water refill aperture located at the front or top of the espresso machine, in fluid
communication with the water tank;
      a front loading drip tray,
      wherein the water tank includes a overflow aperture in fluid communication with the drip
tray.
Preferably, the water tank is inserted from the rear of the espresso machine body. Alternatively,
the water tank is preferably inserted from the side of the espresso machine body.

                                                   6
There is also disclosed herein an apparatus for receiving a removable fluid reservoir, the
apparatus comprising:
      a body; and
      a removable fluid reservoir, wherein the reservoir includes a lock assembly and a fluid
release valve.
There is also disclosed herein an espresso machine comprising:
      an espresso machine body;
      a removable water tank;
      wherein the water tank includes a lock assembly and a fluid release valve.
Preferably, the water tank is inserted from the rear of the espresso machine body.
Alternatively, the water tank is preferably inserted from the side of the espresso machine body.
Preferably, the water tank includes a overflow aperture in fluid communication with a drip tray.
Preferably, the espresso machine includes a flow measurement apparatus.
There is also disclosed herein an apparatus for providing control of a steam output, the apparatus
comprising:
      a body;
      a steam wand assembly coupled to the body and having a steam output;
      the output being controlled by a valve that is internal to the body;
      the valve being controlled by a rotatable control element.
Preferably, the apparatus further comprising a pump that draws a fluid from a fluid reservoir,
and supplies the fluid it to a steam boiler; the boiler supplying steam a solenoid activated valve
used to start and stop the flow of steam from the boiler to the wand assembly.
There is also disclosed herein an espresso machine comprising:
      a steam wand having a steam output;
      the output is controlled by a valve that is internal to the espresso machine;
      the valve being controlled by a rotating paddle.
Preferably, the valve is a ball valve.

                                                   7
Preferably, a paddle is affixed to a knob.
There is also disclosed herein a steam control apparatus for an espresso machine comprises:
       a ball valve in fluid communication with a steam wand;
       a hub having a radially extending lever element; the hub being rotatable mounted with
respect to the espresso machine; the hub and lever element being operative coupled to the ball
valve; and
      wherein the apparatus can be configured from a fully closed configuration to a fully open
configuration by rotation of the hub of less than 180 degrees.
Preferably, the steam control apparatus includes a switch sensor element for providing a data (or
lodging) signal to a computing module. More preferably, the data signal is indicative for the
apparatus being in a fully open configuration wherein output of the steam wand is in fluid
communication with a steam boiler.
Preferably, the valve is a ball valve in fluid communication with the steam wand
assembly; and the rotating control element comprises a hub having a radially extending lever
element; the hub being rotatablly mounted with respect to the body; the hub and lever element
being operative coupled to the ball valve; and wherein the apparatus can be configured from a
fully closed configuration to a fully open configuration by rotation of the hub.
Preferably, allowable rotation of the control element is less than 180 degrees.
Preferably, the apparatus includes a switch sensor element for providing a data signal to a
processor module. More preferably, the data signal is indicative for the apparatus being in a
fully open configuration wherein output of the steam wand assembly is in fluid communication
with a steam boiler.
Preferably, the apparatus further comprising a pump that draws a fluid from a fluid reservoir,
and supplies the fluid it to a steam boiler; the boiler supplying steam a solenoid activated valve
used to start and stop the flow of steam from the boiler to the wand assembly. More preferably,
the solenoid activated valve is a three way two

   position solenoid valve used to start and stop the flow of steam from the boiler to the
   wand assembly.
   Preferably, the wand assembly is substantially constructed in plastics so as to isolate heat
   in a wand nozzle.
 5 Preferably, a temperature sensor element monitors temperature of the wand nozzle.
   More preferably, the temperature sensor element is a thermistor. Most preferably, the
   steam wand assembly has an output steam nozzle associated with a thermistor.
   Preferably, when the solenoid valve is closed, a steam path is an open flow path to the
   atmosphere for restricting milk from being siphoned back into the wand assembly.
10 More preferably, the solenoid valve is adapted to supply either unadulterated steam from
   the boiler, or to allow flow of atmosphere to the venturi.
   Preferably, the rotatable control element activates one or more switch element for
   controlling a steam generation process.
   Preferably, the steam wand assembly is associated with a switch element for enabling
15 detection that the steam wand assembly has been returned to a predetermined home
   position.
   Preferably, the apparatus further comprises a pressure sensor element for monitoring the
   steam pressure at the steam wand.
   It will be appreciated that the apparatus disclosed herein can be a coffee machine. More
20 particularly the apparatus disclosed herein can be an espresso coffee machine.
   It will be further appreciated that the apparatus disclosed herein can be used as a coffee
   machine. More particularly the apparatus disclosed herein can be used as an espresso
   coffee machine.

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
   only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
      FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an espresso machine;
 5    FIG. 2 is a schematic view of an espresso machine;
      FIG. 3 is a flow chart of a method of controlling an espresso machine;
      FIG. 4 is a schematic view of an over pressure valve of FIG. 2;
      FIG. 5A is a schematic view of a circuit used to modify power suppled to a pump,
                  shown using a silicon controlled rectifier (SCR);
10    FIG. 5B is a schematic view of a circuit used to modify power suppled to a pump,
                  shown using a triode for alternating current (TRIAC);
      FIG. 6A is a waveform plot power supply signal;
      FIG. 6B is a waveform plot of a modification to the power supply signal of FIG 6A;
      FIG. 6C is a waveform plot of a modification to the power supply signal of FIG 6A;
15    FIG. 6D is a waveform plot of a modification to the power supply signal of FIG 6A;
      FIG. 7 is a schematic view of an espresso machine, shown having a heated group
                  head;
      FIG. 8 is a schematic view of an apparatus enabling water fill of an espresso machine
                  according to the invention;
20    FIG. 9 is a schematic view of an apparatus enabling water fill of an espresso machine
                  according to the invention, showing an overflow path;
      FIG. 10 is a perspective rear view of an espresso machine according to the invention,
                  showing the aperture for receiving a water tank;
      FIG. 11 A is a perspective rear view of a water tank;
25    FIG. 11B is a perspective rear view of a water tank of FIG. 11 A, shown in the
                  unlocked configuration;

   FIG. 12A is a partial sectional side view of the espresso machine of FIG. 8, shown
              with the water tank engaged;
   FIG. 12B is a partial sectional side view of the espresso machine of FIG. 8, showing
              the water tank in an unlocked configuration;
 5 FIG. 13A is a partial sectional side view of espresso machine of FIG. 8, showing a
              lock assembly in an locked engaged configuration;
   FIG. 13B is a partial sectional side view of espresso machine of FIG. 8, showing a
              lock assembly in a unlocked disengaged configuration;
   FIG. 14A is a partial sectional side view of espresso machine of FIG. 8, showing a
10            water flow valve in a open engaged configuration;
   FIG. 14B is a partial sectional side view of espresso machine of FIG. 8, showing a
              water flow valve in a closed sealed configuration;
   FIG. 15 is a cross section through a steam wand, valve and rotating paddle control;
   FIG. 16 is a cross section through line A-A of FIG. 15;
15 FIG. 17 is a perspective view of the valve, wand and lever depicted in FIG. 15;
   FIG. 18 is a schematic diagram of a further embodiment of the technology;
   FIG. 19 is a schematic diagram of a further embodiment of the steam wand
              assembly, using a wireless communication element;
   FIG. 20 is a schematic diagram of a further embodiment of the steam wand
20            assembly, using a dependant air stream;
   FIG. 21 is a schematic diagram of a further embodiment of the steam wand
              assembly, using a ball valve and anti-vacuum valve;
   FIG. 22 is a schematic diagram of a further embodiment of the steam wand
              assembly, using a ceramic type valve; and
25 FIG. 23 is a schematic diagram of a further embodiment of the steam wand
              assembly, using two independent controllers.

   PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
   It will be appreciated that espresso machines are widely used in making hot beverages.
   Shots of espresso are typically brewed by the pressurised flow of hot water through
   densely-packed finely-ground coffee. This forced diffusion of water through coffee
 5 grounds, results in the production of espresso coffee. Quality, flavour and taste of any
   resultant espresso coffee are influenced by a plurality of factors, which include the
   texture of the ground coffee, the density of the ground coffee packing, and temperature
   and pressure of the water used. By maintaining these factors in appropriate proportions,
   it is possible to produce substantially consistent shots of espresso.
10 Pump based espresso machines rely, at least in part, upon the pressure (usually measured
   in bars) of the pump to make a suitable espresso coffee. Referring to FIG. 1, these pump
   based coffee machines 100 can include: a water reservoir 110 (typically internal),
   showerhead or distributor 122, and filter basket 124 (for holding the coffee grounds). A
   steam wand 130 and steam valve 132 may be included for frothing milk. A drip tray 140
15 is typically provided for collecting spillages and excess water. A series of user control
   inputs 150 can be provided for setting at least some of the parameters (or factors)
   associated with producing espresso coffee.
   It will be appreciated that some espresso machines have an integrated coffee
   grinder 160. This can include a hopper 162 for feeding coffee beans to a grinder and an
20 output 164 for filling the filter basket (when provided there below) with coffee grounds.
   With water in the water reservoir, and the coffee grounds in the filter basket, water is
   heated and pumped to the showerhead 122. Upon heated water reaching the
   showerhead 122, a forced diffusion of water through coffee grounds in the filter basket
   occurs, resulting in the production of espresso coffee.
25 FIG. 2 shows an schematic for an espresso coffee machine 200. This coffee machine
   comprises a water reservoir 210, having a reed switch tank level sensor 212. Egress
   from the water reservoir includes passing though a filter 214 that is in fluid
   communications with two egress flow paths 216 and 218.

   In this embodiment, a first egress path 216 is for communicating or delivering water
   from the reservoir 210 to a steam boiler 250. This egress path includes a protection filter
   220 that communicates water to a pump 221 that supplies water at a pre-determined
   pressure. A safety relief valve 222 is included to limit the water pressure provided to the
 5 steam boiler 250. In the event of over pressure occurring in this fluid line, the relief
   valve 222 provides or diverts water to the drip tray 240 using fluid line 224. By way of
   example, the pump 221 provides water with about three bar pressure to the steam boiler
   250 (using fluid line 223). For steam system, the pump is supplied the water at approx.
   3 bar to refill the boiler. The safety relief valve 222 is set to activate at a higher
10 pressure, and is used for protection.
   By way of example, the steam boiler 250 is used to convert water provided by fluid
   line 223 to steam. The boiler includes a heating element 252, a water level probe 256, a
   temperature sensing element (for example a thermistor) 257, a thermal fuse and
   thermostat 258, and vacuum breather valve 259. In this example, the steam boiler is a
15 0.80 litre boiler. By way of example only, this boiler 250 can be constructed from any
   one or more materials in a set comprising diecast-aluminium (preferably teflon-lined),
   stainless steel or brass. The heating element 252 is preferably an immersed 1000 watt
   heater element. By way of example only, this heating element can be constructed from
   any one or more materials in a set comprising stainless steel and Incoloy. It will be
20 appreciated that the heating element can have alternative power ratings that are suitable
   for creating steam within the boiler. The water level probe 256 preferably uses three
   probes to monitor water level and is substantially comprised of stainless steel probes. By
   way of example only, the thermistor 257 has a maximum temperature rating of about
   200 degrees Celsius.
25 By way of example, egress steam 272 from the steam boiler 250 is released from a
   continuously variable delivery ball valve 274 though a steam wand 274. Preferably, the
   ball valve has a maximum temperature rating of about 150 degrees Celsius, a nominal
   working pressure of about two bar and a maximum pressure rating of about eight bar. In
   this embodiment, a second water egress path 218 communicates water from the water
30 tank 210 to a coffee boiler 260. This egress path includes a protection filter 230, a first
   flow meter 233 and a pump 234. The pump 234 further includes an over pressure (or
   safety relief) valve 235. This over pressure valve 235 is adapted to limit the water
   pressure provided to line 236, typically to between nine bar and ten bar. The over

   pressure valve 235 is typically set to a pressure set-point, typically about ten bar, such
   that when water pressure exceeds this set-point a portion of the water is fed back through
   a return line 237 to the reservoir 210, thereby maintaining a pressure set-point. The
   amount of water fed back through a return line 237 can be measured by a second flow
 5 meter 238. The main egress path 236 proceeds through the steam boiler 250 via a heat
   exchanger 254 and then to the coffee boiler 260.
   By way of example, the coffee boiler 260 includes a heating element 262, a water level
   probe 266, a thermistor 267 and a thermal fuse and thermostat 268. In this example, the
   coffee boiler 260 is a 0.30 litre boiler. By way of example only, this boiler 260 can be
10 constructed from any one or more materials in a set comprising diecast-aluminium
   (preferably teflon-lined), stainless steel,. or brass. By way of example only, the heating
   element 262 is an immersed stainless steel 600 watt heating element. The water level
   probe 266 preferably uses two probes to monitor water level and is substantially
   comprised of stainless steel probes. By way of example only, the thermistor 267 has a
15 maximum temperature rating of about 150 degrees Celsius.
   By way of example, egress from the coffee boiler is used to provide hot water 282, via a
   continuously variable output needle valve 284, though a hot water wand 286. In this
   example, the needle valve 282 preferably has a maximum temperature rating of about
   120 degrees Celsius and a working pressure of about fifteen bar.
20 By way of example, egress from the coffee boiler is also used to provide hot water to a
   coffee showerhead 292 for providing coffee 294. A solenoid 296 releases hot water to
   the showerhead 292 for making coffee. The showerhead 294 further has a pressure
   gauge 298 for displaying the pressure of hot water provided by the coffee boiler. By
   way of example only, the solenoid 296 has a maximum working pressure of about
25 sixteen bar, and a maximum fluid temperature of about 160 degrees Celsius. By way of
   example only, the solenoid 296 body can be constructed from any one or more materials
   in a set comprising stainless steel and brass. Different protective coatings can be
   applied to the solenoid, including nickel-plating.
   It will be appreciated that, by way of example only, the fluid lines are either Teflon
30 tubing or silicon tubing.

   It will be appreciated that pumps 221 and 234 can be vibration (displacement) pumps,
   although alternative pump technologies can be used. Vibration pumps typically produce
   around fifteen bar to eighteen bar unregulated pressure, which is typically considered too
   high for espresso extraction. To regulate the pressure, a fixed or variable over pressure
 5 valve can be installed. However, with such a valve installed, a known method of
   measuring the dose includes having a flow meter located proximal to the showerhead. It
   will be appreciated that any installation in the flow proximal to the showerhead requires
   that the over pressure valve be suited to operation in a high temperature and a high
   pressure environment. The construction and operation of over pressure valves will be
10 discussed in more detail below.
   In an embodiment, the apparatus 200 includes a processor 202 for receiving inputs from
   user interface 204 and water level probes, thermistors, and thermal fuse/thermostats.
   The processor is also used to control/activate heating elements and pumps.
   In an embodiment, a pair of flow meters are used, the first flow meter 230 to measure
15 the feed flow to the pump and the second flow meter 237 to measure return flow from an
   over pressure valve 235. In this arrangement, the resultant flow delivered to the coffee
   boiler 260 (and therefore to the showerhead 296) can be calculated by subtracting the
   return flow from the feed flow. By calculating resultant flow over a time period of
   coffee production, a dose measure can be determined. It will be appreciated that this
20 calculation can be performed in real time, and used to stop the pump when a suitable
   dose has been delivered through the showerhead.
   In one embodiment, a flow measurement apparatus, for measuring a resultant flow
   delivered by a pump coupled to an over pressure valve has a first flow meter for
   measuring feed flow to the pump, and a second flow meter for measuring return flow
25 from the over pressure. A resultant flow delivered by a pump can be determined by
   subtracting measured return flow from measured feed flow.
   Referring to FIG. 3, a method 300 of flow measurement for measuring a resultant flow
   delivered by a pump coupled to an over pressure valve, the method comprising the steps
   of monitoring (or measuring), using a first flow meter, feed flow to the pump 320;
30 monitoring (or measuring), using a second flow meter, return flow from the over

   pressure valve 330; and calculating resultant flow, at least in part, by subtracting
   measured return flow from measured feed flow 340.
   It will be appreciated that this calculation can be performed in real time, and used to stop
   the pump (350) when a suitable dose has been delivered through the showerhead. The
 5 pressure, dose amount, duration can be preset or user configurable (using user interface
   204 and the machine's controller).
   A pre-infusion stage is often initiated to wet the coffee grinds to allow expansion within
   a filter basket, thereby assisting in trapping fine grinds and restricting water tracking
   though the filter. To enable wetting without forcing water though the coffee grinds, the
10 water delivered in this pre-infusion stage is usually provided at a pressure of about three
   bar. However, it will be appreciated that pre-infusion pressure can range from 1 to 5
   bar.
   In this embodiment, the pump 230 can be controlled to provide a lower (or reduced)
   pressure pre-infusion stage. This can be achieved by reducing the electrical power
15 supplied to the pump during this stage. Typically, a power modification module, as
   discussed in more detail below, can be utilised to enable processor control of electrical
   power supplied to the pump. Preferably, during the pre-infusion stage, the electrical
   power supplied to the pump enables the pump to produce a lower than normal pressure.
   The water flowing during the pre-infusion stage may (or may not) be counted toward a
20 subsequent dose has been delivered through the showerhead.
   Power control and flow measurement can be combined to enable measurement of a
   resultant pre-infusion dose. In an embodiment, the pressure, dose amount, duration can
   be preset or user configurable (using user interface 204).
   In an alternative embodiment, where the system pressure is not measured and the
25 pressure may not be configurable to a unit value, a percentage of the maximum pump
   pressure available can be configured. For example, a pressure profile could comprise
   30% of the maximum pressure for 5 seconds, then 100% pressure for 20 seconds, then
   70% pressure for a final 5 secs. Similarly, in another example embodiment, the system
   may exercise a method of volume output configured such that the delivery would entail a
30 5ml at 3 0%, a 20ml at 100%, and a 5ml at 7 0% distribution.

   It will be appreciated that a power modification module can further enable pressure
   profiling during an espresso production cycle. A pressure profile can be preset or user
   configurable (using user interface 204 and the machine's controller). Pressure profiling
   can take the form of power-time profile indicative of electrical power delivered to a
 5 respective pump.
   It will be appreciated that the illustrated apparatus discloses an espresso machine that
   can provide a dose having a regulated pressure and volume.
   It will be appreciated that the illustrated apparatus further discloses an espresso machine
   that can provide a controlled low pressure pre-infusion.
10 Over Pressure Valve
   An over pressure valve (OPV), also known as an expansion valve, can be used to
   regulate water flow pressure within an espresso machine. The regulated pressure can be
   fixed or adjusted. For an espresso machine, an over pressure valve can regulate pressure
   down, to between nine bar to ten bar on many vibration pump based machines.
15 Referring to FIG. 4, an over pressure valve 400 comprises an ingress part or aperture
   410 and an egress part or aperture 420. An over pressure part or aperture 430 is included
   for releasing water to substantially maintain a pressure set-point. A release seal 432,
   typically in the form of a ball, rubber pad on brass piston or similar, is biased to a closed
   position by a spring 434 (the tension or compression on the spring can be adjusted 436)
20 against an exit aperture 438. When pressure exceeds in the set-point, the release seal 432
   opens allowing water to flow toward the over pressure aperture 430.
   The exit aperture is in fluid communication with the over pressure aperture, typically for
   routing excess water back to the tank.
   It will be appreciated that alternative over pressure valves are adapted to be fixed to a
25 'T' piece, wherein the 'T' piece defines an ingress aperture and an egress aperture. Flow
   rate capability is typically determined by the size of the over pressure valve.
   Power Modification
   Phase controlled power modification is a method of providing alternating current power
   to a load only during periods of an alternating current power cycle. FIG. 6A shows a

   sine wave 600 indicative of alternating current power (voltage or current). Each time the
   line equals the neutral or ground line, a 'Zero Crossing' occurs.
   Circuit diagrams power modification is provided by Motorola data sheet for MOC30xx
   variants. It has applicability to inductive and resistive loads.
 5 FIG. 5A shows a schematic view of a circuit 500 used to modify power suppled to a
   pump, shown using silicon controlled rectifier (SCR) 530;
   It will be appreciated that a silicon controlled rectifier (SCR) is typically considered as a
   device which is either on or off. Once turned on, it will only turn off when there is no
   current flowing through it. The gate requires a small current to switch the SCR on. An
10 SCR will only conduct current one way, so if the current changes polarity, it will turn
   off, because it won't allow any current to flow.
   FIG. 5B shows a schematic view of a circuit 550 used to modify power suppled to a
   pump, shown using a triode for alternating current (TRIAC) 580.
   It will be appreciated that a TRIAC schematically resembles two SCRs back to back,
15 with only one gate terminal from one of the anodes. This allows AC operation, but every
   time the current changes polarity the TRIAC turn off (unless the gate is held high).
   Phase Control enables only portions of the AC cycle to be coupled to the load 540. This
   can be performed by a TRIAC, or two back to back SCRs.
   It will be appreciated that alternating current sources have two zero crossings every
20 cycle, in which no current should be flowing. In North America the frequency of zero
   crossings is about 120 times a second, while in Europe the frequency of zero crossings is
   about 100 times a second.
   As the TRIAC turns off at each zero crossing, if less power is desired to be delivered,
   the TRIAC can be turned on for a period after a zero crossing, for example at time 612
25 and time 614, as shown in FIG. 6B.
   Referring to FIG. 6C, if half the power is required, the TRIAC can be enabled at the
   midpoint between each zero-crossing (time 622 and time 624). Referring to FIG. 6D, by

   activating the TRIAC just prior to each zero crossing (time 632 and time 634) less than
   half the power can be provided.
   Heated Group Head
   It will be appreciated that it is beneficial for an espresso machine (commercial or
 5 consumer/domestic) to:
       >    maintain accurate brew temperature consistently over multiple coffee extractions
            and intra extraction (such as, during a pour);
       >    allow simultaneous coffee extraction and milk steaming without affecting the
            performance of either process;
10          ensure that the first coffee extraction that the machine makes, after being
            switched on, is delivered at the correct extraction temperature; and
       >    provide good performance and thermal stability with minimal and efficient
            power consumption.
   A typical domestic electrical output (1700 - 2400W) can limit the available power for
15 achieving these beneficial outcomes, particularly when required to supply continuous
   high volume output (multiple coffees, hot water and steaming milk).
   This can be further exacerbated in commercial/domestic espresso machines that typically
   use lighter weight (lower thermal mass) boiler units. For example stainless steel boilers
   used in some espresso machines have a relatively low thermal mass. The low thermal
20 mass typically limits the amount of fluid flow that can be achieved while maintaining a
   constant temperature and/or pressure.
   It will be appreciated that combining a steam boiler, a brew boiler, a heat exchanger and
   heated group head can be beneficial for reducing the power requirements of the heater
   associated with the brew boiler.
25 FIG. 7 shows a schematic view of an embodiment espresso machine similar to FIG.2,
   shown having a heated group head 700. This embodiment, enables a 3 stage progressive
   heating process for brew water, wherein:
       A. cold water is pre-heated by heat exchanger 254 in steam boiler 250;

       B. pre-heated water from heat exchanger (below optimum brew temperature) is then
           heated in a brew boiler 260 to an optimum brew temperature (for example to
           about 92 deg Celsius); and
       C. water from brew boiler passes through heated group head 700 (to maintain
 5         optimum brew temperature) and is infused into coffee grinds.
   The heated group head 700 comprises a heating element 710 (typically embedded),
   thermal cut-out fuse 720, and thermistor 730.
   This enables a heat system for an espresso machine that enables three heating elements
   to operate independently and simultaneously. The brew boiler and group head are
10 typically temperature controlled using proportional-integral-derivative (PID) control
   module.
   In an embodiment, a boiler capacity ratio of 10:3 (steam boiler: brew boiler) is utilised.
   A heating element power (wattage) ratio of 10:6:1 (steam boiler : brew boiler : heated
   group head) can also be utilised.
15 In one embodiment, boiler capacity to heating element power (wattage) ratio can be
   established as follows:
       >   steam boiler volume to steam boiler heater wattage being 1000ml:1000W or
           1ml: 1W;
       >   brew boiler volume to brew boiler heater wattage being 300ml:600W or lml:2W.
20 In an alternative embodiment, an optional pressure sensor (or transducer) 740 can be
   included to monitor water pressure in the flow line 236. This sensor 740 is coupled to an
   MCU (or processor module) to provide a feedback loop operation for controlling a
   selected pressure to be maintained in real-time, whereby power supplied to the
   respective pump is varied according to resultant pressure feedback from the sensor and
25 subsequent instructions from the MCU, controller or processor. In this embodiment, the
   second flow meter 238 need not be included. It will be appreciated that this adaptation
   can be applied to other steam control systems (for example the espresso machine 200).

   Water Fill Assembly
   It will be appreciated that a removable water tank located at the rear of the machine, is
   typically difficult to obtain regular access for refilling. However, refilling the water tank
   in situ can result in user error causing overfilling of the tank resulting in potential water
 5 ingress issues for the espresso machine body.
   Referring to FIG. 8, an embodiment espresso machine 800 includes a water fill ingress
   aperture 810 located on the top or the front (or the front portion of the top) of the
   machine for relative easy access. The aperture 810 may be covered by a hinged door or
   other lid. The water fill aperture is in fluid flow communication with the water tank 820
10 (typically via an internal horizontal diverter conduit 830 - or funnel). Water 812 can be
   poured through the aperture 810, which progresses first vertically 810, then horizontally
   through an enlarged accumulator portion and vertically again 832 to a water
   reservoir 822 in the water tank 820 located adjacent to the base of the machine.
   Referring to FIG. 9, to avoid overfilling of the tank, and ingress issues to the espresso
15 machine body, a maximum volume diversion channel, cavity or conduit 940 provides a
   fluid overflow path 942 for enabling excess water to be directed vertically into the rear
   of the drip tray 950 for fluid collection 952. The diversion channel is defined by a
   partial height wall that is located between the reservoir 822 and a front-most wall of the
   tank 820.
20 In the present embodiment, by way of example only, the diversion channel 940 defines
   an aperture 944 located within the water tank, at a maximum fill height, for receiving
   overflow water. The diversion channel 940 is at least partially integrally formed with
   the water tank and directs overflow water, still within the confines of the tank, to the
   drip-tray 950.
25 Using a diversion channel in fluid flow (overflow) communication with a drip tray
   mounted at the front of an espresso machine body, can reduce risk of ingress of water
   into the espresso machine components during water filling operation, while providing
   visual (and preferably audible) feedback to the user for establishing completion of the
   water filling operation. This can enable refilling of the water tank from the top of the
30 espresso machine.
   In an embodiment, an espresso machine comprises:

           a removable water tank;
           a water refill aperture located at the front or top of the espresso machine, in fluid
           communication with the water tank;
           a front loading drip tray,
 5     >   wherein the water tank includes a overflow aperture in fluid communication with
           an the drip tray.
   Water Tank Lock Assembly
   An unsecured water tank can move due to vibration caused by operation of the machine
   causing the tank to at least partially disengage from the espresso machine.
10 The water tank is typically in fluid flow communication with the espresso machine
   boilers by way of a releasable valve coupling. The release valve restricts fluid flow from
   the water tank during removal of the tank (typically during filling and/or cleaning).
   A partially engaged/disengaged connection between the water tank and boiler (via an
   inlet valve) can result in leakage, lower brew pressure during operation, or restriction of
15 water flow from the water tank to the boiler.
   In an embodiment, a locking assembly can be incorporated to enable secure engagement
   between the water tank and espresso machine body. The locking assembly can restrict
   unintentional or undesired disengagement of the water tank from the espresso machine
   body.
20 FIG. 10 shows a perspective rear view of an embodiment espresso machine 1000,
   showing an aperture 1010 for receiving a water tank. A releasable valve coupling
   element 1020 is adapted to receive a release valve (not shown). A lock abutment
   surface 1030 is adapted for engaging a lock assembly operatively associated with the
   water tank.
25 In this embodiment, the water tank assembly is fitted to the espresso machine body in a
   substantially horizontal direction.
   FIG. 11 A, FIG. 11B, FIG. 12A and FIG. 12B, show an embodiment water tank
   assembly 1100 comprising:

            a lock assembly 1110 (best shown in FIG. 13A and FIG. 13B) in the form
            mechanical over centre cam lock for securing the water tank position and
            ensuring that inlet valve connection is fully engaged; and
            a release valve 1120 (best shown in FIG. 14A and FIG. 14B) in the form of a
 5          spring biased plunger valve for connecting in a horizontal direction to the water
            inlet valve coupling element.
   FIG. 11 A shows the water tank 1100 having the lock assembly in a locked configuration,
   and FIG. 11 B shows the water tank 1100 having the lock assembly in an unlocked
   configuration.
10 FIG. 12A shows a partial sectional side view of an espresso machine, shown with the
   water tank in the engaged configuration. In this configuration, the lock assembly 1110 is
   in the locked configuration, and the release valve 1120 is in the open engaged
   configuration for enabling fluid flow from the tank.
   FIG. 12B shows a partial sectional side view of an espresso machine, shown with the
15 water tank in the disengaged configuration. In this configuration, the lock
   assembly 1110 is in the unlocked configuration, and the release valve 1120 is in the
   closed sealed configuration for restricting fluid flow from the tank, best shown in
   FIG. 14B
   Referring to FIG. 13A and FIG. 13B, engaging of the water tank 1310 with the espresso
20 machine body 1320, brings the a lock assembly 1330 proximal to a lock abutment
   surface 1340. Upon engagement of the water tank, the lock assembly handle can be
   rotated to a locked configuration (as best shown in FIG. 13 A), wherein a camming
   lobe 1332 engages a camming abutment surface 1342 for defining an over centre locked
   configuration. During disengagement, referring to FIG. 13B, rotation of the lock
25 assembly (about pin 1344) disengages the a camming lobe 1332 from the camming
   abutment surface 1342 to define an unlocked configuration that enables the water tank to
   be withdrawn. The over-centre cam configuration can restrict unintentional or undesired
   disengagement of the water tank from the espresso machine body.
   It will be appreciated that the camming engagement draws the tank into the espresso
30 machine body to the engaged configuration, and the over-centre cam configuration

   (whereby the axis of rotation defined by the pin 1344 is above the abutment surface)
   restricts unintentional or undesired disengagement of the locking assembly.
   Referring to FIG. 14A and FIG. 14B, engaging of the water tank 1410 with the espresso
   machine body 1420 brings the release valve assembly 1430 into engagement with a
 5 releasable valve coupling element 1440. As the release valve assembly 1430 is brought
   into engagement with valve coupling element 1440, a spring biased release valve 1434
   engages an abutment surface 1442 and moving the valve to an open engaged
   configuration for enabling fluid flow from the tank. During disengagement, referring to
   FIG. 14B, the release valve assembly 1430 is moved away from the with valve coupling
10 element 1440, causing the spring biased release valve 1434 to disengage the abutment
   surface 1442 and moving the valve to a closed disengaged configuration for restricting
   fluid flow from the tank.
   Steam Control
   FIG. 15 through FIG. 17 show, by way of example only, an embodiment steam control
15 apparatus for an espresso machine.
   As shown in FIG. 15, an espresso machine can comprises a steam wand 1500 that pivots
   about a ball joint 1501. Steam is delivered to the wand 1500 via the output port 1502 of
   a valve 1503. Rather than utilising a multi-turn needle valve, some embodiments utilise
   a continuously variable output ball valve 1504 to regulate the amount of steam delivered
20 (continuously from no steam to full steam) to the steam wand 1500. The ball valve 1504
   is mechanically operated and mechanically coupled to a rotating paddle 1505 for more
   authoritative user control. Because the ball valve only needs preferably about 90
   degrees of rotation (or at least less than 180 degrees) to go from fully closed to fully
   open, the user operated paddle 1505 only preferably needs to move through 90 degrees
25 or less to effect full control over the output of the wand 1500. Up to 180 degrees may be
   acceptable. In this embodiment, the inlet port 1506 receives steam from a steam boiler
   (for example, a steam boiler 260 as shown in FIG. 2 and FIG. 7). The ball valve 1504 is
   within the external housing 1507 of the espresso machine.
   With reference to FIG. 15, FIG. 16 and FIG. 17, it will be appreciated that the rotating
30 paddle 1505 consists of a lever hub 1508 that carries a radially extending paddle or
   lever 1601. The lever 1601 provides a convenient grip and a way for the user to apply

   more torque (accurately) to the valve 1503. The hub carries an external cover 1509 in
   which is formed a slot 1701 through which extends the lever 1601. The hub 1508 also
   has a longitudinal extension in the form a hollow shaft 1510 through which is inserted a
   fastener 1511 that connects the shaft 1510 to the rotating element of the valve 1504, in
 5 this example, a ball valve.
   As shown in FIG. 15 and FIG. 16, an interior (or interior facing portion) of the hub 1508
   is formed as, or carries, a cam surface 1602. The cam surface 1602 cooperates with a
   micro switch 1603 that may be located within a mounting bracket or housing 1604. The
   cam surface 1602 is adapted to bear against the micro switch 1603 and thereby activate
10 it when the lever 1601 is rotated into a position that allows the valve to deliver steam
   through the wand 1500. Thus, the micro switch 1603 can deliver to the espresso
   machine's MCU, a data (or logging) signal that can be used by the MCU for a variety of
   purposes. In one example, if the machine is switched on while the micro switch 1603 is
   activated, the MCU will recognise the output of the micro switch as being indicative that
15 the output of the steam wand is in fluid communication with a steam boiler. This being
   an undesirable condition, the MCU will either prevent the steam boiler from heating or
   will block the output to the steam wand until the situation is rectified by the user. In
   preferred embodiment, both the cam surface 1602 and micro switch 1605 are internal to
   the housing 1507.
20 In an embodiment, a steam control apparatus for an espresso machine comprises:
         a ball valve in fluid communication with a steam wand;
         a hub having a radially extending lever element; the hub being rotatable mounted
         with respect to the espresso machine; the hub and lever element being operative
         coupled to the ball valve, which can operating in a variable state;
25       wherein the apparatus can be configured from a fully closed configuration to a fully
         open configuration by rotation of the hub of less that 180 degrees.
   Typically, the steam control apparatus includes a switch sensor element for providing a
   data (or lodging) signal to a computing module. The data signal can be indicative for the
   apparatus being in a fully open configuration wherein output of the steam wand is in
30 fluid communication with a steam boiler.

   A further embodiment of the invention is disclosed schematically in FIG. 18. As shown
   in that diagram, an espresso machine 1800 comprises a pump 1801 that draws water
   from a water tank 1802 and supplies it to a steam boiler 1803. Steam from the boiler
   1804 is supplied to a solenoid activated valve 1805. The three way two position
 5 solenoid valve 1805 is used to start and stop the flow of steam from the boiler 1803 to
   the wand 1811. In preferred embodiments, a large majority of the wand assembly is
   constructed in plastic so as to isolate the universal heat in the nozzle 1812. The
   temperature of the nozzle being monitored by the thermistor 1813 and being generally
   representative at the temperature of the liquid or milk surround the nozzle 1812. When
10 the solenoid 1805 is closed, it allows the steam path to have an open flow path to the
   atmosphere. Exposing the steam flow path to the atmosphere prevents milk from being
   siphoned back into the wand 1811 and the venturi 1806. Milk in these areas can cause
   contamination, foul odours and blockages. The valve 1805 is adapted to supply either
   unadulterated steam from the boiler 1803, or to allow flow of atmosphere to the venturi.
15 The venturi 1806 is also supplied with air, preferably pressurized air 1807 that is
   supplied from an air pump 1808. The supply of air from the air pump 1808 passes
   through a one way valve 1809. A blockage in the steam wand 1811 can cause back
   pressure in the steam path that can potentially damage the air pump 1808. The check
   valve 1809 prevents damaging back pressure events from adversely effecting the air
20 pump 1808. The output 1810 of the venturi is supplied to a steam wand 1811. The
   steam wand 1811 has an output steam nozzle 1812 having attached to or adjacent to it or
   associated with it a thermistor such as an NTC thermistor 1813. A rotating steam lever
   1814 activates switches such as micro switches 1815, 1816. One of the micro switches
   1815 modulates the automatic steam generation process. The other micro switch 1816 is
25 used to govern manual steaming operations. The state of the switches 1815, 1816 is
   monitored by a micro processor control unit (MCU) 1817. The MCU also reads the
   output of the thermistor 1813 and serves to control the air pump 1808 and solenoid
   activated valve 1805. The MCU also detects a signal from a third microswitch 1818 that
   is controlled in accordance with the position of the steam wand 1811. In particular, the
30 micro switch adjacent the steam wand 1818 detects when the steam wand 1811 has
   returned to an upright or home position and is thus in a position that is compatible with a
   purging of the steam wand, in particular an automatic purging as will be explained.

   For automatic steam operation, a user momentarily activates the lever 1814 so that a first
   micro switch 1815 is contacted. In preferred embodiments, the steam wand 1814 acts
   against a spring or other resilient bias 1819 so that the lever returns to its original,
   neutral position when released. The signal from the micro switch 1815 (or lack of
 5 signal) detected by the micro processor 1817 causes the solenoid valve 1805 to open and
   let steam from the boiler 1804 to flow the venturi 1806. At the venturi, steam from the
   boiler is mixed with air 1807 from the pump 1808. The steam air mixture travels
   through the steam wand 1811 and exits the nozzle 1812 directly into a container 1820,
   preferably containing milk. The temperature sensor 1813 measures the temperature and
10 transmits the relevant signal to the MCU 1817. The MCU then causes the display of the
   milk temperature 1821. Preferably, the display 1821 is located on a front panel of the
   espresso machine or stand alone milk frothing device. The milk temperature can be
   preset by the user using a separate control located in an interface. When the milk in the
   container 1820 reaches a predetermined temperature both the solenoid 1805 and the air
15 pump 1808 are disabled or deactivated. When the solenoid 1805 is deactivated, the
   steam passageway to the wand 1811 is open to the atmosphere 1805.
   The air pump can act independently such that it can activate and deactivate according to
   a preset temperature, time and or combined logic.
   In a manual steaming operation, the user activates the steam lever 1814 in an opposite
20 direction and against the second micro switch 1816. This causes the solenoid 1805 to
   open and lets steam flow from the boiler 1804 flow to the venturi. In this mode, steam
   passes directly through the venturi and air 1805 is not introduced into the steam
   passageway. Steam travels through the steam wand 1911 and exits the nozzle 1812
   directly into the container 1820. The temperature sensor 1813 measures the temperature
25 of the milk in the container 1820 and then appropriate signal is transmitted to the micro
   processor 1817. The micro processor causes a display 1821 on the body to show the
   milk temperature. When enough steam has been delivered, the user deactivates the
   steam lever 1819 back into the home or neutral position. When deactivated in this way,
   the solenoid 1805 is open to the atmosphere. By opening the steam passageway to
30 atmospheric pressure, the condensation of the hot steam in the steam passageway does
   not cause milk from the container 1820 to be drawn back into the nozzle 1812.

   An alternative semi-automatic operation - a user can select a (factory pre-set or custom)
   temperature, such that when a user froths milk, a sensor recognises and/or calculates an
   approach of user selected temperature and indicates to the user via audio and or visually
   displayed feedback to switch off the steam delivery.
 5 In preferred embodiments, after an automatic steam generating function has been
   performed and the container 1820 has been removed, the wand position micro switch
    1818 will identify when the wand has returned to the "home" or safely down position.
   The signal from the micro processor 1818 will be detected by the MCU 1817 and will
   cause the solenoid 1805 to open for short bursts (e.g. 1 second) or a series of short burst
10 for the purpose of clearing the opening in the nozzle 1812. This can be an automatic
   function to purge the line of frothing debris. In some embodiments, an audible or visual
   warning may precede this function to alert the user that steam will be ejected from the
   nozzle 1812. The presence of the wand position sensor switch or micro switch 1818
   allows other automated functions to be performed when the steam wand is in a home or
15 fully down position. The flow or rate of delivery of air from the air pump 1808 can be
   controlled, for example, by pulse width modulation. This rate of air flow can be
   controlled by the user through the user interface 1822. The control of the output of the
   air pump 1808 has the effect of determining the texture of the frothed milk produced in
   the container 1820. A high flow rate will create a more textured or airy foam whereas a
20 low flow rate will result in a denser, less textured foam.
   In an embodiment, a pressure sensor 1830 can be use in enabling the processor MCU
    1817 to monitor the steam pressure at the steam wand 1811. In this embodiment, the
   pressure sensor is coupled to steam path between the venturi 1806 and steam wand 1811.
   It would be appreciated that this enables: detection of the steam wand being partially or
25 fully blocked (typically due to a build up of residue in steam wand outlets), which would
   enable the MCU to stop the steam function and/or alert user of problem; and providing
   live/real-time feedback of combined steam/air pressure for allowing the MCU to control
   that air pump flow rate to achieve a preset pressure parameter.
   As shown in Figure 19, the temperature of the liquid being steamed in the jug 1900 can
30 be communicated to the input of the control PCB 1901 wirelessly. In this example, the
   jug 1900 includes a thermistor such as an NTC thermistor and a transponder 1902 such
   as an RFID, Wifi, bluetooth or infrared transponder. The transponder 1902 emits a

   wireless (or other radio frequency) signal that is received by a cooperating receiver chip
   or base station 1903. The receiver or base station 1903 supplies the appropriate signal to
   the input of the PCB1901. As with previously mentioned embodiments, the steaming
   device depicted in Figure 19 includes a steam boiler 1904 that supplies steam to a 3/2
 5 solenoid 1905. The solenoid controls the flow of steam into the venturi 1908 while
   simultaneously allowing for overflow or excess pressure to be discharged to the
   atmosphere 1906, particularly contemplating discharge into the drip tray 1907 that is
   located below the jug 1900. As with other embodiments, the venturi receives air or
   pressurized air from an air pump 1909. A protective one way valve 1910 is interposed
10 between the air pump and the venturi suction inlet 1911.
   As illustrated in Figure 19, the steam wand is associated with a steam wand position
   sensor 1912. The position sensor 1912 supplies a signal to the control PCB 1901. When
   engaging in manual steaming operations, the control PCB 1901 will allow steam to be
   discharged through the solenoid 1905 when the wand is in any position. However, in
15 automated steaming operations (where the user is not directly controlling the steam
   output with a button on knob) or during automated cleaning of the steam wand, the PCB
   1901 will only allow the solenoid 1905 to operate when the steam wand is in a specified
   (the "down") position, as determined by the position sensor 1912.
   As shown in Figure 20, some embodiments of the invention require the primary steam
20 solenoid 2000 to be controlled jointly or simultaneously or otherwise in a slave
   relationship with the air pump 2001. The onset of the operation of the air pump can be
   delayed relative to the onset of the steam flow. To accomplish this, a single output 2002
   from the control PCB 2003 is used to control the on and off operation of both the
   solenoid 2000 and the air pump 2001.
25 As shown in Figure 21, a manually operated valve such as a ball valve 2100 is used to
   provide the user with control over the steam output of the steam boiler 2101. Steam
   flowing through the ball valve 2100 is delivered to the venturi 2102. An anti-siphon or
   anti-vacuum valve 2103 is interposed between the ball valve 2100 and the venturi 2102.
   The anti-vacuum valve 2103 prevents vacuum pressure above the venturi from allowing
30 ingress of fluid into the ball valve, boiler or other aspects of the machine that are
   upstream from the valve 2103. The ball valve 2100 is associated with a sensor 2104.
   The sensor transmits the operative position of the ball valve of the control PCB 2105.

   Having information regarding the ball valve position from the sensor 2104, the control
   PCB can use this information to illuminate a warning light 2106 on an exterior surface
   of the steaming or espresso making machine that indicates, for example, that the steam
   pathway to the wand is open. In some embodiments, when the sensor 2104 indicates
 5 that the ball valve is open, the control PCB 2105 will now allow power to be delivered to
   the steam boiler 2101. This prevents inadvertent operation of the boiler when first
   turning on the machine and the ball valve 2100 is open.
   As shown in Figure 22, a multi-ported ceramic valve 2200 may be used in place of the
   ball valve 2100 depicted in Figure 21. The ceramic valve provides additional flexibility
10 by allowing for numerous different flow pathways to be controlled from a single rotating
   valve stem, being the valve stem associated with the ceramic valve 2200. Thus, the
   ceramic style valve 2200 can incorporate an overflow discharge port 2201 that leads to
   an overflow pathway 2202 that discharges either to atmosphere 2203 or more
   particularly to the drip tray 2204 that lies below the jug 1900. The rotating ceramic style
15 valve 2200 can also incorporate a manual bypass flow path 2205 that allows steam from
   the boiler 2101 to bypass the venturi 1908. Because the venturi is essentially a
   restriction in the flow path, the manual bypass flow path 2205 is capable of delivering a
   greater volume of steam to the steam wand 2210.
   As shown in Figure 23, two separate control PCBs 2300, 2301 are used in the control of
20 the primary steam solenoid 2302 and the air pump 2303 that delivers air to the venturi
   2304. In one embodiment, a pressure detecting sensor or switch 2305 detects pressure in
   the line 2306 between the solenoid 2302 and the venturi 2304. When the pressure sensor
   or switch detects the presence of pressure, a signal is sent to the input of the second PCB
   2301. The second PCB 2301 interprets that signal as a command to supply power to the
25 air pump 2303. In other embodiments, the pressure switch 2305 is not required.
   Instead, a user operated control 2310 provides the second control PCB 2301 with a
   signal or switch state that is interpreted as a command to supply power to the air pump
   2303. If required, the user operated switch 2310 can be disabled in other ways when the
   primary solenoid 2302 is closed,

   Interpretation
   It would be appreciated that, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method
   or combination of elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a
   computer system or by other means of carrying out the function. Thus, a processor with
 5 the necessary instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a
   means for carrying out the method or element of a method. Furthermore, an element
   described herein of an apparatus embodiment is an example of a means for carrying out
   the function performed by the element for the purpose of carrying out the invention.
   In alternative embodiments, the one or more processors operate as a standalone device or
10 may be connected, e.g., networked to other processor(s), in a networked deployment, the
   one or more processors may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in
   server-client network environment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer or distributed
   network environment.
   Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions, it is
15 appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as
   "processing", "computing", "calculating", "determining" or the like, can refer to the
   action and/or processes of a computer or computing system, or similar electronic
   computing device, that manipulate and/or transform data represented as physical, such as
   electronic, quantities into other data similarly represented as physical quantities.
20 In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or portion of a device
   that processes electronic data, e.g., from registers and/or memory to transform that
   electronic data into other electronic data that, e.g., may be stored in registers and/or
   memory. A "computer" or a "computing machine" or a "computing platform" may
   include one or more processors.
25 The methodologies described herein are, in one embodiment, performable by one or
   more processors that accept computer-readable (also called machine-readable) code
   containing a set of instructions that when executed by one or more of the processors
   carry out at least one of the methods described herein. Any processor capable of
   executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken is
30 included.

   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims,
   the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
   sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
   "including, but not limited to".
 5 Similarly, it is to be noticed that the term "coupled", when used in the claims, should not
   be interpreted as being limitative to direct connections only. The terms "coupled" and
   "connected", along with their derivatives, may be used. It should be understood that
   these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Thus, the scope of the
   expression a device A coupled to a device B should not be limited to devices or systems
10 wherein an output of device A is directly connected to an input of device B. It means
   that there exists a path between an output of A and an input of B which may be a path
   including other devices or means. "Coupled" may mean that two or more elements are
   either in direct physical or electrical contact, or that two or more elements are not in
   direct contact with each other but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.
15 As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first",
   "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
   instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
   objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
   or in any other manner.
20 Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment"
   means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with
   the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus, appearances of the
   phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this
   specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may refer to
25 the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics
   may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill
   in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
   Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of exemplary
   embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped
30 together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of
   streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various

   inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as
   reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are
   expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
   aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus,
 5 the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this
   Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of
   this invention.
   Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other
   features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
10 embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
   embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in the following
   claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
   In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is
   understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific
15 details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not
   been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
   Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other
   forms.

                                                    33
CLAIMS:
1.    An espresso machine device with a boiler, controller and a steam wand, the device
including:
       a solenoid activated valve located between the boiler and an output of the steam wand, the
solenoid activated valve being operated by the controller,
      the controller causing, after a steam cycle, a burst of steam for purging the steam wand of
frothing debris.
2.     The device of claim 1, wherein:
      the steam wand pivots from a user position to a home position;
       a switch is located adjacent to the steam wand, the switch providing a home position
signal to the controller;
      the controller causing the burst of steam in response to the home position signal.
3.     The device of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein:
      the steaming cycle is an automatic cycle.
4.     The device of any one of the preceding claims, further including a user interface, and
wherein:
      the steam wand is supplied with a variable mixture of steam and air;
      the machine has a manual steaming mode of operation where only steam is provided to the
steam wand and an automatic steam mode of operation where a mixture of steam and air is
provided to the steam wand;
       a rotating steam lever has three positions, a neutral position, a manual steam position and
an automatic steam position;
      wherein the rotating steam lever, when rotated to the automatic steam position, is biased to
return to the neutral position; and
       a first switch providing a first signal to the controller for initiating the manual steaming
mode of operation when the lever is in the manual steam position and a second switch for
providing a second signal to the controller for initiating the automatic steam mode of operation
when the lever is in the automatic steam position.

                                                    34
5.      The device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein:
        the controller causes the user interface to generate an audible or visual warning before the
burst of steam.
6.      The device of any one of the preceding claims, further including:
        a temperature sensor that measures a temperature of a contents of a jug in which the wand
is in, the temperature sensor being configured to transmit a temperature signal to the controller.
7.      The device of claim 6, wherein:
        when the lever is in the manual position, the controller causes the temperature of the
contents to be displayed by the user interface; and
        the controller further causes the manual steaming mode to cease after a user returns the
lever to the neutral position.
8.      The device of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein:
        the automatic steam mode is ceased by the controller in response to the temperature signal.
9.      A jug device for use with the device of any one of the preceding claims, the jug device
comprising:
        a temperature sensor for sensing a temperature of a liquid in a jug;
        a wireless transponder that provides a first temperature signal to a receiver in a steaming
device;
        the receiver providing a second temperature signal to a controller that regulates a steam
boiler;
        the controller regulating the delivery of steam provided by the steaming device in
accordance with the second temperature signal.
10.     The device of claim 9, wherein:
        the jug includes a temperature sensor having a thermistor.
11.     The device of claim 9, wherein:
        the receiver supplies the appropriate signal to an input of the controller.

                                                 35
12.   The device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the solenoid activated valve is
operably by the controller to deliver a variable flow of steam into a steam wand.
                                       Breville Pty Limited
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
