TRPC4 MODULATORS FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OR PREVENTION
OF PAIN
ABSTRACT
The instant application discloses methods of treating, reducing, or preventing pain in a
mammal, which may include administering a compound capable of modulating a transient
receptor potential channel. In one aspect, the TRP channel may be TRPC4. Types of pain
contemplated by the present disclosure include acute, chronic, neuropathic, and nociceptive
pain.

                                                 1
TRPC4 MODULATORS FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OR PREVENTION
OF PAIN
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001] This application incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial
No. 61/235,534, filed August 20, 2009, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
61/247,612, filed October 1, 2009, and PCT/US10/46151, filed August 20,2010. The present
application is a divisional of AU 2012352083, which is the national phase entry of
PCT/US2012/069753, the entire specifications of which are incorporated herein by cross
reference.
[0002] This application claims priority to US provisional application 61/576,619, filed
December 16, 2011.
Field and Background of Invention
[0003] Mammalian transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are described as six
transmembrane (6-TM) cation-permeable channels. TRP channels control the gating of
voltage-dependent Ca 2+,    +, and Cl-, and are characterized as calcium-permeable channels
with polymodal activation properties. TRP protein structure is thought to be a channel
forming structure composed of six transmembrane (TM) domains with a pore domain (P)
located between the fifth (S5) and sixth (S6) TMs. TRP channels are activated by three major
mechanisms; receptor, ligand and environment direct activation. Receptor activation is
carried out by G protein coupled receptors (GCPRs) and tyrosine kinases in three modes
which result in liberation of Ca2+ from intracellular stores: hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol
(4,5) bisphosphate (PIP2), diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol (1,4,5) triphosphate (IP3).
Ligand activation occurs by exogenous small molecules (capsaicin, icilin, 2-APB),
endogenous lipids or metabolism products (diacylglycerols ), purine nucleotides and
metabolites (ADP-ribose), and inorganic ions. TRP channels are also activated by
environmental triggers such as ambient temperature.

                                       -2
 [00041  The TRPC subfamily was established by the identification of the first
         mammalian TRP, TRPC1. Common TRPC motifs are composed of 2-3
         ankyrin-like domain repeats and a coiled-coil domain in the N-terminal,
         followed by six transmembrane domains, the C-term TRP box and a
         calmodulin (CaM) binding site. The CaM domain in TRPC4 is a calcium
         binding domain which resembles the CaM protein, which is normally
         small (~140+ amino acid in length) dumbbell-shaped composed of two
         structurally similar globular domains separated by a flexible hinge central
         helix. The globular domains are homologous and contain pairs of Ca2+
         binding helix-loop-helix motifs which are referred to as the EF hand
         motifs. The typical mechanism of calcium binding occurs at these EF
        hands, which are composed of two a-helices linked to a 12-residue loop.
         The EF hand domains become exposed to effectors and targets by protein
        conformational change.      The exposed hydrophobic regions in turn bind
        basic amphiphilic helices (BAA helices). The hinge of CaM allows for
        the proteins harboring a CaM domain to contact and activate targets
        (Figure 1). CaM is highly conserved in animals and plants and acts on
        many targets including ion channels.
[0005]  TRPC5 is expressed homomerically and also heteromerically complexes
        with TRPC4. TRPC4 and TRPC5 are highly homologous, and are highly
        expressed in the human brain, uterus, ovary and kidney cells. TRPC4 is a
        nonselective cation channel which is uniquely activated by Gq/ 11 family
        GPCRs through activation of PLCp, and receptor kinases and receptor
        tyrosine kinases.      Although studies using TRPC4 have shown that
        activation requires phospholipase C (PLC) activity, neither IP3 nor DAG
        is sufficient to activate TRPC4. TRPC4 contains a PDZ-binding motif.
        PDZ domains are common structural motifs which aid proteins in
        signaling and anchoring transmembrane proteins to the cytoskeleton. PDZ

                                      -3
        domain scaffolding proteins, as well as signaling molecules, co
        immunoprecipitate with TRPC4.        PDZ domain is a common structural
        domain of 80-90 amino-acids found in the signaling proteins of bacteria,
        yeast, plants, viruses and animals. PDZ is an acronym combining the first
        letters of three proteins-post       synaptic  density protein (PSD95),
        Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor (DlgA), and zonula occludens-1
        protein (zo-1)-which were first discovered to share the domain. PDZ
        domains are also referred to as DHR (Dlg homologous region) or GLGF
        (glycine-leucine-glycine-phenylalanine) domains. These domains help
        anchor transmembrane proteins to the cytoskeleton and hold together
        signaling complexes.
[00061  Almost every cell type scrutinized contains at least one TRP channel.
        This large family of physiological important channels has been implicated
        in many human diseases. Most of the TRP channels are conserved in
       mice, rats, and humans.       Knockout mice studies have proven to be
        insightful for determining TRP channel functions. Trpc2 deficient mice
        are unable to distinguish male from female counterparts and TRPV6 is
       upregulated in prostate cancer.       TRPC4 transcripts and protein are
       expressed in primary cultured mouse vascular endothelial cells (MAECs)
       and the channels can be activated by store-depleted protocols in MAECs.
       In Trpc4 deficient mice, agonist induced Ca2+ entry is significantly
       reduced.     Trpc4-/- mice exhibit significant decrease in endothelium
       dependent vasorelaxation in the blood vessels. The Trpc4 deficient mice
       display decreased microvascular permeability, and have altered GABA
       transmitter release from thalamic interneurons.       Although TRPC4 is
       expressed in the nervous system it has not been validated previously as a
       target for neuropathic pain and there were no known specific inhibitors for
       the channel.

                                     -4
[0007]  The human TRPC4 protein contains multiple ankyrin domains throughout
        and within the N-terminus along with a coiled-coil domain.        The N
        terminus of TRPC4 is very important for subunit assembly and pore
        formation.    Two regions in the N-terminus are essential for channel
        assembly in TRPC channels and more specifically TRCP4; the third and
        fourth ankyrin repeats and the region downstream the coiled-coil domain.
        The second and third ankyrin repeats are represented by F59-S137 in
        TRPC4. Both of these domains are able to self associate but have not been
        shown to interact with one another. The last 18 amino acids of the region
        downstream of the coiled-coil domain are represented in TRPC4 by 287-A
        RLKLAIKYRQKEFVAP-304,            and in TRPC6       by 363-SRLKLAIK
        YEVKKFVAHP-380. These peptides have been identified to be involved
        in channel assembly of TRPCs and more specifically TRPC4. There are
       two    domains    in   the  TRPC4    protein  that  are   responsible   for
        oligomerization.   The first domain contains the N-term ankyrin repeats
        and the coiled-coil domain (M1-P304) and the second domain corresponds
       to the putative pore region and the C-terminal tail (1516-L974).      Two
       models exist in which the TRPC4 channel becomes functional upon
       subunit assembly. One model is that the third ankyrin repeat initiates a
       molecular zippering process. In this model each interacting domain would
       have the ability to tetramerize.   In another model, the first interaction
       domain forms a dimer between two subunits and the second domain is
       responsible for the formation of a dimer between two other subunits. The
       N-terminal of both TRPC4 and TRPC5 including at least the first ankyrin
       repeat are essential for both homo and hetero-subunit assembly. TRPC4
       protein homo and heteromeric pore formation is critical for protein
       function; therefore, agents that block TRPC4 multimeric formation are
       reasonable candidates for TRPC4 protein inhibitors.

                                        -5
 [00081 Neuropathic pain is a chronic disease resulting from a dysfunction in the
        nervous system. This nervous system dysfunction often occurs due to
        peripheral nerve injury concentrated at the dorsal root ganglia (DRG),
        sensory neurons. Abnormal nervous function arises from injured axons,
        and from intact nociceptors that share receptivity with the injured nerve.
        The pathological conditions include prolonged hyperalgesia, allodynia,
        and loss of sensory function. The classical presentation of neuropathic
        pain includes ubiquitous pain not otherwise explainable, sensory defects,
        burning pain, pain to light on the skin and sudden pain attacks without a
        clear provocation. Inflammation and trauma are major causes of nerve
        injuries. The genetic disorders causing distorted connectivity, structure or
        survival of neurons may also result in neuropathic pain.
        Brief Summary of the Invention
[0009]  Disclosed are methods of treating, reducing, or preventing pain in a
        mammal, comprising administering a compound as described herein. In
        one aspect, the compound may be capable of modulating a transient
        receptor potential channel, for example, TRPC4.
[0010]  Additional advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the
        description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the
        description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. The
        advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the
        elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended
        claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description
        and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only
        and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.

                                       -6
                    Detailed Description of the Invention
 [0011]  Definitions
 [00121  The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the
         following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the invention
         and any Examples included therein and to any Figures and description
         thereof. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
         described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present
         invention, the preferred methods,        devices, and materials are now
         described. All references, publications, patents, patent applications, and
         commercial materials mentioned herein are incorporated herein by
         reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing the materials and/or
        methodologies which are reported in the publications which might be used
         in connection with the invention. Nothing herein is to be construed as an
         admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by
        virtue of prior invention.
[0013]  Before the present compounds, compositions, articles, devices, and/or
        methods are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that this
        invention is not limited to specific synthetic methods or specific
        recombinant biotechnology methods unless otherwise specified, or to
        particular reagents unless otherwise specified, as such may, of course,
        vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
        purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to
        be limiting.
[0014]  In this specification and in the claims which follow, reference will be
        made to a number of terms which shall be defined to have the following
        meanings:

                                       -7
 [00151  As used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
          a, "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly
         dictates otherwise.   Thus, for example, reference to "a pharmaceutical
         carrier" includes mixtures of two or more such carriers, and the like.
 [0016]  Ranges may be expressed herein as from "about" one particular value,
         and/or to "about" another particular value. When such a range is
         expressed, another embodiment includes from the one particular value
         and/or to the other particular value. Similarly, when values are expressed
         as approximations, by use of the antecedent "about," it will be understood
        that the particular value forms another embodiment. It will be further
        understood that the endpoints of each of the ranges are significant both in
        relation to the other endpoint, and independently of the other endpoint.
[00171  The term "alkyl" as used herein refers to a saturated straight or branched
        hydrocarbon, such as a straight or branched group of 1-22, 1-8, or 1-6
        carbon atoms, referred to herein as (Cl-C22)alkyl, (Cl-C8)alkyl, and (Cl
        C6)alkyl, respectively. Exemplary alkyl groups include, but are not limited
        to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, 2-methyl-i -propyl, 2-methyl-2-propyl,
        2-methyl-1-butyl, 3-methyl-1-butyl,       2-methyl-3-butyl, 2,2-dimethyl-1
        propyl,    2-methyl-1-pentyl,    3-methyl-1-pentyl,    4-methyl-1-pentyl, 2
        methyl-2-pentyl, 3-methyl-2-pentyl, 4-methyl-2-pentyl, 2,2-dimethyl-1
        butyl, 3,3-dimethyl-1-butyl,      2-ethyl-1-butyl, butyl, isobutyl, t-butyl,
        pentyl, isopentyl, neopentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, etc.
[0018]  The term "aryl" as used herein refers to a mono-, bi-, or other multi
        carbocyclic, aromatic ring system. The aryl group can optionally be fused
        to one or more rings selected from aryls, cycloalkyls, and heterocyclyls.
        The aryl groups of this invention can be substituted with groups selected
        from alkoxy, aryloxy, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amide, amino, aryl,

                                      -8
        arylalkyl, carbamate, carboxy, cyano, cycloalkyl, ester, ether, formyl,
        halogen, haloalkyl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl, hydroxyl, ketone, nitro,
        phosphate, sulfide, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, sulfonic acid, sulfonamide and
        thioketone. Exemplary aryl groups include, but are not limited to, phenyl,
        tolyl, anthracenyl, fluorenyl, indenyl, azulenyl, and naphthyl, as well as
        benzo-fused carbocyclic moieties such as 5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthyl.
        Exemplary aryl groups also include, but are not limited to a monocyclic
        aromatic ring system, wherein the ring comprises 6 carbon atoms, referred
        to herein as "(C6)aryl."
[0019]  "Alkyl," "alkenyl," "alkynyl," "alkoxy," "amino," and "amide" groups
        can be substituted with or interrupted by or branched with at least one
        group selected from alkoxy, aryloxy, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amide,
        amino, aryl, arylalkyl, carbamate, carboxy, cyano, cycloalkyl, ester, ether,
        formyl, halogen, haloalkyl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl, hydroxyl, ketone,
       nitro, phosphate, sulfide, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, sulfonic acid, sulfonamide,
       thioketone, ureido, and nitrogen. The substituents may be branched to
       form a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle or cycloalkyl.
[0020] "Agonists" are molecules or compounds that stimulate one or more of the
       biological properties of a receptor. These may include, but are not limited
       to, small organic and inorganic molecules, peptides, peptide mimetics and
       agonist antibodies. The term "antagonist" is used in the broadest sense and
       refers to any molecule or compound that blocks, inhibits or neutralizes,
       either partially or fully, a biological activity mediated by a receptor by
       preventing the binding of an agonist. Antagonists may include, but are not
       limited to, small organic and inorganic molecules, peptides, peptide
       mimetics and neutralizing antibodies.

                                       -9
 [0021]  As used herein, the terms "comprising," "containing," "having" and
         "including" are used in their open, non-limiting sense.
 [0022]  As used herein, an "effective amount" generally is the minimum dose
         necessary to achieve the desired effect of "treating, reducing, or
         preventing pain," as defined below.
 [0023]  "Enhance" as used herein, includes any increase in the functional activity
         of the ion channels.
 [00241  "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described event or
         circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes
         instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances where it
         does not.
[0025]   "Pain" means a sensory experience perceived by nerve tissue distinct from
         sensations of touch, pressure, heat and cold. The range of pain sensations,
        as well as the variation of perception of pain by individuals, renders a
        precise definition of pain nearly impossible. In the context of the present
        invention, "pain" is used in the broadest possible sense and includes
        nociceptive pain, such as pain related to tissue damage and inflammation,
        pain related to noxious stimuli, acute pain, chronic pain, and neuropathic
        pain.
[00261  The level of stimulation at which pain becomes noted is referred to as the
        "pain threshold." Analgesics are pharmaceutical agents which relieve pain
        by raising the pain threshold without a loss of consciousness. After
        administration of an analgesic drug, a stimulus of greater intensity or
        longer duration is required before pain is experienced. In an individual
        suffering from hyperalgesia an analgesic drug may have an anti
        hyperalgesic effect. In contrast to analgesics, agents such as local
        anaesthetics block transmission in peripheral nerve fibers thereby blocking

                                     -10
        awareness of pain. General anaesthetics, on the other hand, reduce the
        awareness of pain by producing a loss of consciousness.
[0027]  "Acute pain" is often short-lived with a specific cause and purpose;
        generally produces no persistent psychological reactions. Acute pain can
        occur during soft tissue injury, and with infection and inflammation. It can
        be modulated and removed by treating its cause and through combined
        strategies using analgesics to treat the pain and antibiotics to treat the
        infection.
[0028]  "Chronic pain" is distinctly different from and more complex than acute
       pain. Chronic pain has no time limit, often has no apparent cause and
        serves no apparent biological purpose. Chronic pain can trigger multiple
       psychological problems that confound both patient and health care
       provider, leading to feelings of helplessness and hopelessness. The most
       common causes of chronic pain include low-back pain, headache,
       recurrent facial pain, pain associated with cancer and arthritis pain.
[00291 Pain that is caused by damage to neural structures is often manifest as a
       neural supersensitivity or hyperalgesia and is termed "neuropathic" pain.
       Pain can also be "caused" by the stimulation of nociceptive receptors and
       transmitted over intact neural pathways, such pain is termed "nociceptive"
       pain. In one embodiment, the methods of the invention may be used to
       treat neuropathic pain. Neuropathic pain typically is long-lasting or
       chronic and can develop days or months following an initial acute tissue
       injury. Symptoms of neuropathic pain can involve persistent, spontaneous
       pain, as well as allodynia, which is a painful response to a stimulus that
       normally is not painful, hyperalgesia, an accentuated response to a painful
       stimulus that usually a mild discomfort, such as a pin prick, or
       hyperpathia, a short discomfort becomes a prolonged severe pain.

                                       -11
         Neuropathic pain generally is resistant to opioid therapy. Neuropathic pain
         can be distinguished from nociceptive pain or "normal pain," which is pain
         caused by the normal processing of stimuli resulting from acute tissue
         injury. In contrast to neuropathic pain, nociceptive pain usually is limited
         in duration to the period of tissue repair and usually can be alleviated by
         available opioid and non-opioid analgesics.
 [0030]  Visceral pain, as used herein, means pain that comes from the internal
         organs. Visceral pain has five important clinical characteristics: (1) it is
         not evoked from all viscera (organs such as liver, kidney, most solid
        viscera, and lung parenchyma are not sensitive to pain); (2) it is not always
         linked to visceral injury (cutting the intestine causes no pain and is an
         example of visceral injury with no attendant pain, whereas stretching the
        bladder is painful and is an example of pain with no injury); (3) it is
        diffuse and poorly localised; (4) it is referred to other locations; and (5) it
        is accompanied with motor and autonomic reflexes, such as the nausea,
        vomiting, and lower-back muscle tension that occurs in renal. Lancet.
         1999 Jun 19;353(9170):2145-8.
[0031]  "Modulating" as used herein includes any effect on the functional activity
        of the ion channels. This includes blocking or inhibiting the activity of the
        channel in the presence of, or in response to, an appropriate stimulator.
        Alternatively, modulators may enhance the activity of the channel.
[0032]  The term "pharmaceutically acceptable composition" as used herein refers
        to a composition comprising at least one compound as disclosed herein
        formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
        carriers.
[0033]  As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable" refer to any
        molecular entity or composition that does not produce an adverse, allergic

                                       -12
         or other untoward or unwanted reaction when administered to a human or
         other mammal.
 [0034]  The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt(s)" refers to salts of acidic or
         basic groups that may be present in compounds used in the present
         compositions. Compounds included in the present compositions that are
         basic in nature are capable of forming a wide variety of salts with various
         inorganic and organic acids. The acids that may be used to prepare
         pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of such basic compounds
         are those that form non-toxic acid addition salts, i.e., salts containing
         pharmacologically acceptable anions, including but not limited to sulfate,
         citrate, matate, acetate, oxalate, chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate, sulfate,
         bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate, isonicotinate, acetate, lactate,
         salicylate,  citrate, tartrate, oleate, tannate, pantothenate, bitartrate,
         ascorbate,    succinate,    maleate,    gentisinate,   fumarate,    gluconate,
        glucaronate, saccharate, formate, benzoate, glutamate, methanesulfonate,
        ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate and pamoate (i.e.,
         1,1'-methylene-bis-(2-hydroxy-3-naphthoate)) salts. Compounds included
        in the present compositions that include an amino moiety may form
        pharmaceutically acceptable salts with various amino acids, in addition to
        the acids mentioned above. Compounds included in the present
        compositions that are acidic in nature are capable of forming base salts
        with various pharmacologically acceptable cations. Examples of such salts
        include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts and, particularly, calcium,
        magnesium, sodium, lithium, zinc, potassium, and iron salts.
[00351  The compounds of the disclosure may contain one or more chiral centers
        and/or double bonds and, therefore, exist as stereoisomers, such as
        geometric      isomers,    enantiomers     or    diastereomers.    The    term
        "stereoisomers" when used herein consist of all geometric isomers,

                                      -13
        enantiomers or diastereomers. These compounds may be designated by the
        symbols "R" or "S," depending on the configuration of substituents
        around the stereogenic carbon atom. The present invention encompasses
        various   stereoisomers of these compounds and mixtures thereof.
        Stereoisomers include enantiomers and diastereomers. Mixtures of
        enantiomers or diastereomers may be designated "(1)" in nomenclature,
        but the skilled artisan will recognize that a structure may denote a chiral
        center implicitly.
[00361  As used herein, the term "subject" means any mammal or other vertebrate
        in which modulation of pain is desired, for example, a human, primate,
        horse, cow, dog, cat or bird.
[0037]  Substituents around a carbon-carbon double bond alternatively can be
       referred to as "cis" or "trans," where "cis" represents substituents on the
        same side of the double bond and "trans" represents substituents on
       opposite sides of the double bond. The arrangement of substituents around
       a carbocyclic ring are designated as "cis" or "trans." The term "cis"
       represents substituents on the same side of the plane of the ring, and the
       term "trans" represents substituents on opposite sides of the plane of the
       ring. Mixtures of compounds wherein the substituents are disposed on
       both the same and opposite sides of plane of the ring are designated
       "cis/trans."
[0038] As used herein, a "suitable substituent" refers to a group that does not
       nullify the synthetic or pharmaceutical utility of the compounds of the
       invention or the intermediates useful for preparing them. Examples of
       suitable substituents include, but are not limited to: C1-22, C1-8, and C1-6
       alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl; C1-6 aryl, C2-5 heteroaryl; C3-7 cycloalkyl; Cl
       22, C1-8, and Cl-6 alkoxy; C6 aryloxy; -CN;       -OH;    oxo; halo, carboxy;

                                      -14
        amino, such as -NH(Cl-22,        Cl-8, or C1-6 alkyl), -N(Cl-22,      C1-8, and
        C1-6 alkyl)2, -NH((C6)aryl),      or -N((C6)aryl)2;     formyl; ketones, such
        as -CO(C1-22,      C1-8, and C1-6 alkyl), -CO((C6      aryl) esters, such as
        C02(C1-22, Cl-8, and C1-6 alkyl) and -C02          (C6 aryl). One of skill in
        art can readily choose a suitable substituent based on the stability and
        pharmacological and synthetic activity of the compound of the invention.
[0039]  By "treating, reducing, or preventing pain" is meant preventing, reducing,
        delaying onset of, or eliminating the sensation of pain in a subject before,
        during, or after it has occurred. As compared with an equivalent untreated
        control, such reduction or degree of prevention is at least 5%, 10%, 20%,
       40%, 50%, 60%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 100% as measured by any standard
       technique known in the art. To treat pain, according to the methods of this
       invention, the treatment does not necessarily provide therapy for the
       underlying pathology that is causing the painful sensation. Treatment of
       pain can be purely symptomatic.
[0040] While specific configurations and methods describing the present
       invention are discussed, it should be understood that this is done for
       illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the pertinent art will
       recognize that other configurations and methods can be used without
       departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It will be
       apparent to a person skilled in the pertinent art that this invention can also
       be employed in a variety of other applications.
[00411 In one aspect, a method of treating, reducing, or preventing pain in a
       mammal is disclosed, wherein said method comprises the step of
       administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
       composition comprising a compound selected from Table 1 or Table 2, or

                                     -15
       a combination thereof, in combination with one or more pharmaceutically
       acceptable carriers.
[0042] In one aspect, the compound may comprise a substituted quinoline
       compound selected from Table 1. All compounds in Tables 1 and 2 may
       be prepared by the published methods of Miller et al., and an exemplary
       procedure is provided below (see supplementary material for J. Biol.
       Chemistry, Miller et al, vol. 286, pp. 33436-33446.)
[0043] Formula la) is prepared as follows:
             NH                   'Z       200oC
                              +                              NN
[0044]              CI      N              p                 Formula 1a)
[00451 The chloroquinoline (100 mg, 0.56 mmol) and piperidine (0.22 ml, 2.25
       mmol) were stirred in a microwave reaction vial. The vial was sealed and
       then irradiated under microwave at 200 'C with stirring for 15 min.
       LC/MS indicated reaction completion. The reaction mixture was diluted
       with MeOH and then concentrated under vacuum. The residue was
       dissolved in 3% aqueous HCl (10 ml) and washed with dichloromethane
       (2 x 5 ml). The aqueous layer was treated with 2 N NaOH until the pH
       was 8, resulting in a white slurry. The slurry was extracted with
       dichloromethane (3 x 20 ml). The combined organic layers were dried
       over Na2 SO 4 and concentrated to give 70 mg (55%) of the product as a
       white solid. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 8 7.75 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H),
       7.52-7.45 (m, 2H), 7.21-7.17 (m, 1H), 7.10 (s, 1H), 3.67 (bs, 4H), 2.54 (s,
       3H), 1.62-1.55 (m, 6H). LC/MS: RT     = 0.65 min, m/z = 227.2 [M + H]*.

                                 -16
[0046] Table 1. Substituted Quinoline Compounds
             R"
                       R'
                   I
           N
[0047] R     N            (Formula I), wherein R, R', and R" are as follows:
                 R                        R'                       R"
                                   H, CH 3, Et, or X          H or alkyl
                                   (wherein X is a
                                       halogen)
                                   H, CH 3, Et, or X          H or alkyl
               NH,                    CH 3 , Et, or X         H or alkyl
           ON                     H, CH 3, Et, or X           H or alkyl
        H3 C
        H3C                       H, CH 3, Et, or X           H or alkyl
        H3C
                                  H, CH 3, Et, or X           H or alkyl
               H
        H3C
              N                   H, CH 3 , Et, or X          H or alkyl

                                 -17
                                  H, CH3, Et, or X     H or alkyl
                    N
         HO
                   N              H, CH 3 , Et, or X   H or alkyl
             N
                                  H, CH 3 , Et, or X   H or alkyl
               NN
         H3C                      H, CH 3 , Et, or X   H or alkyl
               OH3
                HCNH,                 CH 3 , Et, or X  H or alkyl
            H3 C)
         H3 C        N            H, CH 3, Et, or X    H or alkyl
                  CH3
[00481 In one aspect, the compound may comprise a substituted piperidine
       compound described in Table 2.

                                    -18
[00491  Table 2. Substituted Piperidine Compounds
[00501  R             Formula II, wherein R and R' are as follows:
                         R                               R'
         Aryl, heteroaryl, alkyl,         H, aryl, heteroaryl, alkyl,
         cycloalkyl, H                    cycloalkyl
[00511 In one aspect, the composition may comprise one or more compounds
       listed in Tables 1 and 2.
[0052] In one aspect, the compound may comprise a compound of Formula I,
                                       N
       wherein wherein R is                 , R' is H, and R" is CH 3, and this
       compoun is referred to as Formula la.
[0053] In one aspect, the composition is capable of modulating a Trcp4 receptor.
       Said modulation may be an antagonistic effect, or alternatively, an
       agonistic effect.
[00541 The effectiveness of a compound, for example a Trpc4 antagonist, in
       treating pain can be determined by observing one or more clinical
       symptoms or physiological indicators associated with pain, or via use of a
       pain model as described below.
[00551 The appropriate effective amount to be administered for a particular
       application of the methods can be determined by those skilled in the art,
       using the guidance provided herein. For example, an effective amount can
       be extrapolated from in vitro and in vivo assays as described herein above.
       One will recognize that the condition of the patient can be monitored

                                    -19
       throughout the course of therapy and that the effective amount of a Trpc4
       antagonist that is administered can be adjusted accordingly.
[0056] One or more of the compounds disclosed herein may be administered in a
       pharmaceutical acceptable composition. The present disclosure also
       provides    pharmaceutical    compositions     comprising   compounds     as
       disclosed herein, formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically
       acceptable carriers. These formulations include those suitable for oral,
       rectal, topical, buccal and parenteral (e.g. subcutaneous, intramuscular,
       intradermal, or intravenous) administration, although the most suitable
       form of administration in any given case will depend on the degree and
       severity of the condition being treated and on the nature of the particular
       compound being used.
[00571 Formulations suitable for oral administration may be presented in discrete
       units, such as capsules, cachets, lozenges, or tablets, each containing a
       predetermined amount of the compound as powder or granules; as a
       solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non-aqueous liquid; or as an oil
       in-water or water-in-oil emulsion. As indicated, such formulations may be
       prepared by any suitable method of pharmacy which includes the step of
       bringing into association the active compound and the carrier or excipient
       (which may constitute one or more accessory ingredients). The carrier
       must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other
       ingredients of the formulation and must not be deleterious to the recipient.
       The carrier may be a solid or a liquid, or both, and may be formulated with
       the compound as a unit-dose formulation, for example, a tablet, which
       may contain from about 0.05% to about 95% by weight of the active
       compound. Other pharmacologically active substances may also be
       present including other compounds. The formulations of the invention

                                      -20
         may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy
         consisting essentially of admixing the components.
 [00581  For solid compositions, conventional nontoxic solid carriers include, for
         example, pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium
         stearate, sodium saccharin, talc, cellulose, glucose, sucrose, magnesium
         carbonate,   and   the like.     Liquid   pharmacologically    administrable
        compositions can, for example, be prepared by dissolving, dispersing, etc.,
        an active compound as described herein and optional pharmaceutical
        adjuvants in an excipient, such as, for example, water, saline, aqueous
        dextrose, glycerol, ethanol, and the like, to thereby form a solution or
        suspension. In general, suitable formulations may be prepared by
        uniformly and intimately admixing the active compound with a liquid or
        finely divided solid carrier, or both, and then, if necessary, shaping the
        product. For example, a tablet may be prepared by compressing or
        molding a powder or granules of the compound, optionally with one or
        more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by
        compressing, in a suitable machine, the compound in a free-flowing form,
        such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder, lubricant,
        inert diluent and/or surface active/dispersing agent(s). Molded tablets may
        be made by molding, in a suitable machine, the powdered compound
        moistened with an inert liquid diluent.
[0059]  Formulations suitable for buccal (sub-lingual) administration include
        lozenges comprising a compound in a flavored base, usually sucrose and
        acacia or tragacanth, and pastilles comprising the compound in an inert
        base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia.
[0060]  Formulations     of    the  present    invention  suitable   for  parenteral
        administration comprise sterile aqueous preparations of the compounds,

                                     -21
        which are approximately isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient.
        These    preparations     are    administered     intravenously,      although
        administration may also be effected by means               of subcutaneous,
        intramuscular,   or   intradermal    injection.   Such    preparations     may
        conveniently be prepared by admixing the compound with water and
       rendering the resulting solution sterile and isotonic with the blood.
       Injectable compositions according to the invention may contain from
       about 0.1 to about 5% w/w of the active compound.
[00611 Formulations suitable for rectal administration are presented as unit-dose
       suppositories. These may be prepared by admixing the compound with
       one or more conventional solid carriers, for example, cocoa butter, and
       then shaping the resulting mixture.
[0062] Formulations suitable for topical application to the skin may take the form
       of an ointment, cream, lotion, paste, gel, spray, aerosol, or oil. Carriers and
       excipients which may be used include Vaseline, lanoline, polyethylene
       glycols, alcohols, and combinations of two or more thereof The active
       compound is generally present at a concentration of from about 0.1% to
       about 15% w/w of the composition, for example, from about 0.5% to
       about 2%.
[0063] The amount of active compound administered may be dependent on the
       subject being treated, the subject's weight, the manner of administration
       and the judgment of the prescribing physician. For example, a dosing
       schedule may involve the daily or semi-daily administration of the
       encapsulated compound at a perceived dosage of about 1 jtg to about 1000
       mg. In another embodiment, intermittent administration, such as on a
       monthly or yearly basis, of a dose of the encapsulated compound may be
       employed. Encapsulation facilitates access to the site of action and allows

                                       -22
         the administration of the active ingredients simultaneously, in theory
         producing a synergistic effect. In accordance with standard dosing
         regimens, physicians will readily determine optimum dosages and will be
         able to readily modify administration to achieve such dosages.
 [00641  A therapeutically effective amount of a compound or composition
         disclosed herein can be measured by the therapeutic effectiveness of the
         compound. The dosages, however, may be varied depending upon the
         requirements of the patient, the severity of the condition being treated, and
         the compound being used. In one embodiment, the therapeutically
         effective amount of a disclosed compound is sufficient to establish a
         maximal plasma concentration.        Preliminary doses as, for example,
         determined according to animal tests, and the scaling of dosages for
        human administration is performed according to art-accepted practices.
[0065]  Toxicity    and therapeutic efficacy can be determined by standard
        pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g.,
        for determining the LD50 (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and
        the ED50 (the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population).
        The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic
        index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD50/ED50. Compositions that
        exhibit large therapeutic indices are preferable.
[00661  Data obtained from the cell culture assays or animal studies can be used in
        formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. Therapeutically effective
        dosages achieved in one animal model may be converted for use in
        another animal, including humans, using conversion factors known in the
        art (see, e.g., Freireich et al., Cancer Chemother. Reports 50(4):219-244
        (1966) and Table 1 for Equivalent Surface Area Dosage Factors).

                                         -23
 [00671   A pharmaceutical composition may be administered to a patient alone, or
          in combination with other supplementary active ingredients, agents, drugs
          or hormones. The pharmaceutical compositions may be manufactured
          using any of a variety of processes, including, without limitation,
          conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating, dragee-making, levigating,
          emulsifying,      encapsulating,   entrapping,     and    lyophilizing.  The
         pharmaceutical composition can take any of a variety of forms including,
         without limitation, a sterile solution, suspension, emulsion, lyophilizate,
         tablet, pill, pellet, capsule, powder, syrup, elixir or any other dosage form
         suitable for administration.
[0068]   The therapeutically effective dosage (i.e. ED50) may vary with the dosage
         form, route of administration, the subject's age, condition, and sex, as well
         as the severity of the medical condition in the subject. The dosage may be
         determined by a physician and adjusted, as necessary, to suit observed
         effects of the treatment.
[0069]   The method may comprise administering an effective amount of a
         compound described herein together with one or more other agents
         including, but not limited to, one or more analgesic agents. In such
         "combination" therapy, it is understood that the antagonist can be
         delivered independently or simultaneously, in the same or different
        pharmaceutical compositions, and by the same or different routes of
        administration as the one or more other agents. In one aspect, a compound
        described herein may be administered in combination with a non-opioid
        analgesics, such as acetylsalicylic acid, choline magnesium trisalicylate,
        acetaminophen, ibuprofen, fenoprofen, diflusinal, and naproxen; or opioid
        analgesics, including morphine, hydromorphone, methadone, levorphanol,
        fentanyl, oxycodone, and oxymorphone.          In addition to the above-listed
        treatments, neuropathic pain, which can be difficult to treat, has also been

                                      -24
        treated with anti-epileptics (e.g., gabapentin, carbamazepine, valproic
        acid,   topiramate, phenyloin),      NMDA       antagonists   (e.g.,  ketamine,
        dextromethorphan), topical lidocaine (for post-herpetic neuralgia), and
        tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline and amitriptyline).
[0070]  It is also envisioned that a pharmaceutical composition may optionally
        include a pharmaceutically acceptable carriers that facilitate processing of
        an active ingredient into pharmaceutically acceptable compositions. As
       used herein, the term "pharmacologically acceptable carrier" refers to any
        carrier that has substantially no long term or permanent detrimental effect
       when administered and encompasses terms such as "pharmacologically
       acceptable vehicle, stabilizer, diluent, auxiliary or excipient." Such a
       carrier generally is mixed with an active compound, or permitted to dilute
       or enclose the active compound and can be a solid, semi-solid, or liquid
       agent. It is understood that the active ingredients can be soluble or can be
       delivered as a suspension in the desired carrier or diluent. Any of a variety
       of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be used including, without
       limitation, aqueous media such as, e.g., distilled, deionized water, saline;
       solvents; dispersion media; coatings; antibacterial and antifungal agents;
       isotonic and absorption delaying agents; or any other inactive ingredient.
       Selection of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier can depend on the
       mode of administration. Except insofar as any pharmacologically
       acceptable carrier is incompatible with the active ingredient, its use in
       pharmaceutically acceptable compositions is contemplated. Non-limiting
       examples of specific uses of such pharmaceutical carriers can be found in
       Pharmaceutical dosage forms and drug delivery systems (Ansel, H. C. et
       al., eds., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Publishers, 7.sup.th ed. 1999);
       Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy (Gennaro, A. R. ed.,
       Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, 20.sup.th ed. 2000); Goodman &

                                        -25
        Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics (Hardman, J. G. et
        al., eds., McGraw-Hill Professional, 10.sup.th ed. 2001); and Handbook of
        Pharmaceutical Excipients (Rowe, R. C. et al., APhA Publications,
        4.sup.th edition 2003).
[0071]  A pharmaceutical composition may optionally include, without limitation,
        other pharmaceutically        acceptable    components,      including,  without
        limitation, buffers, preservatives, tonicity adjusters, salts, antioxidants,
       physiological substances, pharmacological substances, bulking agents,
        emulsifying agents, wetting agents, sweetening or flavoring agents, and
       the like. Various buffers and means for adjusting pH can be used to
       prepare     a pharmaceutical         composition    disclosed    in the   present
       specification, provided that the resulting preparation is pharmaceutically
       acceptable. Such buffers include, without limitation, acetate buffers,
       citrate buffers, phosphate buffers, neutral buffered saline, phosphate
       buffered saline and borate buffers. It is understood that acids or bases can
       be used to adjust the pH of a composition as needed. Pharmaceutically
       acceptable antioxidants include, without limitation, sodium metabisulfite,
       sodium thiosulfate, acetyleysteine, butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated
       hydroxytoluene.      Useful     preservatives    include,   without    limitation,
       benzalkonium       chloride,    chlorobutanol,     thimerosal,    phenylmercuric
       acetate, phenylmercuric nitrate and a stabilized oxy-chloro composition.
       Tonicity adjustors useful in a pharmaceutical composition include, without
       limitation, salts such as, e.g., sodium chloride, potassium chloride,
       mannitol or glycerin and other pharmaceutically acceptable tonicity
       adjustor. The pharmaceutical composition may be provided as a salt and
       can be formed with many acids, including but not limited to, hydrochloric,
       sulfuric, acetic, lactic, tartaric, malic, succinic, etc. Salts tend to be more

                                       -26
         soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents than are the corresponding
         free base forms.
 [00721  Various routes of administration can be useful according to a method of
         the invention. Routes of peripheral administration useful in the methods of
         the invention encompass, without limitation, oral administration, topical
         administration, intravenous or other injection, and implanted minipumps
         or other extended release devices or formulations. A pharmaceutical
         composition useful in the invention can be peripherally administered, for
         example, orally in any acceptable form such as in a tablet, liquid, capsule,
         powder, or the like; by intravenous, intraperitoneal, intramuscular,
         subcutaneous or parenteral injection; by transdermal diffusion or
         electrophoresis; topically in any acceptable form such as in drops, creams,
         gels or ointments; and by minipump or other implanted extended release
         device or formulation.
[0073]   Pain Models
[00741   The ability of a compound that treats pain may be confirmed using a
        variety of well-known assays as set forth herein.
[00751  Tail Flick Model: The tail-flick test (D'Amour et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp.
        and Ther. 72: 74-79 (1941)) is a model of acute pain. A gently-restrained
        rat is placed on a test stage such that a focused light source beams on the
        dorsal or ventral surface of the rat's tail. A photosensor is present on the
        test stage located opposite the light source. To begin the test, the rat's tail
        blocks the light, thus preventing the light reaching the photosensor.
        Latency measurement begins with the activation of the light source. When
        a rat moves or flicks its tail, the photosensor detects the light source and
        stops the measurement. The test measures the period of time (duration)
        that the rat's tail remains immobile (latent). Rats are tested prior to

                                        -27
          administration thereto of a compound of interest and then at various times
          after such administration.
 [0076]  Rat Tail Immersion Model: The rat tail immersion assay is also a model of
          acute pain. A rat is loosely held in hand while covered with a small folded
         thin cotton towel with its tail exposed. The tip of the tail is dipped into a,
         e.g., 520 C. water bath to a depth of two inches. The rat responds by either
         wiggling of the tail or withdrawal of the tail from the water; either
         response is scored as the behavioral end-point. Rats are tested for a tail
         response latency (TRL) score prior to administration thereto of a
         compound of interest and then retested for TRL at various times after such
         administration.
[0077]   Carrageenan-induced Paw Hyperalgesia Model: The carrageenan paw
         hyperalgesia test is a model of inflammatory pain. A subcutaneous
         injection of carrageenan is made into the left hindpaws of rats. The rats are
        treated with a selected agent before, e.g., 30 minutes, the carrageenan
         injection or after, e.g., two hours after, the carrageenan injection. Paw
        pressure sensitivity for each animal is tested with an analgesymeter three
        hours after the carrageenan injection. See, Randall et al., Arch. Int.
        Pharmacodyn. 111: 409-419 (1957).
[0078]  The effects of selected agents on carrageenan-induced paw edema can also
        be examined. This test (see, Vinegar et al., J. Phamacol. Exp. Ther. 166:
        96-103 (1969) allows an assessment of the ability of a compound to
        reverse or prevent the formation of edema evoked by paw carrageenan
        injection. The paw edema test is carried out using a plethysmometer for
        paw measurements. After administration of a selected agent, a carrageenan
        solution is injected subcutaneously into the lateral foot pad on the plantar
        surface of the left hind paw. At three hours post-carrageenan treatment,

                                       -28
         the volume of the treated paw (left) and the untreated paw (right) is
         measured using a plethysmometer.
 [0079]  Formalin Behavioral Response Model: The formalin test is a model of
         acute, persistent pain. Response to formalin treatment is biphasic
         (Dubuisson et al., Pain 4: 161-174 (1977)). The Phase I response is
         indicative of a pure nociceptive response to the irritant. Phase 2, typically
         beginning 20 to 60 minutes following injection of formalin, is thought to
         reflect increased sensitization of the spinal cord.
 [00801  Von Frey Filament Test (Chang model): The effect of compounds on
         mechanical allodynia can be determined by the von Frey filament test in
        rats with a tight ligation of the L-5 spinal nerve: a model of painful
        peripheral neuropathy. The surgical procedure is performed as described
        by Kim et al., Pain 50: 355-363 (1992). A calibrated series of von Frey
        filaments are used to assess mechanical allodynia (Chaplan et al., J.
        Neurosci. Methods 53: 55-63 (1994)). Filaments of increasing stiffness are
        applied perpendicular to the midplantar surface in the sciatic nerve
        distribution of the left hindpaw. The filaments are slowly depressed until
        bending occurred and are then held for 4-6 seconds. Flinching and licking
        of the paw and paw withdrawal on the ligated side are considered positive
        responses.
[0081]  Chronic Constriction Injury: Heat and cold allodynia responses can be
        evaluated as described below in rats having a chronic constriction injury
        (CCI). A unilateral mononeuropathy is produced in rats using the chronic
        constriction injury model described in Bennett et al., Pain 33: 87-107
        (1988). CCI is produced in anesthetized rats as follows. The lateral aspect
        of each rat's hind limb is shaved and scrubbed with Nolvasan. Using
        aseptic techniques, an incision is made on the lateral aspect of the hind

                                      -29
         limb at the mid-thigh level. The biceps femoris is bluntly dissected to
         expose the sciatic nerve. On the right hind limb of each rat, four loosely
         tied ligatures (for example, Chromic gut 4.0; Ethicon, Johnson and
         Johnson,    Somerville,   N.J.)  are made      around   the   sciatic  nerve
         approximately 1-2 mm apart. On the left side of each rat, an identical
         dissection is performed except that the sciatic nerve is not ligated (sham).
         The muscle is closed with a continuous suture pattern with, e.g., 4-0
         Vicryl (Johnson and Johnson, Somerville, N.J.) and the overlying skin is
         closed with wound clips. The rats are ear-tagged for identification
         purposes and returned to animal housing.
 [0082]  The Hargreaves Test: The Hargreaves test (Hargreaves et al., Pain 32: 77
         88 (1998)) is also a radiant heat model for pain. CCI rats are tested for
         thermal hyperalgesia at least 10 days post-op. The test apparatus consists
         of an elevated heated (80-82.degree. F.) glass platform. Eight rats at a
        time, representing all testing groups, are confined individually in inverted
        plastic cages on the glass floor of the platform at least 15 minutes before
        testing. A radiant heat source placed underneath the glass is aimed at the
        plantar hind paw of each rat. The application of heat is continued until the
        paw is withdrawn (withdrawal latency) or the time elapsed is 20 seconds.
        This trial is also applied to the sham operated leg. Two to four trials are
        conducted on each paw, alternately, with at least 5 minutes interval
        between trials. The average of these values represents the withdrawal
        latency.
[0083]  Cold Allodynia Model: The test apparatus and methods of behavioral
        testing is described in Gogas et al., Analgesia 3: 111-118 (1997). The
        apparatus for testing cold allodynia in neuropathic (CCI) rats consists of a
        Plexiglass chamber with a metal plate 6 cm from the bottom of the
        chamber. The chamber is filled with ice and water to a depth of 2.5 cm

                                     -30
         above the metal plate, with the temperature of the bath maintained at 0
         4C throughout the test. Each rat is placed into the chamber individually, a
         timer started, and the animal's response latency was measured to the
         nearest tenth of a second. A "response" is defined as a rapid withdrawal of
         the right ligated hindpaw completely out of the water when the animal is
         stationary and not pivoting. An exaggerated limp while the animal is
         walking and turning is not scored as a response. The animals' baseline
         scores for withdrawal of the ligated leg from the water typically range
        from 7-13 seconds. The maximum immersion time is 20 seconds with a
        20-minute interval between trials.
[0084]  Using any of these assays and others known in the art, those skilled in the
        art recognize that ED50 values and their standard errors of the mean can be
        determined using accepted numerical methods, see, e.g., Roger E. Kirk,
        Experimental Design: Procedures for the Behavioral Sciences,
        (Wadsworth Publishing, 3.sup.rd ed. 1994).
[0085]  All percentages and ratios are calculated by weight unless otherwise
        indicated.
[00861  All percentages and ratios are calculated based on the total composition
       unless otherwise indicated.
[0087] It should be understood that every maximum numerical limitation given
       throughout this specification includes every lower numerical limitation, as
       if such lower numerical limitations were expressly written herein. Every
       minimum numerical limitation given throughout this specification will
       include every higher numerical limitation, as if such higher numerical
       limitations were expressly written herein. Every numerical range given
       throughout this specification will include every narrower numerical range

                                       -31
         that falls within such broader numerical range, as if such narrower
         numerical ranges were all expressly written herein.
 [0088]  The dimensions and values disclosed herein are not to be understood as
         being strictly limited to the exact numerical values recited. Instead, unless
         otherwise specified, each such dimension is intended to mean both the
         recited value and a functionally equivalent range surrounding that value.
         For example, a dimension disclosed as "20 mm" is intended to mean
         "about 20 mm."
 [0089]  Every document cited herein, including any cross referenced or related
         patent or application, is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its
         entirety unless expressly excluded or otherwise limited. The citation of
         any document is not an admission that it is prior art with respect to any
         invention disclosed or claimed herein or that it alone, or in any
         combination with any other reference or references, teaches, suggests or
        discloses any such invention. Further, to the extent that any meaning or
        definition of a term in this document conflicts with any meaning or
        definition of the same term in a document incorporated by reference, the
        meaning or definition assigned to that term in this document shall govern.
[0090]  While particular embodiments of the present invention have been
        illustrated and described, it would be obvious to those skilled in the art
        that various other changes and modifications can be made without
        departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore
        intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and
        modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

                                            -32
Experimental Data:
       The quinoline structure Formula la) is tested in cells and rats. Wild type rats that
are dosed with Formula la) show dose responsive inhibition of pain (Figure 1) with no
obvious side effects, including no cardiotoxicity.

                                              -33
A. Spontaneous pain related behaviours and 50% mechanical threshold (on the paw) after
colon mustard infusion (with Formula 1a).
                                           Body Licking
                      so ILower
                      50
                      40
                      30
                 :    20
                      10
                       0
                             0.03       0.15        0.75       1.5
                                             mg/kg
                                 Abdominal Retrations
                  100
              E
                   40
             c20
                           0.03       0.15         0.75        1.5
                                             mg/kg
            OVehicle       130.03mg      00.15mg        00.75mg    EDrugOnly
              $120
              R 16
                s12
                    8
                   4
                    0
                             Left         Right           Left       Right
                                  Baseline                     30m inI

                                                 -34
B. Spontaneous pain related behaviours and 50% mechanical threshold (on the paw) after
colon mustard infusion (with ML204 oral feeding); n=4 for each group
      100                Lower Body Licking
   E   60
       40
       20
        0
                 Vehicle         0.5mg           1mg
            100              Abdominal Retractions
              80
        E
          j.:6
             40
             20
               0
                     Vehicle         0.5mg           1mg
                                                         DOVehicle DEO.5mcg DI1mg
             20
             1
             16
           0 12
                        Left            Right            Left             Right
                              Baseline                          30min

                                                -35
C. Morphine Equivalency. Pre-treatment with morphine requires much higher doses to inhibit
pain related behaviors induced by intracolonic MO infusion. Spontaneous pain related behaviours
and 50% mechanical threshold (on the paw) after colon mustard infusion (with morphine s.c.);
n=3 for each group.
                                    Body Licking
             so ILower
             50
          E
           140
             20
              0L
                   Vehicle            5mg            10mg
                            Abdominal Retractions
               100
                e0
            E
                50
                40
                20
                 0
                    Vehicle          5mg          10mg
                                                        D Vehicle I 5mgj 0 10mg
              20
              16
              12
          Wa
                     Left              Right            Left            Right
                             Baseline                          30min

                                             -36
 Claims.
 1.     A compound selected from
                 R"
        a) R     N              (Formula I),
                                          NNm CN>NNN
        wherein R is selected from               ,
                            H3 C       N        H      N          N
        H3 C                H3C                 H3 C
                                                          N
                     N>ZN>              Z          NH
        HO               , H                                      H3
                        H3C
        H       H3C                 N
           H3C                   CH3
       wherein R' is selected from H, CH 3, Et, or X, and
       wherein R" is selected from H or alkyl;
       for use in a method for treating the human or animal body.
2.     The compound of claim 1, wherein R is                ,

                                        -37
     wherein R' is selected from H, CH 3, Et, or X, and
     wherein R" is selected from H or alkyl.
                                                        N
3.  The compound of claim 1 or 2, wherein R is               , R' is H, and R" is CH 3.
4.  The compound of any of claims 1 to 3 for use in treating, reducing, or preventing
    pain in a mammal.
5.  The compound of claim 4, wherein the pain is selected from acute, chronic,
    neuropathic, nociceptive and visceral pain, and a combination thereof.
6.  The compound of claim 5, wherein the pain comprises visceral pain.
7.  The compound of claim 5, wherein the pain comprises neuropathic pain.
8.  The compound of any of claims 4 to 7, wherein said compound is administered
    orally.
9.  The compound of any of claims 4 to 7, wherein said compound is administered
    topically.
10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of any of claims 1 to 7
    and a pharmaceutical excipient.
11. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, further comprising one or more
    additional pharmaceutically active agents.
12. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 9, wherein said one or more additional
    pharmaceutically active agents are selected from non-opioid analgesics, opioid
    analgesics, anti-epileptics, NMDA antagonists, lidocaine, tricyclic
    antidepressants, or a combination thereof.

                                          -38
13.  A method of treating, reducing, or preventing pain in a mammal, comprising the
     step of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition to said
     mammal, wherein said composition comprises a compound selected from
              R"
                          R'
     a) R     N              (Formula I),
                                                                   N
     wherein R is selected from [-I
                         H3          N      HC    N      N              N
     H3 C                H3 C               H 3C
                         N        N,                    N       H3
                                                        N
                     H3 C
     H       H3C                 N
        H3C                   CH 3
    wherein R' is selected from H, CH 3, Et, or X, and
    wherein R" is selected from H or alkyl;
    b) R'            (Formula II), wherein R is selected from Aryl, heteroaryl, alkyl,
    cycloalkyl, H, and R' is selected from H, aryl, heteroaryl, alkyl, cycloalkyl

                                          -39
      to a subject in need thereof, and wherein said compound is capable of modulating
      Trpc4 activity.
                                                                         R"
                                                                                  R'
 14.  The method of claim 13, wherein said compound comprises R          N
                           N
     wherein R is                ,
     wherein R' is selected from H, CH 3 , Et, or X, and
     wherein R" is selected from H or alkyl.
 15. The method of claim 13 or 14, wherein said compound comprises
            R"
                        R'
      R      N             ,wherein R is            ,R' is H, and R" is CH 3 .
 16. The method of any of claims 13 to 15, wherein said Trpc4 is human.
 17. The method of any of claims 13 to 16, wherein said compound causes an increase
     in Trpc4 activity.
18.  The method of any of claim 13 to 16, wherein said compound causes a decrease in
     Trpc4 activity.
19.  The method of any of claims 13 to 16, wherein said compound functions as a
     Trpc4 antagonist.
20.  The method of claim 13 to 16, wherein said compound functions as a Trpc4
     agonist.
21.  The method of claim 14, wherein said compound functions as a Trpc4 antagonist.

                                               40
22. The method of claim 14, wherein said compound functions as a Trpc4 agonist.
23. The method of any of claims 13 to 22, wherein the pain is selected from the group
consisting of acute, chronic, neuropathic, nociceptive, visceral, and a combination thereof.
24. The method of claim 13, wherein the pain comprises visceral pain.
25. The method of claim 13 wherein the pain comprises neuropathic pain.
26. The method of any of claim 13 to 25, wherein said composition further comprises a
second pharmaceutically active agent.
27. The method of any of claims 13 to 26, wherein said composition further comprises one or
more additional pharmaceutically active agents selected from non-opioid analgesics, opioid
analgesics, anti-epileptics, NMDA antagonists, lidocaine, tricyclic antidepressants, or a
combination thereof.
28. The method of any of claims 13 to 27 wherein said compound is administered orally.
29. The method of any of claims 13 to 27 wherein said compound is administered topically.
                           Transposagen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
(14486094 1):AXG

