Abstract
There is provided herein a portable device allowing for the simple and convenient securement of
items on an empty adjacent passenger seat whilst driving. The device comprises a major planar
portion and a minor planar portion jutting at an angle therefrom such that, when placed on a vehicle
car seat, the major planar portion is substantially horizontal or at least more horizontal than that of
the upper surface of the car seat. The edging of the minor planar portion may engage within the car
seat so as to prevent the device from being dislodged therefrom in transit. As such, when secured in
this manner, items may easily be placed for securement on an upper surface of the easily accessible
major planar portion. Also, objects not having planar faces, such as drink cans and the like may be
jammed between the minor planar portion and the back rest of the vehicle seat.
                                                    6

    1/14
c
  CYa,
         o(O-1-

                        A device for in-transit object securement
Field of the Invention
[1]      This invention relates generally to a device for in-transit object securement.
Background of the Invention
[2]      In transit, loose items within a vehicle may roll about creating nuisance and safety hazards.
[3]      Conventionally, such loose items may be jammed or located within recessed areas of a vehicle
so as to attempt to prevent their rolling about, such as placing loose objects in a passenger seat foot
well, boot of the vehicle or the like. However, even in these locations, such items are not adequately
secured.
[4]      As such, in need therefore exists for a device for in-transit object securement allowing for the
simple and convenient securement of various items on a vehicle in transit.
[5]      The present invention seeks to provide a device for in-transit object securement, which will
overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least
provide an alternative.
[6]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common general knowledge
in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Disclosure
[7]      There is provided herein a portable device allowing for the simple and convenient securement
of items on an empty adjacent passenger seat whilst driving.
[8]      Specifically, the device comprises a major planar portion and a minor planar portion jutting at
an angle therefrom such that, when placed on a vehicle car seat, the major planar portion is
substantially horizontal or at least more horizontal than that of the upper surface of the car seat.
[9]      Furthermore, the device, especially the edging of the minor planar portion engages within the
car seat so as to prevent the device from being dislodged therefrom in transit. As such, when secured
in this manner, items may easily be placed for securement on an upper surface of the easily accessible
major planar portion. Also, objects not having planar faces, such as drink cans and the like may be
jammed between the minor planar portion and the back rest of the vehicle seat.
[10]     As such, with the foregoing in mind, in accordance with one aspect, there is provided a device
for in-transit object securement, the device shaped to define a major planar portion and a minor
portion jutting thereof at an angle such that the device may be placed on a passenger car seat in transit
with the minor portion facing towards a backrest of the seat and items placed an upper surface of the
major planar portion for securement in transit.
                                                     1

[11]     The minor portion juts from a short edge of the major portion.
[12]     At least a portion of an upper surface of the major planar portion may comprise a friction
enhancing surface.
[13]     The friction enhancing surface may comprise rubber.
[14]     The friction enhancing surface may comprise silicon.
[15]     The surface area of the friction enhancing surface may be less than that of the upper surface
so as to define a boundary thereabout.
[16]     At least a portion of an upper surface of the minor planar portion may comprise a friction
enhancing surface.
[17]     The minor portion juts approximately 130* from the major portion.
[18]     The device may comprise a width of approximately 29 cm.
[19]     The minor planar portion may comprise a width of approximately 11 cm.
[20]     The major planar portion may comprise a width of approximately 43 cm.
[21]     The device may be manufactured from plastic.
[22]     The device may be manufactured from Perspex.
[23]     The device may be manufactured from a single sheet of plastic which may be heated for
bending between the major and minor planar portions.
[24]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[25]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention,
preferred embodiments of the disclosure will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[26]     Figure 1 shows a device for in-transit object securement in accordance with an embodiment.
Description of Embodiments
[27]     Figure 1 shows a device 1 for in-transit object securement.
[28]     As can be seen, the device 1 is shaped to define a major planar portion 2 and a minor planar
portion 3 jutting from a short edge of the major planar portion 2.
[29]     As is also shown in figure 1, the minor planar portion 3 juts at an angle from the major planar
portion 2 at approximately 130*.
[30]     As such, the device 1 may be placed on an empty passenger car seat in-transit with the minor
portion facing towards the back rest of the seat such that items can be placed on upper surface of the
major planar portion 2 for securement in-transit.
                                                    2

[31]     As can be appreciated, the shape of the device 1 accounts for the rearward slope of the seat
such that the upper surface of the major planar portion 2 is substantially horizontal or at least more
horizontal than the surface of the passenger car seat.
[32]     As such, the device 1, including by virtue of being a light portable device, may easily be placed
on a passenger car seat when required. Specifically, the device 1 may be stored within a vehicle boot,
underseat or the like such that, when required, the device 1 may be retrieved for placing on the
passenger car seat.
[33]     Furthermore, the device 1 may be secured within the passenger car seat by virtue of the sizing
and configuration of the device 1, including that of the minor planar portion 3. Specifically, as can be
seen, the minor planar portion 3 may comprise a width of approximately 29 cm, so as to be less than
the width of conventional car seats. As such, the minor planar portion 3 sits within the juncture of the
passenger car seat and back rest thereof so as to be at least secured thereby. As such, in this manner,
the device 1 remains substantially secured to the car seat during normal driving conditions.
[34]     As is also shown in figure 1, the device 1 may further comprise exemplary dimensions wherein
the minor planar portion 3 has a width of approximately 11 cm and wherein the major planar portion
2 has a length of approximately 43 cm.
[35]     Now, in embodiments, the upper surface of the major planar portion 2 may comprise upward
protrusions for mechanical interlock with items placed thereon.
[36]     However, in a preferred embodiment, the upper surface of the major planar portion 2
comprise a friction enhancing surface 4 such as that made from rubber, such as silicon or the like.
[37]     As such, the friction enhancing surface 4 substantially prevent items from sliding about the
upper surface of the major planar portion 2.
[38]     In the embodiment shown, the friction enhancing surface 4 may be slightly smaller than that
of the upper surface of the major planar portion able to so as to define a boundary thereabout, but
such is not necessarily required.
[39]     In a further embodiment, the upper surface of the minor planar portion 3 may also comprise
a similarly sized friction enhancing surface 4. In the embodiment shown, the friction enhancing
surfaces 4 may meet at the juncture between the major and minor planar portions 2, 3.
[40]     As such, in use, once having placed the device 1 on an empty adjacent passenger car seat, the
driver may place various objects thereon, such as cakes, mobile phones and the like so as to be able
to drive about without such items sliding about the vehicle.
[41]     Furthermore, for items not necessarily having planar faces suitable for resting on the planar
upper surface of the major planar portion 2 such as drink cans of the like, such non-planar items may
be placed within the gap provided between the upper surface of the minor planar portion 3 and the
                                                     3

back rest of the vehicle seat. As such, for example, drive may place the driver's mobile phone on the
upper surface of the major planar portion 3 and wedge a Coke can between the faces of the minor
planar portion 3 and the vehicle back rest.
[42]     In embodiments, the device 11 may be manufactured from a sheet of plastic, such as Perspex
or the like which is further manufactured from a single sheet of plastic which is heated for bending
during manufacture.
[43]     The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific nomenclature to provide
a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that
specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. Thus, the foregoing descriptions of
specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They
are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed; obviously,
many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were
chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical
applications, they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various
embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is
intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.
                                                     4

Claims
1.       A device for in-transit object securement, the device shaped to define a major planar portion
and a minor portion jutting thereof at an angle such that the device may be placed on a passenger
car seat in transit with the minor portion facing towards a backrest of the seat and items placed an
upper surface of the major planar portion for securement in transit.
2.       A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the minor portion juts from a short edge of the
major portion.
3.       A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of an upper surface of the major
planar portion comprises a friction enhancing surface.
4.       A device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the friction enhancing surface comprises rubber.
5.       A device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the friction enhancing surface comprises silicon.
6.       A device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the surface area of the friction enhancing surface is
less than that of the upper surface so as to define a boundary thereabout.
7.       A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of an upper surface of the minor
planar portion comprises a friction enhancing surface.
8.       A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the minor portion juts approximately 130* from the
major portion.
9.       A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device comprises a width of approximately 29
cm.
10.      A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the minor planar portion comprises a width of
approximately 11 cm.
11.      A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the major planar portion comprises a width of
approximately 43 cm.
12.      A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device is manufactured from plastic.
13.      A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device is manufactured from Perspex.
14.      A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device is manufactured from a single sheet of
plastic which is heated for bending between the major and minor planar portions.
                                                    5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/1

