                                    ABSTRACT
                            Delivery Device and Method
The present invention relates to a delivery device for and a method of treating
conditions of the nasal airway, in particular inflammatory or infectious conditions
relating to the middle meatus.

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
 DELIVERY DEVICE AND METHOD
The present invention relates to a delivery device for and a method of
treating conditions of the nasal airway, in particular inflammatory or
 infectious conditions relating to the middle meatus, such as rhinosinusitis
 (RS), including acute rhinosinusitis (ARS) and chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS),
 polyposis, sinus pains, auto-immune diseases, including viral, bacterial,
 allergic and non-allergic diseases, and the common cold.
 RS is a prevalent disease, with CRS being the most common chronic disease
 in the US, with 10 to 15 0/ of the population being affected (US, Vital
 Health Statistics). In Europe, about 10 /b of the population suffer from CRS
 and about 2 to 3 /b suffer from polyposis, with thus 20 to 30 0/ of subjects
 with CRS also having polyposis.
 The pathology of RS and polyposis generally stems from the middle meatus,
 where the sinus ostia open to the nasal cavity. In subjects with CRS, the
  mucosal lining becomes swollen, and, if polyps develop, the polyps obstruct
  the middle meatus and often the olfactory cleft which opens to the olfactory
  region. As the polyps develop, the polyps normally extend downwards and
  backwards, though sometimes forwards. The obstruction becomes more
  pronounced with polyp size and is always more prominent in the upper
  parts of the nose.
  Currently, treatment is by drops as delivered by pipette or aerosol sprays as
  delivered by a conventional spray pump.           Studies have shown that
  conventional sprays are inadequate in reaching the middle meatus.        Drops
   can reach the middle meatus, but this requires rigorous patient compliance,
   insofar as the patients have to adopt particular body positions during
   delivery, such as the "Mecca" position, which are rarely respected.
   It is an aim of the present invention to provide a delivery device for and
   method of delivering substance to the middle meatus, particularly in the
                              CONFIRMATION COPY

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      -2
treatment of inflammatory or infectious conditions relating to the middle
meatus, in particular ARS, CRS and polyposis.
The present inventors have recognized that an increased delivery of
substance to the posterior region of the nasal airway, and in particular the
upper posterior region of the nasal airway, as illustrated in Figure 1, relative
to the anterior region of the nasal airway, surprisingly provides for
improved delivery to the middle meatus, and in particular in subjects with
 nasal polyps.
The posterior region of the nasal airway is that region which is posterior of
the nasal valve NV, as illustrated in Figure 1. The nasal valve comprises the
 anterior bony cavum which contains inferior turbinate erectile tissue and
 septal erectile tissue, which are supported respectively by compliant ala
 tissue and the rigid cartilaginous septum (Cole).    These elements combine
 to form a dynamic valve, which extends over several millimetres, that
 adjusts nasal airflow, and is stabilized by cartilage and bone, modulated by
 voluntary muscle and regulated by erectile tissue. The lumen of the nasal
 valve is the section of narrowest cross-sectional area between the posterior
 and anterior regions of the nasal airway, and is much longer and narrower
 dorsally than ventrally, and this lumen defines a triangular entrance which
 extends to the piriform region of the bony cavum. The nasal valve is lined
  in its anterior part with transitional epithelium, with a gradual transition
  posterior to respiratory epithelium. The nasal valve and anterior vestibule
  define roughly the anterior one-third of the nose.
 The posterior region of the nasal airway is that region which is lined with
  respiratory epithelium, which is ciliated, and olfactory epithelium, which
  comprises nerves which extend downwards through the cribiform plate CP
  from the olfactory bulb, whereas the anterior region of the nasal airway is
  that region which is lined with squamous epithelium, which is not ciliated,
  and transitional epithelium. The olfactory epithelium extends on both the
  lateral and medial sides of the nasal airway, and typically extends
  downwards about 1.5 to 2.5 cm.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      -3
The upper posterior region is the region above the inferior meatus IM, as
illustrated in Figure 1, and encompasses the middle turbinate, the middle
meatus, the sinus ostia in infundibulum (ostia to maxillary, frontal and
ethmoidal sinuses), the olfactory region, and the upper branches of the
trigeminal nerve, and is that region which includes veins which drain to the
venous sinuses that surround the brain.
As illustrated in Figure 1, the posterior region of the nasal airway is the
nasal region posterior of an imaginary vertical plane VERT which is located
at a position corresponding to the lower angle of the anterior nasal aperture
(aperture piriformis), which corresponds substantially to one-quarter of the
distance between the anterior nasal spine AnS, which is a pointed projection
at the anterior extremity of the intermaxillary suture, and the posterior
 nasal spine PnS, which is the sharp posterior extremity of the nasal crest of
the hard palate and represents the transition between the nose and the
 nasopharynx, which corresponds to a distance posterior of the anterior
 nasal spine AnS of between about 13 mm and about 14 mm (Rosenberger
 defines the distance between the anterior nasal spine AnS and the posterior
 nasal spine PnS as being 56 mm in eighteen year old boys and 53.3 mm in
 eighteen year old girls).
 As further illustrated in Figure 1, the upper region of the nasal airway is an
 upper segment of the nasal airway which is bounded by the cribiform plate
 CP    and  a horizontal    plane HORIZ     which   is located at a position
 corresponding to one-third of the distance between the nasal floor NF of the
 nasal airway and the cribiform plate CP, which corresponds to a height of
 typically between about 13 and about 19 mm above the nasal floor NF
 (Zacharek et al define the distance from the nasal floor NF to the cribiform
 plate CP as 46 +/- 4 mm).
 The upper posterior region is thus that upper posterior region which is
 bounded by the above-defined vertical and horizontal planes VERT, HORIZ.

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      -4
In one aspect the present invention provides a nasal delivery device for
delivering substance, typically as a formulation, to the middle meatus in a
 nasal cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in particular an
 inflammatory or infectious condition, thereof, the delivery device
 comprising: a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to a nostril of
 a subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use delivered to the
 respective nasal cavity; and a delivery unit for delivering substance through
 the nozzle of the nosepiece; wherein the delivery device is configured such
 that at least 50 /0 of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal airway is
 deposited in a region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal valve
 and at least 30     0/ of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is
 deposited in an upper posterior region of the nasal cavity which is posterior
 of the nasal valve and above the inferior meatus.
 In another aspect the present invention provides a nasal delivery device for
 delivering substance, typically as a formulation, to the middle meatus in a
 nasal cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in particular an
  inflammatory      or  infectious  condition,   thereof,  the   delivery  device
  comprising: a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to a nostril of
  a subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use delivered to the
  respective nasal cavity; and a delivery unit for delivering substance through
 the nozzle of the nosepiece; wherein the nozzle provides for delivery of the
  substance as at least one liquid jet or an aerosol spray having a cone angle
  of not more than about 50 degrees.
  In a further aspect the present invention provides a nasal delivery device
  for delivering substance, typically as a formulation, to a nasal airway of a
  subject, comprising: a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to a
  nostril of a subject, the nosepiece including a nozzle through which
  substance is in use delivered to the respective nasal cavity; and a delivery
   unit for delivering substance through the nozzle of the nosepiece.
  In a still further aspect the present invention provides a method of
   delivering substance, typically as a formulation, to the middle meatus in a

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      -5
nasal cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in particular an
inflammatory or infectious condition, thereof, the method comprising the
steps of: fitting a nosepiece unit to one nostril of a subject, the nosepiece
 unit including a nosepiece which is inserted into the one nostril of a subject
and a nozzle through which substance is delivered to the respective nasal
cavity; and delivering substance through the nozzle into the nasal cavity,
 wherein at least 50 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal airway
 is deposited in a region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal
 valve and at least 30 /b of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity
 is deposited in an upper posterior region of the nasal cavity which is
 posterior of the nasal valve and above the inferior meatus.
 In still another aspect the present invention provides a method of delivering
 substance, typically as a formulation, to the middle meatus in a nasal cavity
 of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in particular an inflammatory or
 infectious condition, thereof, the method comprising the steps of: fitting a
 nosepiece unit to one nostril of a subject, the nosepiece unit including a
  nosepiece which is into the one nostril of a subject and a nozzle through
 which substance is delivered to the respective nasal cavity; and delivering
 substance through the nozzle into the nasal cavity, wherein the nozzle
  provides for delivery of the substance as at least one liquid jet or an aerosol
  spray having a cone angle of not more than about 50 degrees.
  In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of delivering
  substance, typically as a formulation, to a nasal airway of a subject,
  comprising the steps of: fitting a nosepiece unit to one nostril of a subject,
  the nosepiece unit including a nosepiece which is inserted into the one
  nostril of a subject and a nozzle through which substance is delivered to the
  respective nasal cavity; and delivering substance through the nozzle of the
  nosepiece unit into the nasal cavity.
  In still yet another aspect the present invention provides a nasal delivery
  device for and method of delivering substance, typically as a formulation, to
  the middle meatus in a nasal cavity of a subject in the treatment of a

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      -6
condition, in particular an inflammatory or infectious condition, thereof, the
delivery device comprising: a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting
to a nostril of a subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use
delivered to the respective nasal cavity; and a delivery unit for delivering
substance through the nozzle of the nosepiece; wherein the delivery device
is configured to provide for deposition of a significant fraction of the
delivered dose on, around and in the vicinity of the middle meatus.
In one embodiment the present invention provides for the treatment of
 rhinosinusitis (RS),    including acute    rhinosinusitis (ARS)  and   chronic
 rhinosinusitis (CRS).
In one embodiment the present invention provides for the treatment of
 nasal polyps.
 CRS and polyposis are observed in subjects with Cystic Fibrosis, both
 paediatric and adult subjects, where the condition is associated with an
 abnormality in the nasal mucosa, and the present invention has particular
 application in relation to such treatment.
 In one embodiment the present invention provides for the treatment of
 sinus pains.
 In one embodiment the present invention provides for the treatment of
 auto-immune diseases, including viral, bacterial, allergic and non-allergic
 diseases, such as antigen-induced diseases.
 In one embodiment the present invention provides for the treatment of the
 common cold.
 In one embodiment the substance comprises a steroid, such as fluticasone,
  budesonide, mometasone, betamethasone, beclomethasone, triamcinolone
 and flunisoloide, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
 thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                        PCT/GB2007/000516
                                          -7
 In one embodiment the substance comprises a decongestant, such as
 ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, oxymetazoline, xylometazoline, phenylephrine
 and phenylpropanolamine, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and
 derivatives thereof.
 In one      embodiment       the   substance    comprises      a non-steroidal    anti
 inflammatory, such as sodium cromoglycate, nedocromil sodium, ibuprofen,
 salicylates, indomethacin, dexketoprofen, ketoprofen, fenbufen, naproxen
 and diclofenac, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
 thereof.
 In one embodiment the substance comprises an anti-cholinergic, such as
 ipratropium,     tiotropium      and   oxitropium,     and    the    pharmaceutically
  acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
  In one embodiment the substance comprises an anti-histamine, such as
  azelastine,   loratidine, brompheniramine,         chlorpheniramine,     mizolastine,
  promethazine,       doxylamine,        desloratidine,    triprolidine,   clemastine,
  fexofenadine,     cetirizine and     levocetirizine,   and the      pharmaceutically
  acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
  In one embodiment the substance comprises a mast cell stabilizer, such as
  ketotifen,   and    the    pharmaceutically-acceptable        salts  and  derivatives
  thereof.
  In one embodiment the substance comprises a leukotriene antagonist, such
  as zafirlukast and montelukast, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts
  and derivatives thereof.
  In one embodiment the substance comprises a diuretic, such as frusemide,
  and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                          PCT/GB2007/000516
                                            -8
 In one embodiment the substance comprises an anti-biotic, such as
 amikacin,      azithromycin,      aztreonan,      cefazolin,      cefepine,     cefonicid,
 cefaperazone, cefotaxime, cefotetan, cefoxitin, ceftazidime, ceftizoxime,
 ceftriaxone,      cerfuroxime,       cephapirin,       ciprofloxacin,       clindamycin,
 doxycycline, erthyromycin lactobionate, gentamicin, kanamycin, linezolid,
 mezlocillin,     mupirocin,       nafcillin,    netilmicin,      neomycin,       oxacillin,
 paromomycin,        piperacillin,   streptomycin,      ticarcillin,   tobramycin      and
 vancomycin, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
 thereof.
  In one embodiment the substance comprises an anti-fungal, such as
  polyene macrolides, tetraene macrolides, pentaenic macrolides, fluorinated
  pryimidines, imidazoles, triazoles, azoles, halogenated phenolic ethers,
  thiocarbamates, allylamines, sterol inhibitor, amphotericin B, ketoconazole,
  itraconazole,     saperconazole,        voriconazole,      flucytosine,     miconazole,
  fluconazole,      griseofulvin,       clotrimazole,       econazole,       terconazole,
  butoconazole, oxiconazole, sulconazole,            ciclopirox olamine,       haloprogin,
  tolnaftate,   naftifine,  terbinafine       hydrochloride,    morpholines,      nystatin,
  natamycin, butenafine, undecylenic acid, Whitefield's ointment, propionic
  acid, caprylic acid, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and
  derivatives thereof.
   In one embodiment the substance comprises an immuno-modulator. In one
   embodiment the immuno-modulator comprises an antigen, such as an
   allergen, in particular a polypeptide antigen or any part, small or large, of
   an antigen, where natural or synthesized. In another embodiment the
   immuno-modulator comprises a nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide for
   modulation or suppression of the immune response or one or more steps in
   the immune cascade or process.
   In one embodiment the substance comprises an ionic transport control
   substance which acts to normalize or counteract an imbalance in the ionic
   transport across the cell membranes, such as benzalkonium chloride.

WO 2007/093791                                                   PCT/GB2007/000516
                                          - 9.
In one embodiment the substance can comprise a biofilm-destroying agent
which acts to destroy bacterial biofilms which can tend to form in subjects
with conditions associated with nasal inflammation and infection.          In one
embodiment the biofilm-destroying agent comprises an anti-biotic, such as
tetracycline,     linezolid    and   moxifloxacin,   and  the   pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.           In another embodiment the
 biofilm-destroying agent comprises a disinfectant, such as chlorohexidine,
 and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.           In a
 further embodiment the biofilm-destroying agent can be included as a
 preservative,     such    as   benzalkonium    chloride, within  the   substance
 formulation.
 In preferred embodiments the substances can be administered separately or
 in    any combination,       individually or simultaneously,    within  a single
 formulation.
 Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described
 hereinbelow by way of example only with reference to the accompanying
 drawings, in which:
  Figure 1 illustrates the segmentation of a nasal cavity in accordance with a
  preferred embodiment of the present invention;
  Figure 2 schematically illustrates a nasal delivery device in accordance with
  a first embodiment of the present invention;
  Figure 3 illustrates the delivery device of Figure 2 where operative to deliver
  a dose of substance into the nasal airway of the subject;
  Figure 4 schematically illustrates a nasal delivery device in accordance with
  a second embodiment of the present invention;
  Figure 5 illustrates the delivery device of Figure 4 where operative to deliver
  a dose of substance into the nasal airway of the subject;

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      -  10
Figure 6 schematically illustrates a nasal delivery device in accordance with
a third embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 7 illustrates the delivery device of Figure 6 where operative to deliver
a dose of substance into the nasal airway of the subject;
Figure 8 schematically illustrates a nasal delivery device in accordance with
a fourth embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 9 illustrates the delivery device of Figure 8 where operative to deliver
a dose of substance into the nasal airway of the subject;
Figure 10 schematically illustrates a nasal delivery device in accordance
with a fifth embodiment of the present invention; and
Figure 11 illustrates the delivery device of Figure 10 where operative to
deliver a dose of substance into the nasal airway of the subject.
 Figures 2 and 3 illustrate a nasal delivery device in accordance with a first
 embodiment of the present invention.
 The delivery device comprises a housing 15, a nosepiece unit 17 for fitting
 in a nasal cavity of a subject, and a mouthpiece 19 through which the
 subject exhales to actuate the delivery device.
 The nosepiece unit 17 comprises a nosepiece 20, in this embodiment a
 frusto-conical element, for guiding the nosepiece unit 17 into a nasal cavity
 of the subject and being configured both to provide a fluid-tight seal with
 the nares of the nostril and at least obstruct, in this embodiment close, the
 nasal passage at a position therealong, in this embodiment at a position
 corresponding substantially to the nasal valve, thereby obstructing the
 anterior one-third of the nasal passage and leaving open the posterior two
 thirds of the nasal cavity, as illustrated in Figure 3.

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    -  11
In this embodiment the nosepiece 20 is further configured such as
mechanically to open the nasal valve, thereby facilitating access to the
posterior two-thirds of the nasal cavity, and in particular the middle meatus.
The nosepiece unit 17 further comprises an outlet unit 21 for delivering
substance, which has an anti-inflammatory or other therapeutic effect on
the middle meatus, into the nasal cavity of the subject and to the middle
meatus, in this embodiment for the treatment of one or both of RS, in
particular CRS, and polyposis. In this embodiment the substance comprises
a formulation containing a nasal steroid, such as fluticasone.
In this embodiment the outlet unit 21 comprises a delivery channel 23
which is in fluid communication with the mouthpiece 19, such that an air
flow is delivered into the nasal airway of the subject on exhalation by the
 subject through the mouthpiece 19,         and a nozzle 25 for delivering
 substance into the nasal cavity of the subject.
 In this embodiment the nozzle 25 is configured to deliver a jet, as a column
 of substance. In delivering the substance as a jet, the substance can be
 more readily directed at the middle meatus, typically as obstructed by RS
 and nasal polyps.
 In this embodiment the nozzle 25 is configured to deliver a liquid jet, but in
  another embodiment could be configured to deliver a powder jet.
 The delivery device further comprises a substance supply unit 29 for
  delivering metered doses of the substance, which is fluidly connected to the
  nozzle 25 to deliver the substance from the nosepiece unit 17, in this
  embodiment as a jet.
  In this embodiment the substance supply unit 29 comprises a mechanical
  delivery pump.

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 12
In this embodiment the substance supply unit 29 is a multi-dose unit for
delivering a plurality of metered doses of the substance.          In another
embodiment the substance supply unit 29 could be a single-dose unit for
delivering a single metered dose of the substance.
The substance supply unit 29 is pre-primeable, in this embodiment by
loading a resilient element, and includes a breath-actuated release
mechanism 31 which, when triggered, releases the resilient element and
actuates the substance supply unit 29 to deliver a metered dose of the
substance through the nozzle 25.
 In this embodiment the release mechanism 31 is configured to cause
 actuation of the substance supply unit 29 on generation of a predetermined
 pressure at the delivery channel 23.
 The generation of a raised pressure in the nasal cavity acts to expand the
 region of the nasal cavity anterior of the middle meatus and posterior of the
 nasal valve, with one or both of inflamed mucosa or polyps in the upper
 region of the nasal cavity acting to provide a resistance to the anteriorly
 delivered air flow and thus providing an increased pressure anterior of the
  middle meatus. This expansion of the region of the nasal cavity anterior of
 the middle meatus facilitates access to the middle meatus and also reduces
 the deposition of substance in the anterior region.        Deposition in the
  anterior region has been shown to lead to crusting and bleeding, which is
  particularly uncomfortable. In addition, the increased pressure in the nasal
  cavity acts to force substance into ducts and channels leading to the
  sinuses, which can be blocked by mucosal inflammation and polyps.
  Operation of the delivery device will now be described hereinbelow with
  reference to Figure 3 of the accompanying drawings.
  The nosepiece unit 17 is first inserted into one of the nasal cavities of a
  subject until the nosepiece 20 abuts the nares of the nostril such as to
  establish a fluid-tight seal therewith, at which point the distal end of the

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 13
outlet unit 21 extends about 2 cm into the nasal cavity of the subject such
as to engage with and expand the nasal valve, and the mouthpiece 19 is
gripped in the lips of the subject.
The subject then begins to exhale through the mouthpiece 19, which
exhalation acts to close the oropharyngeal velum of the subject and drive
an air flow through the delivery channel 23 of the outlet unit 21, with the air
flow passing into the one nasal cavity, around the posterior margin of the
nasal septum and out of the other nasal cavity, thereby achieving a bi
directional air flow through the nasal airway of the subject, in the manner
 as described in WO-2000/051672. Where the middle meatus is obstructed,
the flow is restricted and along the floor of the nose, but, as discussed
 hereinabove, acts to generate a pressure in the nasal cavity which acts to
 expand the constriction at the middle meatus.
 In this embodiment, when the pressure developed at the delivery channel
 23 reaches a predetermined value, the release mechanism 31 is triggered
 to actuate the substance supply unit 29 to deliver a metered dose of the
 substance to the nozzle 25 and into the nasal cavity of the subject as a jet.
 In this embodiment the delivery device is configured such that at least 50
 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in a
 region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal valve, and at least
  30 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in an
  upper posterior region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal
  valve and above the inferior meatus.          With such delivery, improved
  deposition is obtained on the middle meatus, in particular at the site of
  nasal polyps.
  In preferred embodiments the delivery device is configured such that at
  least 55 %, more preferably at least 60 %, still more preferably at least 65
  % and yet more preferably 70 % of the dose as initially deposited in the
  nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal valve.

WO 2007/093791                                                   PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 14
In preferred embodiments the delivery device is configured such that at
least 35 %, more preferably at least 40 %, still more preferably at least 45
% and yet more preferably 50 % of the dose as initially deposited in the
nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region of the nasal cavity.
In this embodiment, where the. delivery device is a multi-dose device, the
device is ready for further use following priming of the pump unit 29.
In one alternative embodiment the nozzle 25 could be configured to deliver
 a plurality of jets. This configuration still facilitates delivery through the
 nasal valve to the middle meatus as compared to conventional sprays which
 have a wide cone angle.
 In one embodiment the contralateral nostril can be partially or wholly
 obstructed, such as to promote the generation of a raised pressure in the
 nasal cavity into which substance is to be delivered. In one embodiment
 the contralateral nostril can be obstructed by applying a pressure to the
  lateral nare of the contralateral nostril.       In another embodiment the
  nosepiece unit 17 can include a second nosepiece 20 which is configured to
  be fitted in the other nostril of the subject such as to obstruct the same.
  Figures 4 and 5 illustrate a nasal delivery device in accordance with a
  second embodiment of the present invention.
  The delivery device of this embodiment is very similar to the delivery device
   of the above-described first embodiment, and thus, in order to avoid
   unnecessary duplication of description, only the differences will be described
   in detail, with like reference signs designating like parts.
   The delivery device of this embodiment differs from that of the above
   described first embodiment in further comprising an oral exhalation breath
   actuatable gas supply unit 33 for delivering a gas flow through the delivery
   channel 23 of the outlet unit 21 in response to exhalation by a subject, and
   in that the mouthpiece 19 is in fluid communication with the gas supply unit

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 15
33 and not the delivery channel 23 of the outlet unit 21, whereby a gas flow
is delivered to the delivery channel 23 of the outlet unit 21, and hence the
nasal airway of the subject, in response to exhalation through the
mouthpiece 19.
Operation of the delivery device is the same as for the above-described first
embodiment, with a gas flow being delivered to the delivery channel 23 of
the outlet unit 21 in response to exhalation through the mouthpiece 19.
In one alternative embodiment the release mechanism 31 could be a
 manually-actuated unit and the mouthpiece 19 omitted.
 Figures 6 and 7 illustrate a nasal delivery device in accordance with a third
 embodiment of the present invention.
 The delivery device of this embodiment is quite similar to the delivery
 device of the above-described first embodiment, and thus, in order to avoid
 unnecessary duplication of description, only the differences will be described
 in detail, with like reference signs designating like parts.
 The delivery device of this embodiment differs from that of the above
 described first embodiment in the release mechanism 31 being a manually
 actuated unit and the mouthpiece 19 and the delivery channel 23 of the
 outlet unit 21 being omitted. With this configuration, a gas flow is not
 delivered into the nasal cavity of the subject, but the substance, in being
 delivered as a jet, acts to provide for targeted delivery to the middle
  meatus without any deposition anterior of the nasal valve, which would be
  experienced with a conventional nasal spray.
  Operation of the delivery device is the same as for the above-described first
  embodiment, except that a gas flow is not delivered into the nasal cavity.
  Figures 8 and 9 illustrate a nasal delivery device in accordance with a fourth
  embodiment of the present invention.

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 16
The delivery device comprises a housing 115, a nosepiece unit 117 for
fitting in a nasal cavity of a subject, and a mouthpiece 119 through which
the subject exhales to actuate the delivery device.
The nosepiece unit 117 comprises a nosepiece 120, in this embodiment a
frusto-conical element, for guiding the nosepiece unit 117 into a nasal
 cavity of the subject and being configured both to provide a fluid-tight seal
 with the nares of the nostril and at least obstruct, in this embodiment close,
 the nasal passage at a position therealong, in this embodiment at a position
 corresponding substantially to the nasal valve, thereby obstructing the
 anterior one-third of the nasal cavity and leaving open the posterior two
 thirds of the nasal cavity, as illustrated in Figure 9.
 In this embodiment the nosepiece 120 is further configured such as
  mechanically to open the nasal valve, thereby facilitating access to the
  posterior two-thirds of the nasal cavity, and in particular the middle meatus.
 The nosepiece unit 117 further comprises an outlet unit 121 for delivering
  substance, which has an anti-inflammatory or other therapeutic effect on
  the middle meatus, into the nasal cavity of the subject and to the middle
  meatus, for the treatment of one or both of RS, in particular CRS, and
  polyposis.    In this embodiment the substance comprises a formulation
  containing a nasal steroid, such as fluticasone.
   In this embodiment the outlet unit 121 comprises a delivery channel 123
   which is in fluid communication with the mouthpiece 119 such that an air
   flow is delivered into and through the nasal airway of the subject on
   exhalation by the subject through the mouthpiece 119, and a nozzle 125 for
   delivering the substance into the nasal cavity of the subject.
   In this embodiment the nozzle 125 is configured to deliver an aerosol spray,
   either as a liquid or powder aerosol, here having a relatively-narrow cone
   angle.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 17
In one embodiment the cone angle is not more than about 50 degrees,
preferably not more than about 40 degrees, more preferably not more than
about 35 degrees, still more preferably not more than about 30 degrees,
yet more preferably not more than about 25 degrees, still yet more
preferably not more than about 20 degrees, and still yet more preferably
not more than about 15 degrees.
In delivering the substance as an aerosol spray with a narrow cone angle,
the substance can be more readily directed at the middle meatus as
 obstructed by RS and nasal polyps.
The delivery device further comprises a substance supply unit 129 for
 delivering metered doses of the substance, which is fluidly connected to the
 nozzle 125 to deliver the substance from the nosepiece unit 117, in this
 embodiment as an aerosol spray.
 In this embodiment the substance supply unit 129 comprises a mechanical
 delivery pump, in particular a liquid delivery pump or a powder delivery
 pump, which delivers metered doses of substance on actuation thereof.
 In another embodiment the substance supply unit 129 could comprise a dry
  powder delivery unit which delivers metered doses of a substance, as a dry
  powder, on actuation thereof.
  In a further embodiment the substance supply unit 129 could comprise an
  aerosol canister for delivering metered volumes of a propellant, preferably a
  hydrofluoroalkane (HFA)     propellant or the like, containing substance on
  actuation thereof.
  In another alternative embodiment the substance supply unit 129 could
  comprise a nebulizer which delivers metered doses of a substance, as an
   aerosol spray, on actuation thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                        18
In this embodiment the substance supply unit 129 is a multi-dose unit for
delivering a plurality of metered doses of the substance.           In another
embodiment the substance supply unit 129 could be a single-dose unit for
delivering a single metered dose of the substance.
The substance supply unit 129 is pre-primeable, in this embodiment by
loading a resilient element, and includes a breath-actuated release
mechanism 131 which, when triggered, releases the resilient element and
actuates the-substance supply unit 129 to deliver a metered dose of the
substance through the nozzle 125.
 In this embodiment the release mechanism 131 is configured to cause
 actuation of the substance supply unit 129 on generation of a
 predetermined pressure at the delivery channel 123.
 The generation of a raised pressure in the nasal cavity acts to expand the
 region of the nasal cavity anterior of the middle meatus and posterior of the
 nasal valve, with one or both of inflamed mucosa or polyps in the upper
 region of the nasal cavity acting to provide a resistance to the anteriorly
 delivered air flow and thus providing an increased pressure anterior of the
  middle meatus. This expansion of the region of the nasal cavity anterior of
 the middle meatus facilitates access to the middle meatus and also reduces
  the deposition of substance in the anterior region.        Deposition in the
  anterior region has been shown to lead to crusting and bleeding, which is
  particularly uncomfortable. In addition, the increased pressure in the nasal
  cavity acts to force substance into ducts and channels leading to the
  sinuses, which can be blocked by mucosal inflammation and polyps.
  Operation of the delivery device will now be described hereinbelow with
   reference to Figure 9 of the accompanying drawings.
  The nosepiece unit 117 is first inserted into one of the nasal cavities of a
   subject until the nosepiece 120 abuts the nares of the nostril, such as to
   establish a fluid-tight seal therewith, at which point the distal end of the

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     -  19
outlet unit 121 extends about 2 cm into the nasal cavity of the subject such
as to engage with and expand the nasal valve, and the mouthpiece 119 is
gripped in the lips of the subject.
The subject then begins to exhale through the mouthpiece 119, which
exhalation acts to close the oropharyngeal velum of the subject and drive
an air flow through the delivery channel 123 of the outlet unit 121, with the
air flow passing into the one nasal cavity, around the posterior margin of
the nasal septum and out of the other nasal cavity, thereby achieving a bi
directional air flow through the nasal airway of the subject, in the manner
as described in WO-2000/051672.        Where the middle meatus is obstructed,
the flow is restricted and along the floor of the nose, but, as discussed
hereinabove, acts to generate a pressure in the nasal cavity which acts to
expand the constriction at the middle meatus.
 In this embodiment, when the pressure developed at the delivery channel
 123 reaches a predetermined value, the release mechanism 131 is triggered
 to actuate the substance supply unit 129 to deliver a metered dose of the
 substance to the nozzle 125 and into the nasal cavity of the subject as an
 aerosol spray.
 In this embodiment the delivery device is configured such that at least 50
 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in a
 region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal valve, and at least
 30 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in an
  upper posterior region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal
 valve and above the inferior meatus.           With such delivery, improved
  deposition is obtained on the middle meatus, in particular at the site of
  nasal polyps.
  In preferred embodiments the delivery device is configured such that at
  least 55 %, more preferably at least 60 %, still more preferably at least 65
  % and yet more preferably 70 % of the dose as initially deposited in the
  nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal valve.

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                        - 20
 In preferred embodiments the delivery device is configured such that at
 least 35 O/o, more preferably at least 40 /b, still more preferably at least 45
   o and yet more preferably 50 O/ of the dose as initially deposited in the
 nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region of the nasal cavity.
 In this embodiment, where the delivery device is a multi-dose device, the
 device is ready for further use following priming of the pump unit 129.
 In one embodiment the contralateral nostril can be partially or wholly
 obstructed, such as to promote the generation of a raised pressure in the
 nasal cavity into which substance is to be delivered.       In one embodiment
 the contralateral nostril can be obstructed by applying a pressure to the
 lateral nare of the contralateral nostril.         In another embodiment the
  nosepiece unit 117 can include a second nosepiece 120 which is configured
 to be fitted in the other nostril of the subject such as to obstruct the same.
  Figures 10 and 11 illustrate a nasal delivery device in accordance with a
 fifth embodiment of the present invention.
 The delivery device comprises a housing 215, and a nosepiece unit 217 for
  fitting in a nasal cavity of a subject and into which the subject nasally
  exhales to actuate the delivery device.
  The nosepiece unit 217 comprises a nosepiece 220, in this embodiment a
  frusto-conical element, for guiding the nosepiece unit 217 into a nasal
  cavity of the subject and being configured both to provide a fluid-tight seal
  with the nares of the nostril and at least obstruct, in this embodiment close,
  the nasal passage at a position therealong, in this embodiment at a position
  corresponding substantially to the nasal valve, thereby obstructing the
  anterior one-third of the nasal cavity and leaving open the posterior two
  thirds of the nasal cavity, as illustrated in Figure 11.

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 21
In this embodiment the nosepiece 220 is further configured such as
mechanically to open the nasal valve, thereby facilitating access to the
posterior two-thirds of the nasal cavity, and in particular the middle meatus.
The nosepiece unit 217 further comprises an outlet unit 221 for delivering
substance, which has an anti-inflammatory or other therapeutic effect on
the middle meatus, into the nasal cavity of the subject and to the middle
meatus, for the treatment of one or both of RS, in particular CRS, and
polyposis.     In this embodiment the substance comprises a formulation
containing a nasal steroid, such as fluticasone.
 In this embodiment the outlet unit 221 comprises a communication channel
 223 which is in fluid communication with the nasal cavity of the subject,
 such as to enable nasal exhalation to be detected through the generation of
 an increased pressure thereat, and a nozzle 225 for delivering a metered
 dose of substance into the nasal cavity of the subject.
 In this embodiment the nozzle 225 is configured to deliver a jet, as a
 column of substance, either of liquid or powder. In delivering the substance
 as a jet, the substance can be more readily directed at the middle meatus
 as obstructed by RS and nasal polyps.
 The delivery device further comprises a substance supply unit 229 for
 delivering metered doses of the substance, which is fluidly connected to the
  nozzle 225 to deliver the substance from the nosepiece unit 217, in this
  embodiment as a jet.
  In this embodiment the substance supply unit 229 comprises a mechanical
  delivery pump.
  In this embodiment the substance supply unit 229 is a multi-dose unit for
  delivering a plurality of metered doses of the substance.          In another
  embodiment the substance supply unit 229 could be a single-dose unit for
  delivering a single metered dose of the substance.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 22
The substance supply unit 229 is pre-primeable, in this embodiment by
loading a resilient element, and includes a breath-actuated release
 mechanism 231 which, when triggered by nasal exhalation, releases the
 resilient element and actuates the substance supply unit 229 to deliver a
 metered dose of the substance through the nozzle 225.
 In this embodiment the release mechanism 231 is configured to cause
 actuation of the substance supply unit 229 on generation of a
 predetermined pressure at the communication channel 223, which is
 developed in response to nasal exhalation.
 The generation of a raised pressure in the nasal cavity acts to expand the
 nasal cavity, and in particular the region including the middle meatus which
  represents a region of increased resistance when including one or both of
  inflamed mucosa or polyps. This expansion of the region of the nasal cavity
  including the middle meatus facilitates access to the middle meatus and
  also reduces the deposition of substance in the anterior region. Deposition
  in the anterior region has been shown to lead to crusting and bleeding,
  which is particularly uncomfortable. In addition, the increased pressure in
  the nasal cavity acts to force substance into ducts and channels leading to
  the sinuses, which can be blocked by mucosal inflammation and polyps.
  Operation of the delivery device will now be described hereinbelow with
   reference to Figure 11 of the accompanying drawings.
  The nosepiece unit 217 is first inserted into one of the nasal cavities of a
   subject until the nosepiece 220 abuts the nares of the nostril, such as to
   establish a fluid-tight seal therewith, at which point the distal end of the
   outlet unit 221 extends about 2 cm into the nasal cavity of the subject such
   as to engage and expand the nasal valve.
   The subject then begins to exhale nasally, which exhalation acts to generate
   an increased pressure in the one nasal cavity which acts to expand the

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 23
constriction at the middle meatus.      In this embodiment the mouth of the
subject can be closed, or the mouth can remain open and the tongue be
positioned such as to prevent oral exhalation, as illustrated in Figure 11.
In this embodiment, when the pressure developed at the communication
channel 223 reaches a predetermined value, the release mechanism 231 is
triggered to actuate the substance supply unit 229 to deliver a metered
dose of the substance to the nozzle 225 and into the nasal cavity of the
subject as a jet.
In this embodiment the delivery device is configured such that at least 50
 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in a
 region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal valve, and at least
 30 /o of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in an
 upper posterior region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal
 valve and above the inferior meatus.           With such delivery, improved
 deposition is obtained on the middle meatus, in particular at the site of
 nasal polyps.
 In preferred embodiments the delivery device is configured such that at
 least 55 %, more preferably at least 60 %, still more preferably at least 65
 % and yet more preferably 70 % of the dose as initially deposited in the
 nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal valve.
 In preferred embodiments the delivery device is configured such that at
 least 35 %, more preferably at least 40 %, still more preferably at least 45
 % and yet more preferably 50 % of the dose as initially deposited in the
 nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region of the nasal cavity.
 In this embodiment, where the delivery device is a multi-dose device, the
 device is ready for further use following priming of the pump unit 229.
  In one alternative embodiment the nozzle 225 could be configured to
  deliver a plurality of liquid jets. This configuration still facilitates delivery

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 24
through the nasal valve to the middle meatus as compared to conventional
sprays which have a wide cone angle.
In one embodiment the contralateral nostril can be partially or wholly
obstructed, such as to promote the generation of a raised pressure in the
 nasal cavity into which substance is to be delivered.       In one embodiment
the contralateral nostril can be obstructed by applying a pressure to the
 lateral nare of the contralateral nostril.        In another embodiment the
 nosepiece unit 217 can include a second nosepiece 220 which is configured
 to be fitted in the other nostril of the subject such as to obstruct the same.
 Finally, it will be understood that the present invention has been described
 in its preferred embodiment and can be modified in many different ways
 without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the
 appended claims.
 In one modification, the delivery device of the fifth-described embodiment
 could be modified to include first and second nosepiece units 217 for fitting
 to the respective nostrils of the subject.          With this configuration, an
 increased pressure is generated in both of the nasal cavities and substance
  can be delivered to both of the nasal cavities in a single operation of the
  delivery device.
  In   another    modification,  the    delivery device   of the   fifth-described
  embodiment could be modified, in the manner of the fourth-described
  embodiment, such that the outlet unit 221 provides for an aerosol spray,
  either as a liquid or powder aerosol.
  In preferred embodiments the delivery devices are configured to deliver an
  air flow through one nostril of a subject at such a pressure as to flow
  around the posterior margin of the nasal septum and out of the other nostril
  of the subject, thereby achieving bi-directional delivery through the nasal
  cavities as disclosed in WO-A-00/51672, the content of which is herein
   incorporated by reference. In alternative embodiments the delivery device

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 25
could be configured to deliver an air flow at a reduced pressure which is not
sufficient to achieve bi-directional delivery through the nasal cavities. Such
embodiments are still advantageous as compared to known delivery devices
in providing for velum closure and being capable of achieving targeted
delivery.

WO 2007/093791                                              PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 26
References:
    1. Cole, P, The Respiratory Role of the Upper Airways, a selective
        clinical and pathophysiological review. 1993, Mosby-Year Book Inc.
        ISBN 1.55664-390-X.
    2. Rosenberger, H, Growth and Development of the Naso-Respiratory
        Area in Childhood, PhD Thesis, Laboratory of Anatomy, School of
        Medicine, Western Reserve University, Presented to the Annual
        Meeting of the American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological
        Society, Charleston, South Carolina, USA, 1934.
    3. Zacharek, M A et al, Sagittal and Coronal Dimensions of the Ethmoid
        Roof: A Radioanatomic Study, Am J Rhinol 2005, Vol 19, pages 348
        to 352.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 27
CLAIMS
1.     A nasal delivery device for delivering substance to the middle meatus
       in a nasal cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in
       particular an inflammatory      or infectious condition, thereof, the
       delivery device comprising:
       a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to a nostril of a
       subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use delivered to
       the respective nasal cavity; and
       a delivery unit for delivering substance through the nozzle of the
       nosepiece;
       wherein the delivery device is configured such that at least 50 % of
       the dose as initially deposited in the nasal airway is deposited in a
       region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the nasal valve and at
        least 30 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is
       deposited in an upper posterior region of the nasal cavity which is
        posterior of the nasal valve and above the inferior meatus.
 2.    The delivery device of claim 1, wherein the nosepiece is configured,
        when inserted into the nasal cavity, to extend into the nasal valve
        and provide for expansion thereof.
 3.    The delivery device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the nosepiece is
        configured such as to obstruct the nasal valve.
 4.     The delivery device of claim 3, wherein the nosepiece is configured
        such as to close the nasal valve, and thereby prevent deposition of
        substance anteriorly of the same.
 5.     The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 4, further comprising:
         a mouthpiece unit through which the subject in use exhales to cause
         closure of the oropharyngeal velum of the subject.
 6.     The delivery device of claim 5, further comprising:

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 28
       a flow channel fluidly connecting the nosepiece and the mouthpiece
       unit, whereby exhaled air from an exhalation breath is delivered
       through the nosepiece.
7.     The delivery device of claim 5, further comprising:
       a flow channel fluidly connected to the nosepiece through which a gas
       flow, separate to an exhaled air flow from an exhalation breath of the
       subject, is in use delivered to the nosepiece; and
       a gas supply unit for supplying a gas flow to the flow channel.
 8.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of a single jet.
 9.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of a plurality of jets.
 10.    The delivery device of claim 8 or 9, wherein the one or more jets
        comprise a liquid jet.
 11.    The delivery device of claim 8 or 9, wherein the one or more jets
        comprise a powder jet.
 12.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of an aerosol spray.
  13.   The delivery device of claim 12, wherein the aerosol spray comprises
        a liquid spray.
  14.   The delivery device of claim 12, wherein the aerosol spray comprises
        a powder spray.
  15.   The delivery device of any of claims 12 to 14, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of
        not more than about 50 degrees.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 29
16.    The delivery device of claim 15, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 40 degrees.
 17.   The delivery device of claim 16, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 35 degrees.
 18.   The delivery device of claim 17, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 30 degrees.
 19.   The delivery device of claim 18, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 25 degrees.
 20.   The delivery device of claim 19, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 20 degrees.
 21.    The delivery device of claim 20, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 15 degrees.
 22.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 21, wherein the delivery unit
        is manually actuatable.
 23.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 21, further comprising:
        an actuation mechanism for actuating the delivery unit in response to
        oral exhalation by the subject.
  24.   The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 21, further comprising:

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 30
        an actuation mechanism for actuating the delivery unit in response to
        nasal exhalation by the subject.
 25.   The delivery device of claim 23 or 24, wherein the actuation
        mechanism is configured such as to be actuated in response to
        generation of a predeterminable pressure in the nasal cavity.
 26.   The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 25, wherein the delivery
        device is configured such that at least 55    0/0 of the dose as initially
        deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of
        the nasal valve.
 27.    The delivery device of claim 26, wherein the delivery device is
        configured such that at least 60 O/ of the dose as initially deposited in
        the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
        valve.
 28.    The delivery device of claim 27, wherein the delivery device is
        configured such that at least 65 /0 of the dose as initially deposited in
        the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
        valve.
 29.    The delivery device of claim 28, wherein the delivery device is
         configured such that at least 70 /b of the dose as initially deposited in
         the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
         valve.
 30.     The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 29, wherein the delivery
         device is configured such that at least 35 /o of the dose as initially
         deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior
         region thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 31
31.    The delivery device of claim 30, wherein the delivery device is
       configured such that at least 40 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
 32.   The delivery device of claim 31, wherein the delivery device is
       configured such that at least 45 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
 33.   The delivery device of claim 32, wherein the delivery device is
       configured such that at least 50 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
 34.   The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 33, where configured to
        provide for the treatment of rhinosinusitis.
 35.   The delivery device of claim 34, where configured to provide for the
       treatment of acute rhinosinusitis.
 36.   The delivery device of claim 34, where configured to provide for the
        treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
 37.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 36, where configured to
        provide for the treatment of nasal polyps.
 38.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 37, where configured to
         provide for the treatment of sinus pains.
 39.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 38, where configured to
         provide for the treatment of auto-immune diseases, including viral,
         bacterial, allergic and non-allergic diseases, such as antigen-induced
         diseases.
 40.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 39, where configured to
         provide for the treatment of the common cold.

WO 2007/093791                                                    PCT/GB2007/000516
                                         - 32
41.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 40, where containing
       substance.
42.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
       steroid,      such     as     fluticasone,    budesonide,      mometasone,
       betamethasone, beclomethasone, triamcinolone and flunisoloide, and
       the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 43.   The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
       decongestant, such as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, oxymetazoline,
        xylometazoline, phenylephrine and phenylpropanolamine, and the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 44.   The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
        non-steroidal    anti-inflammatory,     such   as   sodium   cromoglycate,
        nedocromil       sodium,       ibuprofen,    salicylates,    indomethacin,
        dexketoprofen, ketoprofen, fenbufen, naproxen and diclofenac, and
        the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 45.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises an
        anti-cholinergic, such as ipratropium, tiotropium and oxitropium, and
        the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 46.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises an
        anti-histamine, such as azelastine,         loratidine, brompheniramine,
        chlorpheniramine,         mizolastine,     promethazine,       doxylamine,
        desloratidine, triprolidine, clemastine, fexofenadine, cetirizine and
         levocetirizine,  and     the     pharmaceutically-acceptable   salts    and
         derivatives thereof.
 47.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
         mast cell stabilizer, such as ketotifen, and the pharmaceutically
         acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                        PCT/GB2007/000516
                                          - 33
 48.   The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
        leukotriene antagonist, such as zafirlukast and montelukast, and the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 49.   The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
        diuretic, such as frusemide, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable
        salts and derivatives thereof.
 50.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises an
        anti-biotic, such as amikacin, azithromycin, aztreonan, cefazolin,
        cefepine, cefonicid, cefaperazone, cefotaxime, cefotetan, cefoxitin,
        ceftazidime,      ceftizoxime,      ceftriaxone,    cerfuroxime,     cephapirin,
        ciprofloxacin, clindamycin, doxycycline, erthyromycin lactobionate,
        gentamicin, kanamycin, linezolid, mezlocillin, mupirocin, nafcillin,
         netilmicin,     neomycin,         oxacillin,   paromomycin,         piperacillin,
        streptomycin,      ticarcillin,  tobramycin     and    vancomycin,      and  the
         pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 51.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises an
         anti-fungal,    such    as    polyene     macrolides,   tetraene    macrolides,
         pentaenic macrolides, fluorinated pryimidines, imidazoles, triazoles,
         azoles, halogenated phenolic ethers, thiocarbamates, allylamines,
         sterol    inhibitor,    amphotericin       B,   ketoconazole,     itraconazole,
         saperconazole, voriconazole, flucytosine, miconazole, fluconazole,
         griseofulvin,    clotrimazole,     econazole,    terconazole,    butoconazole,
         oxiconazole, sulconazole, ciclopirox olamine, haloprogin, tolnaftate,
         naftifine, terbinafine hydrochloride, morpholines, nystatin, natamycin,
         butenafine, undecylenic acid, Whitefield's ointment, propionic acid,
         caprylic    acid,    and    the    pharmaceutically-acceptable       salts  and
         derivatives thereof.
  52.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises an
         immuno-modulator.

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 34
 53.   The delivery device of claim 52, wherein the immuno-modulator
        comprises an antigen, such as an allergen, in particular a polypeptide
        antigen or any part of an antigen, where natural or synthesized.
 54.    The delivery device of claim 52, wherein the immuno-modulator
        comprises a nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide for modulation or
        suppression of the immune response or one or more steps in the
        immune cascade or process.
 55.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises an
        ionic transport    control   substance   which   acts  to   normalize    or
        counteract an imbalance in the ionic transport across the cell
        membranes, such as benzalkonium chloride.
 56.    The delivery device of claim 41, wherein the substance comprises a
        biofilm-destroying agent for destroying bacterial biofilms.
 57.    The delivery device of claim 56, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
        comprises    an   anti-biotic,   such  as   tetracycline,  linezolid   and
        moxifloxacin,    and    the     pharmaceutically-acceptable    salts   and
        derivatives thereof.
 58.    The delivery device of claim 56, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
        comprises    a   disinfectant,    such   as   chlorohexidine,   and    the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 59.    The delivery device of claim 56, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
        is included as a preservative, such as benzalkonium chloride, within
        the substance formulation.
 60.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 59, wherein the nosepiece
        unit includes a further nosepiece for fitting to the other nostril of the
        subject and at least partially obstructing the same.

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 35
61.    The delivery device of claim 60, wherein the further nosepiece is
       configured to close the other nostril.
62.    The delivery device of any of claims 1 to 59, further comprising:
       a further nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to the other
       nostril of the subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use
       delivered to the respective nasal cavity.
63.    A nasal delivery device for delivering substance to the middle meatus
       in a nasal cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in
       particular an    inflammatory or infectious condition, thereof, the
       delivery device comprising:
       a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to a nostril of a
       subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use delivered to
       the respective nasal cavity; and
       a delivery unit for delivering substance through the nozzle of the
        nosepiece;
       wherein the nozzle provides for delivery of the substance as at least
       one liquid jet or an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more
       than about 50 degrees.
 64.   The delivery device of claim 63, wherein the nosepiece is configured,
        when inserted into the nasal cavity, to extend into the nasal valve
        and provide for expansion thereof.
 65.    The delivery device of claim 63 or 64, wherein the nosepiece is
        configured such as to obstruct the nasal valve.
 66.    The delivery device of claim 65, wherein the nosepiece is configured
        such as to close the nasal valve, and thereby prevent deposition of
        substance anteriorly of the same.
 67.    The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 66, further comprising:

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 36
        a mouthpiece unit through which the subject in use exhales to cause
        closure of the oropharyngeal velum of the subject.
68.    The delivery device of claim 67, further comprising:
       a flow channel fluidly connecting the nosepiece and the mouthpiece
       unit, whereby exhaled air from an exhalation breath is delivered
       through the nosepiece.
 69.   The delivery device of claim 67, further comprising:
       a flow channel fluidly connected to the nosepiece through which a gas
       flow, separate to an exhaled air flow from an exhalation breath of the
       subject, is in use delivered to the nosepiece; and
       a gas supply unit for supplying a gas flow to the flow channel.
 70.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 69, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of a single jet.
 71.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 69, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of a plurality of jets.
 72.   The delivery device of claim 70 or 71, wherein the one or more jets
        comprise a liquid jet.
 73.    The delivery device of claim 70 or 71, wherein the one or more jets
        comprise a powder jet.
 74.    The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 69, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of an aerosol spray.
 75.    The delivery device of claim 74, wherein the aerosol spray comprises
        a liquid spray.
 76.    The delivery device of claim 74, wherein the aerosol spray comprises
        a powder spray.

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 37
 77.   The delivery device of any of claims 74 to 76, wherein the nozzle
        provides for the delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of
        not more than about 40 degrees.
 78.   The delivery device of claim 77, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 35 degrees.
 79.   The delivery device of claim 78, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 30 degrees.
 80.    The delivery device of claim 79, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 25 degrees.
 81.    The delivery device of claim 80, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 20 degrees.
 82.    The delivery device of claim 81, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 15 degrees.
 83.    The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 82, wherein the delivery
        unit is manually actuatable.
 84.    The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 82, further comprising:
        an actuation mechanism for actuating the delivery unit in response to
        oral exhalation by the subject.
 85.    The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 82, further comprising:

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 38
       an actuation mechanism for actuating the delivery unit in response to
       nasal exhalation by the subject.
 86.   The delivery device of claim 84 or 85, wherein the actuation
        mechanism is configured such as to be actuated in response to
       generation of a predeterminable pressure in the nasal cavity.
 87.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 86, wherein the delivery
        device is configured such that at least 50 % of the dose as initially
        deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of
        the nasal valve.
 88.    The delivery device of claim 87, wherein the delivery device is
        configured such that at least 55 /0 of the dose as initially deposited in
        the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
        valve.
 89.    The delivery device of claim 88, wherein the delivery device is
        configured such that at least 60 % of the dose as initially deposited in
        the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
        valve.
 90.    The delivery device of claim 89, wherein the delivery device is
         configured such that at least 65 /o of the dose as initially deposited in
        the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
         valve.
 91.    The delivery device of claim 90, wherein the delivery device is
         configured such that at least 70 % of the dose as initially deposited in
         the nasal cavity is deposited in the region posterior of the nasal
         valve.
 92.     The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 91, wherein the delivery
         device is configured such that at least 30 % of the dose as initially

WO 2007/093791                                                PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 39
       deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior
       region thereof.
93.    The delivery device of claim 92, wherein the delivery device is
       configured such that at least 35 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
94.    The delivery device of claim 93, wherein the delivery device is
       configured such that at least 40 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
95.    The delivery device of claim 94, wherein the delivery device is
       configured such that at least 45 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
 96.   The delivery device of claim 95, wherein the delivery device is
        configured such that at least 50 % of the dose as initially deposited in
       the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper posterior region thereof.
 97.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 96, where configured to
        provide for the treatment of rhinosinusitis.
 98.   The delivery device of claim 97, where configured to provide for the
        treatment of acute rhinosinusitis.
 99.    The delivery device of claim 97, where configured to provide for the
        treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
 100.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 99, where configured to
        provide for the treatment of nasal polyps.
 101.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 100, where configured to
        provide for the treatment of sinus pains.

WO 2007/093791                                                   PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 40
 102.  The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 101, where configured to
       provide for the treatment of auto-immune diseases, including viral,
       bacterial, allergic and non-allergic diseases, such as antigen-induced
       diseases.
 103.  The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 102, where configured to
        provide for the treatment of the common cold.
 104.  The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 103, where containing
        substance.
 105.  The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
        steroid,     such     as    fluticasone,    budesonide,      mometasone,
        betamethasone, beclomethasone, triamcinolone and flunisoloide, and
        the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 106.   The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
        decongestant, such as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, oxymetazoline,
        xylometazoline, phenylephrine and phenylpropanolamine, and the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 107. The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
        non-steroidal    anti-inflammatory,    such   as   sodium   cromoglycate,
         nedocromil      sodium,      ibuprofen,    salicylates,    indomethacin,
        dexketoprofen, ketoprofen, fenbufen, naproxen and diclofenac, and
        the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 108.   The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises an
         anti-cholinergic, such as ipratropium, tiotropium and oxitropium, and
         the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
  109.   The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises an
         anti-histamine,   such as azelastine,     loratidine,   brompheniramine,
         chlorpheniramine,        mizolastine,    promethazine,       doxylamine,

WO 2007/093791                                                         PCT/GB2007/000516
                                           - 41
       desloratidine, triprolidine, clemastine, fexofenadine, cetirizine and
       levocetirizine,     and     the     pharmaceutically-acceptable         salts    and
       derivatives thereof.
 110.  The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
       mast cell stabilizer, such as ketotifen, and the pharmaceutically
       acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 111.  The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
        leukotriene antagonist, such as zafirlukast and montelukast, and the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 112.  The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
        diuretic, such as frusemide, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable
        salts and derivatives thereof.
 113.   The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises an
        anti-biotic, such as amikacin, azithromycin, aztreonan, cefazolin,
        cefepine, cefonicid, cefaperazone, cefotaxime, cefotetan, cefoxitin,
        ceftazidime,     ceftizoxime,        ceftriaxone,    cerfuroxime,      cephapirin,
        ciprofloxacin, clindamycin, doxycycline, erthyromycin lactobionate,
        gentamicin, kanamycin, linezolid, mezlocillin, mupirocin,                 nafcillin,
        netilmicin,      neomycin,          oxacillin,    paromomycin,        piperacillin,
        streptomycin,      ticarcillin,   tobramycin      and   vancomycin,      and     the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 114. The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises an
        anti-fungal, such as polyene macrolide, tetraene macrolide, pentaenic
         macrolide,    fluorinated       pryimidine,      imidazole,     azole,   triazole,
         halogenated      phenolic      ether,    thiocarbamate,      allylamine,     sterol
         inhibitor, amphotericin B, ketoconazole, itraconazole, saperconazole,
         voriconazole,     flucytosine,      miconazole,     fluconazole,    griseofulvin,
         clotrimazole,    econazole,       terconazole,     butoconazole,    oxiconazole,
         sulconazole,     ciclopiroxolamine,         halprogin,   tolnaftate,    naftifine,

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 42
       terbinafine     hydrochloride,    morpholines,    nystatin,   natamycin,
        butenafine, undecylenic acid, Whitefield's ointment, propionic acid,
        caprylic   acid,   and  the- pharmaceutically-acceptable      salts  and
        derivatives thereof.
 115. The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises an
        immuno-modulator.
 116.   The delivery device of claim 115, wherein the immuno-modulator
        comprises an antigen, such as an allergen, in particular a polypeptide
        antigen or any part of an antigen, where natural or synthesized.
 117.   The delivery device of claim 115, wherein the immuno-modulator
        comprises a nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide for modulation or
        suppression of the immune response or one or more steps in the
        immune cascade or process.
 118. The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises an
        ionic transport control     substance   which   acts  to   normalize   or
        counteract an imbalance in the ionic transport across the cell
         membranes, such as benzalkonium chloride.
 119.   The delivery device of claim 104, wherein the substance comprises a
         biofilm-destroying agent for destroying bacterial biofilms.
 120.   The delivery device of claim 119, wherein the biofilm-destroying
         agent comprises an anti-biotic, such as tetracycline, linezolid and
         moxifloxacin,    and  the     pharmaceutically-acceptable    salts   and
         derivatives thereof.
 121.   The delivery device of claim 119, wherein the biofilm-destroying
         agent comprises a disinfectant, such as chlorohexidine, and the
         pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                 PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 43
 122.  The delivery device of claim 119, wherein the biofilm-destroying
        agent is included as a preservative, such as benzalkonium chloride,
        within the substance formulation.
 123.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 122, wherein the nosepiece
        unit includes a further nosepiece for fitting to the other nostril of the
        subject and at least partially obstructing the same.
 124.   The delivery device of claim 123, wherein the further nosepiece is
        configured to close the other nostril.
 125.   The delivery device of any of claims 63 to 122, further comprising:
        a further nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to the other
        nostril of the subject and a nozzle through which substance is in use
        delivered to the respective nasal cavity.
 126.   A nasal delivery device for delivering substance to a nasal airway of a
        subject, comprising:
        a nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for fitting to a nostril of a
        subject, the nosepiece including a nozzle through which substance is
        in use delivered to the respective nasal cavity; and
        a delivery unit for delivering substance through the nozzle of the
        nosepiece.
 127.   A method of delivering substance to the middle meatus in a nasal
        cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in particular an
        inflammatory or infectious condition, thereof, the method comprising
        the steps of:
        fitting a nosepiece unit to one nostril of a subject, the nosepiece unit
        including a nosepiece which is inserted into the one nostril of a
        subject and a nozzle through which substance is delivered to the
         respective nasal cavity; and
         delivering substance through the nozzle into the nasal cavity, wherein
         at least 50 % of the dose as initially deposited in the nasal airway is

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 44
       deposited in a region of the nasal cavity which is posterior of the
       nasal valve and at least 30 % of the dose as initially deposited in the
       nasal cavity is deposited in an upper posterior region of the nasal
       cavity which is posterior of the nasal valve and above the inferior
       meatus.
 128. The method of claim 127, further comprising the step of:
       expanding the nasal valve.
 129.  The method of claim 128, wherein the nosepiece is configured to
       extend into the nasal valve and provide for expansion thereof.
 130.  The method of any of claims 127 to 129, wherein the nosepiece is
       configured such as to obstruct the nasal valve.
 131.  The method of claim 130, wherein the nosepiece is configured such
       as to close the nasal valve, and thereby prevent deposition of
        substance anteriorly of the same.
 132.  The method of any of claims 127 to 131, further comprising the step
        of:
        the subject exhaling through a mouthpiece unit such as to cause
         closure of the oropharyngeal velum of the subject.
 133.   The method of claim 132, wherein the nosepiece is fluidly connected
        to the mouthpiece unit, such that exhaled air from an exhalation
        breath is delivered through the nosepiece.
 134.   The method of any of claims 127 to 131, further comprising the step
        of:
        delivering a gas flow, separate to an exhaled air flow from an
        exhalation breath of the subject, through the nosepiece.

WO 2007/093791                                              PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 45
135.   The method of any of claims 127 to 134, wherein the nozzle provides
       for the delivery of a single jet.
136.   The method of any of claims 127 to 134, wherein the nozzle provides
       for the delivery of a plurality of jets.
137. The method of claim 135 or 136, wherein the one or more jets
       comprise a liquid jet.
138.   The method of claim 135 or 136, wherein the one or more jets
       comprise a powder jet.
 139.  The method of any of claims 127 to 134, wherein the nozzle provides
       for the delivery of an aerosol spray.
 140.   The method of claim 139, wherein the aerosol spray comprises a
        liquid spray.
 141.   The method of claim 139, wherein the aerosol spray comprises a
        powder spray.
 142. The method of any of claims 139 to 141, wherein the nozzle provides
        for the delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more
        than about 50 degrees.
 143.   The method of claim 142, wherein the nozzle provides for the
        delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
         about 40 degrees. .
 144. The method of claim 143, wherein the nozzle provides for the
         delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
         about 35 degrees.

WO 2007/093791                                             PCT/GB2007/000516
                                   - 46
145.   The method of claim 144, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 30 degrees.
 146.  The method of claim 145, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 25 degrees.
 147.  The method of claim 146, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 20 degrees.
 148. The method of claim 147, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
        about 15 degrees.
 149.  The method of any of claims 127 to 148, further comprising the step
        of:
        manually actuating the delivery unit.
 150.   The method of any of claims 127 to 148, further comprising the step
        of:
        actuating the delivery unit in response to oral exhalation by the
        subject.
 151.   The method of any of claims 127 to 148, further comprising the step
        of:
        actuating the delivery unit in response to nasal exhalation by the
        subject.
  152.  The method of claim 150 or 151, wherein the actuation mechanism is
        configured such as to be actuated in response to the generation of a
        predeterminable pressure in the nasal cavity.

WO 2007/093791                                                    PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 47
153.   The method of any of claims 127 to 152, wherein at least 55        0/0 of the
       dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the
       region posterior of the nasal valve.
154.   The method of claim 153, wherein at least 60           0/0  of the dose as
       initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
       posterior of the nasal valve.
155.   The method of claim 154, wherein at least 65 % of the dose as
       initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
       posterior of the nasal valve.
 156.  The method of claim 155, wherein at least 70 % of the dose as
       initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
        posterior of the nasal valve.
 157.  The method of any of claims 127 to 156, wherein at least 35 % of the
        dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
        posterior region thereof.
 158.   The method of claim 157, wherein at least 40 % of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
        posterior region thereof.
 159.   The method of claim 158, wherein at least 45 % of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
        posterior region thereof.
 160.   The method of claim 159, wherein at least 50 % of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
        posterior region thereof.
  161.  The method of any of claims 127 to 160, in the treatment of
         rhinosinusitis.

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 48
162.   The method of claim 161, in the treatment of acute rhinosinusitis.
163.   The method of claim 161, in the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
164.   The method of any of claims 127 to 163, in the treatment of nasal
       polyps.
 165.  The method of any of claims 127 to 164, in the treatment of sinus
       pains.
 166.  The method of any of claims 127 to 165, in the treatment of auto
       immune diseases, including viral, bacterial, allergic and non-allergic
       diseases, such as antigen-induced diseases.
 167.  The method of any of claims 127 to 166, in the treatment of the
       common cold.
 168.  The method of any of claims 127 to 167, wherein the substance
        comprises a steroid, such as fluticasone, budesonide, mometasone,
        betamethasone, beclomethasone, triamcinolone and flunisoloide, and
        the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 169.   The method of any of claims 127 to 168, wherein the substance
        comprises a decongestant, such as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
        oxymetazoline,        xylometazoline,        phenylephrine          and
        phenylpropanolamine, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and
        derivatives thereof.
 170.   The method of any of claims 127 to 169, wherein the substance
        comprises    a  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory,   such  as    sodium
         cromoglycate,    nedocromil     sodium,     ibuprofen,    salicylates,
         indomethacin, dexketoprofen, ketoprofen, fenbufen, naproxen and

WO 2007/093791                                                    PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 49
       diclofenac, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
       thereof.
 171.  The method of any of claims 127 to 170, wherein the substance
       comprises an anti-cholinergic, such as ipratropium, tiotropium and
       oxitropium, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
       thereof.
 172.  The method of any of claims 127 to 171, wherein the substance
       comprises     an    anti-histamine,    such    as   azelastine,     loratidine,
       brompheniramine,       chlorpheniramine,       mizolastine,    promethazine,
        doxylamine,    desloratidine,   triprolidine,  clemastine,     fexofenadine,
        cetirizine and levocetirizine, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable
        salts and derivatives thereof.
 173.  The method of any of claims 127 to 172, wherein the substance
        comprises    a mast     cell stabilizer,   such   as   ketotifen,    and   the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 174.   The method of any of claims 127 to 173, wherein the substance
        comprises    a   leukotriene    antagonist,    such    as  zafirlukast     and
        montelukast,     and    the    pharmaceutically-acceptable        salts    and
        derivatives thereof.
 175.   The method of any of claims 127 to 174, wherein the substance
        comprises a diuretic, such as frusemide, and the pharmaceutically
        acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 176.   The method of any of claims 127 to 175, wherein the substance
        comprises an anti-biotic, such as amikacin, azithromycin, aztreonan,
        cefazolin, cefepine, cefonicid, cefaperazone, cefotaxime, cefotetan,
        cefoxitin,   ceftazidime,     ceftizoxime,     ceftriaxone,      cerfuroxime,
        cephapirin,   ciprofloxacin,   clindamycin,    doxycycline,     erthyromycin
        lactobionate, gentamicin, kanamycin, linezolid, mezlocillin, mupirocin,

WO 2007/093791                                                       PCT/GB2007/000516
                                          -  50
       nafcillin, netilmicin, neomycin, oxacillin, paromomycin, piperacillin,
       streptomycin,       ticarcillin, tobramycin     and    vancomycin,     and   the
       pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 177.  The method of any of claims 127 to 176, wherein the substance
       comprises an anti-fungal, such as polyene macrolide, tetraene
       macrolide, pentaenic macrolide, fluorinated pryimidine, imidazole,
       azole,     triazole,     halogenated       phenolic    ether,   thiocarbamate,
       allylamine,       sterol      inhibitor,   amphotericin     B,    ketoconazole,
       itraconazole, saperconazole, voriconazole, flucytosine, miconazole,
       fluconazole,      griseofulvin,      clotrimazole,    econazole,    terconazole,
       butoconazole, oxiconazole, sulconazole, ciclopiroxolamine, halprogin,
       tolnaftate, naftifine, terbinafine hydrochloride, morpholines, nystatin,
       natamycin,       butenafine,      undecylenic   acid,   Whitefield's   ointment,
       propionic acid, caprylic acid, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable
       salts and derivatives thereof.
 178.  The method of any of claims 127 to 177, wherein the substance
        comprises an immuno-modulator.
 179. The method of claim 178, wherein the immuno-modulator comprises
        an antigen, such as an allergen, in particular a polypeptide antigen or
        any part of an antigen, where natural or synthesized.
 180.   The method of claim 178, wherein the immuno-modulator comprises
        a nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide for modulation or suppression
        of the immune response or one or more steps in the immune cascade
        or process.
  181.  The method of any of claims 127 to 180, wherein the substance
        comprises      an    ionic transport control       substance which      acts to
        normalize or counteract an imbalance in the ionic transport across
        the cell membranes, such as benzalkonium chloride.

WO 2007/093791                                                   PCT/GB2007/000516
                                        - 51
 182.  The method of any of claims 127 to 181, wherein the substance
       comprises a biofilm-destroying agent for destroying bacterial biofilms.
 183.  The method of claim 182, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
       comprises       an  anti-biotic,   such  as  tetracycline,   linezolid  and
       moxifloxacin,      and    the    pharmaceutically-acceptable     salts   and
       derivatives thereof.
 184.  The method of claim 182, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
        comprises      a  disinfectant,    such  as   chlorohexidine,    and    the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 185.  The method of claim 182, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent is
        included as a preservative, such as benzalkonium chloride, within the
        substance formulation.
 186.   The method of any of claims 127 to 185, wherein the nosepiece unit
        includes a further nosepiece, and the nosepiece unit fitting step
        further comprises the step of:
         fitting the further nosepiece to the other nostril of the subject, such
         as to at least partially obstruct the same.
 187.   The method of claim 186, wherein the further nosepiece closes the
        other nostril.
 188.   The method of any of claims 127 to 185, further comprising the step
         of:
         fitting a further nosepiece unit to the other nostril of the subject, the
         nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for insertion into the other
         nostril of a subject and a nozzle through which substance is delivered
         to the respective nasal cavity.
  189.   A method of delivering substance to the middle meatus in a nasal
         cavity of a subject in the treatment of a condition, in particular an

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 52
        inflammatory or infectious condition, thereof, the method comprising
        the steps of:
        fitting a nosepiece unit to one nostril of a subject, the nosepiece unit
        including a nosepiece which is inserted into the one nostril of a
        subject and a nozzle through which substance is delivered to the
        respective nasal cavity; and
        delivering substance through the nozzle into the nasal cavity, wherein
        the nozzle provides for delivery of the substance as at least one liquid
        jet or an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than about
        50 degrees.
 190.   The method of claim 189, further comprising the step of:
        expanding the nasal valve.
 191.   The method of claim 190, wherein the nosepiece is configured to
        extend into the nasal valve and provide for expansion thereof.
 192.   The method of any of claims 189 to 191, wherein the nosepiece is
        configured such as to obstruct the nasal valve.
 193.   The method of claim 192, wherein the nosepiece is configured such
         as to close the nasal valve, and thereby prevent deposition of
         substance anteriorly of the same.
 194.   The method of any of claims 189 to 193, further comprising the step
         of:
         the subject exhaling through a mouthpiece unit such as to cause
         closure of the oropharyngeal velum of the subject.
 195.    The method of claim 194, wherein the nosepiece is fluidly connected
        to the mouthpiece unit, such that exhaled air from an exhalation
         breath is delivered through the nosepiece.

WO 2007/093791                                              PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 53
 196.  The method of any of claims 189 to 193, further comprising the step
        of:
       delivering a gas flow, separate to an exhaled air flow from an
       exhalation breath of the subject, through the nosepiece.
 197.  The method of any of claims 189 to 196, wherein the nozzle provides
        for the delivery of a single jet.
 198.   The method of any of claims 189 to 196, wherein the nozzle provides
        for the delivery of a plurality of jets.
 199.   The method of claim 197 or 198, wherein the one or more jets
        comprise a liquid jet.
 200.   The method of claim 197 or 198, wherein the one or more jets
        comprise a powder jet.
 201.   The method of any of claims 189 to 196, wherein the nozzle provides
        for the delivery of an aerosol spray.
 202.   The method of claim 201, wherein the aerosol spray comprises a
         liquid spray.
 203.   The method of claim 201, wherein the aerosol spray comprises a
         powder spray.
 204.   The method of any of claims 189 to 203, wherein the nozzle provides
         for the delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more
         than about 40 degrees.
 205.    The method of claim 204, wherein the nozzle provides for the
         delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
         about 35 degrees.

WO 2007/093791                                             PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 54
 206.  The method of claim 205, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 30 degrees.
 207. The method of claim 206, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 25 degrees.
 208.  The method of claim 207, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 20 degrees.
 209.  The method of claim 208, wherein the nozzle provides for the
       delivery of an aerosol spray having a cone angle of not more than
       about 15 degrees.
 210.  The method of any of claims 189 to 209, further comprising the step
        of:
        manually actuating the delivery unit.
 211.  The method of any of claims 189 to 209, further comprising the step
        of:
        actuating the delivery unit in response to oral exhalation by the
        subject.
 212.   The method of any of claims 189 to 209, further comprising the step
        of:
        actuating the delivery unit in response to nasal exhalation by the
        subject.
 213.   The method of claim 211 or 212, wherein the actuation mechanism is
        configured such as to be actuated in response to the generation of a
        predeterminable pressure in the nasal cavity.

WO 2007/093791                                                   PCT/GB2007/000516
                                       - 55
 214.  The method of any of claims 189 to 213, wherein at least 50 /b of the
        dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the
        region posterior of the nasal valve.
 215.   The method of claim 214, wherein at least 55           /b of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
        posterior of the nasal valve.
 216.   The method of claim 215, wherein at least 60 /b of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
        posterior of the nasal valve.
 217.   The method of claim 216, wherein at least 65 /b of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
         posterior of the nasal valve.
 218.   The method of claim 217, wherein at least 70 % of the dose as
         initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the region
         posterior of the nasal valve.
 219.   The method of any of claims 189 to 218, wherein at least 30 /0 of the
         dose as initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
         posterior region thereof.
 220.   The method of claim 219, wherein at least 35            /b of the dose as
         initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
         posterior region thereof.
 221.    The method of claim 220, wherein at least 40 /a of the dose as
         initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
         posterior region thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                               PCT/GB2007/000516
                                    - 56
 222.  The method of claim 221, wherein at least 45 % of the dose as
       initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
        posterior region thereof.
 223.  The method of claim 222, wherein at least 50 % of the dose as
        initially deposited in the nasal cavity is deposited in the upper
        posterior region thereof.
 224.  The method of any of claims 189 to 223, in the treatment of
        rhinosinusitis.
 225.  The method of claim 224, in the treatment of acute rhinosinusitis.
 226.  The method of claim 224, in the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
 227.   The method of any of claims 189 to 226, in the treatment of nasal
        polyps.
 228.   The method of any of claims 189 to 227, in the treatment of sinus
        pains.
 229.   The method of any of claims 189 to 228, in the treatment of auto
        immune diseases, including viral, bacterial, allergic and non-allergic
        diseases, such as antigen-induced diseases.
 230.   The method of any of claims 189 to 229, in the treatment of the
         common cold.
 231.   The method of any of claims 189 to 230, wherein the substance
         comprises a steroid, such as fluticasone, budesonide, mometasone,
         betamethasone, beclomethasone, triamcinolone and flunisoloide, and
         the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                    PCT/GB2007/000516
                                      - 57
232.   The method of any of claims 189 to 231, wherein the substance
       comprises a decongestant, such as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
       oxymetazoline,          xylometazoline,            phenylephrine           and
       phenylpropanolamine, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and
       derivatives thereof.
233.   The method of any of claims 189 to 232, wherein the substance
       comprises     a non-steroidal      anti-inflammatory,     such    as    sodium
       cromoglycate,       nedocromil       sodium,       ibuprofen,      salicylates,
       indomethacin, dexketoprofen, ketoprofen, fenbufen, naproxen and
       diclofenac, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
       thereof.
 234.  The method of any of claims 189 to 233, wherein the substance
        comprises an anti-cholinergic, such as ipratropium, tiotropium and
        oxitropium, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives
       thereof.
 235.  The method of any of claims 189 to 234, wherein the substance
        comprises    an   anti-histamine,      such   as    azelastine,    loratidine,
        brompheniramine,      chlorpheniramine,       mizolastine,    promethazine,
        doxylamine,    desloratidine,   triprolidine,   clemastine,    fexofenadine,
        cetirizine and levocetirizine, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable
        salts and derivatives thereof.
 236.   The method of any of claims 189 to 235, wherein the substance
        comprises    a mast cell      stabilizer, such as      ketotifen,    and the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 237.   The method of any of claims 189 to 236, wherein the substance
        comprises    a  leukotriene     antagonist,    such    as   zafirlukast    and
        montelukast,    and    the     pharmaceutically-acceptable        salts    and
        derivatives thereof.

WO 2007/093791                                                       PCT/GB2007/000516
                                           - 58
 238.  The method of any of claims 189 to 237, wherein the substance
        comprises a diuretic, such as frusemide, and the pharmaceutically
        acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 239.  The method of any of claims 189 to 238, wherein the substance
        comprises an anti-biotic, such as amikacin, azithromycin, aztreonan,
        cefazolin, cefepine, cefonicid, cefaperazone, cefotaxime, cefotetan,
        cefoxitin,     ceftazidime,       ceftizoxime,    ceftriaxone,     cerfuroxime,
        cephapirin,     ciprofloxacin, clindamycin,       doxycycline, erthyromycin
        lactobionate, gentamicin, kanamycin, linezolid, mezlocillin, mupirocin,
        nafcillin, netilmicin, neomycin, oxacillin, paromomycin, piperacillin,
        streptomycin,      ticarcillin, tobramycin      and   vancomycin,      and   the
        pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 240. The method of any of claims 189 to 239, wherein the substance
        comprises an anti-fungal,           such as polyene macrolide,          tetraene
        macrolide, pentaenic macrolide, fluorinated pryimidine, imidazole,
        azole,     triazole,    halogenated        phenolic   ether,    thiocarbamate,
        allylamine,      sterol      inhibitor,    amphotericin     B,    ketoconazole,
        itraconazole, saperconazole, voriconazole, flucytosine, miconazole,
        fluconazole,      griseofulvin,     clotrimazole,   econazole,      terconazole,
        butoconazole, oxiconazole, sulconazole, ciclopiroxolamine, halprogin,
        tolnaftate, naftifine, terbinafine hydrochloride, morpholines, nystatin,
        natamycin,      butenafine,      undecylenic acid,      Whitefield's   ointment,
         propionic acid, caprylic acid, and the pharmaceutically-acceptable
        salts and derivatives thereof.
 241.   The method of any of claims 189 to 240, wherein the substance
         comprises an immuno-modulator.
 242.   The method of claim 241, wherein the immuno-modulator comprises
         an antigen, such as an allergen, in particular a polypeptide antigen or
         any part of an antigen, where natural or synthesized.

WO 2007/093791                                                    PCT/GB2007/000516
                                         - 59
 243.  The method of claim 241, wherein the immuno-modulator comprises
        a nucleic acid molecule or polypeptide for modulation or suppression
        of the immune response or one or more steps in the immune cascade
        or process.
 244.  The method of any of claims 189 to 243, wherein the substance
        comprises     an ionic transport control       substance which      acts to
        normalize or counteract an imbalance in the ionic transport across
        the cell membranes, such as benzalkonium chloride.
 245.   The method of any of claims 189 to 244, wherein the substance
        comprises a biofilm-destroying agent for destroying bacterial biofilms.
 246.   The method of claim 245, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
        comprises      an   anti-biotic,   such  as   tetracycline,  linezolid  and
        moxifloxacin,     and     the    pharmaceutically-acceptable     salts   and
        derivatives thereof.
 247. The method of claim 245, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent
        comprises      a   disinfectant,    such  as    chlorohexidine,   and    the
         pharmaceutically-acceptable salts and derivatives thereof.
 248.   The method of claim 245, wherein the biofilm-destroying agent is
         included as a preservative, such as benzalkonium chloride, within the
         substance formulation.
 249.   The method of any of claims 189 to 248, wherein the nosepiece unit
         includes a further nosepiece, -and the nosepiece unit fitting step
         further comprises the step of:
         fitting the further nosepiece to the other nostril of the subject, such
          as to at least partially obstruct the same.
 250.    The method of claim 249, wherein the further nosepiece closes the
         other nostril.

WO 2007/093791                                                  PCT/GB2007/000516
                                     - 60
 251.  The method of any of claims 189 to 248, further comprising the step
       of:
       fitting a further nosepiece unit to the other nostril of the subject, the
        nosepiece unit including a nosepiece for insertion into the other
        nostril of a subject and a nozzle through which substance is delivered
        to the respective nasal cavity.
 252.  A method of delivering substance to a nasal airway of a subject,
        comprising the steps of:
        fitting a nosepiece unit to one nostril of a subject, the nosepiece unit
        including a nosepiece which is inserted into the one nostril of a
        subject and a nozzle through which substance is delivered to the
        respective nasal cavity; and
        delivering substance through the nozzle of the nosepiece unit into the
        nasal cavity.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
