I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632554_l.docx-14 03/2018
ABSTRACT
The invention relates, in part, to the use of compositions of poly N-acetylated glucosamine
(PNAG) and antibodies specific to PNAG in the prevention and treatment of infections by
certain PNAG-positive pathogens and in detection (including diagnostic) methods.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                 POLYSACCHARIDE COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USE
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2013267444, the entire contents
of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                                           RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/653389,
filed May 30, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/827661, filed May 26, 2013. The
contents of these provisional applications, excluding the claims, are incorporated by reference
herein.
                                                            GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
        The present invention was supported in part by grant number RO1 A1046706 from the
NIH (NIAID). The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.
                                                                FIELD OF INVENTION
        The present invention relates to the use of certain polysaccharide antigen and antibody
compositions in the detection, prevention and/or treatment of infections by particular
pathogens.
                                                      BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
        Developing immunotherapies for various infections, whether bacterial, viral, fungal or
parasitic in nature, is a high priority. Many current immunotherapies target particular
microbial species via species-specific antigens. Less common are immunotherapies that target
and are effective against a broad range of microbes.
        Staphylococcus aureus and S. epidermidis express a poly-N-acetyl glucosamine
(PNAG) polysaccharide antigen at their surface. PNAG is synthesized in vivo by the gene
products of the ica gene locus in these bacteria. Similarly, Escherichiacoli and other gram
negative bacteria contain a homologous genetic locus termed the pga locus which also encodes
synthesis of the proteins that may be used to synthesize PNAG. Thus, bacteria with an intact
ica or pga locus can produce PNAG. It was previously found that deacetylated forms of this

          H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                        -2
 antigen was particularly effective at stimulating antigen-specific immune responses
 characterized in part by the induction of opsonic antibodies.
                                                             SUMMARY OF INVENTION
          The invention is based, in part, on the unexpected and surprising finding that the
 polysaccharide poly N-acetyl glucosamine (PNAG) is expressed by a number and a variety of
 pathogens that were previously not known or suggested to express this polysaccharide. The
 invention therefore provides compositions comprising this polysaccharide or antibodies
 specific for this polysaccharide for use in preventing and/or treating infections by these
 particular pathogens, and optionally treating and/or preventing a disease or disorder that may
 result from such infection.
          Surprisingly, the pathogens found to express PNAG, in accordance with the invention,
 range over a number of classes and types. These classes and specific pathogens are as follows:
 (a) gram-positive cocci: vaccine and non-vaccine strains of Streptococcuspneumoniae, Group
 A Streptococcus such as Streptococcuspyogenes, Group B Streptococcus such as
 Streptococcus agalactiae,and Group C Streptococcus such as Streptococcus dysagalactiae,
 and Enterococcusfaecalis;(b) gram-positive rods: Listeria monocytogenes, Clostridium
 difficile, Bacillus subtilis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and M. smegmatis; (c) gram-negative
 cocci and coccobacilli: Neisseriameningitides, N. gonorrhoeae,Non-typable Hemophilus
 influenzae, Hemophilus ducreyi, Helicobacterpylori, and Campylobacterjejuni;(d) gram
 negative rods: Bacteroidesfragilis,B. thetaiotamicron,B vulgatis, Citrobacterrodentium,
 Vibrio cholerae, Salmonella enterica serovar typhi and Salmonella enterica serovar
 typhimurium; (e) fungi: Candida albicans(yeast), Candida albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus
flavus, Fusariumspp such as Fusariumsolani, and Cryptococcus neoformans; and (f)
 parasites: Plasmodium bergei and P. falciparum (including sporozoites); and Trichomonas
 vaginalis (T. vaginalis). PNAG expression by these pathogens is particularly surprising since
 none of them has an identifiable genetic locus related to the ica locus of Staphylococci or a pga
 locus of E. coli, which encode proteins involved in PNAG and related polysaccharide synthesis
 in certain bacteria. These pathogens are therefore referred to herein as non-ica/pgapathogens
 to indicate that they do not have identifiable ica or pga loci.

        ll:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                               -3
        The invention also provides methods for detecting any of the foregoing pathogens using
for example antibodies specific for PNAG.
        Thus, in one aspect, the invention provides a method comprising administering to a
subject having or at risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga but PNAG-positive
pathogen an effective amount for inducing an immune response against the pathogen of an
isolated polysaccharide having the formula
                                                                     0 -    CH 2
                                                                                  H
                                                                        H\/C        O
                                                                     /C        OH   H  C
                                                                    OH      C
                                                                          H          R
                                                                                         n
wherein n is at least 5, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2 ,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising administering to a
subject having or at risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen
an effective amount for inducing an immune response against the pathogen of an isolated
polysaccharide conjugated to a carrier, wherein the polysaccharide has the formula

        ll:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                                    -4
                                                                     O --       CH 2
                                                                                I      H
                                                                    H             H
                                                                        H\/C             O
                                                                        C           OH   H  C
                                                                    OH     \C                 H
                                                                              HR
                                                                                                n
wherein n is 5 or greater, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
isolated polysaccharide having the formula
                                                                II   0 ---
                                                                           _
                                                                                     H
                                                                     OHH
                                                                        H\/C             O
                                                                     /C             OH   H  C
                                                                    OH          C
                                                                              H           R
                                                                                                n
wherein n is at least 5, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2 ,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 , for use in preventing or treating,
in a subject, an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
isolated polysaccharide conjugated to a carrier, wherein the polysaccharide has the formula

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                               -5
                                                                    0       CH 2
                                                                      C        OH H C
                                                                   OH   \C            H
                                                                           HR
                                                                                        n
wherein n is 5 or greater, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 , for use in preventing or treating,
in a subject, an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
        In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide is conjugated to the carrier through a
linker. In some embodiments, the carrier is a peptide carrier. Each polysaccharide may be
conjugated to one or more carriers. The carrier may be a polysaccharide. In some
embodiments, the carrier polysaccharide is not an N-acetyl beta (P 1 -6 glucosamine.
        In some embodiments, equal to or less than 45%, equal to or less than 40%, equal to or
less than 35%, equal to or less than 30%, equal to or less than 25%, equal to or less than 20%,
equal to or less than 15%, equal to or less than 10%, equal to or less than 5%, or equal to or
less than 1% of R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3. In some embodiment, none of the R groups is
NH-CO-CH 3.
        In some embodiments, n is at least 9, at least 10, at least 20, at least 50, at least 100, at
least 200, at least 300, at least 400 or at least 500.
        In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide has a molecular weight of 100-500
kDa. In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide has a molecular weight of at least 900
Daltons, at least 2000 Daltons, at least 2500 Daltons, at least 5000 Daltons, at least 7500
Daltons, at least 10,000 Daltons, at least 25,000 Daltons, at least 50,000 Daltons, at least
75,000 Daltons, at least 100,000 Daltons, at least 125,000 Daltons, at least 150,000 Daltons, at
least 200,000 Daltons, at least 250,000 Dalton, at least 300,000 Daltons, at least 350,000
Daltons, at least 400,000 Daltons, at least 450,000 Daltons, or at least 500,000 Daltons.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   -6
        In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide is administered or formulated with
an adjuvant or is used in conjunction with an adjuvant.
        In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide is administered systemically or is
formulated for systemic administration. In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide is
administered locally or is formulated for local administration.
        In some embodiments, the isolated polysaccharide is provided in a composition that
further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising administering to a
subject having or at risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen
an effective amount of a PNAG-specific antibody or PNAG-specific antibody fragment.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
PNAG-specific antibody or PNAG-specific antibody fragment for use in preventing or treating,
in a subject, an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
        In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive gram-positive coccus. In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
gram-positive coccus is S. pneumonia, Group A Streptococcus, Group B Streptococcus, Group
C Streptococcus, or Enterococcus.
        In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive gram-positive rod. In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
gram-positive rod is Listeria, Clostridium difficile, B. subtilis, M. tuberculosis,or M.
smegmatis.
        In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus. In some embodiments, the non
ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus is Neisseriameningitides,
Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Non-typable H.Influenzae, Helicobacterspp, or Campylobacterspp.
        In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive gram-negative rod. In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
gram-negative rod is Bacteroidesfragilis,B. thetaiotamicron,B. vulgatis, Citrobacter
rodentium, Vibrio cholerae, Salmonella enterica serovar typhi and Salmonella enterica serovar
typhimurium. In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    -7
ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus. In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus
is Candidaalbicans (yeast); Candida albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus, Fusarium, or
Cryptococcus.
         In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive parasite. In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite is P.
bergei or P. falciparum.
         In some embodiments, the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is T. vaginalis.
         In some embodiments, the subject is human. In some embodiments, the subject is a
primate, horse, cow, swine, goat, sheep, dog, or cat.
         In some embodiments, the subject has an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen. In some embodiments, the subject is at risk of developing an infection by a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
         In some embodiments, the antibody or antibody fragment is administered systemically
or is formulated for systemic administration. In some embodiments, the antibody or antibody
fragment is administered locally or is formulated for local administration.
         In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising ethanol precipitating a
crude polysaccharide preparation from a concentrated microbial cell body preparation;
concurrently digesting the crude polysaccharide with lysozyme and lysostaphin followed by
sequential digestion with a nuclease and proteinase K to form a digested polysaccharide
preparation; size fractionating the digested polysaccharide preparation; isolating an acetylated
polysaccharide fraction; and de-acetylating the acetylated polysaccharide fraction to produce a
PNAG polysaccharide having less than 50% acetate substitutions, wherein the microbial cell
body preparation is derived from a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive microbe. In some
embodiments, the polysaccharide preparation is size fractionated using a column. In some
embodiments, the method produces PNAG polysaccharide having less than 40% acetate
substitutions.
         In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising preparing an impure
polysaccharide from a microbial culture; incubating the impure polysaccharide with an acid or
a base to produce a semi-pure polysaccharide preparation; neutralizing the preparation;
incubating the neutralized preparation in hydrofluoric acid; isolating an acetylated

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   -8
polysaccharide from the preparation; and de-acetylating the acetylated polysaccharide to
produce a PNAG polysaccharide having less than 50% acetate substitutions, wherein the
microbial culture is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive microbial culture. In some embodiments,
the method produces PNAG polysaccharide having less than 40% acetate substitutions.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising preparing an impure
polysaccharide from a microbial culture; incubating the impure polysaccharide with an acid or
a base to produce a semi-pure polysaccharide preparation; neutralizing the preparation;
incubating the neutralized preparation in hydrofluoric acid; and isolating from the preparation a
PNAG polysaccharide having less than 50% acetate substitutions, wherein the microbial
culture is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive microbial culture. In some embodiments, PNAG
polysaccharide having less than 40% acetate substitutions is isolated.
        In some embodiments, the method further comprises conjugating a carrier to the
isolated polysaccharide. In some embodiments, the carrier is a peptide carrier.
        In some embodiments, the acetylated polysaccharide is chemically de-acetylated.
        In some embodiments, the acetylated polysaccharide is de-acetylated by incubation
with a basic solution. In some embodiments, the acetylated polysaccharide is enzymatically
de-acetylated.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method for producing antibodies comprising
administering to a subject an effective amount for producing antibodies of an PNAG
polysaccharide isolated from a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen, and an adjuvant, and
isolating antibodies from the subject. In some embodiments, the antibodies are polyclonal
antibodies.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method for producing monoclonal antibodies
comprising administering to a subject an effective amount for producing antibodies of a PNAG
polysaccharide isolated from a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen, and an adjuvant,
harvesting spleen cells from the subject, fusing spleen cells from the subject to myeloma cells,
and harvesting antibody produced from a fusion subclone.
        In some embodiments, the method further comprises isolating antibody.
        In some embodiments, the PNAG polysaccharide is less than 50% acetylated.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   -9
        In some embodiments, the subject is a rabbit. In some embodiments, the subject is
human.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method for detecting a non-ica/pga PNAG
positive pathogen, comprising contacting a sample suspected of containing a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen with a PNAG-specific antibody or antibody fragment, and detecting
binding of the antibody or antibody fragment to the sample, wherein binding of the antibody or
antibody fragment indicates the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is present in the sample.
        In some embodiments, the sample is Staphylococcus negative.
        In some embodiments, the sample is a biological sample from a subject. In some
embodiments, the biological sample is urine, blood, pus, skin, sputum, joint fluid, lymph or
milk. In some embodiments, the sample is derived from a swab of an implantable or implanted
medical device or a piece of medical equipment or a surface in a patient care facility.
        In some embodiments, the antibody or antibody fragment is a humanized antibody or a
chimeric antibody or a fragment thereof. In some embodiments, the antibody is a human
antibody. In some embodiments, the antibody or antibody fragment is F598 (ATCC PTA
5931) antibody or a fragment thereof. In some embodiments, the antibody or antibody
fragment is F628 (ATCC PTA-5932) antibody or a fragment thereof. In some embodiments,
the antibody or antibody fragment is F630 (ATCC PTA-5933) antibody or a fragment thereof.
Polyclonal antisera raised to PNAG can also be used in some instances.
        In some embodiments, the antibody or antibody fragment is conjugated to an agent.
        In some embodiments, the agent is a cytotoxic agent such as an antibiotic or a
radioisotope. In some embodiments, the agent is a detectable label. In some embodiments, the
detectable label is a radioactive label, an enzyme, a biotin molecule, an avidin molecule or a
fluorochrome.
        Each of the limitations of the invention can encompass various embodiments of the
invention. It is therefore anticipated that each of the limitations of the invention involving any
one element or combinations of elements can be included in each aspect of the invention.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 10
                                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
        FIG. 1. Effect of MAb F598 to PNAG given intraperitoneally (ip) and topically starting
at 4 hours post-infection. This Figure shows data from the lowest inoculum, 48 hour
                                                                        5
experiment. Experimental details: Inoculum was 1x1O /eye; 200 pg of MAbs injected ip 4 and
24 hours post-infection; 20 pg MAbs applied topically 24 and 32 hours post-infection. Data
points represent value for individual mouse; bars represent mean score for the group. P value:
Mann Whitney U test.
        FIG. 2. Effect of MAb F598 to PNAG given IP and topically starting at 4 hours post
infection. This Figure shows data from the low inoculum, 48 hour experiment. Experimental
details: Inoculum was 2x10 5/eye; 500 pg of MAbs injected IP 4 hours post-infection; 50 pg of
MAbs applied topically 24 and 32 hours post-infection. Data points represent value for
individual mouse; bars represent mean score for the group.
P value: Mann Whitney U test.
        FIG. 3. Effect of MAb F598 to PNAG given topically starting 4 hours post-infection.
This Figure shows data from the medium inoculum, 32 hour experiment. Experimental details:
Inoculum was 5. 1x10 6/eye; MAbs applied topically 4, 8, 24 hours post-infection. Data points
represent value for individual mouse; bars represent mean score for the group.
P value: Mann Whitney U test.
        FIG. 4. Effect of MAb F598 to PNAG given topically starting 4 hours post-infection
This Figure shows data from the high inoculum, 32 hour experiment. Experimental details:
Inoculum: 5x10 7/eye; MAbs applied topically 4, 8, 24 hours post-infection. Experiment was
terminated at 32 hours. Data points represent value for individual mouse; bars represent mean
score for the group. P value: Mann Whitney U test.
        FIG. 5. Survival of CBAJN mice challenged with S. pneumoniae D39 (N= 12/group).
        FIG. 6. Protective efficacy of antibody raised to the 9GlcNH2-TT conjugate vaccine
against lethal skin infection cause from S. pyogenes (Group A Streptococcus).
        FIG. 7. Protective efficacy of antibody raised in rabbits to the 9GlcNH2-TT conjugate
vaccine against meningitis (bacteria in the brain) of 2-3 day old mouse pups challenged with
Group B N. meningitides strain B16B6. Data points represent logo CFU/brain for an
individual mouse; bars represent median score for the group. P value: Mann Whitney U test.

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 11
         FIG. 8. Reductions in colitis scores in mice administered human IgGI MAb to PNAG
compared to either PBS (experiment 1) or a human IgGI MAb to HIV (MAb F105, experiment
2). Data points represent score for individual mouse; bars represent median score for the
group. P value: Mann Whitney U test.
         FIG. 9. Comparison of the individual scores for the four parameters used to find the
total histologic score in TRUC mice treated with either MAb F598 to PNAG or control human
IgGI MAb to HIV (F105).
         FIG. 10. Protective efficacy of antibody raised in rabbits to the 9GlcNH 2-TT conjugate
vaccine against L. monocytogenes.
         FIG. 11. Opsonic killing of 4 strains of S. pneumoniae mediated by rabbit antibody
raised to dPNAG-TT. Killing compared to that obtained in control with normal rabbit serum.
         FIG. 12. Opsonic killing of 4 strains of S. pneumoniae mediated by human IgGI MAb
F598 to PNAG20. Killing compared to control MAb F429 specific to P aeruginosaalginate.
         FIG. 13. Opsonic killing of 3 strains of E.faecalis mediated by rabbit antibody raised
to 9GlcNH 2-TT. Killing compared to that obtained in control with normal rabbit serum.
         FIG. 14. Opsonic killing of Group A Streptococcus by MAb F598 to PNAG. Killing
compared to control MAb F429 specific to P. aeruginosa alginate.
         FIG. 15. Opsonic killing of Candida albicans by MAb F598 to PNAG. Killing
compared to control MAb F429 specific to P aeruginosa alginate.
         FIG. 16. Bactericidal killing of N. meningitidis serogroup B strains.
         FIG. 17. Bactericidal killing of N. gonorrhoeae.
         FIG. 18. Inhibition of N. meningitidis bactericidal killing.
         FIG. 19. Inhibition of N. gonorrhoeaebactericidal killing.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 12
                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION
        The invention relates, in part, to the unexpected finding of PNAG expression on a
number of bacterial and non-bacterial pathogens. The finding was unexpected for at least two
reasons. First, none of the pathogens which were found to express PNAG, in accordance with
the invention, have an ica or a pga locus. Ica and pga loci each encodes four proteins involved
in polysaccharide synthesis, including PNAG synthesis. It had been thought, prior to the
invention, that a pathogen must have an ica or the pga locus in order to synthesize PNAG. The
ica locus is present in S. aureus and S. epidermidis, which were known to express PNAG prior
to the invention, while the pga locus has been identified in some gram-negative organisms. It
is not clear how the newly discovered PNAG-positive pathogens actually synthesize PNAG in
the apparent absence of these loci. The findings of the invention suggest that PNAG may be
synthesized even in the absence of such loci and the proteins they encode. Second, there is
great variety in the pathogens founds to express PNAG, including bacterial and non-bacterial
pathogens. Prior to the invention, it was not contemplated that pathogens that did not express a
discernible ica/pga locus could make PNAG. It was also not contemplated that non-bacterial
pathogens might express PNAG.
        The finding that these various bacterial and non-bacterial pathogens express PNAG
provides new approaches for preventing, treating and/or diagnosing infections caused by such
pathogens.          Thus, the invention contemplates, inter alia, isolation and/or derivation of PNAG
and dPNAG from the newly described PNAG-positive pathogens, and their use in stimulating
immune responses (including immune responses required to produce antibodies specific for
PNAG), detecting PNAG and PNAG-expressing pathogens, and preventing and treating
infections of PNAG-expressing pathogens. Such PNAG-expressing pathogens include but are
not limited to the non-ica/pga PNAG-expressing pathogens described herein.
Non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens
        The pathogen newly discovered to express PNAG are referred to herein as non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogens to indicate that they do not contain a DNA-based genetic locus with
any significant similarity to the four-gene ica/pga loci of known PNAG-expressing pathogens

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 13
such as S. aureus,S. epidermidis or E. coli. The ica orpga loci encode four proteins (2
glycosyltransferases, an N-deacetylase, and a protein for export of the synthesized
polysaccharide). Some non-ica/pga PNAG pathogens do not comprise genes encoding these
four proteins in a single locus.
         The nucleotide sequence of an exemplary ica locus (i.e., one from S. aureus) has been
deposited in GenBank under accession number AF086783. A pathogen that is considered a
"non-ica" pathogen, according to the invention, does not possess a discernible ica locus. As an
example, such a pathogen may not possess a nucleotide sequence occurring in the same
contiguous stretch of chromosomal DNA and having at least 25% homology to the entire 4
gene nucleotide sequence of the ica locus deposited under AF086783. Non-ica PNAG-positive
pathogens exclude Staphylococci.
         The nucleotide sequence of an exemplarypga locus (i.e., one from E. coli K12 substr.
MG1655) has been deposited in GenBank under accession numbers for each of the 4 genes
within the locus as AAC74106.1, AAC74107.1, AAC74108.1, and AAC74109.1. A pathogen
that is considered a "non-pga" pathogen, according to the invention, does not possess a
discernible pga locus. As an example, such a pathogen may not possess a nucleotide sequence
occurring in the same contiguous stretch of chromosomal DNA and having at least 25%
homology to all four of the nucleotide sequences deposited under AAC74106.1, AAC74107.1,
AAC74108.1 and AAC74109.1. Non-pga PNAG-positive pathogens exclude E. coli,
Klebsiellapneumoniae, Bordetellapertussis, B. parapertussis,B. bronchoseptica,
Burkholderiacenocepacia,B. dolosa, Actinobacilluspleuropneumoniae,Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans, Acinetobacter baumannii,and some strains of the genus Shigella.
         The non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens include gram-negative and gram-positive
bacteria, fungi and parasites. More specifically, the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive bacteria
include gram-positive cocci, gram-positive rods, gram-negative cocci or coccobacilli, and
gram-negative rods. The non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive cocci include S.
pneumoniae, Group A Streptococcus (Streptococcuspyogenes), Group B Streptococcus
(Streptococcus agalactiae),Group C Streptococcus (Streptococcus dysagalactiae),and
Enterococcus (E.faecalis and E.faecium). The non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive
rods include Listeria monocytogenes, Clostridium difficile, Bacillus subtilis, Mycobacterium

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 14
tuberculosis, and M. smegmatis. The non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative cocci or
coccobacilli include Neisseria meningitides,Neisseria gonorrhoeae,Non-typable H.
influenzae, Hemophilus ducreyi, Helicobacterpylori, and Campylobacterjejuni. The non
ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod includes Bacteroidesfragilis,B. thetaiotamicron,
B. vulgatis, Citrobacterrodentium, Vibrio cholerae, Salmonella enterica serovar typhi and
Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium.
        The non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus include Candida albicans (yeast), Candida
albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus, Fusarium,and Cryptococcus species. The non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive parasites include Plasmodium bergei and P. falciparum.
        The non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen may be T. vaginalis.
        The invention contemplates the use of the PNAG polysaccharide as an antigen to
induce immune responses that are specific for the PNAG polysaccharide in subjects. Such
immunity is referred to herein as active immunity. The subjects may be those having or at risk
of developing infections caused by any one of the foregoing non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogens. The infections may be prevented or treated through the use of the PNAG
polysaccharide.
        The invention also contemplates the use of PNAG-specific antibodies (or antibody
fragments) to induce immune responses that are specific for the PNAG polysaccharide in
subjects. Such immunity is referred to herein as passive immunity. The subjects may be those
having or at risk of developing infections caused by any one of the foregoing non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogens. The infections may be prevented or treated through the use of the
PNAG-specific antibodies (or antibody fragments).
PNAG and dPNAGpolysaccharide
        The PNAG polysaccharide is poly N-acetyl beta (P1 -6 glucosamine (i.e., it is
comprised of glucosamine monomer units linked together by beta (P1 -6 linkages). The acetyl
group, when present, is N-linked to the glucosamine monomer (as opposed to being O-linked).
PNAG has the structure of the following formula

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                              - 15
                                                                    O--CH      2
                                                                                 H
                                                                           I/
                                                                           C       O
                                                                   H\/
                                                                       C      OH   H  C
                                                                   OH       C--C
                                                                          /
                                                                          HR
                                                                                    |
                                                                       __               _ n
        where n is an integer and R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and
-NH 2. "n" may range, without limitation, from 2-500.
        PNAG may be synthesized in vitro or it may be isolated from a naturally occurring
source, such as for example the newly described PNAG-positive pathogens. In its native form,
PNAG exists as a mixture of forms ranging in acetylation (i.e., where R is -NH-CO-CH 3) from
1-100%, with the more highly acetylated forms (i.e., those having greater than 50%
acetylation) being the more predominant forms.
        It was previously discovered that poorly acetylated forms were highly immunogenic
and better able to elicit opsonic protective antibodies as compared to the more highly
acetylated forms in in vivo immune stimulation assays. The antibodies elicited following
dPNAG administration recognize dPNAG and, in some instances, the highly acetylated forms
of PNAG also. These findings made the poorly acetylated form of PNAG a suitable vaccine
candidate for stimulating protective immune responses in vivo. As a result, the present
invention also contemplates the use of the poorly acetylated forms of PNAG to stimulate active
immunity in subjects. Such poorly acetylated forms of PNAG are referred to herein as
deacetylated PNAG (or dPNAG). dPNAG has the same structure as that shown above with the
exception that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 (i.e., less than 50% of the
amino groups are substituted with acetate). dPNAG may be wholly or partially deacetylated,
provided that the range of acetylation is from 0 to less than 50%. Wholly deacetylated dPNAG
(i.e., where R=NH 2 only) may be referred to herein as a homopolymer. Partially deacetylated
dPNAG (i.e., wherein R may be -NH 2 or -NH-CO-CH 3 , provided that less than 50% of R are -

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                        - 16
NH-CO-CH 3) may be referred to herein as a heteropolymer. For instance, less than 49%, less
than 45%, less than 40%, less than 35%, less than 30%, less than 25%, less than 20%, less than
15%, less than 10%, less than 5%, or less than 1% of R groups may be -NH-CO-CH 3. In some
instances, the level of acetylation is 40% or less, 35% or less, 20% or less, or 15% or less.
        The invention contemplates the use of highly acetylated and poorly acetylated forms of
PNAG in various applications. As a non-limiting example, highly acetylated PNAG may be
used for making antibodies to be used as a diagnostic or for another non-therapeutic purpose.
        The invention contemplates use of naturally occurring forms of PNAG, whether highly
or poorly acetylated, as well as synthetic forms of PNAG (i.e., those made completely de
novo). As will be appreciated, such synthetic forms can be synthesized with a known number
and sequence glucosamine and N-acetyl glucosamine units that are P--1-6 linked to each other.
The synthetic forms may be as small as 4 monomers in some instances.
        Published U.S. patent application No. US-2011-0150880 describes synthetic
oligosaccharides, their synthesis, and their conjugation to carriers. The specific and entire
teachings of this reference are incorporated by reference herein. Synthetic oligosaccharides
may be used conjugated to a carrier, in some embodiments. An example is an oligosaccharide
carrier conjugate comprising an oligosaccharide conjugated to a carrier through a linker that is
                                                                H         0
                                              _-O               N1 S -,1      NtJ H2
                                                                   Formula I
or
                                                         H             0
                                                         -Fm                      C Hl2±
                                                                   Formula II

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                          - 17
wherein n is greater than 1, m is a number selected from 1 to 10, p is a number selected from 1
to 20, and R is H or an alkyl group, and wherein the linker is O-linked to the oligosaccharide
and N-linked to the carrier. "n" may be 2-10, 2-5, or 2, 3, or 4, in some embodiments.
        Another example is an oligosaccharide bearing an O-linked linker, wherein the linker
comprises
                                                                        H
                                                             -C H2'      NgSH
                                                                    Formula III,
wherein the oligosaccharide is a polyglucosamine. The polyglucosamine may be a p-1-6
linked glucosamine that is 2-20 monomers in length, 5-11 monomers in length, for example.
        The size of PNAG and dPNAG may vary and may be dictated by the particular
application. Typically PNAG and dPNAG molecular weight may range from about 900
Daltons (Da) to 750 kiloDaltons (kDa). In some aspects, PNAG or dPNAG has a molecular
weight of less than 2 kDa. In some embodiments, the molecular weight of PNAG or dPNAG
may be at least about 2200 Daltons, or at least about 2500 Daltons, or at least about 3000
Daltons. In some embodiments, PNAG or dPNAG may be at least 9, at least 10 monomer units
in length, or at least 12 monomer units in length, or at least 15 monomer units in length. In
other aspects, PNAG or dPNAG has a molecular weight of at least 100 kDa, optionally in the
range of 100-500 kDa.
        As discussed in greater detail herein, PNAG and dPNAG, including lower molecular
weight versions of PNAG and dPNAG, may be conjugated to a carrier such as a carrier protein.
When conjugated to a carrier, PNAG and dPNAG may be as small as 2-3 monomer units, but
preferably are at least 4-6 monomer units in length. Polysaccharides between 800 Da and
1,000 kDa will be typical. PNAG or dPNAG forms of this size may be synthesized de novo as
described herein. When used without a carrier compound, the PNAG or dPNAG may be about
100 kDa or greater.

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 18
Preparation of PNAG
         The invention contemplates the use of naturally occurring and synthetic forms of
dPNAG and PNAG, including dPNAG and PNAG isolated or derived from the non-ica/pga
PNAG-expressing pathogens described herein. As used herein, naturally occurring PNAG or
dPNAG is one that exists in, and optionally can be isolated or derived from, naturally
occurring sources.
         PNAG and dPNAG antigens may be provided and/or used in isolated form. An isolated
polysaccharide, such as isolated dPNAG, is one that has been removed and thus separated at
least in part from the environment in which it normally exists or in which it has been
synthesized. In some instances, an isolated polysaccharide is sufficiently separated from other
compounds to be characterized structurally or functionally. For example, an isolated
polysaccharide may be "sequenced" in order to determine its chemical composition.
         dPNAG can be isolated from native PNAG or it can be derived from more highly
acetylated naturally occurring PNAG using the de-acetylation methods described herein.
dPNAG that is synthesized in vitro may also be isolated from its synthesis reaction mixture,
thereby separating it from reaction substrates, enzymes, co-factors, catalysts, or spurious
reaction products.
         PNAG and dPNAG can be prepared from any microbial (including bacterial) strain
carrying the ica locus. These ica-carrying strains include those that naturally express the ica
locus such as but not limited to S. epidermis and S. aureus. Specific strains include S.
epidermis RP62A (ATCC number 35984), S. epidermis RP12 (ATCC number 35983), S.
epidermis M187, S. aureus RN4220 (pCN27), and S. aureus MN8 mucoid. Ica-carrying
strains also include those that have been transformed with the genes in the ica locus (e.g., S.
carnosus TM300 (pCN27)).
         Native PNAG can be prepared by a variety of methods including extracting a crude
native PNAG preparation from a microbial culture, including cells and cell free culture
supernatants, resulting in the isolation of a high molecular weight native PNAG-enriched
material from the crude PNAG preparation, and obtained initially by precipitating an impure
PNAG containing the high molecular weight PNAG-enriched material with a solvent such as
methanol, ethanol, acetone or any other organic solvent known to one skilled in the art as being

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 19
capable of causing the precipitation of polysaccharides from aqueous solutions. The steps of
extracting the crude native PNAG preparation and isolating and precipitating the impure native
PNAG preparation may be performed using methods known in the art and described in
published U.S. application No. US-2005-0118198-Al.
         This impure PNAG material then may be purified and de-acetylated to produce
dPNAG. De-acetylation may be carried out chemically or enzymatically. Chemical
deacetylation, in some instances, may involve incubating impure PNAG preparation with a
base or acid to produce a semi-pure PNAG preparation, neutralizing the preparation, and
further treating the neutralized preparation to produce dPNAG.
         Enzymatic deacetylation typically involves incubating impure PNAG with enzymes,
such as bacterial enzymes, that digest biological materials, including cell-wall disrupting
agents such as lysozyme, lysostaphin, and proteinase K, and nuclease enzymes such as DNase
and RNase to digest DNA and RNA. This is followed by an addition of a solvent that will
precipitate PNAG out of solution, collection of the precipitate and re-dissolution of PNAG in a
base, such as NaOH or an acid such as HCl, followed by neutralization. The neutralization can
be accomplished using a base if the incubation step was performed with an acid, or with an
acid if the incubation step was performed with a base. The insoluble fraction from the neutral
material is then treated, e.g., by incubation in hydrofluoric acid to produce a pure native PNAG
antigen or by re-dissolution in buffers with a pH < 4.0 followed by molecular sieve and/or ion
exchange chromatography.
         Another isolation method includes the steps of extracting a crude PNAG suspension
from a microbial (including bacterial) culture by incubating the culture with a strong base or
acid. Preferably, the culture is stirred in the strong base or acid for at least 2 hours, and more
preferably at least 5, 10, 15, 18 or 24 hours. The strong base or acid can be any type of strong
base or acid, but preferably has a strength of at least 1 M NaOH or HCl. In some
embodiments, the strong base or acid is 5 M NaOH or 5 M HCl. The acid or base solution is
then subjected to centrifugation to collect the cell bodies. In some embodiments, the extraction
procedure is repeated several times. The resultant acid or base solution is neutralized to
approximately pH 7 and then dialyzed to produce insoluble impure PNAG.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 20
        dPNAG can also be synthesized de novo. Methods for de novo synthesis of dPNAG are
described in published U.S. patent application Nos. US-2005-0118198-Al and US-201 1
0150880-Al.
        Some methods may derive dPNAG from starting materials such as but not limited to
polyglucose (i.e., dextran), polyglucosamines such as chitin or chitosan,
polyglucosaminouronic acid, and polygalactosaminouronic acid may also be used to produce
the dPNAG antigen of the invention.
        PNAG and dPNAG preparations may be of varying purity. As used herein, a pure
PNAG or dPNAG preparation is a PNAG or dPNAG preparation that is greater than 92% free
of contaminants. These contaminants include galactose, phosphate, teichoic acid, and the like.
In some embodiments, PNAG and dPNAG compositions are at least 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
97%, 98%, 99% free of contaminants or are 100% free of contaminants. In some
embodiments, a dPNAG composition is free of highly acetylated PNAG.
        The degree of purity of a PNAG or a dPNAG composition can be assessed by any
means known in the art. For example, the purity can be assessed by chemical analysis assays
as well as gas chromatography and nuclear magnetic resonance to verify structural aspects of
the material.
Carriers
        PNAG and dPNAG, whether synthesized de novo or derived from a naturally occurring
source, may be used in a conjugated or an unconjugated form. In a conjugated form, PNAG or
dPNAG may be conjugated to a carrier (or a carrier compound, as the terms are used
interchangeably herein), either directly or via a linker. The conjugation can occur at any
position in the polysaccharide, including at one or both of its ends.
        A "carrier" as used herein is a compound that can be conjugated to a polysaccharide
either directly or through the use of a linker. The carrier may be immunologically active (i.e.,
immunogenic) or it may be inert. When used in vivo, it should be understood that the carrier is
safe for administration to a subject.
        Carriers include but are not limited to proteins, or peptides, polysaccharides, nucleic
acids, or other polymers, lipids, and small molecules. Carrier proteins include for example,

          H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                     - 21
plasma proteins such as serum albumin, immunoglobulins, apolipoproteins and transferrin;
bacterial polypeptides such as TRPLE, P- galactosidase, polypeptides such as herpes gD
protein, allergens, diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, salmonella flagellin, hemophilus pilin,
hemophilus 15 kDa, 28-30kDa and 40 kDa membrane proteins, Escherichiacoli, heat label
enterotoxin ltb, cholera toxin, and viral proteins including rotavirus VP and respiratory
syncytial virus f and g proteins.
          Carrier proteins that may be particularly useful for immunization include keyhole
limpet hemocyanin, serum albumin, bovine thyroglobulin, or soy bean trypsin inhibitor. Any
other compound that is immunogenic in the subject being immunized can be used as a carrier.
          Many methods are known in the art for conjugating a polysaccharide to a protein. In
general, the polysaccharide should be activated or otherwise rendered amenable to conjugation
(i.e., at least one moiety must be rendered capable of covalently bonding to a protein or other
molecule). Many such methods are known in the art. Reference can be made to published
U.S. patent application Nos. US-2005-0118198-Al and US-2011-0150880-Al and U.S. Patent
Nos.4356170, 4663160, 4619828, 4808700, 4711779.
          The carrier may be conjugated to PNAG or dPNAG through a linker or spacer. A
polysaccharide may be coupled to a linker or a spacer by any means known in the art including,
for example using a free reducing end of the polysaccharide to produce a covalent bond with a
spacer or linker. A covalent bond may be produced by converting a free reducing end of
PNAG or dPNAG into a free 1-aminoglycocide, that can subsequently be covalently linked to a
spacer by acylation. (Lundquist et al., J CarbohydrateChem., 10:377 (1991)). Alternatively,
PNAG or dPNAG may be covalently linked to the spacer using an N-hydroxysuccinimide
active ester as activated group on the spacer. (Kochetkow, CarbohydrateResearch, 146:C1
(1986)). The free reducing end of PNAG or dPNAG may also be converted to a lactone using
iodine and potassium hydroxide. (Isebell et al., Methods of CarbohydrateChemistry,
Academic Press, New York (1962)). The lactone can be covalently linked to the spacer by
means of a primary amino group on the spacer or linker. The free reducing end of PNAG or
dPNAG may also be covalently linked to the linker or spacer using reductive amination.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 22
Antibodies
        The invention embraces antibodies that bind to PNAG and/or dPNAG. The antibodies
may be either monoclonal antibodies or polyclonal antibodies. Antibodies that bind to dPNAG
may also bind to forms of highly acetylated forms of PNAG. Antibodies may be made using
dPNAG or PNAG or synthetic oligosaccharides composed of>3 monosaccharide units of
glucosamine or N-acetyl glucosamine, optionally conjugated to a carrier and/or used in
conjunction with an adjuvant. Antibodies may be produced using PNAG or dPNAG derived
from the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens or ica-carrying orpga-carrying pathogens.
        Polyclonal antibodies generally are raised in animals by multiple subcutaneous or
intraperitoneal injections of an antigen and an adjuvant. Polyclonal antibodies to PNAG or
dPNAG or conjugated synthetic oligosaccharides can be generated by injecting PNAG or
dPNAG in conjugated or unconjugated form or the synthetic oligosaccharides in a conjugated
form, alone or in combination with an adjuvant. Methods for making such polyclonals is
described in published U.S. patent application No. US-2005-0118198-Al.
        Briefly, dPNAG or dPNAG, in conjugated or unconjugated form, or conjugated
oligosaccharides, are combined with an adjuvant such as Freund' s incomplete adjuvant (e.g,
100 [g of conjugate for rabbits or mice in 1-3 volumes of Freund' s) and injected intradermally
at multiple sites. Approximately one month later, the animals are boosted with 1/5 - 1/10 of
the original amount of antigen, or antigen conjugate, in adjuvant by subcutaneous injection at
multiple sites. One to two weeks later the animals are bled, and the serum is assayed for the
presence of antibody. The animals may be repeatedly boosted until the antibody titer plateaus.
The animal may be boosted with PNAG or dPNAG or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugates
alone, PNAG or dPNAG conjugate or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugates, or PNAG or
dPNAG conjugated to a different carrier compound, or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugates,
with or without an adjuvant. In some embodiments, the boosts may comprise PNAG rather
than dPNAG, or they may contain a mixture of dPNAG and PNAG.
        In addition to supplying a source of polyclonal antibodies, the immunized animals can
be used to generate PNAG-specific and dPNAG-specific monoclonal antibodies. As used
herein, the term "monoclonal antibody" refers to a homogenous (i.e., single clonal) population
of immunoglobulins that bind to the same epitope of an antigen. Monoclonal antibodies have

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 23
the same Ig gene rearrangement and thus demonstrate identical binding specificity. In the case
where dPNAG or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugates is used to generate the antibodies, the
epitope may be present in highly acetylated PNAG as well as dPNAG and thus antibodies
raised against dPNAG may also bind to PNAG.
        Methods for preparing monoclonal antibodies are known in the art. Monoclonal
antibodies can be prepared by a variety of methods. In one such method, spleen cells isolated
from the immunized animal are immortalized by fusion with myeloma cells or by Epstein Barr
Virus transformation, and clones expressing the desired antibody are screened and identified.
Other methods involve isolation of rearranged Ig gene sequences and cloning into
immortalized cell lines. Such methods are described in greater detail in published U.S. patent
application Nos. US-2005-0118198-Al and US-2011-0150880-Al, and such teachings are
incorporated by reference herein.
        Antibodies specific for PNAG may be, without limitation, murine, human or chimeric
antibodies such as but not limited to humanized antibodies.
        Human monoclonal antibodies may be made by any of the methods known in the art,
including those disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5567610, U.S. Patent No. 5565354, U.S. Patent
No. 5571893, Kozber, J. Immunol. 133: 3001 (1984), Brodeur, et al., MonoclonalAntibody
Production Techniques and Applications, p. 51-63 (Marcel Dekker, Inc, new York, 1987), and
Boemer et al., J Immunol., 147: 86-95 (1991).                      Human antibodies may be obtained by
recovering antibody-producing lymphocytes from the blood or other tissues of humans
producing antibody to an antigen of interest (e.g., dPNAG or PNAG). These lymphocytes can
be treated to produce cells that grow on their own in the laboratory under appropriate culture
conditions. The cell cultures can be screened for production of antibody to the antigen of
interest and then cloned. Clonal cultures can be used to produce human monoclonal antibodies
to dPNAG or PNAG, or the genetic elements encoding the variable portions of the heavy and
light chain of the antibody can be cloned and inserted into nucleic acid vectors for production
of antibody of different types. In addition to the conventional methods for preparing human
monoclonal antibodies, such antibodies may also be prepared by immunizing transgenic
animals that are capable of producing human antibodies (e.g., Jakobovits et al., PNAS USA, 90:

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 24
2551 (1993), Jakobovits et al., Nature, 362: 255-258 (1993), Bruggermann et al., Year in
Immunol., 7:33 (1993) and U.S. Patent No. 5569825 issued to Lonberg).
         As used herein, a "humanized monoclonal antibody" is a monoclonal antibody or
functionally active fragment thereof having at least human constant regions and an antigen
binding region, such as one, two or three CDRs, from a non-human species. Humanized
antibodies have particular clinical utility in that they specifically recognize antigens of interest,
but will not evoke an immune response in humans against the antibody itself. As an example,
murine CDRs may grafted into the framework region of a human antibody to prepare the
humanized antibody. See, e.g., L. Riechmann et al., Nature 332, 323 (1988); M. S. Neuberger
et al., Nature 314, 268 (1985) and EPA 0 239 400. Alternatively, humanized monoclonal
antibodies may be constructed by replacing the non-CDR regions of a non-human antibody
with similar regions of human antibodies while retaining the epitopic specificity of the original
antibody. For example, non-human CDRs and optionally some of the framework regions may
be covalently joined to human FR and/or Fc/pFc' regions to produce a functional antibody.
There are commercial entities in the United States that will synthesize humanized antibodies
from specific murine antibody regions, such as Protein Design Labs (Mountain View
California), Abgenix, and Medarex. Reference may also be made to EP Patent Application No.
0239400.
         Antigen-binding antibody fragments are also encompassed by the invention. As is
known in the art, only a small portion of an antibody molecule, the paratope, is involved in the
binding of the antibody to its epitope (see, in general, Clark, W.R. (1986) The Experimental
FoundationsofModern Immunology Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York; Roitt, I. (1991) Essential
Immunology, 7th Ed., Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford). The pFc' and Fc regions of
the antibody, for example, are effectors of the complement cascade but are not involved in
antigen binding. An antibody from which the pFc' region has been enzymatically cleaved, or
which has been produced without the pFc' region, designated an F(ab') 2 fragment, retains both
of the antigen binding sites of an intact antibody. An isolated F(ab' ) fragment is referred to as
a bivalent monoclonal fragment because of its two antigen binding sites. Similarly, an
antibody from which the Fc region has been enzymatically cleaved, or which has been
produced without the Fc region, designated an Fab fragment, retains one of the antigen binding

          H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                     - 25
sites of an intact antibody molecule. Proceeding further, Fab fragments consist of a covalently
bound antibody light chain and a portion of the antibody heavy chain denoted Fd (heavy chain
variable region). The Fd fragments are the major determinant of antibody specificity (a single
Fd fragment may be associated with up to ten different light chains without altering antibody
specificity) and Fd fragments retain epitope-binding ability in isolation.
          The terms Fab, Fc, pFc' , F(ab' 2)and Fv are employed with either standard
immunological meanings [Klein, Immunology (John Wiley, New York, NY, 1982); Clark,
W.R. (1986) The ExperimentalFoundationsofModern Immunology (Wiley & Sons, Inc., New
York); Roitt, I. (1991) Essential Immunology, 7th Ed., (Blackwell Scientific Publications,
Oxford)]. Well-known functionally active antibody fragments include but are not limited to
F(ab') 2 , Fab, Fv and Fd fragments of antibodies. These fragments which lack the Fc fragment
of intact antibody, clear more rapidly from the circulation, and may have less non-specific
tissue binding than an intact antibody (Wahl et al., J Nucl. Med. 24:316-325 (1983)). For
example, single-chain antibodies can be constructed in accordance with the methods described
in U.S. Patent No. 4,946,778 to Ladner et al. Such single-chain antibodies include the variable
regions of the light and heavy chains joined by a flexible linker moiety. Methods for obtaining
a single domain antibody ("Fd") which comprises an isolated variable heavy chain single
domain, also have been reported (see, for example, Ward et al., Nature 341:644-646 (1989),
disclosing a method of screening to identify an antibody heavy chain variable region (VH single
domain antibody) with sufficient affinity for its target epitope to bind thereto in isolated form).
Methods for making recombinant Fv fragments based on known antibody heavy chain and
light chain variable region sequences are known in the art and have been described, e.g., Moore
et al., US Patent No. 4,462,334. Other references describing the use and generation of
antibody fragments include e.g., Fab fragments (Tijssen, Practice and Theory of Enzyme
Immunoassays (Elsevieer, Amsterdam, 1985)), Fv fragments (Hochman et al., Biochemistry
12: 1130 (1973); Sharon et al., Biochemistry 15: 1591 (1976); Ehrilch et al., U.S. Patent No.
4,355,023) and portions of antibody molecules (Audilore-Hargreaves, U.S. patent No.
4,470,925). Thus, those skilled in the art may construct antibody fragments from various
portions of intact antibodies without destroying the specificity of the antibodies for the dPNAG

          H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                     - 26
epitope. It is to be understood that the epitope recognized by anti-dPNAG antibodies may also
be present on highly acetylated PNAG.
Uses
          The polysaccharides, synthetic oligosaccharides and antibodies of the invention are
useful in a variety of different applications including in vitro, in situ and in vivo applications.
The polysaccharides and synthetic oligosaccharides may be used to immunize subjects in vivo
to prevent or treat infection by non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens. The polysaccharides
and synthetic oligosaccharides may also be used to develop PNAG- or dPNAG-specific
antibodies which, in turn, may be used to immunize subjects in vivo to prevent or treat
infection by non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens.
          PNAG and/or dPNAG derived from non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens may be
used to screen for binding partners such as antibodies. The antibodies may also be used to
detect PNAG-expressing pathogens, including detecting (i.e., diagnosing) infection in a
subject. The invention thus also provides methods for generating antibodies that bind to
PNAG and dPNAG.
          PNAG and/or dPNAG derived from non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens may be
used to induce an immune response in a subject having or at risk of developing an infection by
any PNAG-expressing pathogen, including those that carry an ica locus and those that do not.
It is to be understood that "PNAG and/or dPNAG derived from non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogens" means the polysaccharides produced from non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens
using the methods described herein. Immune response induction may prevent or it may
partially or wholly treat the infection. Partial treatment of the infection may include reduction
in the severity or frequency of symptoms and/or partial reduction in pathogen load in the
subject. Partial treatment may be useful where a subject is being administered or will be
administered one or more other therapeutic agents. Immune response induction is
accomplished by administering to the subject an effective amount for inducing an immune
response such as an antibody response against PNAG or dPNAG (or pathogens expressing
PNAG) of any of PNAG or dPNAG or compositions thereof.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 27
        As used herein, a subject is a warm-blooded mammal and includes, for instance,
humans, primates, horses, cows, swine, goats, sheep, dogs, and cats. In some embodiments,
the subject is a non-rodent subject. A non-rodent subject is any subject as defined above, but
specifically excluding rodents such as mice, rats, and rabbits. In some embodiments, the
preferred subject is a human.
        The subject may be one having or one at risk of developing an infection by a PNAG
expressing pathogen whether such pathogen carries an ica-locus or not. A subject at risk of
developing an infection by a PNAG-expressing pathogen may be at risk of being exposed to
such a pathogen. As described herein, a number of the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens
are resistant to one or more antibiotic classes. It is therefore likely that exposure to such
pathogens may occur since they will not have been eradicated in a prior subject through the use
of antibiotics. Populations at risk of developing infection include, for example, neonatal
subjects, immunocompromised subjects (such as those receiving chemotherapy), subjects using
immunosuppressants (including transplant recipients), subjects on dialysis, subjects undergoing
high risk surgery, and subjects with indwelling medical devices such as intravenous lines (e.g.,
central lines) or prostheses (e.g., hip or knee replacement prostheses).
        PNAG or dPNAG of and synthetic oligosaccharides conjugated to protein carriers can
be administered to the subject in an effective amount for inducing an immune response. Such
an effective amount may be an amount sufficient to assist the subject in producing its own
immune protection by for example inducing the production of antibodies specific to PNAG
and/or dPNAG, inducing the production of memory cells, and possibly a cytotoxic lymphocyte
reaction, etc. The immune response may in turn prevent infection by a PNAG-expressing
pathogen from occurring in a subject that is exposed to such a pathogen. One of ordinary skill
can assess whether an amount of PNAG or dPNAG or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugate
vaccines are sufficient to induce active immunity by methods known in the art. For instance,
the ability of a PNAG or dPNAG or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugate vaccines to produce
PNAG-specific antibody in a mammal can be assessed by screening the produced antibodies in
a mouse or other subject using the PNAG antigen. Amounts of PNAG or dPNAG for inducing
immune responses may range from about 1 to 100 pg, although they are not so limited.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   -28
        The antibody or antibody fragment specific for PNAG and/or dPNAG is useful for
inducing passive immunization in a subject, for example, by preventing the development of
systemic infection in those subjects at risk of exposure to PNAG-expressing pathogens,
including non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens. The method for inducing passive immunity
to infection involves administering to a subject an effective amount of an antibody specific for
PNAG and/or dPNAG or the synthetic oligosaccharides for inducing an immune response to
PNAG or PNAG-expressing pathogens, including non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens.
        The antibody or antibody fragment may be administered to any subject at risk of
developing an infection by non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens, and in some embodiments
may be particularly suited for subjects incapable of inducing active immunity to PNAG and/or
dPNAG.          PNAG or dPNAG or synthetic oligosaccharide conjugate vaccines might not be
completely effective at preventing or eliminating an infection in certain subjects, and therefore
such subjects may benefit from treatment with antibody specific for PNAG and/or dPNAG. A
subject that is incapable of inducing an immune response includes an immunocompromised
subject (e.g., a subject undergoing chemotherapy, a subject having AIDS, etc.) or a subject that
has not yet developed an immune system (e.g. pre-term neonate).
        The antibody or antibody fragment is administered to the subject in an effective amount
for inducing an immune response to PNAG or PNAG-expressing pathogens such as non
ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogens. As used herein, an effective amount or antibody or
antibody fragment for inducing an immune response is an amount of antibody or antibody
fragment that is sufficient to (i) prevent infection by from occurring in a subject that is exposed
to the pathogen; (ii) inhibit the development of infection, i.e., arresting or slowing its
development; and/or (iii) relieve the infection, i.e., eradication of the microbe in infected
subjects. Microbes include bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites and the like.
        Using procedures known to those of ordinary skill, one can determine whether an
amount of antibody or antibody fragment is an effective amount in an in vitro opsonization
assay which is predictive of the degree of opsonization of an antibody. An antibody that
opsonizes a microbe such as a bacterium is one that when added to a sample of microbes
causes phagocytosis of the microbes. An opsonization assay may be a colorimetric assay, a

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 29
chemiluminescent assay, a fluorescent or radiolabel uptake assay, a cell mediated cytotoxic
assay or other assay which measures the opsonic potential of a material.
Pharmaceutical compositions and formulations
         In general, when administered in vivo, the polysaccharides, antibodies and antibody
fragments of the invention are applied in pharmaceutically acceptable compositions. Such
compositions may comprise pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, salts, buffering agents,
preservatives, adjuvants, and optionally other prophylactic or therapeutic ingredients. A
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier means one or more compatible solid or liquid filler,
diluents or encapsulating substances which are suitable for administration to a human or other
animal. In the context of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, the term "carrier" denotes an
organic or inorganic ingredient, natural or synthetic, with which the polysaccharide, antibody
or antibody fragment is combined to facilitate use including administration. The components
of the pharmaceutical compositions should also be capable of being commingled with the
polysaccharide, antibody or antibody fragment, and with each other, in a manner such that
there is no interaction which would substantially impair the desired pharmaceutical efficiency.
         Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, those prepared from
the following acids: hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulphuric, nitric, phosphoric, maleic, acetic,
salicyclic, p-toluene sulphonic, tartaric, citric, methane sulphonic, formic, malonic, succinic,
naphthalene-2-sulphonic, and benzene sulphonic. Also, pharmaceutically acceptable salts can
be prepared as alkaline metal or alkaline earth salts, such as sodium, potassium or calcium salts
of the carboxylic acid group.
         Suitable buffering agents include acetic acid and a salt (1-2% WN); citric acid and a
salt (1-3% WN); boric acid and a salt (0.5-2.5% WN); and phosphoric acid and a salt (0.8-2%
WN). Suitable preservatives include benzalkonium chloride (0.003-0.03% WN);
chlorobutanol (0.3-0.9% WN); parabens (0.01-0.25% WN) and thimerosal (0.004-0.02%
WN).
         Compositions suitable for parenteral administration typically comprise a sterile aqueous
preparation of the polysaccharide, antibody or antibody fragment, which may be isotonic with
the blood of the recipient subject. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 30
employed are water, Ringer's solution, and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition,
sterile, fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this
purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di-glycerides. In
addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables. Carrier
formulations suitable for subcutaneous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intravenous, etc.
administrations may be found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing
Company, Easton, PA.
         The polysaccharides, oligosaccharides, antibodies and antibody fragments are
administered in effective amounts. Polysaccharide or oligosaccharide doses ranging from 1
100 pg may be effective, depending on the mode of administration. Antibody or antibody
fragment doses ranging from 0.1-100 mg/kg and 0.1-20 mg/kg, depending upon the mode of
administration, may be effective. The absolute amount will depend upon a variety of factors
including whether the administration is performed on a high risk subject not yet infected with
the microbes or on a subject already having an infection, the concurrent treatment, the number
of doses and the individual patient parameters including age, physical condition, size and
weight. These are factors well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and can be addressed
with no more than routine experimentation. It is preferred generally that a maximum dose be
used, that is, the highest safe dose according to sound medical judgment.
         Multiple doses of the polysaccharides, antibodies and/or antibody fragments are
contemplated. Generally immunization schemes involve the administration of a high dose of
an antigen followed by subsequent lower doses of antigen after a waiting period of several
weeks. Further doses may be administered as well. The dosage schedule for passive
immunization would be quite different with more frequent administration if necessary. Any
regimen that results in an enhanced immune response to microbial infection and/or subsequent
protection from infection may be used. Desired time intervals for delivery of multiple doses of
a particular antigen can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art employing no more
than routine experimentation. Vaccine doses may be administered over a period of 1 to 6
months, optionally with doses equally spaced apart in time. For antibodies and antibody
fragments, dosing intervals generally range from 14-180 days.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   -31
        A variety of administration routes are available. The particular mode selected will
depend upon, for example, the particular condition being treated and the dosage required for
therapeutic efficacy. The methods of this invention, generally speaking, may be practiced
using any mode of administration that is medically acceptable, meaning any mode that
produces effective levels of an immune response without causing clinically unacceptable
adverse effects. Preferred modes of administration are parenteral routes. The term "parenteral"
includes subcutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, and intrasternal injection, or
infusion techniques. Other routes include but are not limited to oral, nasal, dermal, sublingual,
and local.
        Other delivery systems can include time-release, delayed release or sustained release
delivery systems. Such systems can avoid repeated administrations of the polysaccharides of
the invention, increasing convenience to the subject and the physician. Many types of release
delivery systems are available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They include
polymer based systems such as polylactic and polyglycolic acid, polyanhydrides and
polycaprolactone; nonpolymer systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol,
cholesterol esters and fatty acids or neutral fats such as mono-, di and triglycerides; hydrogel
release systems; silastic systems; peptide based systems; wax coatings, compressed tablets
using conventional binders and excipients, partially fused implants and the like. Specific
examples include, but are not limited to: (a) erosional systems in which the polysaccharide is
contained in a form within a matrix, found in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,452,775 (Kent); 4,667,014
(Nestor et al.); and 4,748,034 and 5,239,660 (Leonard) and (b) diffusional systems in which an
active component permeates at a controlled rate through a polymer, found in U.S. Patent Nos.
3,832,253 (Higuchi et al.) and 3,854,480 (Zaffaroni). In addition, a pump-based hardware
delivery system can be used, some of which are adapted for implantation.
Secondary agents
        dPNAG and/or PNAG-specific antibodies may be delivered in conjunction with other
agents. The nature of the other agent(s) may depend upon whether the dPNAG or the PNAG
specific antibody is being administered.

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 32
         For example, when administered to induce active immunity and/or to produce antibody,
dPNAG may be used in conjunction with an adjuvant. As used herein, the term adjuvant refers
to a substance that is administered in conjunction with (including at the same time, in the same
formulation, etc.) an antigen (such as dPNAG) in order to potentiate an antigen-specific
immune response. Adjuvants include but are not limited to aluminum compounds, e.g., gels,
aluminum hydroxide and aluminum phosphate, and Freund's complete or incomplete adjuvant
(e.g., in which the dPNAG antigen is incorporated in the aqueous phase of a stabilized water in
paraffin oil emulsion). The paraffin oil may be replaced with different types of oils, e.g.,
squalene or peanut oil. Other materials with adjuvant properties include BCG (attenuated
Mycobacterium tuberculosis), calcium phosphate, levamisole, isoprinosine, polyanions (e.g.,
poly A:U), lentinan, pertussis toxin, lipid A, saponins, QS-21 and peptides, e.g. muramyl
dipeptide. Rare earth salts, e.g., lanthanum and cerium, may also be used as adjuvants. The
amount of adjuvants depends on the subject and the particular dPNAG antigen used (e.g., the
level of acetate substitution) and can be readily determined by one skilled in the art without
undue experimentation.
         The agent may be an anti-microbial such as an anti-bacterial, an anti-viral, an anti
parasite, an anti-fungal, and the like.
         The agent may be an anti-bacterial drug (e.g., an antibiotic), another bacterial antigen,
or another anti-bacterial antibody, or mixtures or combinations thereof. The use of antibiotics
in the treatment of bacterial infection is routine. The use of antigens for inducing active
immunization and antibodies to induce passive immunization is also routine. In this
embodiment, a common administration vehicle (e.g., tablet, implant, injectable solution, etc.)
could contain both the active agent of the invention and an antibiotic and/or other antigen
and/or other antibody. Alternatively, the antibiotic and/or other antigen and/or other antibody
can be administered separately. The antibiotic may be conjugated to dPNAG or to an anti
dPNAG antibody.
         Anti-bacterial antibiotic drugs are well known and include, without limitation,
penicillin G, penicillin V, ampicillin, amoxicillin, bacampicillin, cyclacillin, epicillin,
hetacillin, pivampicillin, methicillin, nafcillin, oxacillin, cloxacillin, dicloxacillin,
flucloxacillin, carbenicillin, ticarcillin, avlocillin, mezlocillin, piperacillin, amdinocillin,

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 33
cephalexin, cephradine, cefadoxil, cefaclor, cefazolin, cefuroxime axetil, cefamandole,
cefonicid, cefoxitin, cefotaxime, ceftizoxime, cefmenoxine, ceftriaxone, moxalactam,
cefotetan, cefoperazone, ceftazidme, imipenem, clavulanate, timentin, sulbactam, neomycin,
erythromycin, metronidazole, chloramphenicol, clindamycin, lincomycin, vancomycin,
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, aminoglycosides, quinolones, tetracyclines and rifampin. (See
Goodman and Gilman' s, Pharmacrlogical Basics of Therapeutics, 8th Ed., 1993, McGraw Hill
Inc.)
        Polysaccharide antigens (other than PNAG and dPNAG) and polysaccharide-specific
antibodies (other than PNAG-specific antibodies) are known in the art. Examples include
Salmonella typhi capsule Vi antigen (Szu, S.C., X. Li, A.L. Stone and J.B. Robbins, Relation
between structure and immunologic properties of the Vi capsular polysaccharide, Infection
and Immunity. 59:4555-4561 (1991)); E. Coli K5 capsule (Vann, W., M.A. Schmidt, B. Jann
and K. Jann, The structure of the capsular polysaccharide (K5 antigen) of urinary tract infective
Escherichiacoli, 010:K5:H4. A polymer similar to desulfo-heparin, European Journalof
Biochemistry. 116: 359-364, (1981)); Staphylococcus aureus type 5 capsule (Fournier, J.-M.,
K. Hannon, M. Moreau, W.W. Karakawa and W.F. Vann, Isolation of type 5 capsular
polysaccharide from Staphylococcus aureus,Ann. Inst. Pasteur/Microbiol.(Paris). 138: 561
567, (1987)); Rhizobium melilori expolysaccharide II (Glazebrook, J. and G.C. Walker, a novel
expolysaccharide can function in place of the calcofluor-binding exopolysaccharide in
nodulation of alfalfa by Rhizobium meliloti, Cell. 65:661-672 (1989)); Group B Streptococcus
type III (Wessels, M.R., V. Pozsgay, D.L. Kasper and H. J. Jennings, Structure and
immunochemistry of an oligosaccharide repeating unit of the capsular polysaccharide of type
III Group B Streptococcus, JournalofBiological Chemistry. 262:8262-8267 (1987));
Pseudomonas aeruginosaFisher 7 O-specific side-chain (Knirel, Y.A., N.A. Paramonov, E.V.
Vinogradov, A.S. Shashkow, B.A. N.K. Kochetkov, E.S. Stanislavsky and E.V. Kholodkova,
Somatic antigens of PseudomonasaeruginosaThe structure of O-specific polysaccharide
chains of lipopolysaccharides of P. aeruginosa03 (Lanyi), 025 (Wokatsch) and Fisher
immunotypes 3 and 7, EuropeanJournalofBiochemistry. 167:549, (1987)); Shigella sonnei
O-specific side chain (Kenne, L., B. Lindberg and K. Petersson, Structural studies of the 0
specific side-chains of the Shigella sonnei phase I lipopolysaccharide, CarbohydrateResearch.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 34
78:119-126, (1980)); S. pneumoniae type I capsule (Lindberg, B., Lindqvist, B., Lonngren, J.,
Powell, D.A., Structural studies of the capsular polysaccharide from S. pneumoniae type 1,
CarbohydrateResearch. 78:111-117 (1980)); and S. pneumoniae group antigen (Jennings,
H.J., C. Lugowski and N. M. Young, Structure of the complex polysaccharide C-substance
from S. pneumoniae type 1, Biochemistry. 19:4712-4719 (1980)). Other non-polypeptide
antigens and non-polysaccharide specific antibodies are known to the those of skill in the art
and can be used in conjunction with the compositions of the invention.
Detection and diagnostic assays
        The dPNAG and synthetic oligosaccharide antigens and antibodies to them are also
useful in diagnostic assays for determining an immunologic status of a subject or sample or can
be used as reagents in immunoassays. For instance, the antibodies may be used to detect the
presence in a sample of a microbe such as a bacterium having PNAG on the surface. If the
microbe is present in the sample, then the antibodies may be used to treat the infected subject.
The antibodies may also be used to screen microbes for the presence of PNAG antigen and to
isolate dPNAG or PNAG antigen and microbes containing dPNAG or PNAG antigen from
complex mixtures.
        The above-described assays and any other assay known in the art can be accomplished
by labeling the dPNAG or antibodies and/or immobilizing the dPNAG or antibodies on an
insoluble matrix. The analytical and diagnostic methods for using dPNAG and/or its
antibodies use at least one of the following reagents: labeled analyte analogue, immobilized
analyte analogue, labeled binding partner, immobilized binding partner, and steric conjugates.
The label used can be any detectable functionality that does not interfere with the binding of
analyte and its binding partner. Numerous labels are known for such use in immunoassays.
For example, compounds that may be detected directly, such as fluorochrome,
chemiluminescent, and radioactive labels, as well as compounds that can be detected through
reaction or derivitization, such as enzymes. Examples of these types of labels include 3 2 P 14C,
125 3H, and mI radioisotopes, fluorophores such as rare earth chelates
                                                                          or fluorescein and its
derivatives, rhodamine and its derivatives, dansyl, umbelliferone, luciferases such as firefly
luciferase and bacterial luciferase (U.S. Patent No. 4,737,456), luciferin, 2,3-

        ll:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 35
dihydrophthalavinediones, horseradish peroxidase (HRP), alkaline phosphatase, B
galactosidase, glucoamylase, lysozyme, saccharide oxidases such as glucose oxidase, galactose
oxidase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. Heterocyclic oxidases such as uricase and
xanthine oxidase, coupled to an enzyme that uses hydrogen peroxide to oxidize a dye precursor
such as HRP, lactoperoxidase, or microperoxidase, biotin avidin, spin labels, bacteriophage
labels, and stable free radicals.
        The labels can be conjugated to dPNAG or anti-dPNAG antibody by methods known to
those of ordinary skill in the art. For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,940,475 and 3,645,090
demonstrate conjugation of fluorophores and enzymes to antibodies. Other assays which
reportedly are commonly used with antigen and antibody and which can be used according to
the invention include competition and sandwich assays.
        The following Examples are included for purposes of illustration and are not intended
to limit the scope of the invention.

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                              - 36
                                                                       EXAMPLES
Example 1: Expression of the bacterial surface polysaccharide poly-N-acetyl glucosamine
(PNAG) by a variety of microbial species.
         Direct binding of antibodies: Organisms are grown in various media to promote PNAG
production at temperatures ranging from 20'C to 37'C for 24-72 hours in either atmospheric
oxygen conditions (21%                       02),      5%CO 2 or under anaerobic conditions. Cells from plates are
directly suspended into PBS (phosphate-buffered saline), while those in broth are washed and
resuspended in PBS.
         Samples are placed onto slides followed by methanol fixation for 1 min. Samples are
further incubated with either MAb F429 (negative control, human IgGI specific to
Pseudomonas aeruginosa alginate antigen) directly conjugated to Alexafluor 488 (AF488)
(1:313 dilution of 1.63 mg/ml stock, final concentration 5.2 ug/ml) or MAb F598 (human
IgG1 specific to PNAG) directly conjugated to AF488 (1:833 dilution of 4.35 mg/ml stock,
final concentration 5.2 ug/ml) in PBS containing 0.5% BSA overnight at 4'C and 4uM Syto
83. Samples are washed with PBS and mounted with 1.5 cover-glass for confocal analysis.
         Specificity of MAb F598 binding to PNAG: Organisms are grown in various media to
promote PNAG production at temperatures ranging from 20'C to 37'C for 24-72 hr in either
atmospheric oxygen conditions (21%                                  02), 5% CO 2 or under anaerobic conditions.. Bacterial
cells from plates are directly suspended into TBS (tris-buffered saline, pH 6.5), while those in
broth are washed and resuspended in TBS.
         Generally, samples are treated with chitinase, Dispersin B or periodate and then
exposed to MAb F598. Samples in TBS pH 6.5 are incubated with (a) 50 pg/ml chitinase
(negative control), (b) Dispersin B (digests PNAG) for 24 hours at 37*C, or (c) with 0.4 M
periodate for 2 hrs at 37*C. PNAG is cleaved by periodate, digested by Dispersin B, and
unaffected by chitinase. Cells were then reacted with human IgG monoclonal antibody (MAb)
to PNAG or IgGI MAb to irrelevant antigen-Pseudomonasaeruginosa alginate (MAb F429
(negative control, human IgG1 specific to Pseudomonas aeruginosa alginate antigen).
Antibody to the irrelevant antigen should not bind to PNAG.

          H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                                - 37
           Specifically, samples are washed and aliquots of 10 pl are air-dried onto glass slides,
 followed by methanol fixation for 1 min. MAb F429 (negative control) was directly conjugated
 to AF488 (1:313 dilution of 1.63 mg/ml stock, final concentration 5.2 pg/ml) and MAb F598
 (anti-PNAG, lot 2) was directly conjugated to AF488 (1:833 dilution of 4.35 mg/ml stock, final
 concentration 5.2 ug/ml) in PBS containing 0.5% BSA overnight at 4'C along with 4 pM Syto
 83 (stains DNA Red). Samples were washed with PBS and mounted onto glass slide with 1.5
 coverglass for confocal analysis.
                                                                           Table 1
       Microbe                           MAb F598                    MAb F598       MAb F598   MAb F598    Negative
                                                                     +Chitinase    + Dispersin + Periodate Control
 S. aureus (positive                       Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 control)                                   (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Streptococcus                             Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
pneumonia (strain                           (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 D39)
 Streptococcus                             Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
pneumonia (strain                           (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 ATCC8)
 Streptococcus                             Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
pyogenes (strain                            (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 950771)
 Streptococcus                             Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 agalactiae(strain                          (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 M781)
 Enterococcus                              Positive                   Positive       Negative      ND      Negative
faecalis (strain                            (green)                    (green)        (dark)                (dark)
 V583)
 Listeria                                  Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 monocytogenes                              (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Clostridium                               Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 difficile                                  (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Bacteroides                               Positive                   Positive       Negative      ND      Negative
fragilis (strain                            (green)                    (green)        (dark)                (dark)
 9343)

         ll:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                                - 38
       Microbe                           MAb F598                    MAb F598       MAb F598    MAb F598    Negative
                                                                     +Chitinase     + Dispersin + Periodate Control
 Mycobacterium                              Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 tuberculosis                                (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 (strainH37RV)
 Mycobacterium                              Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 smegmatis                                   (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Neisseria                                  Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 meningitides                                (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 (strainB16B6)
 Neisseria                                  Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 gonorrhoeae                                 (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 (strain 179008)
 Hemophilus                                 Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 influenzae (non-                            (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 typable) (strain
 140)
 Hemophilus                                 Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 ducreyi                                     (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Helicobacter                               Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
pylori (strain88-                            (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 3857)
 Campylobacter                              Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
jejuni                                       (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Citrobacter                                Positive                  Positive       Negative       ND      Negative
 rodentium                                   (green)                   (green)         (dark)                (dark)
 Candidaalbicans                            Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 (yeast)                                     (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Candidaalbicans                            Positive                  Positive       Negative    Negative   Negative
 (hyphae)                                    (green)                   (green)         (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Aspergillusflavis                          Positive                     ND             ND          ND      Negative
                                             (green)                                                         (dark)

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                               - 39
       Microbe                          MAb F598                    MAb F598       MAb F598   MAb F598    Negative
                                                                    +Chitinase    + Dispersin + Periodate Control
 Fusarium                                 Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
                                           (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Cryptococcus                             Positive                      ND            ND          ND      Negative
 neoformans                                (green)                                                         (dark)
 Plasmodium                               Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 berghei (strain                           (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 ANKA)- in infected
 mouse blood
 Plasmodium                               Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
falciparum (strain                         (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 Senegal 2) - in
 infected blood
 Salmonella                               Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 enterica serovar                          (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 typhi (strainTY2)
 Salmonella                               Positive                   Positive       Negative   Negative   Negative
 enterica serovar                          (green)                    (green)        (dark)      (dark)    (dark)
 typhimurium
 (strainLT2)
         ND        =   not done.
         In addition, chitinase-resistant, dispersin B-sensitive PNAG was detected on infecting
 bacteria in samples of middle ear effusions (MEF) from children with S. pneumoniae otitis
 media and two MEF samples from children with nontypable H. influenzae otitis media. The
 same infecting bacteria also stained with either a S. pneumoniae or H. influenzae-specific
 antibody. PNAG was also detected in lung tissue from a M. tuberculosis-infectedpatient. In
 nasopharyngeal fluid from chinchillas experimentally infected with S. pneumoniae serogroup
 19A, colocalization of the chitinase-resistant, dispersin B-sensitive PNAG antigen with the
 serogroup 19A capsule was readily seen. In the gastrointestinal tract of a mouse experimentally
 infected with C. rodentium, PNAG was detected around microbes associated with the epithelial
 cells. In ocular tissues from mice with C. albicans keratitis, PNAG was detected on the DNA
 positive portion of the fungal cells.

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 40
         In addition, bacterial strains reacting with MAb F598 but not with MAb F429 in
confocal microscopic analysis include Vibrio cholerae 2R1 and Vibrio cholerae 0395.
         Bacterial strains reacting with polyclonal rabbit antibody to PNAG but not with normal
rabbit serum include Bacteroides thetaiotamicronand Bacteroidesvulgatis.
Example 2: C. rodentium in GI tract.
         Samples were reacted with either MAb F429 (negative control, human IgG 1 specific to
P. aeruginosa alginate antigen) directly conjugated to AF488 (1:313 dilution of 1.63 mg/ml
stock, final concentration 5.2 ug/ml) or MAb F598 (human IgGI specific to PNAG) directly
conjugated to AF488 (1:833 dilution of 4.35 mg/ml stock, final concentration 5.2 ug/ml) in
PBS containing 0.5% BSA overnight at 4'C and 4 pM Syto 83 (for staining of nuclei).
Samples are washed with PBS and mounted with 1.5 cover-glass for confocal analysis.
         The results showed the presence of PNAG in C. rodentium colonies in the GI tract of an
infected mouse using the F598 antibody. MAb F429 did not stain the colonies confirming the
specificity of staining by the F598 MAb (data not shown).
Example 3: S. pneumoniae in ear and nasal lavage fluid.
         This Example demonstrates the co-expression on S. pneumoniae of capsule type 19A
with PNAG antigen in the ear and nasal lavage fluid of a chinchilla with otitis media.
         Samples were incubated with 50 pg/ml Dispersin B or chitinase in TBS overnight and
then labeled with either 1:50 of F598 (1 mg/ml) or F429 (1 mg/ml) and rabbit anti-S.
pneumoniae 19A capsular polysaccharide (1:100) in BSA/PBS overnight at 4 C followed by
goat anti-human IgG conjugated to AF 488 and goat anti-rabbit AF 568 at 1:200 for 1 hour at
room temperature.
         The results showed the presence of PNAG surrounding the S. pneumoniae bacterial
cells in nasopharyngeal washes of a chinchilla with otitis media. Samples treated with
chitinase and Dispersin B and then exposed to control MAb F429 were negative. Samples
treated with Dispersin B and then exposed to MAb F598 were negative, while samples treated
with chitinase and then exposed to MAb F598 were positive, demonstrating the presence of

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 41
PNAG in the nasopharyngeal wash of a chinchilla with otitis media. The staining patterns
overlapped with rabbit anti-SPn 19A staining (data not shown).
        Similarly, PNAG was detected in ear fluid (lavage) and nasal passages of a chinchilla
infected with S. pneumonia 19A and having otitis media, as determined by staining with
PNAG-specific MAb F598 but not with control MAb F429 following chitinase treatment. The
staining patterns overlapped with rabbit anti-SPn 19A staining (data not shown).
Example 4: S. pneumonia or non-typable H. influenza in human ear fluid from child with
otitis media.
        Ear fluid samples were incubated with 100 pg/ml DNaseI overnight at 37*C and then
treated with 50 pg/ml chitinase or Dispersin B in TBS for 24 hours at 37*C. Samples were
washed and aliquots of 10 pl were air-dried onto glass slides, heat fixed and labeled with 50
pg/ml of F598 (APO1) or F429 (1 mg/ml) and mouse anti-S. pneumoniae phosphatidylcholine
(1:100) or guinea pig anti-H. influenzae (heat killed whole cells; 1:100) in PBS containing
0.5% BSA (PBS/BSA) overnight at 4*C. Samples were washed with PBS and incubated with
1:250 of anti-human IgG conjugated to AF488 and either 1:200 goat anti-mouse IgG or goat
anti guinea pig IgG conjugated to AF568 in PBS/BSA for 1 hour at room temperature. Slides
were washed and mounted.
        The results demonstrate the presence of PNAG in the ear fluid of the human subject
having an S. pneumoniae ear infection (otitis media). Samples exposed to chitinase followed
by MAb F429 or Dispersin B followed by MAb F598 were negative, while samples exposed
to chitinase followed by MAb F598 were positive. The staining patterns overlapped with those
observed with the mouse antibody to the S. pneumoniae phosphatidylcholine staining (data not
shown).
Example 5: P. berghei and P. falciparum in blood.
        Confocal microscopy of unstained, fresh blood smear made from Malaria infected mice
(BALB/CJ infected with P. berghei NK-65, Day 18 after infection). The smear was
partitioned with a pap-pen into 3 wells for chitinase, Dispersin B, and periodate treatments.

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 42
The slide was heat fixed and treated with 50 pg/ml chitinase or Dispersin B in TBS for 24
hours at 37*C or with 0.4 M periodate for 2 hours at 37*C. The slide was washed with PBS and
incubated with MAb F598 (1.3 mg/ml stock; 1:250 dilution used, equal to 2.4 pl in 600 pl;
final concentration 5.2 pg/ml or 3.12 pg in 600 pl; 200 pl added per well ) directly conjugated
to AF488 (green color). Also added was 4 pM of Syto 83 (DNA dye-red color) in PBS
containing 0.5% BSA (BSA/PBS); both incubated for 4 hours at room temperature. The slide
was washed with PBS and covered with 1.5 pm coverglass for viewing by confocal
microscopy.
        The results showed the presence of PNAG in the blood of a mouse that died from
cerebral malaria. Samples treated with Dispersin B or periodate followed by staining with MAb
F598 were negative, while samples treated with chitinase followed by staining with MAb F598
were positive (data now shown).
        Using a similar approach, PNAG expression was analyzed in blood from a human
infected with P. falciparum. Samples stained with control MAb F429 and samples treated
with Dispersin B or periodate followed by staining with MAb F598 were negative (data not
shown). Samples treated with chitinase or samples that were untreated, and then stained with
F598 were positive (data not shown). The staining patterns of F598 overlapped with the
identification of DNA inside of the red blood cells, which indicates the presence of the malaria
parasite as human red blood cells do not contain a nucleus or DNA (data not shown).
Example 6: B. dolosa in lung.
        Using an approach similar to that described in the previous Examples, lung tissue from
a cystic fibrosis patient who died of B. dolosa pneumonia and sepsis was sectioned and
analyzed for PNAG expression. TO-PRO-3 was used to stain lung cell nuclei. B. dolosa cells
were visualized using anti-B. dolosa mouse serum followed by AF568 donkey anti-mouse IgG.
PNAG was visualized using rabbit antiserum to the 9GlcNH2-TT PNAG glycoform followed
by AF488 goat anti-rabbit IgG. The negative control was normal rabbit serum with TO-PRO-3
nuclear stain. PNAG expression overlapped with B. dolosa cell staining (data not shown).

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 43
Example 7: C. albicans in eyes.
        Paraffin-embedded histology sections of C. albicans infected mouse eyes were
deparaffinized using EzDewax as per manufacturer' sinstructions. Slides were rehydrated in
water for 2 hours at room temperature, followed by blocking in 0.5% BSA/PBS for 2 hours at
room temperature. Samples were further incubated with either MAb F429 (negative control)
directly conjugated to AF488 (1:313 dilution of 1.63 mg/ml stock, final concentration 5.2
ug/ml) or MAb F598 to PNAG directly conjugated to AF488 (1:833 dilution of 4.35 mg/ml
stock, final concentration 5.2 ug/ml) PBS containing 0.5% BSA overnight at 4'C and 4uM
Syto 83. Samples were washed with PBS and mounted with 1.5 coverglass for confocal
analysis.
        The results showed confocal staining of nuclei with MAb F598 but not MAb F429,
demonstrating expression of PNAG by C. albicans in vivo (data not shown).
Example 8: Efficacy of MAb F598 to microbial PNAG in a murine model of C. albicans
keratitis.
        Keratitis was induced by scratching (3X 1 mm) the corneas of anesthetized male
C57B1/6 mice followed by inoculation with ~10 5-10 7 CFU/eye of Candida albicans SC5314 in
a 5 pl volume. PNAG-specific MAb (F598) or control human IgGI MAb (F429) was delivered
either by IP injection and/or topical application 4 h after infection and additional antibody
applied topically 24 and 32 hours after infection. Mice were checked at 24 and 32 hours post
infection, and if controls showed irrecoverable corneal damage at this time point animals were
euthanized and CFU/eye was determined. If controls at 36 hours had no more than 3+ damage
to the damaged eye, the infection was allowed to progress to 48 hours, after which time mice
were euthanized and CFU/eye and corneal pathology score of 0 to 4 were determined by
observer without knowledge of mouse treatment. The corneal pathology score was as follows:
                         Score 4: Perforation of the cornea
                         Score 3: Dense opacity covering the anterior segment
                         Score 2: Dense opacity covering the pupil
                         Score 1: Faint opacity partially covering the pupil
                         Score 0: Identical to uninfected contralateral eye.

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 44
         C. albicans infected mice treated therapeutically by IP injection and/or topical
application of MAb F598 had markedly reduced bacterial levels in the eye and reduced
comeal pathology compared to mice treated with control MAb F429. These data are presented
in FIGs. 1-4.
         Antibody to PNAG demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in a model of C. albicans
keratitis, indicating in vivo expression of PNAG and the potential to prevent or treat fungal
infections by vaccines and immunotherapeutics to PNAG.
Example 9: Protective efficacy of polyclonal antibody to the 9GlcNH2-TT conjugate
vaccine against lethal pneumonia caused by S. pneumonia.
         S. pneumoniae strain D39 was grown overnight in trypticase soy broth (TSB) at 37'C in
5% CO 2 . Culture was diluted into Todd-Hewitt Broth + 1% glucose to an OD at 650 nm=0.1
and grown at 37'C until OD=0.45 (approximately 2.5 hours). CBA/N mice were injected
retrorbitally (RO) under isoflurane anesthesia with 37.5 pl of heat-inactivated normal goat
serum or goat antiserum raised to the anti-9GlcNH2-TT conjugate vaccine diluted to 50 pL in
PBS. Mice were injected. Twenty four hours later, the bacterial preparation was diluted to OD
at 650 nm = 0.45 (i.e., for this experiment, diluted 83 pL into 917 pL in PBS to give 3 x 107
CFU/mL. Mice were anesthetized with Ketamine/Xylazine (250pL per mouse), and 2 x 10 pL
doses of bacteria were instilled intranasally. The mice were monitored for survival for 7 days.
The results are shown in FIG. 5.
         In addition, mAb F598 given 4 h before intranasal infection with serotype 9V DSM
11865 strain in FVB mice was found to be as potent as the antibiotic cefotaxime (administered
at 1 and 4 h post-infection) in reducing bacterial burdens in the mouse lungs.
Example 10: Protective efficacy of polyclonal antibody to the 9GlcNH2-TT conjugate
vaccine against lethal skin infection caused by S. pyogenes (Group A Streptococcus).
         Mice were CD1(ICR) 6-week old female mice. Group 1 (8 mice) corresponded to mice
injected with normal rabbit sera (NRS). Group 2 (8 mice) corresponded to mice injected with
                                                                                          7
9GlcNH2-TT. Bacteria were Group A Streptococcus (GAS) strain 950771 used at 10 CFU/ml

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   - 45
in log phase. Antibodies were polyclonal rabbit anti-9GlcNH2-TT used at 200 pl/mouse/dose
and NRS used at 200 pl/mouse/dose.
        On day 0, a stock of GAS bacterial cells was streaked onto a blood agar plate (BAP)
and incubated at 37 C overnight and the used to inoculate a tube of Todd-Hewitt Yeast Extract
broth with 1% glucose (THY+G) for static culture at 37 0 C. Mice were injected IP 24 hour
prior to infection. On day 1, mice were immunized a second time IP 4 hours prior to infection.
To prepare the inoculum for infection, 10 ml of THY+G was used and a bacterial suspension at
an OD6 0 0nm=0.05 made and placed at 37'C until an OD 60 0 nm = 0.15 was achieved. This was
diluted and plated for CFU determinations on BAP as follows: 10 pl of the 10-5 and 10-6
dilutions were plated onto BAP (2 plates for each dilution). To prepare the infectious inoculum,
10 ml of the THY+G culture was transferred to a 15 ml conical tube and centrifuged the tube at
2000 rpm for 20 minutes to pellet the bacterial cells. The supernatant was discarded and the
pellet suspended in 1 ml THY+G broth which was transferred to a microfuge tube and spun at
8000 rpm for 2 minutes. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet of bacterial cells was
suspended in 500 pl injectable water, then transferred to a 1 ml 27 Gauge syringe, and kept on
ice. A 1:4 dilution of 50 mg/ml Nembutal with injectable water [final conc 10 pg/ml] was
made and injected IP injected (0.3 ml anesthetic solution per mouse). The right flank were
shaved and swabbed with ethanol, then injected with 0.1 ml of the bacterial suspension
subcutaneously per mouse (i.e., 5x10 5 CFU/mouse). To confirm the actual inoculum, the
bacterial suspension was diluted and plated for enumeration. The bacterial suspension injected
had a concentration of 1.7x106 CFU/ml, meaning 1.7x 105 CFU had been injected into each
mouse. Mice were observed and moribund mice were euthanized. Results are shown in FIG. 6
Example 11: Protective efficacy of antibody raised in rabbits to the 9GlcNH2-TT
conjugate vaccine against meningitis (bacteria in the brain) of 2-3 day old mouse pups
challenged with Group B N. meningitides.
        Mice were CD-i neonatal mice on day 2 to day 3 of life. N. meningitides was grown on
a blood agar plate overnight and bacterial cells were scraped into PBS and OD at 600 nm
adjusted to give various challenge doses as noted. Mice were injected once 24 hour prior to
infection with either NRS (50 pl IP (NRS from Accurate)) or rabbit serum raised to 9GlcNH 2 -

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 46
TT conjugate vaccine (50 pl IP (Rabbit 4.2, Bleed 4-3/4-4)). Mice were challenged 24 hours
later IP with 50 pl of Serogroup B N. meningitidis strain B16B6 at the following dilutions:
      5             6                 8
5x10 , 5x10 or 5x10 . Mice were sacrificed 24 hours later, and brains were removed,
homogenized and plated on chocolate agar plates for bacterial enumeration. Results are shown
in FIG. 7.
Example 12: Protective efficacy of a fully human IgGi MAb F598 when administered to
mice susceptible to infectious colitis.
         TRUC mice lack acquired and innate immune systems (Garrett et al. Cell 2007
131(1):33-45; Garrett et al. Cell Host Microbe, 2010 8(3):292-300). These mice spontaneously
develop infectious colitis by 8 weeks of age. Newborn TRUC mice, starting in the first week
of life, were injected ip with 50 pg of either MAb F598 or PBS, or MAb F598 or a control
human IgGI MAb, 3 times a week until sacrifice at 8 weeks. The intestinal tracts of the mice
were removed and treated for evaluation of colitis as described (Garrett et al. Cell 2007
131(1):33-45; Garrett et al. Cell Host Microbe, 2010 8(3):292-300). The overall colitis
pathology scores were compared between the groups of mice given either MAb F598 or control
IgGI MAb. The results are shown in FIGs. 8 and 9.
         In other experiments, weekly administration of mAb F598 starting at day 7 of life
significantly reduced the total histopathologic damage determined at 8 weeks of age (in a
blinded fashion by a pathologist).
         When WT neonates are cross-fostered by TRUC females, they develop spontaneous
colitis at 8 weeks, although it is less severe than in TRUC offspring. To evaluate the
therapeutic potential of mAb F598 against colitis in a setting of unperturbed immune system
function, treatment of WT mice fostered by TRUC females was initiated at 4 weeks of age
with biweekly injections of mAb F598 or control human IgGI mAb F105 and the level of
colonic pathology at 8 weeks of age was determined. mAb F598 significantly reduced the total
pathology score in the recipient mice compared with controls, with significant reductions in
monocyte infiltration and reactive hyperplasia, but not injury, because most of the controls had
injury scores of zero (data not shown).

         H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                    - 47
Example 13: Protective efficacy of antibody raised in rabbits to the 9GlcNH2-TT
conjugate vaccine against L. monocytogenes Strain 10403S.
         Two to three day old infant CD 1 mice were immunized IP 24 hours before challenge
with 50 pl of either NRS (n=15) or rabbit immune serum raised to the 9GlcNH2-TT conjugate
vaccine (n=15). Mice were challenged IP with L. monocytogenes (% X 10^8 CFU in 50 ul).
Survival was monitored over 24 hours. Overall survival was analyzed by Chi-square with
Yates correction, P.001. The results are shown in FIG. 10.
         An effective vaccine for malaria will likely require multiple parasite antigens, but as an
initial step in determining if PNAG might be a candidate vaccine antigen component for a
multivalent vaccine, C57BL/6 mice infected with PNAG-positive P. berghei ANKA were
treated with 200 [L of polyclonal antibody to PNAG or control normal serum injected ip every
3 day starting the day before infection and through 20 days post-infection. Antibody to PNAG
significantly extended the survival of the treated mice and prevented development of cerebral
malaria. Five of eight mice treated with normal serum died by day 9 with low levels of
parasitemia, and the remaining three died by day 30 with high levels of parasitemia. For the
mice treated with antibody to PNAG for 3 weeks, only one died of cerebral malaria by day 7,
four developed increasing levels of parasitemia and died by day 33, which was 13 days after
the last injection of antibody, one had no detectable parasitemia until day 22 and died at day 40
(20 d after the last injection of antibody), and two mice had little to no detectable parasitemia
and survived the 45-d experimental period. Antibody treatment was stopped at day 20 as per
the initial protocol stipulation. It is likely that extended survival might be observed by
increasing the duration of antibody treatment.
Example 14: Antibody to PNAG mediates either opsonic or bactericidal killing of diverse
PNAG-expressing pathogens.
         The S. pneumoniae and E. faecalis opsonic killing protocol is similar to that published
for S. aureus by Skumik et al. (J Clin Invest. 2010, 120(9):3220-33) except that HL60 cells
were used as the source of the phagocytic cells instead of fresh human PMN. HL60 cells were
differentiated with 0.8% DMF for 6 days and adjusted to 1.3x10 6/ml. Bacteria were grown
overnight at 37'C (no shaking). S. pneumonia was placed in 5% CO 2 in THY +1% glucose

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                   -48
(THY+G). E.faecalis was grown in atmospheric conditions. Bacterial strains were plated on
TSB + blood agar at end of assay. Complement was adsorbed with target S. aureus MN8
bacteria grown overnight in CSB, shaking. C': Complement sera from Invitrogen Cat #
31203/S Lot # 510908698270 absorbed with S. aureus MN8 cells. Rabbit antibody was raised
to one of two antigens:
        1. Deacetylated PNAG (dPNAG) conjugated to tetanus toxoid (dPNAG-TT): Maira
Litran et al. Infect Immun. 2005, 73(10):6752-62. Erratum in: Infect Immun. 2005,
73(11):7789; and
        2. Synthetic 9GlcNH2 oligosaccharide conjugated to TT: Gening et al. Infect Immun.
2010, 78(2):764-72.
        Human MAb to PNAG, MAb F598, was also tested (Kelly-Quintos et al. Infect Immun.
2006, 74(5):2742-50).
        The results are shown in FIGs. 11-13.
        The Group A Streptococcus opsonic killing protocol is as follows: Group A
Streptococcus (GAS) strains 771, 188 were used. MAb lot used: F598 API-01 at [19 mg/ml],
newly defrosted xl. Control for MAb F598: MAb F429 to P aeruginosaalginate [1.0 mg/ml].
S. aureus MN8 strain was grown from frozen stock inoculated into 10 ml THB+G in 50ml
conical at 37'C with loose lid shaking. GAS 771 and 188 were grown in THY+G from ON
plate and inoculated at OD650=0.05 at 37'C static culture. S. aureus MN8 Dica was grown
from frozen stock inoculated into in THB+G inlOml CSB in 50ml conical at 37C with loose lid
shaking. GAS strains were plated on TSA with blood at end of assay. Complement was
adsorbed with target S. aureus MN8Aica or GAS 771 bacteria grown overnight in THB+G
with shaking or THY+G stat respectively. Buffer: HBSS + 0.1% Gelatin. C': Complement sera
from Invitrogen Cat # 31203/S Lot # 510908698270 absorbed with cells of S. aureus MN8
Dica or GAS 771 or 188.
        The results are shown in FIG. 14.
        The C. albicans opsonic killing protocol is as follows: C. albicans was grown in YPD
(Yeast extract/peptone/dextrose) broth to OD 1.0, then spun down, resuspended in MEM+1%

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                        - 49
BSA, OD adjusted to 0.4 at 650 nm then suspension diluted 1:10. MAb F429 was purified
from hybridoma supernatant by Protein A and dialyzed into pH 6.5 PBS, stored -20'C. Buffer:
MEM + 1% BSA. C': Complement sera from rabbit, Sigma Lot 106K6029, catalogue no.
S7764. Complement was absorbed with C. albicans cells. Phagocytic cells were obtained
from TRIMA collar donor.
        The results are shown in FIG. 15.
        The N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeaebactericidal killing protocol is as follows:
Normal Rabbit Serum (NRS from -20* stock, Accurate Chemical, lot 2008) and Rabbit
antibody raised to 9GlcNH 2-TT conjugate vaccine, stored at -20*C, sera from rabbits 4.3 and
4.4 were used. The sera were equilibrated at 4 C and kept at 4 C until the assay. N.
meningitidis or N. gonorrhoeaebacteria were grown for 24-48 hour on chocolate agar in 5%
CO 2. Bacteria were suspended in PBS containing 0.5% glucose, 9 mM CaCl 2, and 4.9 mM
MgCl 2 -6H 2 0 and 1% (wt/vol) bovine serum albumin (Lifeblood Medical, Freehold, NJ)=
PBS++, pH 7.4. Bacterial suspensions were diluted from the OD                              nm suspension made from
                                                                      4
the chocolate agar suspension to ~ 1.5-2 X 10 CFU/ml in PBS++. The assay involved mixing
together 80 pl of the serum dilutions and 20 pl of Neisserial cells then incubating the mixtures
at 37 C for 1 hour. The tubes were placed at 37'C with mild shaking (orbital when possible).
                                                 -1I
10 pl of both the 1:2 and 10                          dilutions were made in Muller-Hinton Broth then plated onto
chocolate agar. The cultures were incubated at 37 C in 5% CO 2 overnight. Colonies were
counted the next day. The results are shown in FIGs. 16 and 17.
        Bactericidal killing of N. meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeaestrains in presence of rabbit
serum to 9GlcNH 2 -TT with and without specific antigen inhibition was carried out as follows:
        Buffer: Buffer-PBS containing 0.5% glucose, 9 mM CaCl2, and 4.9 mM MgC12-6H 2 0
and 1% (wt/vol) bovine serum albumin (Lifeblood Medical, Freehold, NJ)= PBS++ , pH 7.4.
        Bacterial strains used and preparation: Resuspend the bacteria in PBS containing 0.5%
glucose, 9 mM CaCl2, and 4.9 mM MgC12-6H20 and 1% (wt/vol) bovine serum albumin

        H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                         - 50
(Lifeblood Medical, Freehold, NJ)= PBS++ , pH 7.4. Dilute bacterial suspension from the
OD650nm suspension from chocolate agar suspension of OD to ~ 1.5-2 X 104 CFU/ml in
PBS++.
        Inhibiting antigens: Dissolve to 200 ug/ml final concentration in PBS++
PNAG antigen used: lot 27. Alginate antigen used from strain 2192, Pk 3 (run 1)
        Antisera used: Normal Rabbit Serum (NRS from -20*C stock, Accurate Chemical).
Rabbit antibody raised to 9GlcNH 2-TT conjugate vaccine, stored at -20*C, sera from rabbits
4.3 and 4.4 used.
        Assay: Mix together 40 pl of the serum source (dilution based on the highest dilution
in the direct bactericidal assay needed to achieve > 8 0 - 9 0 % killing, unless maximal killing at
1:2 serum dilution is lower, in which case use sera at 1:2 final dilution), 40 pl of antigen and 20
pl of Neisserial cells (tubes without antigen add 80 pl of properly-diluted antiserum). Place
tubes at 37 C with mild shaking (orbital if possible). Plate on chocolate agar and incubate
37oC in 5% CO 2 overnight, count colonies the next day.
        The results are shown in FIGs. 18 and 19.
                                                                   EQUIVALENTS
        The foregoing written specification is considered to be sufficient to enable one skilled
in the art to practice the invention. The present invention is not to be limited in scope by
examples provided, since the examples are intended as a single illustration of one aspect of the
invention and other functionally equivalent embodiments are within the scope of the invention.
Various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will
become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and fall within the
scope of the appended claims. The advantages and objects of the invention are not necessarily
encompassed by each embodiment of the invention.
        All references, patents and patent publications that are recited in this application are
incorporated by reference herein in their entirety, unless otherwise indicated.

          ll:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632524_.doc-3 14/2018
                                                                      -51
          Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or
method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of
elements or integers or method steps.
          The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgement or
admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or information derived from it)
or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.
          What is claimed is:

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                                     - 52
CLAIMS:
 1.               A method comprising
                  administering to a subject having or at risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen an effective amount for inducing an immune response against the
pathogen of an isolated polysaccharide having the formula
                                                                0 --     CH 2
                                                                               H
                                                                        C        0
                                                                   C        OH   H   C
                                                               OH         C            H
                                                                        /          I
                                                                       H          R
                                                                                         n
wherein n is at least 5, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 .
2.                A method comprising
                  administering to a subject having or at risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen an effective amount for inducing an immune response against the
pathogen of an isolated polysaccharide conjugated to a carrier, wherein the polysaccharide has
the formula

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                                     - 53
                                                               O ---       H
                                                                        C    0
                                                                  C       OH H C
                                                                   OC            H
                                                                       HR
                                                                                   n
wherein n is 5 or greater, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2 ,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3.
3.                The method of Claim 2, wherein the isolated polysaccharide is conjugated to the
carrier through a linker.
4.                The method of Claim 2 or 3, wherein the carrier is a peptide carrier.
5.                The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein less than 30%, less than 20%,
less than 10%, or less than 5% of R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3.
6.                The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein none of the R groups is -NH
CO-CH 3 .
7.                The method of any one of Claims 1-6, wherein n is at least 15, at least 20, at least 50,
at least 100, at least 200, at least 300, at least 400 or at least 500.
8.                The method of any one of Claims 1-6, wherein the isolated polysaccharide has a
molecular weight of 100-500 kDa

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 54
9.                The method of any one of Claims 1-8, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive coccus.
 10.              The method of Claim 9, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive gram-positive coccus
is S. pneumonia, Group A Streptococcus, Group B Streptococcus, or Enterococcus.
 11.              The method of any one of Claims 1-8, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive rod.
 12.              The method of Claim 11, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive gram-positive rod is
Listeria, Clostridium difficile, B. subtilis, M. tuberculosis, or M. smegmatis.
 13.              The method of any one of Claims 1-8, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus.
 14.              The method of Claim 13, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative
coccus or coccobacillus is Neisseria meningitides, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Non-typable H.
influenzae, Helicobacter, or Campylobacter.
 15.              The method of any one of Claims 1-8, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod.
 16.              The method of Claim 15, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod
is Bacteroidesfragilis,B. thetaiotamicron,B. vulgatis, Citrobacterrodentium, Vibrio cholera,
Salmonella enterica serovar typhi, or Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium.
 17.              The method of any one of Claims 1-8, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus.
 18.              The method of Claim 17, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus is Candida
albicans (yeast), Candida albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus, Fusarium, or Cryptococcus.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 55
 19.              The method of any one of Claims 1-8, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite.
20.               The method of Claim 19, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite is P. bergei
or P. falciparum.
21.               The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the subject is human.
22.               The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the subject is a primate, horse,
cow, swine, goat, sheep, dog, or cat.
23.               The method of any one of Claims 1-22, wherein the subject has an infection by a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
24.               The method of any one of Claims 1-22, wherein the subject is at risk of developing an
infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
25.               The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the isolated polysaccharide is
administered with an adjuvant.
26.               The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the isolated polysaccharide is
administered systemically.
27.               The method of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the isolated polysaccharide is
administered locally.
28.               A pharmaceutical composition comprising an isolated polysaccharide having the
formula

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                                      - 56
                                                                O ---         H
                                                                         C       0
                                                                   C         OH  H   C
                                                                    OC                 H
                                                                        HR
                                                                                         n
wherein n is at least 5, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 , for use in preventing or
treating, in a subject, an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
29.               A pharmaceutical composition comprising an isolated polysaccharide conjugated to a
carrier, wherein the polysaccharide has the formula
                                                                0 --      CH 2
                                                                             IzH
                                                                         C       0
                                                                   C         OH  H   C
                                                               OH          C           H
                                                                         /         I
                                                                        H         R
                                                                                         n
wherein n is 5 or greater, R is selected from the group consisting of -NH-CO-CH 3 and -NH 2 ,
provided that less than 50% of the R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 , for use in preventing or
treating, in a subject, an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 57
30.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 29, wherein the isolated polysaccharide is
conjugated to the carrier through a linker.
31.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 29 or 30, wherein the carrier is a peptide
carrier.
32.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-3 1, wherein less than 30%,
less than 20%, less than 10%, or less than 5% of R groups are -NH-CO-CH 3 .
33.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-32, wherein none of the R
groups is -NH-CO-CH 3 .
34.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-33, wherein n is at least 15,
at least 20, at least 50, at least 100, at least 200, at least 300, at least 400 or at least 500.
35.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-33, wherein the isolated
polysaccharide has a molecular weight of 100-500 kDa
36.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-35, wherein the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive coccus.
37.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 36, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-positive coccus is S. pneumonia, Group A Streptococcus, Group B Streptococcus, or
Enterococcus.
38.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-35, wherein the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive rod.
39.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 38, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-positive rod is Listeria, Clostridium difficile, B. subtilis, M. tuberculosis, or M.
smegmatis.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 58
40.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-35, wherein the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative coccus or
coccobacillus.
41.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 40, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus is Neisseria meningitides, Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
Non-typable H. Influenzae, Helicobacter,or Campylobacter.
42.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-35, wherein the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod.
43.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 42, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-negative rod is Bacteroides fragilis, B. thetaiotamicron, B. vulgatis, Citrobacter
rodentium, Vibrio cholera, Salmonella enterica serovar typhi, or Salmonella entericaserovar
typhimurium.
44.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-35, wherein the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus.
45.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 44, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
fungus is Candida albicans (yeast), Candida albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus, Fusarium, or
Cryptococcus.
46.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-35, wherein the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite.
47.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 46, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
parasite is P. bergei or P. falciparum.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 59
48.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-47, wherein the subject is
human.
49.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of the foregoing claims, wherein the
subject is a primate, horse, cow, swine, goat, sheep, dog, or cat.
50.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-49, wherein the subject has
an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
51.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-49, wherein the subject is at
risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
52.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-51, wherein the isolated
polysaccharide is used with an adjuvant.
53.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-52, wherein the isolated
polysaccharide is formulated for systemic administration.
54.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 28-52, wherein the isolated
polysaccharide is formulated for local administration.
55.               A method comprising
                  administering to a subject having or at risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen an effective amount of a PNAG-specific antibody or PNAG-specific
antibody fragment.
56.               The method of Claim 55, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive coccus.
57.               The method of Claim 56, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive
coccus is S. pneumonia, Group A Streptococcus, Group B Streptococcus, or Enterococcus.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 60
58.               The method of Claim 55, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive rod.
59.               The method of Claim 58, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive gram-positive rod is
Listeria, Clostridiumdifficile, B. subtilis, M. tuberculosis, or M. smegmatis.
60.               The method of Claim 55, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus.
61.               The method of Claim 60, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative
coccus or coccobacillus is Neisseria meningitides, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Non-typable H.
Influenzae, Helicobacter,or Campylobacter.
62.               The method of Claim 55, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod.
63.               The method of Claim 62, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod
is Bacteroidesfragilis,B. thetaiotamicron,B. vulgatis, Citrobacterrodentium, Vibrio cholera,
Salmonella enterica serovar typhi, or Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium.
64.               The method of Claim 55, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus.
65.               The method of Claim 64, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus is Candida
albicans (yeast), Candida albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus, Fusarium,or Cryptococcus.
66.               The method of Claim 55, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen is a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 61
67.               The method of Claim 66, wherein the non-ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite is P. bergei
or P. falciparum.
68.               The method of any one of Claims 55-67, wherein the subject is human.
69.               The method of any one of Claims 55-67, wherein the subject is a primate, horse, cow,
swine, goat, sheep, dog, or cat.
70.               The method of any one of Claims 55-69, wherein the subject has an infection by a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
71.               The method of any one of Claims 55-69, wherein the subject is at risk of developing an
infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
72.               The method of any one of Claims 55-71, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment is
administered systemically.
73.               The method of any one of Claims 55-71, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment is
administered locally.
74.               The method of any one of Claims 55-73, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment is
F598 (ATCC PTA-5931) antibody or a fragment thereof.
75.               The method of any one of Claims 55-73, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment is
F628 (ATCC PTA-5932) antibody or a fragment thereof.
76.               The method of any one of Claims 55-73, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment is
F630 (ATCC PTA-5933) antibody or a fragment thereof.
77.               The method of any one of Claims 55-74, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment is
conjugated to an agent.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 62
78.               The method of Claim 77, wherein the agent is a cytotoxic agent.
79.               A pharmaceutical composition comprising a PNAG-specific antibody or PNAG
specific antibody fragment for use in preventing or treating, in a subject, an infection by a non
ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
80.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 79, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive coccus.
81.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 80, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-positive coccus is S. pneumonia, Group A Streptococcus, Group B Streptococcus, or
Enterococcus.
82.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 79, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-positive rod.
83.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 82, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-positive rod is Listeria, Clostridium difficile, B. subtilis, M. tuberculosis, or M.
smegmatis.
84.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 79, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus.
85.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 84, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-negative coccus or coccobacillus is Neisseria meningitides, Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
Non-typable H. Influenzae, Helicobacter,or Campylobacter.
86.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 79, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive gram-negative rod.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 63
87.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 86, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
gram-negative rod is Bacteroidesfragilis, B. thetaiotamicron, B. vulgatis, Citrobacter
rodentium, Vibrio cholerae,Salmonella entericaserovar typhi or Salmonella entericaserovar
typhimurium.
88.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 79, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive fungus.
89.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 88, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
fungus is Candida albicans (yeast), Candida albicans (hyphae), Aspergillus, Fusarium, or
Cryptococcus.
90.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 79, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
pathogen is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive parasite.
91.               The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 90, wherein the non-ica/pgaPNAG-positive
parasite is P. bergei or P. falciparum.
92.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-91, wherein the subject is
human.
93.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-91, wherein the subject is a
primate, horse, cow, swine, goat, sheep, dog, or cat.
94.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-93, wherein the subject has
an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.
95.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-93, wherein the subject is at
risk of developing an infection by a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                                   - 64
96.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-95, wherein the antibody or
antibody fragment is formulated for systemic administration.
97.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-95, wherein the antibody or
antibody fragment is formulated for local administration.
98.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-97, wherein the antibody or
antibody fragment is F598 (ATCC PTA-5931) antibody or a fragment thereof.
99.               The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-97, wherein the antibody or
antibody fragment is F628 (ATCC PTA-5932) antibody or a fragment thereof.
 100.             The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-97, wherein the antibody or
antibody fragment is F630 (ATCC PTA-5933) antibody or a fragment thereof.
 101.             The pharmaceutical composition of any one of Claims 79-98, wherein the antibody or
antibody fragment is conjugated to an agent.
 102.             The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 101, wherein the agent is a cytotoxic agent.
 103.             A method comprising
                  ethanol precipitating a crude polysaccharide preparation from a concentrated microbial
cell body preparation;
                  concurrently digesting the crude polysaccharide with lysozyme and lysostaphin
followed by sequential digestion with a nuclease and proteinase K to form a digested
polysaccharide preparation;
                  size fractionating the digested polysaccharide preparation;
                  isolating an acetylated polysaccharide fraction; and
                  de-acetylating                  the acetylated polysaccharide fraction to produce a PNAG
polysaccharide having less than 50% acetate substitutions,

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 65
wherein the microbial cell body preparation is derived from a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
microbe.
 104.             A method comprising
                  preparing an impure polysaccharide from a microbial culture;
                  incubating the impure polysaccharide with an acid or a base to produce a semi-pure
polysaccharide preparation;
                  neutralizing the preparation;
                  incubating the neutralized preparation in hydrofluoric acid;
                  isolating an acetylated polysaccharide from the preparation; and
                  de-acetylating the acetylated polysaccharide to produce a PNAG polysaccharide
having less than 50% acetate substitutions,
wherein the microbial culture is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive microbial culture.
 105.             A method comprising
                  preparing an impure polysaccharide from a microbial culture;
                  incubating the impure polysaccharide with an acid or a base to produce a semi-pure
polysaccharide preparation;
                  neutralizing the preparation;
                  incubating the neutralized preparation in hydrofluoric acid; and
                  isolating from the preparation a PNAG polysaccharide having less than 50% acetate
substitutions,
wherein the microbial culture is a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive microbial culture.
 106.             The method of any one of Claims 103-105, further comprising conjugating a carrier to
the isolated polysaccharide.
 107.             The method of Claim 106, wherein the carrier is a peptide carrier.
 108.             The method of Claim 103 or 104, wherein the acetylated polysaccharide is chemically
de-acetylated.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 66
 109.             The method of Claim 108, wherein the acetylated polysaccharide is de-acetylated by
incubation with a basic solution.
 110.             The method of Claim 103 or 104, wherein the acetylated polysaccharide is
enzymatically de-acetylated.
 111.             A method for producing antibodies comprising:
                  administering to a subject an effective amount for producing antibodies of an PNAG
polysaccharide isolated from a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen, and an adjuvant, and
                  isolating antibodies from the subject.
 112.             The method of Claim 111, wherein the antibodies are polyclonal antibodies.
 113.             A method for producing monoclonal antibodies comprising:
                  administering to a subject an effective amount for producing antibodies of a PNAG
polysaccharide isolated from a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen, and an adjuvant,
                  harvesting spleen cells from the subject,
                  fusing spleen cells from the subject to myeloma cells, and
                  harvesting antibody produced from a fusion subclone.
 114.             The method of any one of Claims 111-113, wherein the PNAG polysaccharide is less
than 50% acetylated.
 115.             The method of any one of Claims 111-114, further comprising isolating antibody.
 116.             The method of any one of Claims 111-115, wherein the subject is a rabbit.
 117.             The method of any one of Claims 111-116, wherein the subject is human.

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16632552_l.docx-14 03/2018
                                                               - 67
                   118.         A method for detecting a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive pathogen, comprising
                                 contacting a sample suspected of containing a non-ica/pga PNAG-positive
                  pathogen with a PNAG-specific antibody or antibody fragment, and
                                 detecting binding of the antibody or antibody fragment to the sample,
                  wherein binding of the antibody or antibody fragment indicates the non-ica/pga
PNAG-positive pathogen is present in the sample.
                   119.          The method of Claim 118, wherein the sample is Staphylococcus negative.
                   120.          The method of Claim 118 or 119, wherein the sample is a biological sample
from a subject.
 121.             The method of Claim 120, wherein the biological sample is urine, blood, pus, skin,
sputum, joint fluid, lymph or milk.
 122.             The method of any one of Claims 118-121, wherein the antibody or antibody fragment
is conjugated to a detectable label.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
