                                    ABSTRACT
An operating system, onboard a powered vehicle, for controlling multiple operations
of the powered vehicle, the operating system comprising: a plurality of control
subsystems onboard the powered vehicle for controlling multiple operations of the
vehicle; a non-distributed memory in which data is stored, said data relating to
operations and control of the powered vehicle; and a communication link between the
control subsystems and the memory for the control subsystems to obtain the data from
the memory and store the data in the memory; wherein the non-distributed memory is
the sole data storage in the powered system for long term storage of said data for the
plurality of control subsystems.

        SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A POWERED VEHICLE
   [0001]    The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
   Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2015200455, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
 5 reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]    Embodiments of the invention relate to control and communication systems
   in a locomotive or other powered vehicle.
   [0003]    In addition to the system producing motive power, a locomotive or other
10 powered vehicle will typically include a plurality of other subsystems that perform
   different functions, such as, but not limited to, distributed power operations, energy
   management applications, train (or other vehicle consist) control applications, vehicle
   management system applications, display and event recorder applications, brake
   control system applications, etc.     Such subsystems are oftentimes not seamlessly
15 integrated, resulting in system inefficiencies.
   [0004]   Vehicle operators and owners would benefit from a vehicle operating system
   or method that provides for better integration and communication between control
   subsystems in a vehicle.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
20 [0005]   According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided an
   operating system, onboard a powered vehicle, for controlling multiple operations of
   the powered vehicle, the operating system comprising: a plurality of control
   subsystems onboard the powered vehicle for controlling multiple operations of the
   vehicle; a non-distributed memory in which data is stored, said data relating to
25 operations and control of the powered vehicle; and a communication link between the
   control subsystems and the memory for the control subsystems to obtain the data from
   the memory and store the data in the memory; wherein the non-distributed memory is
   the sole data storage in the powered system for long term storage of said data for the
                                                1

   plurality of control subsystems.
   [0006]    According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
   operating system, onboard a locomotive, for controlling multiple operations of the
   locomotive, the operating system comprising: a first controller for controlling a
 5 positive train control system of the locomotive; a second controller for controlling an
   operator coaching and/or operator interface system of the locomotive; a third
   controller for controlling a trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system of the
   locomotive; a memory in which locomotive operations data is stored for each of the
   positive train control system, the operator coaching and/or operator interface system,
10 and the trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system; and a communication link between
   the controllers and the memory for the controllers to obtain the operations data from
   the memory and store the operations data in the memory, wherein the memory is a
   non-distributed memory; and the non-distributed memory is the sole data storage in
   the locomotive for long term storage of said operations data for the plurality of
15 controllers and the positive train control system the operator coaching and/or operator
   interface system, and the trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0007]    A more particular description of the invention briefly described above will be
   rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof that are illustrated in the
20 appended drawings.        Understanding    that these drawings depict only typical
   embodiments of the invention and are not therefore to be considered to be limiting of
   its scope, the embodiments of the invention will be described and explained with
   additional specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings in
   which:
25 [0008]    FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of a powered vehicle incorporating an
   embodiment of the invention;
   [0009]    FIG. 2 is a schematic illustration of an onboard operating system according
   to a second embodiment of the invention;
                                               2

   [0010]    FIG. 3 is a flow chart of a control method according to an embodiment of the
   invention;
   [0011]    FIG. 4 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment for
   distribution of data between subsystems of a powered vehicle;
 5 [0012]    FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of a control manager, according to an aspect of
   the invention;
   [0013]    FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment for
   distribution of data between vehicle subsystems; and
   [0014]    FIG. 7 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a method for
10 distribution of data between vehicle subsystems.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0015]    Reference will be made below in detail to exemplary embodiments of the
   invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
   Wherever possible, the same reference numerals used throughout the drawings refer
15 to the same or like parts.     Embodiments of the invention can be implemented in
   numerous ways, including as a system (including a computer processing system), a
   method (including a computerized method), an apparatus, a computer readable
   medium, a computer program product, or a data structure tangibly fixed in a computer
   readable memory. Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.
20 [0016]    Certain aspects of the invention are described herein with reference to trains
   and locomotives that travel over a railroad track. However, unless otherwise specified
   (such as in the claims), all the various embodiments set forth herein are applicable to
   powered vehicles more generally, including marine vessels, off-highway vehicles, on
   road vehicles, and the like. The term "powered vehicle" as used herein refers to a
25 vehicle that includes equipment for self-propulsion, which may also have the capacity
   for moving other, linked vehicles.      (A group of vehicles that are linked to travel
   together is a "consist.") "Non-powered" vehicle refers to a vehicle that is not capable
   of self-propulsion.     The term "track" as used here shall encompass all different
                                                3

   pathways or routes for a vehicle, such as railroad tracks and other vehicle guideways,
   off-road and off-highway routes, paved and graded roads and other roads suitable for
   on-road travel, and marine routes, unless otherwise specified.
   [0017]    FIG. 1 is a schematic view of a train 10 (or other vehicle consist) that
 5 includes at least one locomotive 11 (or other powered vehicle) and a plurality of
   railcars 12 (or other non-powered vehicles). The locomotive 11 includes an onboard
   operating/control system 13 comprising at least two controllers or other control
   subsystems that control certain locomotive functions. In the embodiment shown in
   FIG. 1, the operating system 13 includes four controllers or other control subsystems
10 14A, 14B, 14C, and 14B. ("Control subsystem" refers to part of the overall control
   system of a powered vehicle, which is configured for carrying out a particular control
   function in the powered vehicle; control subsystems may be electronic or electro
   mechanical,     and    may    include    microcontrollers   or   other   controllers   for
   coordinating/executing the control function of the subsystem.) By way of example,
15 controller (or other control subsystem) 14A may be a tractive control subsystem that
   generates tractive effort commands and/or braking effort commands responsive to an
   operator's request or otherwise; controller (or other control subsystem) 14B may be an
   operating coaching subsystem that assists an operator in maintaining the operation of
   the locomotive 11 within certain predetermined limits such as a maximum tractive or
20 braking effort, minimum or maximum acceleration/deceleration rates, speed limits,
   and operating sequences for bells and horns; controller (or other control subsystem)
   14C may be a fuel savings subsystem that controls braking and propulsion operations
   to achieve fuel, emissions, and noise limits or goals; and controller (or other control
   subsystem) 14D may be a traffic signal control subsystem that receives and responds
25 to off board signals such as switching signals, light signals, cab signaling equipment,
   and speed restriction signals. Embodiments of the present invention are intended to
   cover an onboard operating system of a powered vehicle that includes a plurality of,
   or at least two, controllers (or other control subsystems), and is not necessarily limited
   to the embodiment shown in FIG. 1 that includes four controllers (or other control
30 subsystems) unless otherwise specified.        One or more of the controllers (or other
   control subsystems) 14A-14D may each include a memory 16 in which data is stored
                                                 4

   and used by a respective controller (or other control subsystem) to control certain
   locomotive or train operations. Such data may include, for example, data relative to a
   track database (wherein, as noted above, "track" refers to any designated route), a
   train manifest (or, more generally, a vehicle manifest), vehicle operating parameters
 5 (e.g., train or other vehicle consist operating parameters), and/or wayside traffic signal
   status.
   [0018]     More specifically, a track database may include track grade data at various
   points of interest along the track, track curvature data, civil speed limits and
   temporary speed restrictions, elevation of the track at selected locations, locations of
10 bridges and tunnels, and the locations of wayside traffic control devices along the
   track.     In the case of a train, train manifest may include data relative to the
   identification of the locomotive 11 and each of the railcars 12 in the train 10, the
   length and weight of the train 10, and contents of the railcars.       Some railcars may
   contain materials (e.g., hazardous or flammable chemicals) that require special speed
15 restrictions at selected locations along the track. So the train manifest data may also
   have data relative to speed restrictions.       In addition, or alternatively, such speed
   restriction and materials data may be stored in the track database.
   [0019]      The data in the track database remains relatively constant with the exception
   of perhaps the temporary speed restrictions, which may be updated as often as
20 necessary.     In an embodiment, the track profile data may be entered directly in the
   onboard operating system 13 and control subsystems 14A-14D from a single source
   such as the railroad or track company. Alternatively, or in addition, one or more
   vendors of the control subsystems 14A-14D may obtain the track profile data from a
   railroad or track owner and enter the data. In as much as the train (or other vehicle)
25 manifest data may change from day to day, or from trip to trip, the train manifest data
   may be provided at a dispatch center.
   [0020]      FIG. 2 is a schematic view of a system and method for transmitting data,
   such as track profile data and train/vehicle manifest data, from an off-board memory
   to an onboard storage device. More specifically, such a system may provide for the
30 wireless transmission or other communication of data to be stored in a memory
                                                 5

   onboard the locomotive or other powered vehicle 11. The track profile data and train
   (or other vehicle) manifest information is typically stored on a first computer
   module/server 20 operated by entities that own and/or operate the locomotive 11 and
   trains 10 (or other vehicle or vehicle consist), or that own the track system on the
 5 which the trains 10 travel. A second computer module/server 21 is provided and
   linked to the first server 20 and is allowed limited access to the first server 20 in order
   to access the track profile data and train manifest data. The servers 20 and 21 may be
   linked via the Internet, local area networks, direct cable links, etc. The second server
   21 may be located at the same train station or other location as the first server 20, or it
10 may be remotely located elsewhere at another business site or other location, or it
   could be located onboard the locomotive or other vehicle 11.            A communication
   modem or other communication device 22 may be provided for the wireless
   transmission of data between off-board devices and on-board systems, via satellite,
   Wi-Fi, wireless LAN, or other wireless data transmission capabilities.
15 [0021]    Data is transmitted via signal 23 to the onboard operating system 13 of the
   locomotive (or other vehicle) 11. A vehicle operator 26 or other person that accesses
   the first server 20 via the second server 21 (or vice-versa) may provide an access or
   verification code; or, one of the servers 20, 21 may be configured to provide a
   verification of the user to allow access to the data for transmission. (Thus, the system
20 includes at least one verification access code associated with the vehicle and/or an
   operator of the vehicle to access and transmit data from an off-board memory (the
   server) to the onboard operating system of the vehicle; in an embodiment, a valid
   verification access code must be provided for accessing and/or transmitting data.) In
   an embodiment shown in FIG. 2, the data transmitted may be stored in a central
25 database 24, and each of the control subsystems 14 can access the database 24 to
   obtain the information necessary for the operation of a respective controller or other
   control subsystem.
   [0022]    With respect to the embodiment as shown in FIG. 1, the transmitted data may
   be stored in the respective control subsystems 14A-14D. More specifically, the data
30 may be parceled so that data used by one or more of the control subsystems 14A-14D
   is stored in local control subsystem memory 16 or a data storage device for the control
                                                6

   subsystems 14A-14D. For example, control subsystem 14A may utilize track grade
   data more frequently than the other control subsystems 14B-14D, so the track grade
   data is stored in memory 16 of control subsystem 14A. Thus, embodiments of the
   invention relate to distributing and storing vehicle operational data among various
 5 control subsystems of the vehicle, based on the relevancy of the data to the particular
   subsystem. For example, if a first data set is most relevant to a first control subsystem
   (e.g., the first data set is most likely to be used by the first control subsystem, as
   opposed to the other control subsystems, and/or the first data set contains data
   relevant to operations of the first control subsystem), and a second data set is most
10 relevant to a second control subsystem, then the first data set may be stored at the first
   control subsystem and the second data set may be stored at the second control
   subsystem. (This would not necessarily preclude use of the data sets by other control
   subsystems, or that the data sets may be relevant, to a lesser extent, to other control
   subsystems.)
15 [0023]    Data other than the track profile data and the train (or other vehicle) manifest
   information may be used with the disclosed system. Such data may include data that
   is acquired or stored during operation of the locomotive (or other powered vehicle)
   and/or data acquired while the train 10 (or other powered vehicle or vehicle consist) is
   traveling on the track.      For example, data relative to locomotive/train (or other
20 vehicle)   operating    conditions   (altitude,  vehicle   position,   ambient   pressure,
   temperatures, dynamic braking information, horsepower, etc.), vehicle health, health
   of operating components on the locomotive or railcars or other vehicle, or
   wayside/signal information is stored during the operation of the locomotive 11 or train
   10 (or other vehicle).    Data relative to the location of the locomotive 11 (or other
25 vehicle) on the track 15 may be received via a GPS transceiver 28. This information
   may be stored in one or more of the control subsystems 14A-14E.              As discussed
   above, the data may be grouped and stored, or discrete data elements/pieces may be
   stored in a memory 16 of a respective control subsystem 14A-14D that uses the data
   the most often. For example, the data relative to health of the locomotive 11 (or other
30 vehicle) or vehicle components may be stored in the memory 16 of a diagnostics
   controller or other diagnostics control subsystem.
                                                 7

   [0024]    The operating system 13 and controllers or other control subsystems 14A
   14D may be configured to communicate or share data stored in their respective
   memories 16 through a local area network (LAN) system that incorporates Ethernet,
   Wi-Fi, or similar technologies, or through another type of communication link or
 5 system that allows for communication between the various control subsystems. In an
   embodiment shown in FIG. 1, a communication system 25 (which may be an
   integrated component or functional aspect of one of the control subsystems14A-14D)
   is provided between control subsystems 14A-14D.            The communication system
   provides a direct communication connection between any two or more control
10 subsystems for sharing data stored in the memories 16 in the respective any two or
   more control subsystems. If more than two control subsystems 14 are used, then each
   control subsystem 14A-14D may be configured to know which control subsystem
   contains what data. For example, a control subsystem may be programmed to include
   data relative to the identity of each control subsystem in the operating system and the
15 type of data stored in the memory 16 of each respective control subsystem.
   [0025]   In the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, the communication system 25 may
   include a communication router that is programmed to direct commands or requests
   for data from each control subsystem 14 to the appropriate control subsystem memory
   16 that has the requested stored data. That is, the router 25 is programmed to identify
20 the control subsystem 14A-14D and respective memory upon request. In this manner,
   the control subsystems 14A-14D are able to share track profile data and train (or other
   vehicle) manifest data, which data is the same for each control subsystem. Moreover,
   the data contains the most recent updates that are shared among the control
   subsystems 14A-14D.
25 [0026]    FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating the steps of a method for controlling
   multiple operations of a powered vehicle having an onboard operating system,
   according to an embodiment of the invention. In step 30, a train (or other vehicle)
   operator or some other authorized individual may access the station (or other off
   board) server 20 by entering a verification access code that allows the operator to
30 access the server 20 from the locomotive (or other vehicle) 11. The operator 26 may
   also provide a vehicle identifier so the server 20 may access the track profile data and
                                                8

   train (or other vehicle) manifest data associated with the vehicle identifier. In step 32,
   the data is transmitted to the onboard operating system 13. In addition, the operator
   26 may review portions of the data, such as the vehicle identifier, the track sections,
   some of the railcar 12 identifiers, and/or a date at which the data was last updated, to
 5 verify that the train (or other vehicle) manifest data and track profile data is current.
   With respect to steps 34 and 36, once the operator has verified that the data is up to
   date, the data is transmitted from station (or other off-board) server 20 to the onboard
   operating system 13. During operation of the locomotive (or other powered vehicle)
   11, and in steps 38 and 40, control subsystems are able to communicate via a wireless
10 network, by identifying a control subsystem 14A-14D and portions of data needed to
   transmit the updated data between control subsystems 14A-14D.
   [0027]    Embodiments of the invention may also include a computer readable
   memory media for controlling operations a powered vehicle, such as a locomotive,
   that includes an onboard operating system comprising a plurality of controllers (or
15 other control subsystems) onboard the powered vehicle for controlling operations of
   the vehicle. A computer module is provided for storing data relating to the operations
   of the vehicle, which is accessible and used by at least two of the control subsystems
   for controlling vehicle operations. In addition, a computer module is provided for
   controlling transmission of data between the at least two control subsystems to control
20 operations of the powered vehicle. The computer readable memory media may also
   comprise a computer module for identifying a control subsystem and pieces of data
   stored in the memory of the control subsystem and a computer module for
   transmitting the pieces of data from the identified control subsystem to a requesting
   control subsystem.
25 [0028]    The computer readable memory media may be used in conjunction with the
   operation of a locomotive and train (or other powered vehicle or vehicle consist) and
   includes a computer module for storing data including train (or other vehicle)
   manifest data and/or a track database. The track database includes track profile data
   in a data storage device off-board the locomotive (or other powered vehicle).           A
30 computer module transmits at least a portion of the data to the operating system
   onboard the locomotive (or other powered vehicle) for storage. A computer module
                                               9

   may be provided for entering an access verification code to access data stored in the
   off-board data storage device, and the data is transmitted to the operating system
   onboard the powered vehicle upon request.         (In an embodiment, a correct access
   verification must be entered/provided to access and/or transmit data.) In addition, a
 5 computer module accesses manifest and track profile data associated with a
   locomotive (or other vehicle) 12 responsive to entry of the vehicle identifier.
   [0029]    Another embodiment relates to an operating system, onboard a powered
   vehicle, for controlling multiple operations of the powered vehicle.              In this
   embodiment, the operating system comprises a plurality of controllers or other control
10 subsystems onboard the powered vehicle for controlling multiple operations of the
   vehicle. The system also comprises a non-distributed memory in which data is stored.
   The data relates to operations and control of the powered vehicle. The system also
   includes a communication link or system between the controllers (or other control
   subsystems) and the memory for the controllers to obtain the data from the memory
15 and store the data in the memory (i.e., read/write operations). The non-distributed
   memory is the sole data storage in the powered system for long term storage of the
   data for the plurality of controllers. "Non-distributed" memory refers to a memory
   that is logically contained within a single system entity, such as a stand-alone
   database, computer, or memory unit. "Long term" storage refers to non-temporary or
20 non-transitory data storage, such as in a hard disk, flash storage, or other non-volatile
   memory, as opposed to cache or other processor memory or local data storage that
   temporarily stores data for processing purposes. Thus, as should be appreciated, the
   non-distributed memory of this embodiment in effect comprises a sole and centralized
   database, accessible for data retrieval and storage by the plural controllers, for storing
25 operations and control data in the powered vehicle for the controllers.              (This
   embodiment does not preclude an additional stand-alone processor and associated
   long-term memory for the stand-alone processor; however, the non-distributed
   memory of the above-described embodiment is the sole long-term data storage for the
   plurality of controllers connected to the non-distributed memory through the
30 communication link or system.)
   [0030]    In another embodiment, the non-distributed memory is the sole data storage
                                               10

   in the powered vehicle for the long-term storage of data for each and every controller
   (or other control subsystem) in the powered vehicle.         Thus, the powered vehicle
   includes a plurality of controllers (or other control subsystems), wherein the plurality
   of controllers (or other control subsystems) comprises each and every controller (or
 5 other control subsystem) in the powered vehicle, which are connected to the non
   distributed memory by way of a communication link or system.
   [0031]    Another embodiment relates to an operating system, onboard a locomotive,
   for controlling multiple operations of the locomotive.            The operating system
   comprises a first controller (or other control subsystem) for controlling a positive train
10 control system of the locomotive.       The operating system also comprises a second
   controller (or other control subsystem) for controlling an operator coaching and/or
   operator interface system of the locomotive. The operating system further comprises
   a third controller (or other control subsystem) for controlling a trip planner and/or fuel
   savings system of the locomotive.       The operating system still further comprises a
15 memory and a communication link or system. Locomotive operations data is stored
   in the memory for each of the positive train control system, the operator coaching
   and/or operator interface system, and the trip planner and/or fuel savings system. The
   communication link or system is between the controllers and the memory, and allows
   the controllers to obtain the operations data from the memory and store the operations
20 data in the memory. In an embodiment, the memory is a non-distributed memory, and
   the non-distributed memory is the sole data storage in the locomotive for long term
   storage of the operations data for the plurality of controllers and the positive train
   control system, the operator coaching and/or operator interface system, and the trip
   planner and/or fuel savings system.
25 [0032]    Other embodiments of the present invention relate to a system, method, and
   computer software code for controlling sharing of data across a plurality of
   subsystems on a locomotive or other powered vehicle (such as the subsystems 14A
   14D described above), for purposes of controlling the vehicle.          The system is an
   operating system (for controlling a vehicle) that comprises a communication system
30 having an open defined interface unit configured so that a plurality of applications
   may access locomotive (or other powered vehicle) control system data in a common
                                               11

   defined manner with predictable results. Thus, in one aspect, "open defined interface"
   refers to an interface between systems/subsystems in a locomotive (as effectuated by
   the interface unit) for the exchange of locomotive (or other vehicle) control system
   data and/or other data, which is open for access by a plurality of applications in a
 5 common, defined manner. Each "application" may be a controller or other control
   subsystem, or a process, functional aspect, or other sub-portion of such a controller or
   other control subsystem (e.g., an application may be encoded program instructions
   running on the controller or other control subsystem).
   [0033]    FIG. 4 is a block diagram illustrating distribution of data between a control
10 system 13 (or control subsystem) and applications 42. (Although the applications 42
   are shown as being separate from the control system 13 in FIG. 4, it may instead or
   additionally be the case that the applications are part of the control system, such as if
   the applications are part of the control subsystems 14 shown in FIGS. 1-2.)         The
   applications 42 are in communication with a data management unit, data distribution
15 unit, or data manager 44. The terms "data management unit," "data distribution unit,"
   and "data manager" are interchangeable terms since such units are configured to
   manage a distribution of data.         (The data manager 44 may be part of the
   communication system 25, or it may be a separate entity; in an embodiment, there is
   one management and communication entity that performs the functions of the data
20 manager 44 and communication system 25 described herein.)                The underlying
   embodiment is an open defined interface so that any application may access
   locomotive (or other vehicle) control system data or other vehicle data in a common
   defined manner with predictable results. For example, certain applications may be
   considered source applications, while other applications may be considered service
25 applications, where a service application may request data from either a source
   application or another service application, and a source application may request data
   from either a service application or another source application. (Source and service
   applications are described in more detail below.)      In one embodiment, a common
   communication standard may utilize shared memory, such as provided with a
30 communication management unit (CMU) as illustrated in FIG. 6, or in another
   embodiment as provided with an independent data management unit, or data
                                               12

   distribution unit, as illustrated in FIG. 4. The communication may include requests
   between service applications and source applications,          and/or transfer of data
   associated with maintaining and/or operating the locomotive (or other vehicle).
   [0034]    For example, Application 1 of the plurality of applications 42 may be
 5 notified depending on whether other service applications and/or source applications
   are functioning or are not functioning.       Once an application is functioning (more
   specifically, once an application is recognized through the communication standard),
   information from that application is identified to the other applications, and
   information from the now recognized application is available to the other applications.
10 Thus, information from the other applications may be used by Application 1 as it
   performs its intended function.
   [0035]    In an embodiment, the communication requests may be accomplished with a
   "publish" and "subscribe" concept (control scheme).        The source applications are
   considered publishers, which declare to send and then publish data available by or
15 from the source application.       The service applications are considered subscribers,
   which declare (request) to receive data and where the data requested is autonomously
   delivered.     Some applications may be both source applications and service
   applications. The term "autonomous" is defined as being able to perform an intended
   function with none to minimum operator (e.g., human operator of a locomotive) input.
20 In an embodiment, "autonomous" is limited to performing an intended function
   without any operating input.
   [0036]    The communication requests are communicated through a communication
   standard, as implemented on or as part of one or more system components, e.g., the
   data manager 44 or otherwise. An example of a communication standard is a data
25 distribution service for real-time systems (DDS) standard.      The DDS standard is a
   middleware standard that directly addresses publish-subscribe communications for
   real-time and embedded systems. The DDS standard provides for a virtual global data
   space where applications 42 can share information by simply reading and writing
   data-objects addressed by means of an application-defined name, or topic, and/or a
30 key that is unique to a specific application. Use of the DDS standard provides for
                                                13

   extensive control of quality of service parameters, such as but not limited to
   reliability,  bandwidth,    delivery   deadlines,   and resource   limits.     Thus, the
   communications between the service applications and source applications are able to
   provide for one-to-many data transfers, many-to-one data transfers, many-to-many
 5 data transfers, topic-based data transfer, and/or multi-rate message transfer.
   [0037]    In another embodiment, a data dictionary is provided which defines all data
   available from a control manager 46, described in further detail below.         The data
   dictionary may be unique to each type of locomotive (or other vehicle). The sort of
   information contained within the data dictionary may include, but is not limited to,
10 specified frequencies at which data is delivered.       For example, some data may be
   provided at 1 Hertz (Hz), while other data is provided at 10 Hz, and still other data is
   provided at 0.2 Hz. A data dictionary may also be provided that defines data available
   to at least one of the plurality of applications and/or a command request available
   from the control manager unit. The data is provided based on a relative priority of the
15 applications, after validating the authority of the application to receive the requested
   data. The data manager 44 maintains the authority level of each application to receive
   certain classes of data and its relative application priority.
   [0038]     Though the term "source application" and "service application" are used
   above, each of these terms may be used interchangeably with respect to how a certain
20 application is being used at any given time. Therefore, for simplicity, "application"
   will be used instead of these more specific terms.
   [0039]     The data manager 44 may be a standard locomotive standard integration
   ("LSI") box or hardware with appropriate processor and software applications. The
   data manager 44 allows for the applications 42 to request and be supplied with data
25 where the data may be from the data manager 44, sensors 48, information from off
   board the locomotive (such as but not limited to information from a remote track
   database), and/or data from other applications 42. To perform this function, the data
   manager 44, a control system 13 of the locomotive, and each application 42 are in
   communication directly or indirectly. Some or all of the communication functions of
30 the data manager 44 may be performed through a finite sequence of instructions, an
                                                14

   explicit, step-by-step procedure for solving a problem, or an algorithm, that performs
   its functions in a processor 50 that is a part of the data manager 44. (Alternatively or
   in addition, functions of the data manager may be performed by a controller or other
   control subsystem 14.)
 5 [0040]    Any one of the on-board applications 42 can request data. Data would then
   be provided at a specific frequency, as provided by the control system 13 (or a
   controller or other control subsystem) and the data manager 44. In an embodiment,
   the specific data and frequency available are published so that application designers
   can design applications 42 to operate within these limitations. The data manager 44
10 may also be configured to include distribution of dynamic wayside data that may
   include, but is not limited to, data associated with signal aspect, switch position,
   crossing gate position, etc.
   [0041]    Information, or data, is provided from the control system 13, through the data
   manager 44 to the applications 42. The communication connection between the data
15 manager 44 and the control system 13 is through a private interface 52. All of the
   interfaces 52, 54 disclosed herein may be Ethernet based. Having the private interface
   52 means that communications between the control system 13 and any other devices
   are limited, e.g., with a proprietary connection protocol, to ensure that the other
   devices are designed to communicate with the control system 13 so as not to interfere
20 with the operation of the control system 13. For example, if an attempt is made to
   bypass the data manager 44 and connect an application 42 directly to the control
   system 13, such a bypass attempt would not be possible without knowing the
   proprietary connection protocol.
   [0042]    The communication connection between the data manager 44 and the
25 applications 42 is an open interface 54. Having an open interface 54 means that other
   devices and/or applications may be connected through the open interface 54, wherein
   once connected the connection protocol allows for the transmission of data or
   information through the open interface 54. The open interface 54 also provides for a
   uniform, possibly even simplified interface.
                                               15

   [0043]    As disclosed above, the type of data that can be provided to the applications
   42 is not limited to data gathered from the control system 13. The track data that may
   be provided from off-board the locomotive may be provided through the data manager
   from an external source. The data may be received via an 802.11 wireless local area
 5 network to reduce the cost, or in-route as necessary via a satellite/cell phone and then
   communicated to the data manager 44, such as may be available via a CMU or a
   mobile access router. Additionally, prime directive data (track authorities and speed
   restrictions) data may also be provided through the data manager 44.
   [0044]    An example of sensor data that is provided may include common global
10 positioning system ("GPS") data, wheel speed data, fuel consumption, etc. By using
   the data manager 44 to provide sensor data to applications 42, sensor replication
   aboard the locomotive (or other vehicle) is not required. Since sensors 48 are part of
   the locomotive (or other vehicle), and are likely to be used within the control system
   13, data from the sensors 48 may be provided through the private interface 52
15 connecting the data manager 44 to the control system 13. Though only one sensor 48
   is illustrated, this single sensor is representative of any number of sensors 48.
   Additionally, though the sensor 48 is illustrated as being a subset of the control
   system 13, the sensor 48 may be an independent element, having its own interface,
   either a private interface 52 or an open interface 54. As disclosed in FIG. 6, other
20 types of sensors are illustrated where the sensors may be considered source
   applications.
   [0045]    Additionally, the data manager 44 may be configured to solve application
   data distribution issues. For example, if two applications 42 are requiring data at the
   same time where bandwidth is not available for delivery of the data to both of the
25 applications simultaneously, the data manager 44 will schedule delivery of the data.
   The delivery of the data may be based on any number of factors including, but not
   limited to, priority, bandwidth, duration, vitality, etc. The data manager 44 may also
   be used to solve data currency issues.
   [0046]    In operation, the applications 42 are able to register and/or communicate their
30 data needs with the data manager 44. For example, Application 1 may require track
                                               16

   data at a certain rate, such as but not limited to a given distance ahead of a current
   location. The data manager 44 is also able to collect data from other applications,
   and/or the control system, and provide Application 1 the data required, without
   impacting the source application. Thus, the data manager 44 provides sharing of data
 5 between applications 42 without impact to any of the applications 42. Additionally,
   point-to-point interface definitions, which may be costly, between the applications 42,
   and/or the control system 13 are no longer needed since a common interface is
   provided through the data manager 44.
   [0047]   A common interface is used to provide information from the applications 42
10 to the control system 13. The common interface is identified as the locomotive (or
   other vehicle) control manager unit 46, or locomotive (or other vehicle) control
   manager, and it is a single integration point for all applications 42 that want to provide
   control input to the locomotive. The "control input" may be data (e.g., data to be
   provided to the control system 13; some such data, originating from the applications
15 42, is referred to herein as "application data") and/or a command request, e.g., a
   request that the control system act upon a particular command. As illustrated in FIG.
   5, elements of the control manager 46 may include, but are not limited to, a connector
   56 for the open interface 54 to receive control requests from the applications 42, a
   processor 58 that has an algorithm/software 60 which is operable within the processor
20 58 to perform the functions discussed below, and a connector or other control system
   interface 62 specific to the control system 13 for a specific type of locomotive (or
   other vehicle), as illustrated by "Locomotive A," "Locomotive B," "Locomotive C,"
   and "Locomotive D." Examples of different specific types of locomotives include an
   EMD SD70TM locomotive, a General Electric (GE) Dash               9TM  locomotive, a GE
25 AC4400TM locomotive, and/or a GE EvolutionTM series locomotive.                  The data
   manager 44 also is equipped with a similar connector 56 for the open interface, a
   processor 50 in which an algorithm may operate, and a connector for the private
   interface 52.
   [0048]    The interface between the applications 42 and the control manager 46, or
30 receiving interface, is an open interface 54, which provides a common interface for
   the applications 42 to access the locomotive control system 13. The interface between
                                               17

   the control manager 46 and the control system 13 is a private interface 52. Aspects of
   the control system 13 that are accessible and controlled include, but are not limited to,
   throttle or notch control, dynamic brake control, automatic airbrake control, wireless
   distributed power, wired distributed power, independent brake control or operation,
 5 etc. The control manager 46 is able to authorize and prioritize to avoid an undesired
   state or conflict for controlling data (and other control input) provided from the
   applications 42 to the locomotive control system 13 that is able to de-conflict any
   conflicting input from on-board diverse applications like a train control application or
   an energy management application.
10 [0049]    In operation, the control manager 46 processes control input received from
   the plurality of applications 42, for providing to the control system 13 or otherwise.
   For example, the control manager 46 may receive application data from the
   applications 42 (or other data) and process the data for selectively providing the data
   to the control system, e.g., for determining which application data is provided to the
15 locomotive control system.       (For example, it may be the case that data is only
   provided based upon the needs or requests of the control system 13, or that certain
   data is only provided depending on the operational state of the control system and/or
   locomotive generally.)      In another example, the control manager 46 may receive
   command requests from the plurality of applications 42 and determine which of the
20 received command requests is provided to the control system for use in operating the
   locomotive. This determination may be based on time factors (when the command
   requests are received, and the timeliness of the command requests), a priority
   hierarchy among types of different command requests, the relationship between a
   particular command request and the current operational mode of the locomotive or
25 other vehicle (e.g., certain requests may only be applicable when the locomotive is in
   a particular mode of operation), the relation between a particular command request
   and other command requests received either before or after the command request
   (e.g., one command request may be moot in light of a previously recently received
   command), etc. In another aspect, the control manager 46 is able to resolve conflicts
30 between the applications 42 and between control input received from the applications.
   For example, if a locomotive or other vehicle is equipped with an energy management
                                              18

   application and a train/vehicle control application, and if the train/vehicle control
   application does not have the appropriate movement authority to transition the
   locomotive or other vehicle over a piece of track (or other route), or within a certain
   territory, it may call for a stop (stop command request) via the train automatic brake
 5 application. At the same time, the energy management application may not be aware
   that the train is not authorized to proceed and may call for notch 6 (throttle command
   request) over a given territory. The control manager 46 would be able to resolve the
   conflict by using data from one or more other applications 42 and/or based on a
   priority that is preset within the control manager 46 that establishes application
10 priority. The control manager 46 is also able to override and/or isolate an application
   that is malfunctioning. As disclosed above, it also provides for safe interlocks among
   the controls. Additionally, as disclosed in further detail below, the control manager
   46 is able to receive inputs from an operator, which is sent to the control system 13
   for implementation.       These manual inputs also have to be de-conflicted with
15 requesting applications.
   [0050]    In one embodiment, the data that is being passed from the control system 13
   through the data manager 44 and control manager 46 and to the applications 42 is
   real-time data. Thus, the implementation of controlling the system is accomplished
   with current data. As further illustrated in FIGS. 4 and 6, a system and/or process are
20 provided. By having a closed loop control system/process, control of the locomotive
   may be autonomously performed, where inputs from an application, such as, but not
   limited to, an energy management application and/or a train (or other vehicle) control
   application, determines a speed to operate over a route based on the train/vehicle
   consist and terrain, and the control manager 46 operates the throttle and brake in
25 accordance with the inputs. More specifically, the control manager 46 autonomously
   provides directions, or commands, to the control system 13, which in turn commands
   the throttle (e.g., notch setting), dynamic brake, automatic train air brake, independent
   brake, and direction of travel of the locomotive. (For example, providing autonomous
   operation of the locomotive or other vehicle may comprise providing braking and
30 throttle commands to define speed and/or movement authority to operate over a route
   by the locomotive or other vehicle.) Hence, the locomotive is able to operate in an
                                                19

   "autopilot" mode. Examples of the energy management application and a variation of
   the control manager 46 are disclosed in trip/mission optimizer patent applications
   assigned to the Assignee of the present invention, such as U.S. Publication Nos.
   2008/0082223, 2007/0219683 and 2007/0219680 (see, for example, U.S. Publication
 5 No. 2007-0219680-Al dated September 20, 2007). The closed loop control system
   includes at least one application 42, the control system 13, and the control manager
   46. The closed loop control system may also include the data manager 44. (Generally
   speaking, the closed loop control system, in any of the embodiments herein, is
   characterized by the operation of the locomotive or other vehicle being regulated by,
10 or otherwise based on, feedback regarding the locomotive's operation and operational
   performance, e.g., the locomotive or other vehicle is operated based both on control
   input and on sensed feedback of one or more operational characteristics of the
   locomotive or other vehicle, such as actual speed, actual direction, acceleration,
   sensed location, and the like. More generally, the closed loop control system may be
15 characterized in that an input forcing function is determined in part by a vehicle
   system response, wherein a measured response of a vehicle system is compared with a
   desired response, and the difference between these two responses initiates actions that
   will result in the actual response of the vehicle system to approach the desired
   response).
20 [0051]   FIG. 6 is block diagram illustrating distribution of data between a control
   system and applications also with a display manager unit, or display manager 64. The
   display manager 64 is used to decide which data is communicated to an operator
   onboard the locomotive. At least one common display 66 is also provided. Those
   skilled in the art recognize that a plurality of common displays may be provided.
25 When the operator desires information specific to a certain application and/or an
   operating aspect of the control system 13 and/or locomotive, the operator is able to
   select that application 42 and/or the operating aspect of the control system 13 and/or
   locomotive.
   [0052]    The terms "display manager" and "display" are terms not meant to be limited
30 to providing only data visually to the operator. The display manager may provide a
   flow, or transmission, of data made available to an operator as visual data, tactile data,
                                             20

   and/or audio data.      Therefore, the display may be a device that provides the
   information to the operator in the intended form identified, such as but not limited to
   visually, through touch, and/or audible. The terms "flow" or "transmission" are not
   meant to be limiting.     These terms are used to include for a distribution of data
 5 between two locations, such as but not limited to units, applications, and/or devices.
   [0053]    The display manager 64 is connected directly to the applications 42 through a
   negotiated interface 68, or more specifically an interface that is defined specific for
   each application's purpose. The interface between the display 66, user interface 70,
   and display manager 64 may also be a private interface.
10 [0054]    FIG. 6    also illustrates the data manager 44 being          connected to a
   communication management unit ("CMU") 72. Thus, in implementation, instead of
   the functionality of the CMU 72 being integrated within a single data manager unit, a
   data manager unit may be connected to an existing CMU 72. The CMU 72 is also in
   communication with the locomotive control system 13 using its own private interface
15 52. The connection between the data manager 44 and the CMU 72 may be either a
   private interface 52 or an open interface 54. The data passed from the CMU 72 to the
   data manager 44 is data needed by the applications 42, and is generally information
   that the CMU 72 received from sources that are remote from the locomotive.
   [0055]   A file management staging unit ("FMS") 74 may be part of the data manager
20 44. The FMS 74 is provided to receive and distribute application replacement/updates
   for the applications and/or sensors, where the sensors are considered source
   applications. As illustrated, examples of such source applications include, but are not
   limited to GPS, Movie Picture Expert Group ("MPEG") encoder, fuel ("FLM")
   indicator, event recorder ("ER"), etc. The replacement/updates may be provided from
25 an external source from the locomotive, where the data is communicated through the
   CMU 72, or as illustrated in FIG. 4 though the data manager 44, which includes
   CMU-like functionality.
   [0056]    The representations of the applications 42 in FIGS. 4 and 6 as blocks are
   provided to represent that each application performs a unique function. In operation,
                                              21

   each application may have its own hardware and software components, or instead of
   each application having its own hardware, each application (or software, or algorithm)
   is housed within hardware where all hardware has a common bus and/or a common
   housing where common processors are used (as in FIGS. 1-2).             Servers may be
 5 provided, where multiple applications are stored in each server. Instead of allowing
   any application to reside on any server, the importance of the application may
   determine which server is installed within. For example, a non-vital server may be
   used for non-vital applications while a vital server may be used for vital applications.
   In such a configuration, the vital server may have more redundancy than the non-vital
10 server.   Additionally, when multiple servers are used (either hosting an individual
   application per server or applications grouped together on designated servers), the
   servers and hence the applications, may use multicasting, or multicast delivery, to
   publish data.    Those skilled in the art will readily recognize that "multicast," or
   "multicasting," refers to using a network technology for the delivery of data, or
15 information, to a group of destinations simultaneously using the most efficient
   strategy to deliver the messages over each link of the network only once, creating
   copies only when links to the multiple destinations split.
   [0057]    Although the control manager 46 is illustrated in FIGS. 4 and 6 as being
   separate from the control system 13, the control manager 46 may be a part of the
20 control system 13, such as integrated directly into the control system 13.       The data
   manager 44 may be a part of the CMU 72, more specifically hosted within existing
   CMU chassis and/or processor. Additionally, the interfaces 52, 54 may be part of a
   router to communicate data from the data manager 44 to the applications 42 and from
   the applications 42 to the control manager 46.         Similarly, even though the data
25 manager 44 and control manager 46 are displayed as being two separate units, those
   skilled in the art will recognize that these units may be a single unit, and/or within a
   common housing.       Thus, the data manager 44 and control manager 46 within the
   common housing (or even as separate units) may be considered an open defined
   interface unit. Towards this end, the processor 50 that is part of the data manager 44
30 and the processor 58 that is part of the control manager 46 may be a single processor.
   In general, those skilled in the art will recognize and understand that illustrating all of
                                                22

   the units as blocks in FIGS. 4 and 6 is done solely to illustrate functionality of the
   various units/elements disclosed herein, and should not be considered limiting with
   respect to packaging.
   [0058]    FIG. 7 is a flowchart 76 of a method for operating a locomotive or other
 5 vehicle. The flowchart 76 illustrates autonomously managing a flow of data from a
   control system of the locomotive or other vehicle to a plurality of applications,
   between the plurality of applications, from a sensor to the plurality of applications (or
   to other applications), and/or from a communication management unit to the plurality
   of applications, at 78.    The flowchart further illustrates autonomously managing a
10 flow of data received from the plurality of applications to determine which application
   data is provided to the control system, at 80.       The locomotive or other vehicle is
   operated with the application data provided to the control system, at 82. As discussed
   above, operating the locomotive or other vehicle may further include autonomously
   operating the locomotive or other vehicle by autonomously implementing changes to
15 direction of travel, changes to notch/throttle or speed, and/or dynamic braking and air
   brake operation.    Additionally, autonomously managing the flow of data from the
   locomotive (or other vehicle) control system, at 78, may further include distributing
   data to the plurality of applications based on an authority and/or priority for
   distributing data.
20 [0059]    The method shown in the flowchart 76 may be performed with a computer
   software code having computer software modules where the computer software code
   is stored on a computer media and is executed with a processor. Thus, each process
   flow in the flowchart 76 is performed by a computer software module specific to the
   process contained in a specific process. For example, autonomously managing a flow
25 of data from a control system of the locomotive (or other vehicle) to a plurality of
   applications, between the plurality of applications, from a sensor to the plurality of
   applications (or to other applications), and/or from a communication management unit
   to the plurality of applications, at 78, is performed by a computer software module for
   autonomously managing a flow of data from a control system of the locomotive to a
30 plurality of applications, between the plurality of applications, from a sensor to the
   plurality of applications, and/or from a communication management unit to the
                                                 23

   plurality of applications.
   [0060]    As discussed above, one embodiment of the present invention relates to a
   communication system (different embodiments shown generally in FIGS. 4 and 6) for
   controlling sharing of data across a plurality of subsystems on a locomotive or other
 5 vehicle. In one embodiment, the communication system comprises an open defined
   interface unit, which establishes an interface between the locomotive/vehicle
   subsystems for the exchange of locomotive/vehicle control system data and/or other
   data. The interface is open for access by a plurality of applications in a common,
   defined    manner.      The   "other"   data    may   be data   that   is used     by  the
10 subsystems/applications apart from the locomotive/vehicle control system; examples
   include: communication data to be transmitted off-board, but that does not originate
   with the     control   system, e.g.,  operator    or voice   dispatch    communications;
   communications data received from off-board the locomotive or other vehicle that is
   not used for control purposes; data that is generated and/or stored for archival
15 purposes; certain time data, location data, train/locomotive data, etc.; and the like.
   [0061]    In one embodiment, the open defined interface unit comprises, at least
   functionally speaking, a data manager 44 for managing data, as described above. In
   another embodiment, the open defined interface unit comprises, at least functionally, a
   control manager 46 for managing control input, as described above.             In another
20 embodiment, the open defined interface unit comprises, at least functionally, a data
   manager 44 for managing data (e.g., in the manner described above) and a control
   manager 46 for managing control input (e.g., in the manner described above). In one
   embodiment, the data manager 44 and control manager 46 are integrated into a single
   electronic unit, for systems simplification and/or efficiency purposes.        In another
25 embodiment, the data manager 44 and control manager 46 are separate electronic
   units that are housed in a common housing, for conserving space while providing
   interconnection and/or systems flexibility, e.g., in terms of how the data manager 44
   and control manager 46 are connected and what they are connected to. In another
   embodiment, the data manager 44 and control manager 46 are separate electronic
30 units that are housed in different housings, for providing a greater degree of flexibility
   in terms of system positioning and interconnection, e.g., the data manager 44 and
                                                24

   control manager 46 can be positioned in different locations, for more flexibility in
   terms of what components/elements/subsystems in the locomotive they are connected
   to.  In another embodiment, one or both of the data manager 44 or the control
   manager 46 are functionally implemented in an existing electronic subsystem of the
 5 locomotive (either the same electronic subsystem or in different subsystems), for
   system efficiency and ease of implementation.
   [0062]    Another embodiment relates to a communication system on a locomotive or
   other vehicle.    The communication system comprises a data manager unit and a
   control manager unit. The data manager unit is configured to manage a transmission
10 of data from a control system of the locomotive (or other vehicle) to a plurality of
   applications, between the plurality of applications, from a sensor to one or more of the
   plurality of applications, and from a communication management unit to the plurality
   of applications. The data manager unit is configured as an open defined interface, for
   the plurality of applications to access locomotive/vehicle control system data in a
15 common defined manner, as described in more detail above. The control manager
   unit is configured to receive control input from the plurality of applications and
   process the control input for providing to the control system for use in operating the
   locomotive (or other vehicle). For example, the control manager unit may process
   application data (or other data) and/or command requests in a manner as described
20 above.     The communication system further comprises a private interface for
   communications between the data manager unit and the control system and/or
   between the control manager unit and the control system, and an open interface for
   communications between the data manager unit and the plurality of applications and
   for communications      between    the control manager unit and the plurality of
25 applications. In another embodiment, the data manager unit is configured to manage
   the transmission of data, at least between the plurality of applications, based on a
   publish-subscribe communications structure ("structure" referring to a configuration
   or setup, using program instructions, electronics, other control mechanism, or
   otherwise, for implementing publish-subscribe communications in the data manager
30 unit and/or system generally).
   [0063]    As should be appreciated, a modern locomotive is an electro-mechanical
                                              25

   system that comprises a plurality of mechanical, electrical, and electro-mechanical
   subsystems. An "application," as used herein, is a locomotive subsystem or portion
   thereof that utilizes data, provides data, and/or that provides or utilizes control input.
   An application may be a processor or processor-based unit, an algorithm or software
 5 as executed by a processor or processor-based unit, or the like, but is not limited in
   this regard unless otherwise specified.       For example, an application may be a
   hardware (e.g., electronics)-based subsystem or portion thereof, an electro-mechanical
   subsystem or portion thereof, or the like. In one embodiment, all or at least some of
   the applications are embodied as algorithms/software/programming instructions as
10 executed by a processor or processor-based unit, e.g., for carrying out distributed
   power operations, other train or other vehicle control operations, on-board and off
   board communications        operations, emissions control and other engine control
   operations, data capture and storage operations, operator interface operations, and the
   like.
15 [0064]   An embodiment relates to an operating system, onboard a locomotive, for
   controlling multiple operations of the locomotive. The operating system comprises a
   first controller or control subsystem for controlling a positive train control system of
   the locomotive. The operating system further comprises a second controller or control
   subsystem for controlling an operator coaching and/or operator interface system of the
20 locomotive.     The operating system further comprises a third controller or control
   subsystem for controlling a trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system of the
   locomotive. The operating system further comprises a memory in which locomotive
   operations data is stored for each of the positive train control system, the operator
   coaching and/or operator interface system, and the trip optimizer and/or fuel savings
25 system. The operating system further comprises a communication link between the
   controllers (or control subsystems) and the memory for the controllers (or control
   subsystems) to obtain the operations data from the memory and store the operations
   data in the memory. In an embodiment, the memory is a non-distributed memory.
   The non-distributed memory is the sole data storage in the locomotive for long term
30 storage of the operations data for the plurality of controllers (or control subsystems)
   and the positive train control system, the operator coaching and/or operator interface
                                               26

   system, and the trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system.
   [0065]    Though exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described with
   respect to locomotives, exemplary embodiments of the invention are also applicable
   for use with other powered systems, such as but not limited to marine vessels,
 5 stationary units such as power plants, off-highway vehicles, agricultural vehicles,
   and/or mass cargo or mass transit transportation vehicles, each which may use at least
   one engine. Towards this end, when discussing a specified mission, this includes a
   task or requirement to be performed by the powered system. Therefore, with respect
   to a railway vehicle, marine vessel, agricultural vehicle, mass cargo or mass transit
10 transportation vehicle, or off-highway vehicle applications, this may refer to the
   movement of a collective powered system (where more than one individual powered
   system is provided) from a present location to a destination. In the case of stationary
   applications, such as but not limited to a stationary power generating station or
   network of power generating stations, a specified mission may refer to an amount of
15 wattage (e.g., MW/hr) or other parameter or requirement to be satisfied by the
   powered system.
   [0066]    Exemplary embodiments of the invention solve problems in the art by
   providing a method, system, and computer implemented method, such as a computer
   software code or computer readable media, for providing an open defined interface so
20 that any application may access locomotive/vehicle control system data or other
   vehicle data or other data in a common defined manner with predictable results.
   [0067]    Persons skilled in the art will recognize that an apparatus, such as a data
   processing system, including a CPU, memory, I/O, program storage, a connecting bus,
   and other appropriate components, could be programmed or otherwise designed to
25 facilitate the practice of the method of the invention. Such a system would include
   appropriate program means for executing the method of the invention.
   [0068]    Also, an article of manufacture, such as a pre-recorded disk, computer
   readable media, or other similar computer program product, for use with a data
   processing system, could include a storage medium and program means recorded
                                              27

   thereon for directing the data processing system to facilitate the practice of the method
   of the invention. Such apparatus and articles of manufacture also fall within the spirit
   and scope of the invention.
   [0069]    Broadly speaking, a technical effect is to provide an open defined interface
 5 so that any application may access locomotive control system data in a common
   defined manner with predictable results, for more efficient and better operation
   (possibly including autonomous operation) of a locomotive.              To facilitate an
   understanding of the exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is described
   hereinafter   with reference    to   specific   implementations   thereof.     Exemplary
10 embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer
   executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed by any device, such
   as but not limited to a computer, designed to accept data, perform prescribed
   mathematical and/or logical operations usually at high speed, where results of such
   operations may or may not be displayed.            Generally, program modules include
15 routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that performs particular
   tasks or implement particular abstract data types. For example, the software programs
   that underlie exemplary embodiments of the invention can be coded in different
   programming languages, for use with different devices, or platforms.            It will be
   appreciated, however, that the principles that underlie exemplary embodiments of the
20 invention can be implemented with other types of computer software technologies as
   well.
   [0070]    Moreover,    those  skilled in the      art will appreciate    that   exemplary
   embodiments of the invention may be practiced with other computer system
   configurations,   multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based         or programmable
25 consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. Exemplary
   embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing
   environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked
   through at least one communications network.               In a distributed computing
   environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer
30 storage media including memory storage devices.
                                                28

   [0071]    As should be appreciated, embodiments of the invention reside primarily in a
   combination of hardware and software elements related to the methods and systems
   described herein.     Accordingly, in at least some instances hardware and software
   elements have been represented by conventional elements in the drawings, showing
 5 only those specific details that are pertinent to the present invention, so as not to
   obscure the disclosure with structural details that will be readily apparent to those
   skilled in the art having the benefit of the description herein.
   [0072]     Embodiments described herein may be implemented on a suitable computer
   system, controller, data processor, or generally a computer readable medium. For
10 example, the steps of the methods described herein may correspond to computer
   instructions, logic, software code, or other computer modules disposed on a computer
   readable medium, e.g., floppy disc, hard drive, ASIC, remote storage, optical disc, or
   the like.     The computer-implemented methods and/or computer code may be
   programmed into an electronic control unit of an engine, a main control system of a
15 locomotive or other vehicle, a remote station that communicates with the vehicle, or
   the like, as described herein.
   [0073]     While the invention has been described with reference to various exemplary
   embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes,
   omissions and/or additions may be made and equivalents may be substituted for
20 elements thereof without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.       In
   addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material
   to the teachings of the invention without departing from the scope thereof. Therefore,
   it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed
   as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention, but that the invention
25 will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.
   Moreover, unless specifically stated any use of the terms first, second, etc. do not
   denote any order or importance, but rather the terms first, second, etc. are used to
   distinguish one element from another.
   [0074]    Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
30 used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as
                                                29

specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not
precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components,
or group thereof.
                                          30

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       An operating system, onboard a powered vehicle, for controlling multiple
operations of the powered vehicle, the operating system comprising:
       a plurality of control subsystems onboard the powered vehicle for controlling
multiple operations of the vehicle;
       a non-distributed memory in which data is stored, said data relating to
operations and control of the powered vehicle; and
       a communication link between the control subsystems and the memory for the
control subsystems to obtain the data from the memory and store the data in the
memory;
       wherein the non-distributed memory is the sole data storage in the powered
system for long term storage of said data for the plurality of control subsystems.
2.       An operating      system, onboard      a locomotive,   for controlling   multiple
operations of the locomotive, the operating system comprising:
         a first controller for controlling a positive train control system of the
locomotive;
         a second controller for controlling an operator coaching and/or operator
interface system of the locomotive;
         a third controller for controlling a trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system of
the locomotive;
         a memory in which locomotive operations data is stored for each of the
positive train control system, the operator coaching and/or operator interface system,
and the trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system; and
         a communication link between the controllers and the memory for the
controllers to obtain the operations data from the memory and store the operations
data in the memory, wherein the memory is a non-distributed memory; and
         the non-distributed memory is the sole data storage in the locomotive for long
term storage of said operations data for the plurality of controllers and the positive
train control system the operator coaching and/or operator interface system, and the
trip optimizer and/or fuel savings system.
                                              31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
