                                          Abstract
 5
   The present invention relates to a locking bracket for securing two adjacent bodies
   to one another, in particular for securing a gate to a fence post. The locking
   bracket comprises a first hoop and a second hoop that, together with the first
   hoop, surrounds a region for receiving the two adjacent bodies. The hoops
10 respectively have a first end and a second end, wherein they are connected to one
   another in an articulated manner at their first ends so that the hoops can be
   pivoted between an open position in which the locking bracket can be arranged
   around the two adjacent bodies and a closed position in which the hoops together
   surround the region for receiving the two adjacent bodies. Each of the hoops forms
15 a lug at their free ends, said lug being oriented substantially perpendicular to the
   second end and having at least one bore. The lugs of the hoops come to lie in a
   planoparallel manner with respect to one another in the closed position so that a
   closing hoop of a padlock can be introduced into the bores of the lugs to secure
   the hoops to one another.
20

       /0L    AA 2
    2q
442
         02,2

                                              1
                            LOCKING BRACKET FOR SECURING
                                 A GATE TO A FENCE POST
 5 This application claims priority from German Application No. 10<removed-apn>.7 filed
   on 19 January 2017, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein
   by this reference.
   The present invention relates to a securing bracket for securing two adjacent
10 bodies to one another and in particular to a locking bracket by which, for example,
   a gate or a swing gate can be secured to a fence post, for example of a pasture
   fence, or, for example, to another gate or gate leaf.
   Entrance gates or sliding doors with a round section and swing gates or gates of
15 pasture fences are frequently secured with the aid of link chains in that such a link
   chain is wound around the gate and an adjacent post and the chain is
   subsequently secured by a padlock. Although such link chains can be produced
   from hardened steel, they can nevertheless be destroyed or broken open by the
   effect of mechanical force with the aid of bolt cutters, saws, crowbars, files or the
20 like. Padlocks can likewise be broken open by the effect of force with the aid of
   corresponding tools even if the closing hoop consists of hardened steel.
   Furthermore, to secure two adjacent bodies to one another such as to secure a
   gate to a fence post, a locking bracket can be used that has two hoops that are
25 connected in an articulated manner and that together surround a region in their
   interior for receiving the two adjacent bodies. A respective metal sheet that has a
   hole for receiving a closing hoop of a padlock is welded to each of the hoops in the
   vicinity of their free ends. The metal sheets are oriented and are easily accessible
   from the outside in this respect such that the metal sheets can be manipulated by

                                               2
   the effect of mechanical force, which has the consequence that the respective
   weld seam breaks or tears.
   It is the underlying object of the invention to provide a latching apparatus with
 5 which two adjacent bodies can be secured to one another, for example a gate to a
   fence post, wherein the apparatus should be as stable as possible in order to also
   be able to withstand the effect of mechanical force.
   This object is satisfied in accordance with the invention by a locking bracket for
10 securing two adjacent bodies to one another, in particular for securing a gate to a
   fence post, that as a first hoop and a second hoop that, together with the first
   hoop, surrounds a region for receiving the two adjacent bodies, wherein the hoops
   respectively have a first end and a second end and are connected to one another
   in an articulated manner at their first ends such that the hoops are pivotable
15 between an open position of the locking bracket in which the locking bracket can
   be arranged around the two adjacent bodies and a closed position in which the
   hoops together surround the region for receiving the two adjacent bodies, wherein
   each of the hoops forms a lug at their second ends that is substantially oriented
   perpendicular to the second end of the respective hoop and has at least one bore,
20 and wherein the lugs of the hoops come to lie substantially in a planoparallel
   manner with respect to one another in the closed position so that the closing hoop
   of a padlock can be hung into the bores of the lugs for securing the hoops to one
   another.
25 For example, the hoops can be formed from steel plate, preferably from hardened
   steel plate, and can thus be formed in a comparatively solid manner, whereby the
   locking bracket cannot be manipulated and/or damaged or can only be
   manipulated and/or damaged to a small degree by the effect of mechanical force.
   Unlike conventional link chains, the locking bracket in accordance with the

                                               3
   invention thus has a greater resistance with respect to the effect of mechanical
   force.
   There is additionally the fact that the locking bracket in accordance with the
 5 invention also makes access to a padlock, and in particular to its closing hoop for
   securing the hoops of the locking bracket, more difficult since the lugs of the hoops
   of the locking bracket come to lie in a planoparallel manner and at a small spacing
   from one another in the closed position of the locking bracket so that the closing
   hoop of a padlock hung into the bore of the lugs is not accessible or is hardly
10 accessible from the outside through the gap between the two lugs. The gap that is
   formed between the two lugs in the closed position of the locking bracket
   preferably has a clearance that is smaller than the thickness of the steel plate and
   is in particular preferably smaller than half the thickness of the steel plate from
   which the hoops are produced. The gap is thus so small that access to the hoop
15 through the gap, for example using bolt cutters, a leverage tool, or a saw, is
   prevented. The two lugs can, however, also come to lie in a planoparallel manner
   directly next to one another in the closed position, i.e. without forming a gap
   therebetween, whereby the locking bracket offers even fewer points of attack for
   the effect of mechanical force. Furthermore, due to the orientation of the lugs, the
20 locking bracket can be secured by means of a so-called disc lock, whereby the
   locking bracket or the lock can be operated from the front in a customary manner
   like the lock cylinder in a case. Furthermore, the locking bracket in accordance
   with the invention permits an installation at both sides since the bracket can be
   formed with mirror symmetry with respect to a plane that is oriented perpendicular
25 to the joint axis of the bracket.
   Preferred embodiments of the locking bracket in accordance with the invention will
   be described in the following, with further embodiments also being able to result
   from the description of the Figures, from the dependent claims, and from the
30 drawings.

                                              4
   Provision is thus made in accordance with an embodiment that the respective
   hoop, including its lug, can be produced from one piece. The lug and the hoop are
   therefore not, for instance, two parts that can initially be handled separately and
 5 that are only connected to one another as part of production, for example by
   welding. Provision is rather made in accordance with the invention that the
   respective hoop, including its lug, can be made from one piece such as from one
   and the same sheet metal blank that is bent into shape to form the respective
   hoop together with its associated lug. There are therefore advantageously no
10 abutment points or connection points between the lug and the hoop that as a rule
   represent easily manipulable weak points.
   In accordance with a further embodiment, at least one of the lugs can form an
   angled end section. The angled end section can here advantageously be oriented
15 perpendicular to the lug and thus extends substantially in parallel with the second
   end of the respective hoop since the lug is likewise oriented perpendicular to the
   second hoop end.
   Provision can be made in accordance with a preferred embodiment that both lugs
20 form an angled end section, with these end sections being oriented such that they
   project in mutually opposite directions from the respective lugs in the closed
   position of the locking bracket. The two angled end sections thus extend in a
   common alignment in the closed position of the locking bracket and thus cover a
   padlock hung into the lugs or into their bores, whereby unauthorized access
25 thereto is made more difficult. The angled end sections thus represent effective
   protection for the closing hoop of a padlock since the angled end sections prevent
   access to the closing hoop of a padlock by means of bolt cutters.
   This embodiment, in which each of the two lugs forms an angled end section, with
30 these end sections being oriented such that they project in mutually opposite

                                               5
   directions from the lugs in the closed position of the locking bracket, furthermore
   proves to be advantageous to the extent that an intermediate space is formed
   between the respective angled end section and the associated hoop, said
   intermediate space enabling a padlock or its closing hoop to be hung in the closed
 5 position of the locking bracket via the two lugs to secure the hoops of the locking
   bracket to one another in order thus to secure the closed position of the locking
   bracket. The two angled end sections of the lugs thus prevent a padlock hung via
   the two lugs in this manner from being able to be removed from the two lugs. If,
   therefore, for example, only one padlock is available in a specific situation whose
10 closing hoop does not fit through the bores of the two lugs, this padlock can be
   hub via the two lugs in the closed position of the locking bracket in the previously
   described manner, with the two angled end sections preventing the padlock
   attached in this manner from being able to be removed from the two lugs. In other
   words, the closing hoop of a padlock hung via the two lugs in this manner is
15 therefore captured in the intermediate space that is formed between the angled
   end section of each lug and the second end of the respective associated hoop.
   In accordance with a further embodiment, the angled end section of at least one
   lug can, however, also be oriented such that it at least partly covers a free end of
20 the respective other lug in the closed position of the locking bracket. For example,
   only one lug can have an angled end section, with this angled end section
   extending over the total height of the lug so that it covers the free end of the other
   lug over its total height in the closed position of the locking bracket.
25 In accordance with another embodiment, however, both lugs can also have one or
   more angled end sections that cover the free end of the respective other lug in the
   closed position of the locking bracket. The angled end sections of the one lug are
   preferably in engagement with the angled end sections of the other lug in this
   embodiment, for which purpose the angled end sections of the one lug have an
30 offset with respect to the angled end section of the other lug. The angled end

                                               6
   sections of the two lugs can thus preferably move into engagement with one
   another in a shape-matched manner in the sensor of a tongue and groove
   connection in the closed position of the locking bracket, whereby a possible gap
   between the two lugs is further increased in favor of an increase in the resistance
 5 of the locking bracket to external effect of force since the introduction of a leverage
   tool into the gap to lever open the locking bracket is made more difficult or is even
   made impossible.
   In accordance with yet a further embodiment, the lug of a respective hoop can
10 have a plurality of bores that are preferably of different sizes, with the respective
   bores of the hoops being aligned with one another in the closed position of the
   locking bracket. Different padlocks that can in particular have closing hoops of
   different lengths and/or different strengths can thus be used to secure the hoops to
   one another, with a plurality of padlocks also being able to be hung through the
15 bores of the two lugs simultaneously as required in order thus to provide additional
   security.
   An exemplary embodiment of a locking bracket in accordance with the invention
   will be explained in the following with reference to a single Figure, in which
20
   Fig. 1         shows a perspective representation of an exemplary embodiment of
                  a locking bracket in accordance with the invention.
   Fig. 1 shows a perspective representation of an embodiment of a locking bracket
25 10 in accordance with the invention by which two mutually adjacent bodies such
   as a gate and a fence post (not shown) can be secured to one another. For this
   purpose, the locking bracket 10 has a first hoop 11 and a second hoop 12 that,
   together with the first hoop 11, surrounds a region 14 in its interior for receiving
   two adjacent bodies. In the embodiment shown here, the first hoop 11 has a
30 substantially U-shaped first hoop section 21 and in a corresponding manner the

                                              7
   second hoop 12 has a substantially U-shaped second hoop section 22 so that the
   first hoop section 21 forms, together with the second hoop section 22, a
   substantially oval or 0-shaped reception region 14 for two adjacent bodies that are
   to be secured to one another by the locking bracket 10.
 5
   The first hoop section 21 has a first end 23 and an oppositely disposed second
   end 25. In a corresponding manner, the second hoop section 22 also has a first
   end 24 and an oppositely disposed second end 26. The two hoops 11, 12 are
   connected to one another by means of a link joint 15 at their first ends 23, 24 so
10 that they can be pivoted about the joint axis 16 between an open position (not
   shown) in which the two second ends 25, 26 of the two hoop sections 21, 22 are
   spaced further apart from one another than in Fig. 1 to be able to lay the locking
   bracket 10 around two mutually adjacent bodies and the closed position shown in
   Fig. 1 in which the two hoop sections 21, 22 cooperate to form the reception
15 region 14 or to surround it.
   As can furthermore be seen from Fig. 1, the first hoop 11 furthermore has a first
   lug 27 that is formed at the second end 25 of the first hoop section 21 and is
   oriented substantially perpendicular to the second end 25. The second hoop 12 in
20 a corresponding manner also has a second lug 28 that is formed at the second
   end 26 of the second hoop section 22 and that is oriented substantially
   perpendicular to the second end 26. In the shown closed position of the locking
   bracket 10, the two lugs 27, 28 thus come to lie in a planoparallel manner next to
   one another, but with them being spaced apart from one another by a gap S of
25 small size.
   A passage bore 32 extends through the second lug 28 and a passage bore, which
   is not recognizable in Fig. 1, however, likewise extends in a corresponding manner
   through the first lug 27, with said second passage bore, however, being aligned in
30 the closed position of the locking bracket 10 shown with the bore 32 in the second

                                              8
   lug 28. A closing hoop of a padlock can thus be led through the bores in the two
   lugs 27, 28 to secure the two hoops 11, 12 to one another in order thus to secure
   the two hoops 11, 12 to one another with the aid of the padlock so that
   simultaneously two mutually adjacent bodies that are surrounded by the two hoop
 5 sections 21, 22 are directly secured to one another by the locking bracket 10.
   In the embodiment shown, the first lug 27 forms a first angled end section 29 and
   the second lug 28 also forms a second angled end section 30 in a corresponding
   manner. In the embodiment shown here, the two end sections 29, 30 are oriented
10 such that they project in mutually opposed directions from the two lugs 27, 28 in
   the closed position of the locking bracket 10 and thus extend in a common
   alignment. The first end section 29 is thus spaced apart from the first end 25 of the
   first hoop section 21 by the lug 27 and the second angled end section 3 is also
   spaced apart from the second end 26 of the second hoop section 22 in a
15 corresponding manner by the second lug 28. A padlock or its closing hoop can
   thus, where required, also be hung via the two lugs 27, 28 for securing the two
   hoops 11, 12 to one another since a padlock hung in this manner at the locking
   bracket 10 via the two lugs 27, 29 is secured by the two angled end sections 29,
   30.
20
   Contrary to the embodiment shown, however, also only the first lug 27 can have
   an angled end section, however, that is oriented contrary to the embodiment
   shown such that it at least partly covers the free end of the second lug 28 in the
   closed position of the locking bracket 10. Although the gap S between the two lugs
25 27, 28 anyway offers hardly any engagement surface for a leverage tool or similar,
   the gap S is not accessible from the front in this embodiment in which the free end
   of the one lug 27, 28 is covered by the angled end section 30, 29 of the other lug
   28, 27, whereby the locking bracket 10 in accordance with the invention can be
   manipulated even less.
30

                                               9
   An embodiment is furthermore also possible in which both the first lug 27 and the
   second lug 28 each form one or more angled end sections which are oriented
   such that they at least partly cover the free end of the respective other lug 28, 27.
   For this purpose, the end sections of the two lugs 27, 28 are formed offset from
 5 one another to be able to engage in a shape-matched manner into one another in
   the sense of a toothed arrangement or of a tongue in groove connection in the
   closed state of the locking bracket 10. The security against breaking open of the
   locking bracket 10 is increased even further by such an interlocking of the end
   sections of the two lugs 27, 28 since it can hereby be ensured that shear forces
10 that can occur on an attempt to lever open the locking bracket 10 are not only
   taken up by the closing hoop of a padlock alone, but additionally also by the
   mutually interlocking end sections of the lugs 27, 28.
   In the locking bracket 10 in accordance with the invention, the two hoops 11, 12,
15 including the respective lugs 27, 28 and the angled end sections 29, 30 of the lugs
   27, 28, are respectively produced from one piece. For example, each of the two
   hoops 11, 12 can be produced from a sheet metal blank in that the latter is bent
   into shape to form the respective hoop section 21, 22, the respective lug 27, 28,
   and the end sections 29, 30. Each of the two hoops 11, 12 is thus produced from
20 one piece and is not, for instance, composed of individual components that are, for
   example, fastened to one another by welding.
   As can further be seen from Fig. 1, the locking bracket 10 in accordance with the
   invention is symmetrical to a plane that extends perpendicular to the joint axis 16
25 of the joint 15. Due to the symmetrical design of the locking bracket 10, the latter
   can be used in different orientations in order, for example, to secure a gate to a
   fence post, with it being ensured in any orientation that a padlock hung through the
   bores of the lugs 27, 28 hangs downward in the desired manner. The locking
   bracket 10 is thus intuitively usable since the user has the possibility to attach the

                                             10
   locking bracket 10 exactly to two bodies to be secured to one another such as the
   conditions on site allow.
   Contrary to the embodiment shown, the lug 27, 28 of each hoop 11, 12 can also
 5 have a plurality of bores that can also be of different sizes as required. Not only
   padlocks having closing hoops of different lengths or strengths can hereby be
   used; a plurality of padlocks can rather also be hung simultaneously through the
   bores of the lugs 27, 28 as required to thus further increase the security against
   breaking open of the locking bracket as required.
10
   In the embodiment shown, the two hoops 11, 12 or their hoop sections 21, 22
   furthermore have bores 33, 34 through which the locking bracket 10 can, for
   example, be screwed to a fence post.
15

                                 11
                        Reference numeral list
   10 locking bracket
   11 first hoop
 5 12 second hoop
   14 reception region
   15 joint
   16 joint axis
   21 first hoop section
10 22 second hoop section
   23 first end
   24 first end
   25 second end
   26 second end
15 27 first lug
   28 second lug
   29 first angled end section
   30 second angled end section
   32 bore
20 33 bore
   34 bore
   S  gap
25

                                          12
                                       Claims
 5
   1. A locking bracket (10) for securing two adjacent bodies to one another, in
      particular for securing a gate to a fence post, having a first hoop (11) and a
      second hoop (12) that, together with the first hoop (11), surrounds a region
      for receiving the two adjacent bodies, wherein the hoops (11, 12)
10    respectively have a first end (23, 24) and a second end (25, 26), wherein
      they are connected to one another in an articulated manner at their first
      ends (23, 24) so that the hoops (11, 12) can be pivoted between an open
      position in which the locking bracket (10) can be arranged around the two
      adjacent bodies and a closed position in which the hoops (11, 12) together
15    surround the region (14) for receiving the two adjacent bodies, wherein
      each of the hoops (11, 12) forms a lug (27, 28) at their second ends (25,
      26), said lug being oriented substantially perpendicular to the second end
      (25, 26) and having at least one bore (32), and wherein the lugs (27, 28) of
      the hoops (11, 12) come to lie in a planoparallel manner with respect to one
20    another in the closed position so that a closing hoop of a padlock can be
      introduced into the bores (32) of the lugs (27, 28) to secure the hoops (11,
      12) to one another.
   2. A locking bracket in accordance with claim 1,
25    characterized in that
      the respective hoop (11, 12), including its lug (27, 28), is produced from one
      piece, preferably from one and the same sheet metal blank.
   3. A locking bracket in accordance with claim 1 or claim 2,

                                           13
      characterized in that
      at least one of the lugs (27, 28) forms an angled end section (29, 30).
   4. A locking bracket in accordance with claim 3,
 5    characterized in that
      the angled end sections (29, 30) of the two lugs (27, 28) project in mutually
      opposite directions therefrom in the closed position of the locking bracket
      (10).
10 5. A locking bracket in accordance with claim 3,
      characterized in that
      at least the angled end section (29, 30) of a lug (27, 28) at least partly
      covers a free end of the other lug (28, 27) in the closed position of the
      locking bracket (10).
15
   6. A locking bracket in accordance with claim 5,
      characterized in that
      the angled end sections (29, 30) of the two lugs (27, 30) respectively form a
      toothed arrangement having at least one tooth, with the teeth of the two
20    lugs (27, 28) being in engagement with one another in the closed position of
      the locking bracket (10).
   7. A locking bracket in accordance with at least one of the preceding claims,
      characterized in that
25    the lug (27, 28) of each hoop (11, 12) has a plurality of bores (32) that are
      preferably of different sizes, with the respective bores (32) of the hoops (11,
      12) being aligned with one another in the closed position of the locking
      bracket (10).

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/1

