                                               ABSTRACT
A light therapy bed (19) including multiple LEDs positioned in individually controllable modules
(40) is disclosed. The modules (40) of LEDs are configured to have direct contact or in close
proximity to the skin or tissue of the user, through an acrylic or similar cover (49). The LEDs light
the surface and underlying layers of tissue for photodynamic stimulation of the cells. Iterations
of the device utilize light known to have a bactericidal effect in the case of acne, MRSA, etc. The
bed (19) is fabricated and formed in a curved configuration to optimize contact between the
LEDs and the skin of a user. Each of the LED modules (40) may be mounted on a PCB in an
arrangement to provide even lighting and temperature upon the skin or tissue surface of a user.
Each module (40) also has one or more thermal sensors that evenly and quickly heat all of the
areas of a user's body.
                                                  30

                                          LED THERAPY BED
                                      Background of the Invention
[0001]         Exemplary embodiments of the invention relate to improvements in a light
       emitting diode (LED) therapy bed. More particularly, the LED therapy bed provides a
       dermal therapy bed that can provide health benefits to a person by elevating and
       maintaining the therapy temperature of a person on the bed as a source of bio
       stimulative, non-coherent, non-monochromatic light.
[0002]         Exemplary embodiments of this invention relate to improvements in medical
       devices for topical photodynamic therapy (POT) treatment of patients. Specifically,
       exemplary embodiments relate to a rigid surface (circuit board) containing LEDs as a
       source of bio-stimulative, non-coherent, non-monochromatic light, which are placed in
       contact or in close proximity with the patient's skin or tissue, and a method for making
       that apparatus.
                                     Description of the Related Art
[0003]         Nonmonochromatic light as defined wavelengths has produced beneficial bio
       stimulative effects and has been known to trigger specific biological functions, such as
       increased rate of metabolism, photo-repair and cell division. Stimulation has occurred,
       however, with light emitted in specific wavelengths.
[0004]         While the exact mechanism by which the beneficial bio-stimulative effects have
       been achieved is not precisely known, several theories have been put forth. It has been
       suggested that non-monochromatic light emitted in the range of about 415nm to
       about 940nm penetrates body tissue and is absorbed, reflected and scattered to excite
       molecules within cells and tissue to thereby accelerate repair and regeneration. It is
       known, however, that light in the range of about 415nm to about 465nm has a
       bactericidal effect, thereby relieving the appearance of bacteria induced acne.
                                                    1

[0005]         A further theory suggests that different cells have different photoreceptors,
       which respond to only particular wavelengths of light. This theory supports the
       phenomenon that the application of only certain wavelengths of light result in bio
       stimulative effects and the resulting stimulation of the dermis and an increase of
       collagen and elastin production.
[0006]         With respect to similar but non-LED technology, light therapy has utilized lasers
       with relatively low power and bio-stimulative treatment utilizing lasers has been
       referred to as "soft" laser therapy. In such applications, low level laser energy radiation
       has been successfully employed to stimulate wound healing and treatment of
       musculoskeletal disorders and skin ulcers.
[0007]         It has been previously theorized that the properties of laser radiation, which
       resulted in the beneficial bio-stimulative effects of soft laser therapy, were the
       monochromaticity and coherence of laser radiation.
[0008]         In a prior invention, Applicant noted that if bio-stimulative light effects were
       compounded by combining into one device four different wavelengths of light, each
       with known benefits, that the effects could be greater than if each wavelength was
       applied separately, and that close proximity of the LEDs to the user promoted uniform
       coverage of the target area, in order to receive all wavelengths simultaneously, and
       more effective penetration of light.
[0009]        Therapy beds have taken a variety of shapes and functions over the years.
       Some early therapy beds claimed to provide the health benefits of the sun, while later
       versions provided mostly tanning effects to the skin of the user.
                                                    2

[0010]          A number of patents and/or publications relate to these issues. Exemplary
       examples of patents and/or publications that try to address this/these issue(s) are
       identified and discussed below.
[0011]          U.S. Patent Number 6,896,693 discloses a "Photo-Therapy Device." The photo
       therapy device of the patent operates up to several feet from the user.
[0012]          U.S. Patent Number 8,425,577 discloses a "LED Phototherapy Apparatus." This
       patent uses red and near infra-red light to provide phototherapy. This patent uses an
       acrylic support that spaces the LEDs from the user and further distances the LEDs from
       the user with a top cover that is distanced from the user.
[0013]          U.S. Publication Number 2009/0222070 discloses a "Capsule with Whole Body
       LED Photo-Therapy System."
[0014]          Known LED beds appear to be based on retrofitted tanning beds. This design
       raises several issues which include:
                1) Tanning beds having a clamshell design and a top portion which may sit too
       far away from the body for LEDs to effectively penetrate the body of a user and deliver
       therapeutic energy. The bottom portion of a retrofitted tanning bed may have the
       same problem with proximity because the LEDs may sit too far away from the body for
       optimal efficacy.
                2) An acrylic cover of a tanning bed may distort the preset angle being emitted
       by the LEDs and may also reduce power output.
                3) With a LED bed that is retrofitted from a tanning bed, it may be impracticable
       or impossible to simultaneously raise the temperature of all parts of the human body
       because the torso would heat up and get hotter than the legs or the arms, and in some
       instances even the legs would heat up faster and get hotter than the arms. This
                                                     3

       drawback may negatively affect the ability to obtain FDA clearance for a retrofitted
       tanning bed type LED bed.
               4) At a distance of several inches between the LEDs and the user, the
       temperature needed to elevate the skin to obtain skin dilation and further provide the
       best penetration of phototherapy may be difficult, impractical or even impossible to
       obtain. In such an application, the benefits provided by the LEDs may be reduced by
       the support and the distance between the user and the LEDs.
[0015]         What is needed is a phototherapy device that provides regulated skin
       temperature so that all areas of the body can be brought up to a therapeutic
       temperature level simultaneously and held at that temperature, and which can do so
       regardless of non-optimum environmental conditions like ambient temperature; and
       further provides very close dermal phototherapy to the light sources.
[0016]         Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
       has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that
       any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general
       knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the
       priority date of each of the appended claims.
[0017]         Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
       "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
       element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion
       of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
                                       Summary of the Invention
[0018]         An aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is to provide a
       light therapy system of the general character described which improves upon at least
       one of the above-described limitations and drawbacks of the above-described prior art.
                                                   4

[0019]        A LED therapy bed comprises a support frame having a plurality of LED
       modules; the plurality of LED modules each having upstanding walls; an acrylic cover
       over the LEDs in the modules; the acrylic cover resting on and supported by the
       upstanding walls of the modules; a frame supporting the LED therapy bed; each LED
       module having a plurality of different LEDs regulated by one or more current limiting
       circuits; the plurality of different LEDs configured to be overdriven to increase light
       output beyond normal operating intensity and to further produce thermal heat from
       the plurality of LEDs in order to produce a skin temperature of a user between 101
       and 108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal conduction; each of the LED modules
       further including at least one thermal sensor placed between the LEDs and is in
       conductive contact with the acrylic cover; the thermal sensor being supported by and
       resting within a flexible arm that is located between the LEDs of each module; the
       thermal sensor locally senses a temperature adjacent the underside of the acrylic
       cover which is over the LEDs within a module; each of the LED modules further
       including at least one fan wherein the fan speed is regulated directly or indirectly by
       said at least one thermal sensor; and a master controller that controls the LEDs, the at
       least one fan and the at least one thermal sensor in each said module; wherein the
       temperature of each module, LED or cluster of LEDs is separately controlled while
       each module or LED or cluster of LEDs is providing treatment; wherein the LEDs,
       thermal sensor, current limiting circuit and fan are controlled by the master controller
       to raise and maintain the skin temperature of all areas of the user's body being
       treated by the LED therapy bed from a starting temperature to a same therapeutic
       temperature in the range of 101 to 108 degrees Fahrenheit.
[0020]        A LED therapy bed comprises a plurality of LED modules; a frame supporting the
       LED therapy bed; each LED module having a plurality of different LEDs regulated by
       one or more current limiting circuits; the plurality of different LEDs configured to be
       overdriven to increase light output beyond normal operating intensity and to further
       produce thermal heat from the plurality of LEDs in order to produce a skin
                                                   5

       temperature of a user between 101 and 108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal
       conduction; an acrylic cover over the LEDs in the modules; each of the LED modules
       further including at least one thermal sensor placed between the LEDs and is in
       conductive contact with the acrylic cover; the thermal sensor being supported by and
       resting within a flexible arm that is located between the LEDs of each module; the
       thermal sensor locally senses a temperature adjacent the underside of the acrylic cover
       which is over the LEDs within a module; each of the LED modules further including at
       least one fan wherein the fan speed is regulated directly or indirectly by said at least
       one thermal sensor; and a master controller that controls the LEDs, the at least one fan
       and the at least one thermal sensor in each said module; wherein the temperature of
       each module, LED or cluster of LEDs is separately controlled while each module or LED
       or cluster of LEDs is providing treatment; wherein the LEDs, thermal sensor, current
       limiting circuit and fan are controlled by the master controller to raise and maintain the
       skin temperature of all areas of the user's body being treated by the LED therapy bed
       from a starting temperature to a same therapeutic temperature in the range of 101 to
       108 degrees Fahrenheit, wherein the temperature of each of the areas of the user's
       body being treated reaches the same therapeutic temperature at the same time.
[0021]         Exemplary embodiments of the invention provide a custom designed bottom
       portion that has the LEDs virtually right up against an acrylic or other material cover,
       such that the LEDs are in some embodiments only about 1/4-1/2 inch from the users
       body, where a user would treat one side of their body and then flip over and treat the
       other side of their body. Alternatively, both sides of a user's body can be treated at the
       same time by having another bed positioned above the user that can be lowered into
       contact or near contact with the user.
[0022]         Exemplary embodiments include an acrylic cover which does not distort or
       minimizes distortion of the angle of the LED energy being emitted, and which lets
                                                     6

       almost all of the energy pass through to the user for therapeutic effect. Examples of
       known acrylic are a transparent or ultra transparent acrylic.
[0023]         Exemplary embodiments include modules of LEDs which may be controlled
       individually or in groups, so that one part of the user will not be at too high or too low
       a temperature, compared to other parts of the user's body. In order to gain FDA
       clearance, it is necessary to simultaneously raise the temperature of all parts of the
       human body, e.g., the torso, the legs, the arms, neck, etc. Additionally, these modules
       are able to maintain the temperature regardless of normal variations in environmental
       or other conditions, like ambient temperature.
[0024]         According to an exemplary embodiment, a LED therapy bed includes a support
       frame having a plurality of rails. The plurality of rails form a curved support. The rails
       support a plurality of separately controlled LED modules, where each module has a
       plurality of LEDs regulated by a current limiting circuit. Said plurality of LEDs being
       overdriven to increase light output beyond normal operating intensity and to further
       produce thermal heat from said plurality of LEDs in order to produce a skin
       temperature of a user of between 97 and 108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal
       conduction. Each module further including at least one thermal sensor that locally
       senses a temperature of said module; and each module further including at least one
       fan wherein said fan speed is regulated directly or indirectly by said at least one
       thermal sensor. A master controller that controls each said module LEDs, the at least
       one thermal sensor and the at least one fan; wherein the temperature of each module
       or LED is separately controlled.
[0025]         According to another exemplary embodiment, a LED therapy bed includes a
       support frame having a plurality of rails forming a curved support. The rails support a
       plurality of separately controlled LED modules.
                                                    7

[0026]         Each module has a plurality of LEDs regulated by a current limiting circuit. The
       plurality of LEDs being overdriven to increase light output beyond normal operating
       intensity and to further produce thermal heat from said plurality of LEDs, wherein the
       plurality of LEDs is configured in order to produce a skin temperate of between 97 and
       108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal conduction. Each LED module further
       including at least one thermal sensor that locally senses a temperature of said module.
       Each module further including at least one fan wherein said fan speed is regulated
       directly or indirectly by said at least one thermal sensor, and a master controller that
       controls the LEDs, the at least one fan and the at least one temperature sensor in each
       said module, wherein the temperature of each module is separately controlled. The
       illumination of each module can also be separately controlled.
[0027]         According to another exemplary embodiment, a LED therapy bed includes a
       support frame having a plurality of rails forming a curved support. The rails support a
       plurality of LED modules. Each module having a plurality of LEDs regulated by one or
       more current limiting circuits. The plurality of different colored LEDs being overdriven
       to increase light output beyond normal operating intensity and to further produce
       thermal heat from said plurality of LEDs in order to produce a skin temperate of a user
       of between 97 and 108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal conduction. Each LED
       module further including at least one thermal sensor that locally senses a temperature
       of said module. Examples of known acrylic are transparent or ultra transparent acrylic.
       However, other acrylics may be used as well. The cover is located over the top of the
       LEDs and space the LEDs from the user. Each module further including at least one fan
       wherein said fan speed is regulated directly or indirectly by said at least one
       temperature sensor. A master controller controls the LEDs, the at least one fan and the
       at least one thermal sensor in each module; wherein the temperature of each module
       can be separately controlled.
                                                    8

[0028]         According to another exemplary embodiment, a light emitting diode (LED)
       therapy bed comprises a support frame having a plurality of rails forming a curved
       support; the plurality of rails supporting a plurality of LED modules; each module
       having a plurality of LEDs regulated by one or more current limiting circuits; the
       plurality of LEDs have the same wavelength or different wavelengths; one or more of
       the LEDs being overdriven to increase light output beyond normal operating intensity
       and to further produce thermal heat from the plurality of LEDs in order to produce a
       skin temperate of a user of between 97 and 108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct
       thermal conduction; each LED module further including at least one thermal sensor
       that locally senses a temperature of the LED module; an acrylic cover over the top of
       the LEDs; each module further including at least one fan whereby the fan speed is
       regulated directly or indirectly by said at least one temperature sensor; and a master
       controller that controls the LEDs, the at least one fan and the at least one thermal
       sensor in each module; wherein the temperature of each module is separately
       controlled, and wherein a user lays on the LED therapy bed while receiving therapy,
       and wherein the LED therapy bed supports the body of a user lying on the LED therapy
       bed but does not cover the user while the user is lying on the LED therapy bed.
[0029]         According to another exemplary embodiment, a LED therapy bed comprises a
       plurality of LED modules; a frame for supporting the LED therapy bed; each module
       having a plurality of LEDs regulated by one or more current limiting circuits; the
       plurality of different LEDs being overdriven to increase light output beyond normal
       operating intensity and to further produce thermal heat from the plurality of LEDs in
       order to produce a skin temperate of a user of between 97 and 108 degrees Fahrenheit
       from direct thermal conduction; each LED module further including at least one
       thermal sensor that locally senses a temperature of the LED module or individual LEDs
       or clusters of LEDs within a module; an acrylic cover over the top of the LEDs; each
       module further including at least one fan wherein the fan speed is regulated directly or
       indirectly by said at least one temperature sensor; and a master controller that
                                                    9

       controls the LEDs, the at least one fan and the at least one thermal sensor in each said
       module; wherein the temperature of each module, LED or cluster of LEDs is separately
       controlled, and wherein after one side of a user is treated by the modules, the user
       may turn over to have the opposite side of the user's body treated.
[0030]         In embodiments, the LED therapy bed comprises a system for light therapy
       which utilizes non-coherent light generated by an array of LEDs which are confined
       within a bandwidth of about 415nm to about 940nm. The diode array is configured in a
       matrix to direct the light onto a diffused area of the user without utilizing an optical
       system or any intermediary material other than the acrylic layer. The LEDs rest directly
       on, or in close proximity to, the user through the use of the acrylic or similar layer.
[0031]         In embodiments of the LED therapy bed, the LEDs are overdriven to create heat
       that is conducted to the skin of the user to provide heat in addition to the light
       therapy. In some exemplary embodiments, a single current regulating, limiting device
       or a single resistor may be used to consistently limit the current to all of the LEDs and
       provide both even illumination and heat.
[0032]         In embodiments, the LED therapy bed provides a light therapy system of the
       general character described, which produces beneficial bio-stimulative effects.
[0033]         In embodiments, the LED therapy bed provides a light therapy method of the
       general character described whereby non-coherent and non-monochromatic light
       within a wavelength range of about 415nm to about 940nm is employed for photo-bio
       stimulation.
[0034]         In embodiments, the LED therapy bed provides a light therapy method of the
       general character described which utilizes non-coherent and non-monochromatic light
       emanating from the LEDs.
                                                    10

[0035]          In embodiments, the LED therapy bed includes multiple modules of LED banks
       where each bank includes an individual thermal control of the module to maintain
       optimal skin dilation temperature. In one exemplary embodiment, each module
       includes 608 LEDs arranged in 19 rows by 32 columns. However, the exemplary
       embodiments are not limited to this particular exemplary embodiment and a thermal
       control may control more than one module, as would be understood by one of
       ordinary skill in the art.
[0036]          In embodiments, the LED therapy bed may have an open top surface that does
       not cover over a person. Such an exemplary embodiment includes LEDs under the user
       where the small distance between the LEDs and the user can be maintained. Each bed
       has banks of modules are arranged in five rows by six columns. However, the invention
       is not limited to this structure and more or less columns and/or rows may be provided,
       including patterns other than columns and/or rows, such as circular shape, chevron
       shape, diagonal shape, etc.
[0037]          In embodiments, the LED therapy bed includes one or more fans for cooling
       individual modules in order to regulate the temperature transmitted to the acrylic
       cover 49.
[0038]          The benefits of the LEDs are logarithmically proportional to the distance
       between the LED and the user.
[0039]          Various objects, features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will
       become      more apparent from the following detailed description of exemplary
       embodiments of the invention, along with the accompanying drawings in which like
       numerals represent like components.
                                                    11

                                      Brief Description of the Drawings
[0040]          FIG. 1 illustrates a perspective view of a LED therapy bed.
[0041]          FIG. 2 illustrates a perspective cross-sectional view of the LED therapy bed,
       taken along lines 2-2 of FIG. 1.
[0042]          FIG. 3 illustrates a perspective cross-sectional view of the LED therapy bed,
       taken along lines 3-3 of FIG. 1.
[0043]          FIG. 4 illustrates a perspective view of a single LED module.
[0044]          FIG. 5 illustrates a perspective sectional view of the single LED module, as taken
       along line 5-5 of FIG. 4.
[0045]          FIG. 6 illustrates a detailed view of the LED module according to detail 6,
       identified in FIG. 2.
[0046]          FIG. 7 illustrates a detailed view of the LED module, according to detail 7
       identified in FIG. 3.
[0047]          FIG. 8 illustrates a block diagram of the LED therapy bed according to an
       exemplary embodiment.
[0048]          FIG. 9 illustrates the thermistor temperature sensor of FIG. 5, in greater detail.
[0049]          FIG. 10 illustrates the thermistor thermal sensor of FIG. 9, placed in an LED
       module.
                                                      12

                         Detailed Description of the Exemplary Embodiments
[0050]         For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the
       invention, reference will now be made to exemplary embodiments illustrated in the
       drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless
       be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is hereby intended. Any
       alterations and further modifications of the principles of the invention as described
       herein are contemplated and would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the art to
       which the invention relates.
[0051]         Turning to FIG. 1, this figure shows a perspective view of an LED therapy bed
       19, according to an exemplary embodiment. The LED therapy bed 19 is configured as
       having an open top structure. A plurality of legs 23 suspends a frame structure above
       the ground. The frame structure has front and rear frame members 22 and 25 with
       elongated side members 24 there between. As shown in FIG. 1, the bed has a plurality
       of modules 40, as discussed below in further detail. At one or both ends of the therapy
       bed 19 is a head rest/face rest 20 which has inner side supports 21. Element 20 serves
       as a headrest when a user is laying on their back on the LED therapy bed, and serves as
       a face rest when a user is laying face down on the LED therapy bed 19. A space
       between the inner side supports 21 serves to receive the face of a user who is laying
       face down on the LED therapy bed 19. As additionally shown in FIG. 1, an acrylic cover
       49 rests on the LED therapy bed 19 and is between the user and the LED modules 40.
       The acrylic cover or layer 49 is designed to lower the temperature between the bottom
       of the cover, which rests on the LEDs          and the frame of the modules and the
       temperature of the top of the cover, which receives the body of the user. The
       temperature of the top of the acrylic cover 49 which receives the body of the user is at
       a temperature of between 97-108"F, depending on the therapy to be provided.
       Although an acrylic cover is disclosed, other suitable materials may be used for a
       transparent or nearly transparent acrylic cover that rests on the LEDs in the LED
       modules. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated, the weight of the user presses
                                                    13

       down on the acrylic layer 49 such that the LEDs are in contact with the body through
       the acrylic layer.
[0052]         Turning to FIG. 2, this figure is a perspective view taken along lines 2-2 in FIG. 1.
       In this figure, lengthwise extending frame members extend from one end of the
       therapy bed 19 to an opposite end. The frame members have an upper portion which
       is in an inverted "V" shape. Connected to the bottom of each inverted frame member
       is a horizontally extending member 31. Two horizontally extending members in the
       center portion are of the same height. The two elongated frame members on either
       side of the two centrally located horizontally extending members are labeled as 27 and
       have a larger height than the centrally located horizontally extending members, which
       are labeled as 31. Thus, both horizontally extending members 31 are of the same
       height and both elongated frame members 27 are of the same height. Outside of the
       horizontally extending members are outer members which are hollow and are labeled
       as 33. Above the outer tubular members 33 are hollow upper portions 34. Extending
       crosswise between the frame members are frame supports 28, which extend crosswise
       under the center of each LED module 40. Although a specific frame structure has been
       described, other frame structures may be substituted. One or both ends of the LED
       therapy bed 19 has a head or face rest 20 with inner side supports 21 which support a
       person that is lying on the LED therapy bed 19 on their back or on their face, in order to
       enable the person using the LED therapy bed 19 to receive therapeutic benefits to
       either front, back or sides of the user. Sides of the user are treated by a user laying on
       one side and then, if needed, on their other side. A plurality of removable and
       replaceable LED modules 40 are placed in the frame of the LED therapy bed 19. The
       transparent acrylic cover 49 provides a slight spacing between the user and the LEDs.
       The transparent acrylic cover 49 distributes the weight of the user on the frame
       structure of the plurality of removable and replaceable LED modules 40. The
       transparent acrylic cover 49 is preferably made from a clear material, such as acrylic or
                                                      14

       polycarbonate, but other materials may be used that provide equivalent or superior
       transparency or structural strength.
[0053]          As can be additionally seen in FIG. 2, elongated side members 24 and 26 are
       above legs 23. Between the elongated side members 24 and 26, elongated frame
       members 27 and 31 support the LED modules 40 in a curved configuration that centers
       the user in the center of the LED therapy bed 19. The head rest or face rest 20 supports
       the rear of the head of a user and can support the face of a user and provides
       clearance for the user to breathe through their nose or mouth. A support 29 connects
       an end of the LED therapy bed 19 and the head rest or face rest 20. Although one head
       rest or face rest 20 has been shown, the head rest or face rest 20 can be located on
       either end of the therapy bed. In one exemplary embodiment, the LED therapy bed 19
       has thirty LED modules 40 configured in five columns and six rows, but LED therapy
       beds with more or less modules and a different numbers of columns and rows of
       modules may be provided. Each LED module 40 is essentially the same, but may be of
       different shape or size, and each LED module 40 can be removed, replaced or swapped.
       Each LED module 40 is self-contained and can operate independently or together with
       any or all other LED modules 40. The LED modules 40 are shown and described in more
       detail in other figures herein.
[0054]          Turning next to FIG. 3, this figure is a perspective view of FIG. 1, taken along line
       3-3. As shown in FIG. 3, a rectangular connector 30 is provided. This connector 30 fits in
       the cutaway portions 45 (see FIG. 4) at the corners of each LED module 40. The corners
       of four modules form a rectangle which receives rectangular connector 30 to hold the
       LED modules 40 in place. The top of the connector 30 is below the top of the LEDs, in
       an exemplary embodiment.
[0055]          FIG. 4 illustrates a perspective view of a single LED module 40. In one exemplary
       embodiment, each LED module 40 has a matrix of LEDs configured in 19 by 32 columns
                                                       15

       for a total of 608 LEDs, but other embodiments of rows and columns of LEDs may be
       provided, instead of the particular configuration shown.         The LEDs provide non
       coherent light generated by an array of conventional light emitting diodes (LEDs) which
       are confined within a bandwidth of about 415nm to about 940nm. The LED array is
       configured in a matrix to direct the light onto a diffuse area of the user, through the
       acrylic layer, without utilizing an optical system, etc. The light is emitted at a preset
       angle to provide the most effective treatment of a user. Housing 41 supports the
       internal electronics and a circuit board 46 (see FIG. 5) which supports the LEDs 44. Each
       individual LED 44 module 40 may be secured to the housing 41 with fasteners 43. In
       addition, in one exemplary embodiment, one or more of the separately controlled LED
       modules 40 may have electrical connections for between about 100 to about 1,000
       LEDs 44.
[0056]         Each   LED module 40 is self-contained and independently regulates its
       temperature to maintain an optimal skin dilatation temperature. A current limiting
       device connects to the LEDs. In an exemplary embodiment, the current limiting resistor
       is selected to provide a deliberate increase in said skin tissue temperature of a user
       where the skin temperature is between 97 - 108 degrees F, when held continuously
       against or in very close proximity to a user's skin tissue for a fifteen-minute period.
       Each LED module 40 has openings or holes 42 for venting air from the inside of the LED
       module 40. The holes 42 allow for cooling or heating air to be independently moved
       through each LED module 40 to independently regulate the temperature of each LED
       module 40. As shown in FIG. 4, the top portion of LED module 40 overhangs the
       housing 41 so that the air from the holes 42 is vented away from each LED module 40.
       In addition, each module has one or more fans 51 to move air within the module, in
       order to control the temperature of the air below acrylic cover 49, which results in
       control of the temperature of the top of the acrylic cover, which is in contact with the
       body of the user. Individual control of the temperature of the air above and below the
       acrylic cover is important because different portions of a user's body put out more
                                                    16

       heat than other portions. For example, a user's legs put out more heat than the user's
       trunk; whereas the user's arms may put out more heat than the user's legs, etc. As an
       alternative, the LED therapy bed 19 may be formed from two modules. In addition, a
       second set of modules may be lowered onto or otherwise placed on the other side of
       the user to treat both sides of the user at the same time. Moreover, the bed or upper
       and lower beds may be vertically oriented or oriented at an angle to the vertical or
       horizontal.
[0057]          FIG. 5 shows a perspective sectional view of the single LED module 40 from FIG.
       4, taken along line 5-5 in FIG. 4. Each module 40 can have a heating element (not
       shown) that can pre-heat each module independently in order to reduce the time
       required to obtain the desired therapy temperature for a particular user. A thermistor,
       other heat sensor or temperature sensor 85 is located at the top of each LED module
       40 to determine the temperature of each LED module 40. The thermistor, other heat
       sensor or temperature sensor 85 sits on a frame and is supported on legs 82. An
       illustration of the thermistor or other heat or temperature sensor can be found in FIGS.
       9 and 10.
[0058]          A controller is located either within each LED module 40 or at a separate master
       location. The controller measures the temperatures through sensors 85 and operates
       the fan 51 that is connected to a motor 52 found in compartment 50 at the bottom of
       the LED module 40. The fan 51 has blades and the fan speed changes to maintain the
       surface temperature of the LEDs 44 at the underside of acrylic cover 49. The fan
       compartment 50 is kept in place by screws 53, or is otherwise secured to the housing
       41 of LED module 40. The regulation of the fan speed and cooling is required because
       the LEDs 44 are overdriven to create heat that is conducted to the skin of the user to
       provide heat in addition to the light therapy.
                                                      17

[0059]         In some exemplary embodiments, the power applied to the bank of LEDs is
       through an LED driver. The LED driver can be in a variety of forms, from a simple
       resistor to a transistor, SCR, current driver, Diac, Triac or other solid state device. The
       power to a module of LEDs or to each LED 44 is supplied at a desired power or current,
       as controlled by the controller. The current regulating or limiting device is used to
       consistently limit the current to the LEDs and provide both even illumination and the
       specific temperatures needed. Because the LEDs are often driven beyond their normal
       level of illumination, the LEDs produce excessive heat. Excessive heat is exhausted
       from each LED module 40 through holes 42, as a result of the air flow created by fan
       51.
[0060]         Different wavelengths of light and combinations of wavelengths of light have
       been shown to provide various treatments including, but not limited to:
[0061]         1. Treatment of wrinkles/anti-aging, and to reduce pore size: about 605nm,
       about 630nm, about 660nm and about 850-855nm.
[0062]         2. Pain relief including carpal-tunnel and arthritic pain: about 630nm, about
       660nm, about 850-855nm and about 940nm.
[0063]         3. Treat acne and heal burn victims: about 415nm or about 460 - about 465nm,
       about 660nm and about 850 - about 855nm.
[0064]         4. Rosacea: about 415nm or about 460-465nm, about 630nm, about 660nm and
       about 850-855nm.
[0065]         5. MRSA: about 415nm or about 460-465nm and about 850-855nm.
                                                    18

[0066]        6. Treat swelling and inflammation of the brain caused by severe head trauma:
       about 850-about 855nm.
[0067]        7. Psoriasis + Eczema (used w/serum): about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850
       855nm and about 940nm.
[0068]        8. Post-op to reduce scarring, bruising, healing time, pain, inflammation and
       redness: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm, and about 940nm.
[0069]        9. Reverse blindness caused by diabetes: about 630nm, about 660nm, about
       850-855nm, and about 940nm.
[0070]        10. Reverse macular degeneration: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850
       855nm, and about 940nm.
[0071]        11. Heal sores in the mouth caused by chemo-therapy: about 630nm, about
       660nm, about 850-855nm, and about 940nm.
[0072]        12. Skin cancer: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm, and about
       940nm.
[0073]        13. Bruising: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm, and about 940nm.
[0074]        14. Sinuses: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm, and about 940nm.
[0075]        15. Bell's Palsy: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm, about 940nm,
       about 605nm, about 630nm, about 660nm, and about 850-855nm.
[0076]        16. Heal the chest after open-heart surgery: about 850-855nm.
                                                  19

[0077]         17. Help to re-grow hair: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm,and
       about 940nm.
[0078]         18. Fibromyalgia: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm, about 940nm
       and about 605nm, about 630nm, about 660nm, and about 850-855nm.
[0079]         19. Increase of Nitric Oxide production: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850
       855nm, and about 940nm.
[0080]         20. Increased blood circulation: about 630nm, about 660nm, about 850-855nm,
       and about 940nm.
[0081]         21. Pigmentation and age spots: about 605nm, about 630nm, about 660nm,
       and about 850 - 855nm.
[0082]         The plurality of light can have a small variation between the light frequencies,
       such as about 625nm, about 630nm and about 635nm, by using LEDs with different
       dispersion and intensities. These light frequencies, about 625nm, about 630nm and
       about 635nm can be combined with a light frequency of about 415nm that kill bacteria
       to provide optimal benefit. Although specific wavelengths are described above, the
       wavelengths can be modified, if desired. In addition, although the term "about" is used
       in the specification when listing specific wavelengths, the term "about" is used because
       manufacturing tolerances may differ and because a very similar but not exact
       wavelength may work as well as the listed wavelength.
[0083]         FIG. 6 shows a detailed view of the LED module 40 from the detail 6 identified
       in FIG. 2. The LED module 40 is shown installed and retained in the top of side frame
       member 26. At the top of side frame member 26 is a hollow upper portion 34 (see FIG.
                                                    20

       2). As further shown in FIG. 6, a side of the acrylic cover 49 rests on a rubber strip 47
       and is kept in place from moving upwardly by overhang 48 of the hollow upper portion
       34 of side frame member 26. These sections show the fan compartment 50 that
       provides air flow to maintain the temperature of the LED module 40, and in particular,
       to control the air temperature at the bottom and top of the LEDs which are beneath
       acrylic cover 49. Below rails 28 is a mesh fabric 35 which is made of metal or another
       suitable material, and which extends across most of the underside of the LED therapy
       bed.
[0084]         FIG. 7 shows a detailed view of the LED module 40 from the detail 7 identified
       in FIG. 3. The head rest or face rest 20 supports the rear of the head of a user and can
       support the face of a user and provides clearance for the user to breathe through their
       nose or mouth. A support 29 is connected between frame member 26 of the LED
       therapy bed 19 and the head rest or face rest 20. Although a frame is shown
       supporting the modules, other different frames may be substituted. In addition,
       although a plurality of modules 40 are shown to be located below the user, the
       modules 40 can also be placed above the user. In addition, sets of modules 40 can be
       place both above and below the user, as well as to cover the sides of the user.
       Moreover, although the modules 40 are described as being essential horizontal, they
       can alternatively be placed in a vertical orientation or at an angle from the vertical or
       horizontal axes.
[0085]         FIG. 8 shows a block diagram of the LED therapy bed 19. A controller 70 is wired
       at 71 to each of the LED modules 40. The connection from the controller 70 to the LED
       modules 40 can be a direct connection to each LED module 40 or can be connected in a
       serial or daisy chain method. The controller 70 is the master controller and each LED
       module 40 is a slave unit to controller 70. The host operates the display and a keyboard
       or knobs that accept user input, and operates the display, indicators, sound making
                                                    21

       devices etc., and the slave unit(s). Each slave LED module 40 has their own controller
       that controls the LEDs, fan, and monitors the temperature sensors.
[0086]         Turning to FIGs. 9 and 10, the temperature sensor 85 is located at the end of a
       flexible arm 80 that rests on or is secured on the LED matrix circuit board via a support
       structure. The flexible arm 80 retains the temperature sensor 85, which may be a
       thermistor, in conductive contact or nearly conductive contact with the underside of
       the transparent acrylic cover 49 and accommodates some flexing of the transparent
       acrylic cover 49 that is supported on the frame containing the LEDs 44. It is also
       contemplated that a thermal image temperature sensor can be used that does not rely
       upon conductive contact with the underside of the transparent acrylic cover 49. On
       the underside of the flexible arm 80 is a projection 83. This projection 83 may press
       downwardly onto the top of spring 81 when the arm is downwardly flexed. The
       thermistor 85 or equivalent rests in a groove in the top surface of the flexible arm 80. A
       wire or wires 86 extend from thermistor 85 across the flexible arm 80 and down to the
       printed circuit board (PCB) that the LEDs 44 are supported on. The flexible arm 80 is
       supported on a frame 79 which rests on legs 82. The frame is located between the
       LEDS 44 and the top of thermistor 85 is just below the top of the LEDs 44. While one
       temperature sensor is shown in this exemplary embodiment, multiple temperature
       sensors can be placed in the LED array to the underside of the transparent acrylic cover
       49. Multiple temperature sensors 85 allow for reduction in the conduction of
       heat/cooling from a part of the user's body placed on the transparent acrylic cover 49.
       In addition to temperature sensors placed between the LEDs and below the
       transparent acrylic cover 49, additional temperature sensors can be located on the
       (PCB)   and/or elsewhere within the LED module. The temperature sensors 85
       communicate with the module where a controller 70 in each module, or a central
       controller, which operates one or more cooling fans 51 to maintain the temperature of
       the module 40.
                                                   22

[0087]         At least one temperature sensor 85 is held in near contact with the bottom
       surface of the transparent acrylic cover 49 by being located just below the top of the
       LEDs 44. As previously described, each LED module 40 has six-hundred and eight LEDs
       but more or less than the six-hundred and eight LEDs may be provided. The number of
       wavelengths of the LEDs utilized is selected based upon the desired therapy. In
       addition, the LEDs can be fabricated with an internal cluster of LEDs and the
       transmission color of each individual LED 44 can be changed, based upon the desired
       therapy. In an exemplary embodiment, a plurality of different colored LEDs may be
       placed in a repeating pattern.
[0088]         Skin and other body tissues have the ability to absorb light and use it as a
       source of energy to stimulate cellular regeneration. The light rays that are emitted
       from the device are beneficial for your skin, as they contain no UV rays. The problem
       with getting these same light rays from the sun is that you also get the harmful UV
       rays. These harmful rays can do more damage to your skin than good. With LEDs, when
       the correct wavelengths of light are closely and intensely flowed into the body at the
       proper temperatures, collagen and elastin areproduced by cells called Fibroblasts.
       Inside these cells is a smaller cellular structure called Mitochondria.
[0089]         Thus, specific exemplary embodiments of a LED therapy bed 19 have been
       disclosed. It should be apparent, however, to those skilled in the art that many more
       modifications besides those described herein are possible without departing from the
       inventive concepts contained herein. The inventive subject matter, therefore, is not to
       be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims.
                                                      23

                                          CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A LED therapy bed comprising:
        a support frame having a plurality of LED modules;
        the plurality of LED modules each having upstanding walls;
        an acrylic cover over the LEDs in the modules;
the acrylic cover resting on and supported by the upstanding walls of the modules;
        a frame supporting the LED therapy bed;
        each LED module having a plurality of different LEDs regulated by one or more
current limiting circuits;
        the plurality of different LEDs configured to be overdriven to increase light
output beyond normal operating intensity and to further produce thermal heat from
the plurality of LEDs in order to produce a skin temperature of a user between 101 and
108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal conduction;
        each of the LED modules further including at least one thermal sensor placed
between the LEDs and is in conductive contact with the acrylic cover; the thermal
sensor being supported by and resting within a flexible arm that is located between the
LEDs of each module; the thermal sensor locally senses a temperature adjacent the
underside of the acrylic cover which is over the LEDs within a module;
        each of the LED modules further including at least one fan wherein the fan
speed is regulated directly or indirectly by said at least one thermal sensor; and
a master controller that controls the LEDs, the at least one fan and the at least one
thermal sensor in each said module; wherein the temperature of each module, LED or
cluster of LEDs is separately controlled while each module or LED or cluster of LEDs is
providing treatment;
wherein the LEDs, thermal sensor, current limiting circuit and fan are controlled by the
master controller to raise and maintain the skin temperature of all areas of the user's
body being treated by the LED therapy bed from a starting temperature to a same
therapeutic temperature in the range of 101 to 108 degrees Fahrenheit.
                                             24

2.      The LED therapy bed according to claim 1 wherein each of the separately
controlled LED modules have electrical connections for between about 100 to about
1,000 LEDs in each module.
3.      The LED therapy bed according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the plurality of
LEDs have different wavelengths which emit different colored light and are placed in a
repeating pattern.
4.      The LED therapy bed according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the LEDs
transmit light in the wavelengths of at least one of about 605nm, about 630nm, about
660nm, about 850 to 855nm and about 940nm to cause at least one of: increase the
nitric oxide level of a user of the LED therapy bed, reduce or eliminate wrinkles and
tighten a user's skin, provide muscle or joint or arthritic or carpal-tunnel pain and/or
stiffness relief, blood circulation, psoriasis, eczema, post-op to reduce scarring,
bruising, healing time, pain, inflammation and redness, healing sores in the mouth
caused by chemo-therapy, to reverse blindness caused by diabetes, to reverse macular
degeneration, to reverse loss of sight caused by stroke, to treat skin cancer, to reduce
or eliminate bruises, to clear sinuses, to regrow hair and to treat Fibromyalgia.
5.      The LED therapy bed according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the current
limiting circuit causes a deliberate increase in thermal heating of at least one
wavelength of LEDs to heat said skin tissue temperature to between 97 and 108
degrees Fahrenheit when held continuously against or in close proximity to the skin
tissue for a predetermined period of time.
6.      The LED therapy bed of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the flexible
arm supporting the thermal sensor is a spring arm which is spring biased by a spring
below the spring arm.
                                             25

7.      The LED therapy bed according to any claim 1, wherein the master controller
separately controls each LED module.
8.      The LED therapy bed according to claim 1, wherein the master controller
separately controls some of the LED modules and controls other LED modules
together.
9.      The LED therapy bed according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein each of the
separately controlled LED modules have electrical connections for between about 100
to about 1,000 LEDs in each module.
10.     The LED therapy bed according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of LEDs are
placed in a repeating pattern.
11.     The LED therapy bed according to claim 1, wherein LED modules are separately
controlled or plural modules are controlled together; and
        the LED modules have electrical connections for between 100 to 1,000 LEDs in
each module.
12.     The LED therapy bed according to claim 1, wherein the one or more LEDs having
different wavelengths emit different color light; wherein the different LEDs are placed
in a repeating pattern.
13.      The LED therapy bed according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein LEDs of an
LED module are contained on a printed circuit board (PCB).
                                           26

14.     A LED therapy bed comprising:
        a plurality of LED modules;
        each LED module having a plurality of different LEDs regulated by one or more
current limiting circuits;
        the plurality of different LEDs configured to be overdriven to increase light
output beyond normal operating intensity and to further produce thermal heat from
the plurality of LEDs in order to produce a skin temperature of a user between 101 and
108 degrees Fahrenheit from direct thermal conduction;
        an acrylic cover over the LEDs in the modules;
        each of the LED modules further including at least one thermal sensor placed
between the LEDs and is in conductive contact with the acrylic cover, the thermal
sensor being supported by and resting within a flexible arm that is located between the
LEDs of each module, the thermal sensor locally senses a temperature adjacent the
underside of the acrylic cover which is over the LEDS I the modules;
        each of the LED modules further including at least one fan wherein the fan
speed is regulated directly or indirectly by said at least one thermal sensor; and
        a master controller that controls the LEDs, the at least one fan and the at least
one thermal sensor in each said module; wherein the temperature of each module,
LED or cluster of LEDs is separately controlled while each module or LED or cluster is
providing treatment;
        wherein the LEDs thermal sensor, current limiting circuit and fan are controlled
by the master controller to raise and maintain the skin temperature of all areas of the
user's body being treated by the LED therapy bed from a starting temperature to a
same therapeutic temperature in the range of 101 to 108 degrees Fahrenheit, wherein
the temperature of each of the areas of the user's body being treated reaches the
same therapeutic temperature at the same time.
                                             27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
