                                         ABSTRACT
A method for executing a wireless trade is provided that includes communicating with a
handheld device via a wireless network and sending and receiving financial information to
and from the handheld device. The financial information is associated with a trade that can
be initiated by the handheld device. The method also includes authorizing the handheld
device through location data, which is associated with a location of the handheld device,
before executing the trade.

                            3/5
                         000013                      c3c,3[00
                         00/'Cj           \      '
                      Lil0l                    '
                       10                           .
                                  X         'E
                000      0
                                     \KI U101
                        \333                       U
                                \ /4     0000          00
                                  00                0
(0 /        ago
       -~     9. /o                                   0
     'N-         /a
            1 /3\0N                            4%
                          [313                      4%
                 an~.-\                                  4
          *                                                4
                              IN-                             N

                      SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FACILITATING
                        A WIRELESS FINANCIAL TRANSACTION
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present invention relates generally to the field of communications and,
   more particularly, to a system and method for facilitating a wireless financial
   transaction.
 5
   BACKGROUND
            Financial markets generally afford the opportunity for investors to purchase an
   asset in order to achieve some degree of profitability. Investment vehicles such as
   stocks, trusts, mutual funds, pension funds, money markets, and bonds represent
10 example investment instruments that offer investors a choice for allocating capital.
            In many (but certainly not all) trading environments, trades take place in a
   trading pit where a face-to-face encounter occurs. This is where buyers and sellers
   physically converge on the specialist who matches buyers with sellers.           However,
   electronic communications (via computers) play a big part in the trading process. All
15 trades are "auctions." There is no set price, although the last trade is often considered
   to be the "price" of a stock. In reality, the price is the highest amount any buyer is
   willing to pay at any given moment. When demand for a certain stock is high, the
   various buyers bid the price higher to induce sellers to sell. When demand for a stock
   is low, sellers must sell at lower prices to attract buyers and the price drops.
20          Once a trader is duly authorized in any given system, traders can then begin
   feeding trade requests to the trading pit such that their proposed transactions can be
   secured.    In most scenarios, traders are simply accommodating the needs of their
   clients or customers who are seeking to purchase or to sell a given commodity. Note
   that the trader's actual "trading desk" can be quite comprehensive, as well as
25 restricting and cumbersome. Traders are normally equipped with a number of phone
   lines, as well as a number of data feeds that allow the given trader to be aware of
   market prices, market actively, and news that may affect the markets.                This
   information is exceptionally time sensitive, as real-time data represents a powerful
   tool for any successful trader.       In addition, such data feeds need to effectively
30 transport corresponding market data: maintaining the integrity of the information as it

   propagates across the network. Potentially millions of dollars (involved in a single
   trade) lie in the delicate balance, as even the smallest computational error or even the
   most minor data corruption could spell financial disaster for the associated trader.
           Hence the ability to offer a convenient and an effective platform for executing
 5 optimal trading presents a significant obstacle for system designers, network
   architectures, and component manufacturers.
   SUMMARY
           Due to a variety of factors, Internet-based electronic financial systems may
10 have a number of undesirable aspects. For example, the Internet lacks the security
   necessary to ensure confidence that operation of an electronic financial system will
   proceed without the possibility of tampering or corruption. An operator of an Internet
   financial system is vulnerable to hacking, viruses, fraud, and other shortcomings
   associated with conducting business over the Internet.         Users of Internet-based
15 systems often lack confidence that their financial transactions are secure, that they
   will be properly authenticated, and that their privacy will remain intact. Moreover,
   the use of the Internet does not provide location verification suitable to ensure that a
   user is within an approved financial area.
           In one embodiment, a method for executing a wireless trade is provided that
20 includes communicating with a handheld device via a wireless network and sending
   and receiving financial information to and from the handheld device. The financial
   information is associated with a trade that can be initiated by the handheld device.
   The method also includes authorizing the handheld device through location data,
   which is associated with a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
25         In a more particular embodiment the present invention, a method is provided
   that includes authorizing the handheld device for a trade through location data, which
   is associated with a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
   Authorization of a given end user may be achieved via any suitable element (e.g. a
   phone ID, a system ID, an application ID, a tradedesk verification mechanism, a user
30 ID, a picture ID, a biometric parameter, etc.) and be accorded various levels of
   security.
           Various embodiments of the present invention may benefit from numerous
   advantages.     It should be noted that one or more embodiments may benefit from
   some, none, or all of the advantages discussed below. One advantage associated with

   the proffered architecture is that it enables remote, wireless, and mobile financial
   transactions over a secure network. The architecture also achieves remote, wireless,
   and mobile capabilities while preventing access to unauthorized users, providing a
   secure connection and preventing the execution of financial transactions from
 5 unauthorized     locations.     The   system also    includes  a number     of financial
   communication devices for a group of end users: the devices being connected to a
   communication network, whereby a portion of the communication network is mobile.
   This provides greater flexibility to the traders, as they are afforded the opportunity to
   execute their transactions in any number of acceptable environments.
10          Still another technical advantage of the present invention relates to the
   combination of a secure and a private wireless network that is used to determine the
   precise geographic location of traders.       This in turn allows the architecture to
   determine whether or not trading is permitted from their specific location. The system
   can facilitate and expedite trading from permitted locations and preserve the audit trail
15 of all keystrokes for all participants.
           It will be appreciated that attempts to improve the security of networks have
   been made for years, and that enhancing security/verifying users is a known technical
   desire of systems designers.
           In some embodiments of the invention achieving enhanced security in
20 communications by using physical location input signals from a mechanism for
   determining the geographical/physical location of a portable wireless device is a
   technical solution to the problem of how to enhance security, possibly in combination
   with other security measures.       In some embodiments, a separate communication
   channel, or route, is used to provide authentication of the user (a communication
25 channel separate from, and different to the one that transmits the primary trade
   data/instructions from the device to the main overall trading system). This may help
   to solve problems associated with unauthorized personnel acquiring the mobile
   device: they still may not have the separate, different, communications channel for
   authentication. Even if they do have the physical equipment necessary to provide a
30 separate channel, they may not have necessary passwords/biometrics, etc. necessary
   to operate it.
           In some embodiments, blocking or freeing data transmitted to the portable
   device, dependent upon its physical location, can provide different levels of security
   for different levels of data. For example, more sensitive data may be released to the

   device/sent to the device in more secure areas, and less sensitive data in less secure
   areas.   In some embodiments the data sent from the portable device to the main
   tracking system may be sent via different telecommunications routes and/or be
   handled differently by the receiving main trading system, depending upon the
 5 geographic position of the portable unit. This has the technical effect of freeing up
   time and processing power of a security processor (computer processor) of the trading
   system since it may not perform so much security processing/checking on
   communications from some, secure, physical areas in comparison with what it does
   with communications from other, less secure, physical locations.       Thus, the same
10 person, using the same device, can use up differing amounts of security processing by
   the trading system, depending upon the place at which they are transmitting (or
   receiving). Thus, the security processing by the security processor is not required to
   treat all communications in the same, computer-resource-intensive, manner.        This
   enables it to have better performance and/or enables a lower specification processor to
15 perform to predetermined standards. Similarly, using different data traffic routes for
   different occasions can reduce unnecessary demand on the most secure channels. The
   technical concept of using the physical location of the mobile device as a control to
   determine whether a computer-resource-intensive route is used to help solve problems
   associated with finite processing capacity.
20         Certain embodiments of the present invention may enjoy some, all, or none of
   these advantages. Other technical advantages may be readily apparent to one skilled
   in the art from the following figures, description, and claims.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25         For a more complete understanding of the present invention and for further
   features and advantages, reference is now made to the following description, taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
           FIGURE IA is a simplified block diagram that illustrates a convenience
   financial system according to an embodiment of the present invention;
30         FIGURE 1B is a simplified block diagram that illustrates a component that
   may be included within the system of FIGURE IA;
           FIGURE 2 illustrates a convenience financial system with a wireless network
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;

            FIGURE 3 is a block diagram of a convenience financial system illustrating
   various financial activities in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention;
            FIGURE 4 illustrates a convenience financial system showing example
 5 coverage areas in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
            FIGURE 5 illustrates a convenience financial system with a wireless network
   showing triangulation location determination in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention;
            FIGURE 6 is a simplified flowchart depicting example steps in a convenience
10 financial method according to an embodiment of the present invention;
            FIGURE 7 depicts a convenience financial system showing an example
   communication path in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
            FIGURE 8 illustrates a ship-based convenience financial system in accordance
   with another example embodiment of the present invention.
15
   DETAILED        DESCRIPTION        OF    EXAMPLE        EMBODIMENTS          OF     THE
   INVENTION
            FIGURE 1A is a simplified block diagram of a convenience financial system
   10 that offers an opportunity for mobile traders to engage in any financial market
20 environment. Financial system 10 comprises multiple end users 12 who may be using
   any suitable device such as a handheld device 11, which is illustrated in FIGURE 1.
   FIGURE 1 may also include a communications network 18, an administrator module
   22, a financial service provider element 26, and a financial market data element 30.
   The handheld device may include a user interface that may include a number of
25 elements that offer connectivity for one or more end users 12 to other elements within
   financial system 10.
            In accordance with the teachings of the present invention, financial system 10
   provides a convenience financial system enabling participants to engage in financial
   activities from remote and/or mobile locations.       The possible financial activities
30 include trading, such as that which is offered by any number of financial markets.
   Trading activities may include any suitable financial transactions including, but not
   limited to, trading securities (both long and short positions), trading futures, trading
   bonds, trading commodities, trading in money markets, or trading in any other

   appropriate asset class. Trading may be placed in any suitable financial market, such
   as the FTSE, the German DAX, the French CAC, the NASDAQ, the American
   Exchange (AMEX), the New York Stock Exchange, the Nikkei, the bond or treasury
   markets, and the Hang Seng Index, for example.            Other financial markets could
 5 readily be accommodated by financial system 10.
            The architecture of financial system 10 offers the combination of a secure and
   a private wireless network that is used to determine the geographic location of traders.
   This in turn allows the architecture to determine whether or not trading can be
   executed from their location.     The system can facilitate and expedite trading from
10 permitted locations and preserve the audit trail of all keystrokes. The system tracks
   the location of the trader, recognizes the identity of the trader, facilitates and
   expedites trading activity from permitted locations, and prohibits trading from
   unauthorized and/or prohibited geographic locations. Access points are used to grant
   access to the network for the end user of handheld device 11. In addition, any suitable
15 market data, as well as bond and treasury information, may be provided to an end user
   in real-time such that optimal trading is achieved for any selected individual.
            Convenience financial system 10 may be implemented over communications
   network 18, which could be a cellular network or a private wireless and/or wireline
   network.     Examples of the latter include WiFi and WiMax networks.                 In one
20 embodiment, the convenience financial system operation uses the Internet, such that
   information for which there are no security issues present is transmitted via the
   Internet,  whereby information      may be suitably encrypted where            appropriate.
   Preferably, the communications network enables traders to participate in financial
   activities from remote locations (e.g., outside of the designated financial area of a
25 work domain or a marketplace). Also, the system may enable traders to be mobile
   during participation in their financial activities. Preferably, the system has a location
   verification or determination feature, which is operable to permit or to prohibit
   financial activities from the remote location: depending upon whether or not the
   location and the individual meet one or more criteria.         The criterion may be, for
30 example, whether the individual is duly authorized for the trade and whether the
   location is within a pre-defmed area in which financial activities are permitted.
            Note that the present      architecture    offers considerable    flexibility  and
   convenience for one or more traders. As can be readily appreciated, a given trading
   desk is comprehensive.     A trading desk setup may include multiple trading screens

   that allow for a trader to be provided with real-time information such that effective
   trading can be executed quickly and accurately. Thus, moving such a trading station
   is not merely accomplished by packing up a laptop and migrating to a new location.
   Moving     employees (who      are engaged    in the process     of trading  securities,
 5 conunodities, etc.) to a new location can be an arduous task.          This is because
   considerable energies are spent in coordinating a move from one location to another.
   In contrast to such labor-intensive ordeals, the present architecture can simply assign
   an IP address to a given end user and have that IP address track the end user to any
   suitable environment.    Thus, a given end user could log onto a given network at
10 various locations within a coverage area: granting him the flexibility to transact his
   financial trading without being encumbered by authorization limitations or boundary
   restrictions.
            As shown in FIGURE 1A, in an example implementation, convenience
   financial system 10 includes at least one end user 12.       The system may include
15 additional users such that there is at least a first end user and a second end user.
   Multiple users may access a first financial system 10, while other multiple users
   access a second financial system (not shown) in communication with first financial
   system 10.     In operation, end users 12 preferably access system 10 by way of
   handheld device 11 (e.g. any suitable device for transmitting and receiving electronic
20 communications such as mobile phones, personal data assistants (PDAs), computers,
   mini-computers, etc.). Authorization of a given end user may be achieved via any
   suitable element (e.g. a phone ID, a system ID, an application ID, a tradedesk
   verification mechanism, a user ID, a picture ID, a biometric parameter, etc.) and be
   accorded various levels of security.        In this example scenario, end user 12
25 communicates his ID and the application ID in order to achieve appropriate
   authorization.    Financial communication devices transmit and receive financial
   information to and from communications network 18. Financial information is also
   transmitted between communications network 18 and a computer, which may reside
   within (or included in the domain of) financial service provider element 26.       The
30 location of the computer is not critical, however, and the computer may reside
   adjacent to or be remote from the domain of financial service provider element 26.
   The computer and/or financial service provider element 26 may reside within,
   adjacent to, or remote from a financial provider (not shown in FIGURE IA).         The
   financial service provider may be an actual controller of trading, such as eSpeed, Inc.

   As an example, a financial service provider may be located on the grounds of a
   building in New York, NY.
            In one example embodiment, software resides on both handheld device 11
   being operated by end user 12 and financial service provider element 26. Software
 5 resident on handheld device 11 is preferably operable to present information
   corresponding to financial activities to the end user.       The information includes,
   without limitation, graphical representations of objects associated with the trading
   activities, and presentation of options related to the trading activities selected by the
   end user. The financial communication device software is also preferably operable to
10 receive data fi-om the computer and data input by the user. Software resident on the
   computer is preferably able to exchange data with the financial communication
   device, access additional computers and data storage devices, and perform all of the
   functions described herein as well as functions common to known electronic financial
   systems.
15          Financial information transmitted across communications network 18 may
   include any information, in any format, which is necessary or desirable in the
   operation of the financial experience in which the user participates. The information
   may be transmitted in whole, or in combination, in any format including digital or
   analog, text or voice, and according to any known or future transport technologies,
20 which may include, for example, wireline or wireless technologies.               Wireless
   technologies may include, for example, licensed or license-exempt technologies.
   Some specific technologies which may be used include, without limitation, Code
   Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Global System for Mobile Communication
   (GSM), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), WiFi (802.11x), WiMax (802.16x),
25 Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), Digital Subscriber Line (DSL),
   Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN), or cable modem technologies. These are
   examples only and one of ordinary skill will understand that other types of
   communication techniques are within the scope of the present invention. Further, it
   will be understood that additional components may be used in the communication of
30 information between the users and the financial server. Such additional components
   may include, without limitation, lines, trunks, antennas, switches, cables, transmitters,
   receivers, computers, routers, servers, fiber optical transmission equipment, repeaters,
   amplifiers, etc.

            In at least one embodiment, the communication of financial information takes
   place without involvement of the Internet.       This has an advantage of avoiding the
   security problems, which typically arise when conducting business over the Internet.
   However, in certain embodiments, a portion or all of the financial information may be
 5 transmitted over the Internet. Also, some or all of the financial information may be
   transmitted partially over an Internet communications path. In certain embodiments,
   some information is transmitted entirely or partially over the Internet, but the
   information is either not financial information or is financial information that does not
   need to be maintained secretly.
10          End users 12 are clients, customers, prospective investors, or entities wishing
   to place a trade. End users 12 may also seek to access or to initiate a communication
   with a user interface that may be delivered via communications network 18.            End
   users 12 may review data (such as performance characteristics) associated with a
   particular commodity, stock, or market in order to take a position (execute a trade) in
15 any given financial target. Alternatively, end users 12 may represent any object that
   seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element, such as a
   program, a database, or any other component, device, element, or object capable of
   initiating a voice or a data exchange within financial system 10.         Note also that
   "data," as used herein in this document, refers to any type of numeric, voice, or script
20 data, or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be
   communicated from one point to another.
            End user 12 may participate in a trade, which represents the legal instrument
   that may be used to bind end user 12 to a stipulated agreement. A trade may take any
   appropriate form such as a written document, an e-mail, a facsimile message, a
25 computer display, an entry in an account, or a verbal agreement between two parties.
   Such a trade is flexible in its terms, representations, and stipulations. In general, any
   information or data that may be germane or of interest to a trading participant or a
   hosting entity may be included in a trade, provided that the included terms are
   mutually agreeable to the two (or more) parties bound by the trade.
30          A user interface, which is included within handheld device 11, is an element
   that facilitates trading on a selected financial market. A user interface is operable to
   receive and to process requests associated with transactions relating to a trade. A user
   interface provides a portal for end users 12 to access other elements of financial
   system 10. A user interface may be a computer for any person, business, or entity that

   seeks to manage or facilitate trading activity.     Accordingly, a user interface may
   include any suitable hardware, software, devices, components, elements, or objects
   that may be utilized or implemented to achieve such operations and functions in a
   financial environment.
 5          Alternatively, a user interface (and the examples thereof) may be replaced
   with any other suitable interface or object that facilitates communications between
   end user 12 and any other element within financial system 10, such as: a cellular
   telephone, an electronic notebook, a personal digital assistant (PDA), or any other
   suitable device (wireless or otherwise), component, or element capable of accessing
10 one or more elements within financial system 10. The end user interface may also
   comprise any suitable interface for a human user such as a display, a microphone, a
   keyboard, or any other appropriate terminal equipment according to particular
   configurations and arrangements. In addition, the end user interface may be a unique
   element designed specifically for communications involving a trade. Such an element
15 may be fabricated or produced specifically for financial applications involving end
   user 12.
            A user interface may be owned and operated by any suitable entity having the
   ability and/or authority to operate in the financial industry.    A connection may be
   established between a user interface and any other financial exchange (e.g. via
20 financial service provider element 26), whereby information associated with the
   exchange is delivered to end user 12 and may be reviewed before executing the
   transaction. Thus, a user interface may deliver real-time financial data to end user 12
   in order to provide pertinent financial information to be used to make decisions as to
   whether to purchase or to sell a given asset.       This financial information may be
25 retrieved from financial market data element 30 or any other suitable element.
   Financial market data element 30 may relay data (potentially inclusive of rich media
   content that offers enhanced audio and video streaming information such as pricing
   information, market lines, maturity data, financial graphs and charts, historical quotes,
   or moving averages, for example) to end users 12. Other pertinent financial data may
30 also be readily delivered and based on particular needs.           In order to deliver
   information that is accurate and timely, financial market data element 30 may be
   coupled directly to a corresponding exchange communications link that carries such
   financial data.    Alternatively, financial market data element 30 may gather such
   critical information from any appropriate location (e.g. a news wire or a server

   operable to deliver real-time information to investors) such that the desired data is
   delivered to end user 12.
            It is critical to note that the term "handheld device" as used herein in this
   document encompasses any suitable user interface as well as any of the other objects
 5 previously identified, which can assist end user 12 in his financial/trading endeavors.
   Thus, the term "handheld device" is an all-inclusive term that should be construed
   broadly to embrace all such tools and equipment that aid the end user in his activities.
   Such handheld devices may be manufactured by companies such as Dell, Nextel,
   Motorola, Nokia, RIM, etc.
10          Currently, handheld units used at floor exchanges must be checked in and out
   by traders as they enter or leave the trading floor. The usability of the handheld is
   governed by limiting its physical position to within the permitted location, i.e. the
   only way to prohibit trading from prohibited locations, or by unauthorized persons, is
   to permit the handheld to be used only within secure spaces within the exchange
15 premises. An application of the architecture of the present invention can: 1) use the
   wireless technology to permit activation of the wireless device at permitted trading
   locations; 2) use secure identification technology to confirm the identify of the user
   and prohibit use by unauthorized users; and 3) use electronic trading technologies to
   facilitate effective use of the wireless unit to engage in market activity. The operation
20 of financial system 10 solves the problems that floor exchanges face with respect to
   controlling the use of their handheld units. This may be achieved while expanding the
   geographic areas from which authorized financial market participants may participate
   in exchange-based or over-the-counter trading of securities. Other applications may
   include the trading of derivatives, and other forms of tradable financial instruments
25 and financial or physical assets, or any other securities, or commodities whose trading
   is regulated by government bodies, regulatory agencies, or simple industry groups.
            Counterparties may remain anonymous throughout the trading process
   pursuant to the rules of the marketplace and its credit requirements, while secure and
   efficient functioning of the marketplace is provided for trading participants. Note that
30 the provider of data (e.g. eSpeed, Inc.) and regulatory agencies (e.g. the Securities and
   Exchange Commission (SEC)) can also benefit from auditing capabilities of the
   handheld device. For example, keystroke recordation can be used to verify that end
   user "John James" logged into his handheld device at 9:08 AM (EST), reviewed two
   news items, and then proceeded to execute a trade, which involved the sale of 10,000

   shares of Intel stock. A simple keystroke logging element may be provided within
   handheld device 11 and/or financial service provider element 26 to achieve this result.
            Communications network 18 is a communicative platform operable to
   exchange    data or information      between    end user     12  and a user     interface.
 5 Communications network 18 represents an Internet architecture in a particular
   embodiment of the present invention, which provides end user 12 with the ability to
   electronically execute or initiate transactions associated with a trade. Alternatively,
   communications network 18 could be a plain old telephone system (POTS), which
   end user 12 could use to perform the same operations or functions.               In other
10 embodiments, communications network 18 could be any packet data network (PDN)
   offering a communications interface or exchange between any two nodes in financial
   system 10. Communications network 18 may alternatively be any local area network
   (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN), wireless local
   area network (WLAN),        virtual private network (VPN),       intranet, or any other
15 appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network or
   telephonic environment.
            Administrator module 22 is an element that cooperates with financial service
   provider element 26 in order to ensure a fair and proper execution of transactions
   initiated by end user 12.     Administrator module 22 is an optional component of
20 financial system 10. Administrator module 22 may be used in certain embodiments to
   control any operation of financial service provider element 26.             For example,
   administrator module 22 may be used to manually set trading parameters, to approve
   margin requests, or to halt specific trading activities.          In selected instances,
   administrator module 22 may call for additional margins throughout the day without
25 waiting for a routine end-of-day settlement.      In still other scenarios, administrator
   module 22 may be used for more simplistic monitoring functions or included within
   financial service provider element 26, where appropriate.
            FIGURE lB is a simplified block diagram of financial service provider
   element 26, which may include a processor 42, a memory element 44, and a server 50
30 in accordance with one example embodiment of the present invention.             Financial
   service provider element 26 is operable to receive requests from end user 12 and to
   process those requests such that financial transactions involving a trade are executed.
   The resultant trade that is generated may be suitably stored in memory element 44
   after being properly managed and secured by processor 42. Processor 42 may also

   assist in processing any financial terms or conditions requested by end user 12. In
   cases where financial service provider element 26 is unable to match the requested
   financial parameters or tendered trade terms provided by end user 12 with that which
   is available in the marketplace.    Financial service provider element 26 may contact
 5 end user 12 and notify end user 12 of the circumstances surrounding the inability to
   fulfill such a trade.
            Processor 42 may comprise any suitable processor that executes a trading
   system application or other computer instructions that facilitate trading. Processor 42
   may include an authentication module 48, which operates to verify the identity of end
10 user 12. Authentication module 48 may utilize global positioning satellite (GPS) or
   geographic data (or any other suitable location data) stored in a GPS/Geo Map
   module 49 in connection with offering simple authentication procedures. In order to
   execute optimal authentication procedures, processor 42 may access one or more end
   user profiles 54 and server 50. Server 50 may operate to obtain or to receive GPS or
15 geographic information from GPS/Geo Map module 49 associated with a given end
   user 12 who is seeking to execute a trade. Thus, financial service provider element 26
   may provide a location verification component or feature for handheld device 11 via
   any number of appropriate modules included within processor 42.
            Processor 42 may be a CPU or a microprocessor and include any suitable
20 number of processors working together. Processor 42 is generally operable to execute
   various algorithms, computations, or calculations to determine current trade data.
   Processor 42 may determine such current trade data based on data received from
   memory element 44 and/or financial market data element 30. In addition, processor
   42 may update such current trade data based on new information being received from
25 financial market data element 30. In some embodiments, processor 42 may update
   current trade data in real-time, substantially in real-time, or at preset intervals (such as
   every thirty-five seconds, for example).
            Memory element 44 may comprise one or more memory devices that facilitate
   trading (or that store information relating thereto), such as one or more random access
30 memories (RAMs), read-only memories (ROMs), dynamic random access memories
   (DRAMs), fast cycle RAMs (FCRAMs), static RAM (SRAMs), field-programmable
   gate arrays (FPGAs), erasable programmable              read-only memories       (EPROMs),
   electrically     erasable    programmable        read-only     memories        (EEPROMs),
   microcontrollers, or microprocessors. Memory element 44 is also generally operable

   to store data that may be used by processor 42 such that GPS/Geo Map 49 is
   unnecessary.     Alternatively, GSP/Geo Map module 49 may be any of the above
   identified items such that GPS and/or geographic data are stored and can be accessed.
            It should be noted that the internal structure of financial service provider
 5 element 26 is malleable and can be readily changed, modified, rearranged, or
   reconfigured in order to achieve its intended operations. Additionally, the elements
   included within financial service provider element 26 may interact in any suitable
   manner.     As identified supra, software may reside in financial service provider
   element 26 and in handheld device 11 in order to achieve the teachings of the present
10 invention. However, due to their flexibility, these two elements may alternatively be
   equipped with (or include) any suitable component, device, application specific
   integrated circuit (ASIC), hardware, software, processor, microprocessor, algorithm,
   ROM element, RAM element, EPROM, EEPROM, FPGA, or any other suitable
   element or object that is operable to facilitate the operations thereof. Considerable
15 flexibility is provided by the structure of financial service provider element 26 in the
   context of financial system 10. In this context, the illustrated components of financial
   service provider element 26 may be deleted, substituted, replaced, combined, or
   enhanced in order to achieve the teachings of the present invention.
            Memory element 44 of financial service provider element 26 may store
20 information regarding the various types of different trades that may be placed (and
   their respective outcomes) in financial system 10. Memory element 44 may also store
   various financial instruments and a plurality of end-user profiles 54. Memory element
   44 may additionally store information associated with a financial instrument number
   (FIN), a description of the market(s) that are the subject of the particular trade, a
25 designated duration/expiry, and a commission (or fee) established for the particular
   trade. These fields (and others) may be defined in numerous ways within the scope of
   the present invention. For example, the term 'expiry' may refer to a particular closing
   or settlement time and/or date for the financial instrument to close, or it may be based
   on the events themselves that may be completed at some arbitrary or specific date in
30 the future (e.g. at the closing bell).
            Additionally, each end-user profile 54 may include any relevant information
   associated with end user 12, his trading activity, or his finances. For example, items
   such as his account numbers, transactional history, company information, balances,
   commissions, available funds, and potential debits/credits may be reflected in a

   profile.   End-user profiles 54 may be pin-accessed by end user 12 (via handheld
   device 11) or accessed (at the direction of handheld device 11) solely by an entity or
   administrator authorized to do so.
            Financial service provider element 26 may identify an end users' location (e.g.
 5 via a GPS system). Location data of the trader can be used in order to control trading
   activity. Certain zones may be designated for trading, whereas other zones may be
   strictly off limits. For example, trading could be only executed on the trading floor
   and in the cafeteria (of an associated building), but strictly prohibited in the
   bathrooms and the lobby.
10          Note that other areas could certainly be designated for trading purposes.
   However, the configuration of such alternative locations is somewhat different as
   compared to secure trading within the confines of a given authorized area.           For
   example, if an end user, who is working in Manhattan, NY, opts to leave the trading
   floor of the New York Stock Exchange and grab a coffee at a local coffee shop, he
15 may be provided with the opportunity to execute a trade once he arrives at the new
   location.   Consider an example where the same end user is drinking his morning
   coffee and monitoring commodity prices via his handheld device. At some point, a
   news story breaks that relates to a potential conflict in the Middle East. The trader
   immediately recognizes that gold prices are most likely going to rise in the wake of
20 such an announcement.       From his current location at the coffee shop, the end user
   may log into his handheld device, be properly authenticated, and be permitted to
   execute a trade involving gold. Thus, once the end user departed from his office, he
   left a secure, managed, and protected network.       The system at the coffee shop is
   configured in a different manner.       The handheld device may still access a given
25 network via a suitable access point, but the traffic may be routed in a different
   fashion.    A secure protocol may be provided to ensure that the information
   propagating from the handheld device is secure. User name and password entries that
   are input by the end user could also assist in protecting this traffic flow.      Once,
   properly authorized, the information may propagate in a secure mode to a receiving
30 network, where it can be relayed to financial service provider element 26.
            Hence, the present architecture may allow a party's identity and location to be
   confirmed (e.g. using GPS technology to provide location data) before allowing that
   person to execute a trade.       A suitable location verification component may be
   provided in both financial service provider element 26 and handheld device 11 to

   achieve such operations. If a question exists about whether or not to permit the trader
   to execute the trade (particularly in cases where the end user has roamed outside of
   the work area, which generally represents a more secure environment), a simple
   phone call could be made to the trader to verify the proposed trading activity. The
 5 conversation could be conducted as follows:
           Speaker 1: "May I speak with John James, this is Darrin Knight from eSpeed,
   Inc."
           Speaker 2: "This is John."
           Speaker 1: "I see that you are at a coffee shop on 57th Street and 9th Avenue.
10 1 also see that you are about to place a trade for 8,000 shares of Cisco stock. Is all of
   that correct?"
           Speaker 2: "Yes."
           Speaker 1: "Could you confirm your password for me?"
           Speaker 2: "Hoosier."
15         Speaker 1: "Correct.      Sorry to trouble you, we just wanted to verify this
   information for your own financial protection.       On behalf of eSpeed, Inc., have a
   wonderful day."
           Note that "tablet" personal computers could readily benefit from the teachings
   of the present invention.     Tablet personal computers generally allow for wireless
20 communications in a given environment.        This, in turn, allows for the ability to be
   mobile in a work environment without compromising security or anti-hacking
   protocols. When an end user leaves the work environment, he generally leaves the
   secure (e.g. 802.11) platform and enters into any number of network access
   configurations (e.g. WiMax), which may or may not be as secure. Thus, a trade off
25 exists when an end user roams from a work environment (having specified work
   boundaries) to another location outside the work domain. In the work environment,
   an abundance of data may be delivered to the end user, whereby any suitable number
   of end users can be accommodated.        Capacity constraints and security problems are
   generally not prevalent in the work environment, as the work environment provides a
30 robust and a safe solution for its associated trading participants. Real-time data may
   effectively propagate to the end user and the end user can confidently execute any
   financial transaction over a secure connection.
           In contrast to this paradigm, when the end user is outside of the work domain
   or the "work castle" his actions may be significantly restricted. For example, the end

   user may not be able to receive all the data that was previously being delivered to
   him. He may only be able to receive more basic types of data (e.g. current trading
   prices of a commodity, but not necessarily the bid and offer information). Also, the
   data may not be in real-time. In addition, the end user may be limited in the types of
 5 trades that he is allowed to execute.      Any such limitations can be addressed and
   resolved by the present invention. Enhanced end user capabilities may be provided
   based on specific network arrangements and handheld device configurations and are
   readily accommodated by convenience financial system 10.
           Note that in cases where a device is misplaced, stolen, or lost, an administrator
10 could be contacted to address the situation.      The administrator could respond by
   sending a "kill message" to the handheld device that effectively disables the device.
   The kill message may also be able to erase all information stored in the handheld
   device such that stored information is protected.
           Turning to FIGURE 2, which illustrates one example embodiment, the
15 communications network comprises a cellular network 52.            Cellular network 52
   comprises a plurality of base stations 57, each of which has a corresponding coverage
   area 60. Base station technology is generally known and the base stations may be of
   any type found in a typical cellular network. The base stations may have coverage
   areas that overlap. Further, the coverage areas may be sectorized or non-sectorized.
20 The network also includes handheld devices 11, which function as the financial
   communication devices used by users to access the convenience financial system and
   to participate in the activities available on the convenience financial system. Users
   are connected to the network of base stations via transmission and reception of radio
   signals. The communications network also includes at least one voice/data switch,
25 which is preferably connected to the wireless portion of the network via a dedicated,
   secure landline.    The communications network also includes a financial service
   provider element 58, which is likewise connected to a voice/data switch 56 via a
   dedicated, secure landline. The voice/data switch may be connected to the wireless
   network of base stations via a mobile switching center (MSC), for example and the
30 landline may be provided between the voice/data switch and the MSC.
           Preferably, in the case of a cellular network for example, the convenience
   financial system can be enabled through the use of a private label carrier network.
   Each base station is programmed by the cellular carrier to send and receive private
   secure voice and/or data transmissions to and from mobile station handsets.          The

   handsets are preferably pre-progranmed with both financial software and the carrier's
   authentication software. The base stations can communicate via Private T-1, T-3, or
   E-I lines to a suitable switch. A provider generally leases a private T-1, T-3, or E-1
   line, which routes the calls back to financial servers controlled by the financial service
 5 provider.     Encryption can be installed on the telephones if required by a financial
   regulation authority, such as a financial commission for example.
            As shown in another example, which is illustrated in FIGURE 3, handheld
   device II is in communication with a financial service provider element 68 over a
   mobile carrier network 64. The financial service provider element 68 can include one
10 or more connections to other platforms or servers, on which are resident various
   financial and other applications.    As shown in FIGURE 3, some example financial
   applications include financial exchange and real-time news 70.             Each of these
   applications may be embodied in one or more modules, be included in financial
   service element 68, or be provided by some other entity. These applications may be
15 included in financial market data element 30 or simply provided as a link that may be
   used by end user 12.        It should be understood that these applications are not
   exhaustive and that other applications may exist to provide an environment to the user
   that is associated with any of the described or potential convenience activities.
            In another example embodiment, as shown in FIGURE 4, the communications
20 network comprises a private wireless network.        The private wireless network may
   include, for example, an 802.1 1x (WiFi) network technology to cover multiple trading
   areas 74 that are in a work environment or a residential/home environment.              In
   FIGURE 4, various WiFi networks 71 are illustrated. Networks 71 may use other
   communications protocols to provide a private wireless network including, but not
25 limited    to,  802.16x (WiMax)      technology.      Further,   networks   71   may    be
   interconnected where appropriate.        Also, a convenience financial system may
   comprise a combination of networks as depicted in FIGURE 4. For example, there is
   shown a combination of private wireless networks, a cellular network comprising a
   multi-channel access unit or sectorized base station 72, and a satellite network
30 comprising one or more satellites 46.
            The private wireless network may be particularly well suited for financial
   trading needs of location and identity verification for end users. Alternatively, trading
   areas enabled by networks 71 may include, for example, a coffee shop 78 and
   swimming pools, lakes or other recreational areas 79. Primary trading areas 74 may

   include residential area 70, offices and restaurants such as might be found proximate
   to work area 73, adjacent buildings 75, and remote buildings 47, which could reflect a
   branch office located on the other side of town.       The configuration of the overall
   convenience financial system depicted in FIGURE 4 is malleable, as it is intended
 5 only as an example of the present invention.
           In one example embodiment, the system architecture for the financial system
   includes:
   (1)     a wireless LAN (Local Access Network) component, which consists of mostly
   802.1 lx (WiFi)       and/or    802.16x  WiMax    technologies;   robust security  and
10 authentication software; financial software; mobile carrier approved handsets with
   Windows or Symbian operating systems integrated within; and
           (a) CDMA-technology that is secure for over-the-air data protection;
           (b) at least two layers of user authentication, (that provided by the mobile
   carrier and that provided by the financial service provider);
15         (c) compulsory tunneling (static routing) to financial servers;
           (d) end-to-end encryption at the application layer; and
           (e) state-of-the-art firewall and DMZ technologies;
   (2)     an MWAN (Metropolitan Wireless Access Network), which consists of
   licensed and license-exempt, point-to-point links, as well as licensed and license
20 exempt, point-to-multi-point technologies;
   (3)     private MAN (Metropolitan Access Network) T-1 and T-3 lines to provide
   connectivity where wireless services cannot reach; and
   (4)     redundant private-line communications from the mobile switch back to the
   financial server.
25         Each of trading areas 74 is preferably connected via the MWAN/MAN back to
   central and redundant financial service provider elements (such as those described
   above).    For accessing the private wireless networks 71, the handheld devices are
   preferably WiFi- or WiMax-enabled PDAs or mini-laptops, and do not have to be
   managed by a third-party partner.
30         Preferably, the convenience financial system includes a location verification
   feature, which is operable to permit or to disable financial activities from a remote
   location depending upon whether or not the location meets one or more criteria. The
   criterion may be, for example, whether the location is within a pre-defined area in
   which financial activities are permitted by the sponsoring trading entity. As another

   example, the criterion may be whether the location is in a no-trade zone, such as
   designated bathrooms and lobby areas.        Such assignments of location are arbitrary
   and, thus, may be varied considerably. The location verification technology used in
   the system may include, without limitation, "network-based" and/or "satellite-based"
 5 technology.      Network-based      technology   may   include  such   technologies    as
   multilateration,   triangulation   and   geo-fencing,  for  example.     Satellite-based
   technologies may include GPS technology, for example or other suitable protocols
   that perform the functions outlined herein.
           As previously discussed, the cellular approach preferably includes the use of at
10 least one cellular, mobile, voice and data network. For financial activities in certain
   areas, the technology may involve triangulation, GPS technology, and/or geo-fencing
   to avoid the potential for trades to be made outside proscribed areas.            Hence,
   triangulation may be used as a method for preventing financial activities from
   unapproved locations.        Triangulation may be accomplished,       for example, by
15 comparing the signal strength (from a single handheld device) received at multiple
   base stations, each having GPS coordinates. This technology may be used to pinpoint
   the location of a handheld device. The location can then be compared to a map or to
   another resource to determine whether the user of the handheld device is in an
   unapproved area. Alternatively, GPS technology may be used for these purposes.
20         As shown in FIGURE 5, the convenience financial system includes a plurality
   of handheld devices 53, 55, and 56. Handheld device 53 is located outside a large
   work domain 88. Work domain 88 may reflect the case where several work domains
   have been linked together. Devices 55 and 56 are both located inside work domain
   88. However only device 56 is located within geo-fence 87, which is established by
25 the coverage areas of a plurality of base stations 83. Thus, geo-fencing may be used
   to readily enable financial activities via handheld device 56. In other embodiments,
   handheld devices 53 and 55 may be able to execute trades, but be provided with
   limited trading capabilities.
           Geo-fencing does not specify location: rather, it ensures that a given device is
30 within certain boundaries.     Triangulation on the other hand specifies a pinpoint, or
   near-pinpoint, location.      For example, as shown in FIGURE 5, device 56 is
   triangulated between three of the base stations 83 to determine the location of device
   56. Triangulation may be used to identify whether a handheld device, such as a table
   PC, a laptop, or a PDA, is located in a specific spot where trading can be authorized.

   Preferably, the location determination technology utilized in conjunction with the
   present invention meets the Federal Communication Commission's (FCC's) Phase 2
   E911 requirements, SEC guidelines, and any other regulatory agency (domestic or
   international) laws or regulations. Geological Institute Survey (GIS) mapping may
 5 also be utilized to compare identified coordinates of a handheld device with GIS map
   features or elements to determine whether a device is in an area not authorized for
   financial activity. It should be noted that any type of location verification may be
   used such as triangulation, geo-fencing, GPS technology, or any other type of location
   determining technology, which can be used to ensure, or to provide an acceptable
10 level of confidence, that the user is within an approved trading area.
           In another embodiment, location verification is accomplished using channel
   address checking or location verification using some other identifying number or
   piece of information indicative of which network or which portion of a network is
   being accessed by the handheld device. Assuming the utilization of an identifying
15 number for this purpose, then according to one method of location checking, as an
   example, a participant accesses the financial system via a handheld device.           The
   identifying number of the handheld device, or of the network component being
   accessed by the handheld device, identifies the caller's connection to the mobile
   network. The number is indicative of the fact that the caller is in a defined area and is
20 on a certain mobile network. An application may be resident on the handheld device
   to communicate this information via the network to the financial service provider. In
   a related embodiment, the identifying number or information is passed from a first
   network provider to a second network provider. For example, a user's home network
   may be that provided by the second provider, but the user may be roaming on a
25 network (and in an authorized trading area) provided by the first provider. The first
   provider passes the identifying information through to the second provider to enable
   the second provider to determine whether the user is in a defined area that does or that
   does not allow the relevant financial activity.           Preferably the financial service
   provider either maintains, or has access to, a database that maps the various possible
30 worldwide mobile networks identifying numbers to geographic areas. The invention
   contemplates using any number or proxy that indicates a network, portion of a
   network, or network component, which is being connected with a handheld device.
   The identifying number may indicate one or more of a base station or group of base
   stations, a line, a channel, a trunk, a switch, a router, a repeater, etc.

           In another embodiment, when the user connects his handheld device to the
   financial server (e.g. server 50 of financial service provider element 26), the financial
   server draws the network identifying information and communicates that information
   to a financial service provider. The software resident on the handheld device may
 5 incorporate functionality that will, upon login or access by the user, determine the
   user's location (based at least in part on the identifying information) and send a
   message to the financial service provider.
           In connection with any of the location determination methods, the financial
   system may periodically update the location determination information. This may be
10 done, for example, during a financial session, at pre-defmed time intervals to ensure
   that movement of the handheld device to an unauthorized area is detected during play,
   and not just upon login or initial access.           Thus, depending on the location
   determination technology being used, the decision whether to permit, restrict, or
   prohibit a financial activity may be made at the handheld device, at the financial
15 service provider element, or at any of the components of the network being used to
   transmit information between the handheld device and the financial service provider
   element (such as at a base station, for example).
           An aspect of the private wireless network related to preventing or restricting
   financial activity in unauthorized areas is the placement of sensors, such as Radio
20 Frequency Identification (RFID) sensors on the handheld devices. The sensors may
   trigger alarms if users attempt to use the devices outside the approved financial areas.
   Further, the devices may be "tethered" to immovable objects in other embodiments
   (e.g. a boat, a car dashboard, anywhere in an airplane, etc.). Users might simply log
   in to such devices using their ID and password.
25         In connection with FIGURE 6, an example embodiment of a method
   according to the present invention can be described as follows.           As discussed,
   software is preferably loaded on a handheld device and is operable to receive input
   data for trading activities.    The input data may originate at associated financial
   software resident on a financial service provider element, or it may be input by the
30 user of the handheld device. The software on the handheld device may be operable to
   present graphical representations of any of the other applications described herein.
           In the example method shown in FIGURE 6, in a first step 600, the handheld
   device is activated. This may take place as a function of turning on a phone, PDA, a
   laptop, a table PC, or other communication device as described elsewhere herein.

   Preferably, activation comprises connecting the handheld device to a private data
   network. Part of the activation includes logging in via a device prompt. This may be
   considered as a first level of authentication of an end user of the handheld device. A
   second level of user authentication comprises authentication of the handheld device
 5 itself This may occur, for example, by authentication of a device by a mobile carrier.
   A third level of user identification may comprise biometrics. Various examples of
   biometrics may include, but are not limited to, fingerprint identification, photo
   identification, retina scanning, voice print matching (and voice recognition protocols),
   etc.   Thus, as can be readily appreciated, authorization of a given end user may be
10 achieved via any suitable element (e.g. a phone ID, a system ID, an application ID, a
   tradedesk verification mechanism, a user ID, a picture ID, a biometric parameter, etc.)
   and be accorded various levels of security.
           In a next step 604, the user is presented with the financial or market
   environment and a tradedesk gateway. The tradedesk gateway can query the end user
15 to execute an electronic or a broker-assisted trade.         In addition, the financial
   environment may be presented in various stages. For instance, in a first stage, the
   financial environment may comprise a financial summary of all markets where the
   user is presented with certain financial options including, for example, specific market
   summaries, specific prices for selected assets (e.g. commodities, stocks, bonds, etc.),
20 current positions, buying power, etc. In a subsequent stage, the user may be presented
   with optional instances of the type of activity selected from the market platform.
           In a next step 606, the user selects an activity, such as a particular type of
   trade.   In step 608, the user is presented with one or more options related to the
   selected activity. In step 610, the user selects an option. For instance, at this point,
25 the user might place a buy or a sell order on a financial exchange. In step 612, the
   software resident on the handheld device accepts the option input by the user and
   transmits the input data to financial service provider element 26.      In step 614, the
   financial service provider element 26 acts on the input data.
           Actions at this point may include, without limitation, determining an outcome
30 and/or amount, accessing another server and/or software application, retrieving
   information, preparing a response to the user, etc.       The action of determining an
   outcome and/or amount might take place, for example, if the user is using the device
   to place trades in connection with a selected exchange.         The action of accessing
   another server and/or software application might occur, for example, in the event the

   user is engaging in a services activity such as accessing news services. The action of
   retrieving information might occur when the financial software (resident in financial
   service provider element 26) is prompted to access another server for the purpose of
   retrieving a certain type of information requested by the user.        Financial service
 5 provider element 26 can then prepare a response to the user's input data in step 616.
   In step 618, the user acknowledges the response and in step 620, the user can log out
   and terminate his session.
            Preferably, data is transmitted back and forth during the convenience financial
   activities between end user 12 and financial service provider element 26 controlled by
10 the financial service provider. An example of the path of communication is shown in
   FIGURE 7. Financial data, such as a trade placed by the user, is transmitted from
   handheld device 701 (e.g. a PDA, a laptop, etc.) to a base station 702 (or a transmitter
   in the case of a private wireless network such as a WiFi or WiMax network). Base
   station 702 can route the data through data network 703 to a hub or a gateway 704,
15 which in turn routes the data to a financial service provider element 705. Preferably,
   the communication from handheld device 701 to the data network 703 comprises
   wireless communication. This may be any type of known wireless communication or
   any type of wireless communication available in the future. Examples of acceptable
   wireless communication protocols include CDMA, GSM, and GPRS.
20          Preferably, the communication from the data network 703 to the gateway 704
   and to the financial service provider element 705 are conducted over secure landlines.
   FIGURE 7 is an example communication network only and the present invention
   should be understood to cover other networks in which data may be transmitted from
   handheld device 701 to financial service provider element 705.        Preferably, data in
25 response to data being transmitted from handheld device 701 to financial service
   provider element 705 is transmitted back to handheld device 701 along a path
   essentially opposite to the path of the first transmission.
            As identified previously, a unique aspect of the present invention includes
   establishing an electronic record of the financial transactions undertaken by a user.
30 Preferably, this is accomplished by utilization of a keystroke log, which is an
   electronic record of all keystrokes made by the end user. Utilization of a keystroke
   log in this context also allows a financial control board or other regulatory authority,
   access to the electronic record in a direct manner in order to conduct periodic
   independent monitoring of the financial activities conducted over the system.

           In another embodiment of the invention, as shown in FIGURE 8, a ship-based
   convenient trading system is provided.        The system preferably comprises passenger
   vessel 802, such as a yacht for example. The system includes one or more handheld
   devices 806 connected to a communication network. The network shown in FIGURE
 5 8 comprises a mobile network with base stations 808 connected via a LAN to a base
   station controller (BSC) 810. BSC 810 is connected via a T-1 or an E-i interface to a
   first Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) modem 812, which is in communication
   with a first satellite 814. First satellite 814 is operable to transmit and receive signals
   from a second satellite 814, which is in communication with second VSAT modem
10 812. Second VSAT modem 812 is in communication with a financial service location
   816 that includes multiple financial service provider elements 818. Financial service
   provider elements 818 are coupled to a main database 820.              Again, the network
   configuration depicted in FIGURE 8 is for example purposes only, and other
   configurations are within the scope of the present invention. An on-board back office
15 822 is preferably provided. The office may include any type of handheld device. In
   this example, a simple PC is docked on the boat. Note that such PCs are within the
   broad scope of the term "handheld device."         Data is communicated by the on-board
   VSAT modem and transmitter to the first satellite for relay to the second (preferably
   land-based) VSAT receiver and modem. The data is then communicated to a server
20 and/or centralized database via a mobile station controller (not shown).         A similar
   scenario could involve such trading being executed on an airplane.                Such an
   arrangement is clearly within the broad scope of the present invention.
           In another example embodiment, the trading system may be used to enable
   financial activities involving multiple wireless users who interact with one another.
25 For instance, the system may enable a trade in which a first user and a second user are
   conducting financial activity on the same transaction in which trades selected by the
   first user are executed by the second user.         Preferably, the financial environment
   presented on the handheld devices of both the first and second users will indicate the
   existence and activity of the other respective user. In this sense, a broker can be used
30 to proxy the request of the end user.
           As described above, the elements and operations listed in FIGURES 1 through
   8 may be achieved with use of financial system 10 in any number of contexts and
   applications. Accordingly, communications capabilities, data processing features and
   elements, suitable infrastructure, adequate personnel and management, and any other

   appropriate software, hardware, or data storage objects may be included within
   financial system 10 to effectuate the tasks and operations of the elements and
   activities associated with trading.       Accordingly, FIGURE 1 provides only one
   example of a suitable processing and communications platform from which end user
 5 12 may execute trading.
            Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to
   particular embodiments in FIGURES 1-8, it should be understood that various other
   changes, substitutions, and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the
   sphere and scope of the present invention.         For example, although the preceding
10 FIGURES have referenced a number of asset structures that serve as a basis for
   trading, any suitable financial instruments, debts, securities, stocks, or commodities
   may be readily substituted for such assets and, similarly, benefit from the teachings of
   the present invention.
            It is also important to note that the teachings of the present invention may be
15 readily imparted to an end user (or a group of end users) such that the end user may
   sign up for (or enlist or enroll in) a charging plan that includes the operations and
   functions described herein. Thus, an end user could be enrolled in a charging plan
   that utilizes location-based verification methods in order to achieve appropriate
   trading authorization in a network environment.              A corresponding bill may
20 subsequently be generated that reflects such an arrangement.         Such an arrangement
   may be reflected by a simple customer arrangement between a financial provider and
   a client. In a similar fashion, an end user could be enrolled in a financial policy plan,
   whereby similar subscribing occurs and billing ensues.          The present invention is
   replete with such       financial  arrangements     and readily   encompasses     all such
25 possibilities.
            Numerous      other   changes,    substitutions,  variations,   alterations,  and
   modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the
   present invention encompass all such changes, substitutions, variations, alterations,
   and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In
30 order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and
   additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the
   claims appended hereto, Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant: (a) does not
   intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six (6) of 35 U.S.C. section
   112 as it exists on the date of filing hereof unless the words "means for" or "step for"

   are specifically used in the particular claims; and (b) does not intend by any statement
   in the specification to limit his invention in any way that is not otherwise reflected in
   the appended claims.
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
 5 requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.
           The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
10 taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
   of the common general knowledge in Australia. Further, the reference to any prior art
   in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any
   form of suggestion that such art would be understood, ascertained or regarded as
   relevant by the skilled person in Australia.
15

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
            1.      An apparatus, comprising:
            a handheld device operable to communicate with a financial service provider
 5 element via a wireless network, wherein the handheld device is operable to send and
   to receive financial information to and from the financial service provider element,
   the financial information being associated with a trade that is initiated by the handheld
   device, and wherein the handheld device may be authorized through location data,
   which is associated with a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
10
            2.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the handheld device is a selected
   one of a personal data assistant, a laptop, a mobile station, a personal computer (PC),
   and a table PC.
15          3.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the handheld device is operable to
   display the financial information to an end user of the handheld device in order to
   assist the end user in executing the trade.
            4.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the financial information is real
20 time data associated with the trade.
            5.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the handheld device may be
   disabled by the financial service provider element.
25          6.      The apparatus of Claim 5, wherein a portion of data being stored in or
   displayed on the handheld device is removed when the handheld device is disabled.
            7.      The apparatus of Claim 5, wherein the handheld device is disabled if it
   is lost or stolen.
30
            8.      The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising:
            a location verification component included in the handheld device and
   operable to assist in verifying the location of the handheld device.

           9.      The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the location verification component
   verifies the location of the handheld device by using geo-fencing.
            10.    The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the location verification component
 5 verifies the location of the handheld device by using global positioning satellite
   technology.
            11.    The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the location verification component
   verifies the location of the handheld device by using triangulation.
10
            12.    The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the location verification component
   verifies the location of the handheld device by using triangulation.
            13.    The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the location verification component
15 determines the location of the handheld device by using a geographic map.
            14.    The apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the location verification component
   ensures that the handheld device is located within an authorized trading area.
20          15.    The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the handheld device is operable to
   interface with the wireless network, the wireless network comprising a plurality of
   base stations physically located within the boundaries of a pre-determined area, at
   least one of the base stations operable to receive signals from outside the boundaries
   of the pre-determined area, the financial service provider element operable to disable
25 communication of trading information to or from the handheld device if the handheld
   device is in communication with the at least one base station.
            16.    The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising:
           a processor included in the financial service provider element and including a
30 location verification component for verifying the location of the handheld device, the
   location verification component operable to determine whether the handheld device is
   located within an approved trading area, the financial service provider element being
   operable to authorize the handheld device to execute the trade fr-om multiple points
   within the approved trading area.

            17.    The apparatus of Claim 16, wherein the plurality of approved trading
   areas comprises a first trading area and a second trading area, wherein the first and
   second trading areas have different physical boundaries.
 5
            18.    The apparatus of Claim 16, wherein the first and second trading areas
   overlap.
            19.    The apparatus of Claim 16, wherein the first and second trading areas
10 are geographically distinct.
           20.     The apparatus of Claim 16, wherein the handheld device may be
   moved from a first trading area to an unapproved area, wherein the financial service
   provider element is operable to terminate communication of trading information
15 between the handheld device and the financial service provider element when the
   handheld device is located in the unapproved area.
           21.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the handheld device may be moved
   from a first trading area to a second trading area by passing through an unapproved
20 area, wherein the financial service provider element is operable to suspend
   communication of trading information between handheld device and the financial
   service provider element when the handheld device is located in the unapproved area,
   and resume communication of the financial information when the handheld device
   enters the second approved trading area.
25
           22.     The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising:
           a sensor disposed on the handheld device, the sensor operable to detect
   movement of the handheld device to a position external to an approved trading area,
   the   financial  service   provider  element    operable  to  suspend  or   terminate
30 communication of trading information between the handheld device and the financial
   service provider element if the sensor detects movement of the handheld device to a
   position external to the approved trading area.

           23.     The apparatus of Claim 22, wherein the sensor is a radio frequency
   identification sensor.
           24.     The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the handheld device comprises a
 5 first device and a second device, and wherein a user of the first device interacts
   electronically during a trading activity, with a user of the second device.
           25.     The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising:
           an identity verification component operable to determine whether a user of the
10 handheld device is a user authorized to access the handheld device.
           26.     The    apparatus of Claim      25, wherein      the identity verification
   component comprises a data input function.
15         27.     The    apparatus of Claim      26,   wherein the    identity verification
   component comprises a biometric function.
           28.     The apparatus of Claim 26, wherein the biometric function comprises
   fingerprint identification.
20
           29.     The apparatus of Claim 26, wherein the biometric function comprises
   photo identification.
           30.     The apparatus of Claim 26, wherein the biometric function comprises
   retina scanning.
25
           31.     The apparatus of Claim 26, wherein the biometric function comprises
   voice print matching.
           32.     The apparatus of Claim 26, further comprising:
30         a processor that includes a keystroke logging component that is operable to
   record key strokes entered by a user of the handheld device.
           33.     An apparatus, comprising:

            a financial service provider element operable to communicate with a handheld
   device via a wireless network, wherein the financial service provider element is
   operable to send and to receive financial information to and from the handheld device,
   the financial information being associated with a trade that can be initiated by the
 5 handheld device, and wherein the financial service provider element may authorize
   the handheld device through location data, which is associated with a location of the
   handheld device, before executing the trade.
            34.     The apparatus of Claim 33, wherein the financial service provider
10 element is operable to disable the handheld device.
            35.     The apparatus of Claim 34, wherein a portion of data being stored or
   displayed on the handheld device is removed when the handheld device is disabled.
15          36.     The apparatus of Claim 34, wherein the financial service provider
   element is operable to disable the handheld device in response to the handheld device
   being lost or stolen.
            37.     The apparatus of Claim 33, further comprising:
20          a location verification component operable to verify the location of the
   handheld device by interfacing with the handheld device.
            38.     The   apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the        location verification
   component verifies the location of the handheld device by using geo-fencing.
25
            39.     The   apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the location verification
   component verifies the location of the handheld device by using global positioning
   satellite technology.
30          40.     The   apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the location verification
   component verifies the location of the handheld device by using triangulation.
            41.     The   apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the location verification
   component verifies the location of the handheld device by using triangulation.

           42.     The    apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the        location verification
   component determines the location of the handheld device by using a geographic
   map.
 5
           43.     The    apparatus of Claim 37, wherein the location verification
   component ensures that the handheld device is located within an authorized trading
   area.
10         44.     The apparatus of Claim 33, wherein the financial service provider
   element operable to disable communication of the financial information to or from the
   handheld device if the handheld device is in an unapproved trading area.
           45.     The apparatus of Claim 33, wherein the financial service provider
15 element is operable to designate one or more trading areas in which the handheld
   device is able to execute the trade.
           46.     The apparatus of Claim 33, wherein the financial service provider
   element is operable to store an end user profile associated with an end user of the
20 handheld device.
           47.     The apparatus of Claim 46, wherein the end user profile includes a
   selected one or more of account information associated with the end user, an asset
   position associated with the end user, and personal identification information
25 associated with the end user.
           48.     The apparatus of Claim 33, wherein the financial service provider
   element is operable to communicate with a financial exchange in order to provide
   real-time data to an end user of the handheld device.
30
           49.     The apparatus of Claim 33, wherein the financial service provider
   element is operable to authorize the handheld device using at least one of a group of
   elements, the group consisting of:
           a)      a telephone ID;

            b)      a system ID;
            c)      an application ID;
            d)      a tradedesk verification mechanism;
            e)      a user ID;
 5          f)      a picture ID; and
            g)      a biometric parameter.
            50.     The apparatus of Claim 49, wherein one or more of the elements
   correspond to one or more levels of security for an end user of the handheld device.
10
            51.     A method for executing a wireless trade, comprising:
            communicating with a handheld device via a wireless network;
            sending and receiving financial information to and from the handheld device,
   the financial information being associated with a trade that can be initiated by the
15 handheld device; and
            authorizing the handheld device through location data, which is associated
   with a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
            52.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
20          disabling the handheld device.
            53.     The method of Claim 52, wherein a portion of data being stored or
   displayed on the handheld device is removed when the handheld device is disabled.
25          54.     The method of Claim 52, wherein the disabling of the handheld device
   is in response to the handheld device being lost or stolen.
            55.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
            verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
30 device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using geo-fencing.
            56.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:

           verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using global
   positioning satellite technology.
 5         57.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
           verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using triangulation.
           58.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
10         verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using a geographic
   map.
           59.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
15         designating one or more trading areas in which the handheld device is able to
   execute the trade.
           60.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
           storing an end user profile associated with an end user of the handheld device.
20
           61.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
           communicating with a financial exchange in order to provide real-time data to
   an end user of the handheld device.
25         62.     The method of Claim 51, further comprising:
           authorizing the handheld device using at least one of a group of elements, the
   group consisting of:
           a)      a telephone ID;
           b)      a system ID;
30         c)      an application ID;
           d)      a tradedesk verification mechanism;
           e)      a user ID;
           f)      a picture ID; and
           g)      a biometric parameter.

            63.    A system for executing a wireless trade, comprising:
            means for communicating with a handheld device via a wireless network;
            means for sending and receiving financial information to and from the
 5 handheld device, the financial information being associated with a trade that can be
   initiated by the handheld device; and
            means for authorizing the handheld device through location data, which is
   associated with a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
10          64.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
            means for disabling the handheld device.
            65.    The system of Claim 64, wherein a portion of data being stored or
   displayed on the handheld device is removed when the handheld device is disabled.
15
            66.    The system of Claim 64, wherein the disabling of the handheld device
   is in response to the handheld device being lost or stolen.
            67.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
20          means for verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the
   handheld device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using geo
   fencing.
            68.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
25          means for verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the
   handheld device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using
   global positioning satellite technology.
            69.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
30          means for verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the
   handheld device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using
   triangulation.
            70.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:

            means for verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the
   handheld device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using a
   geographic map.
 5          71.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
            means for designating one or more trading areas in which the handheld device
   is able to execute the trade.
            72.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
10          means for storing an end user profile associated with an end user of the
   handheld device.
            73.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
            means for communicating with a financial exchange in order to provide real
15 time data to an end user of the handheld device.
            74.    The system of Claim 63, further comprising:
            means for authorizing the handheld device using at least one of a group of
   elements, the group consisting of:
20          a)     a telephone ID;
            b)     a system ID;
            c)     an application ID;
            d)     a tradedesk verification mechanism;
            e)     a user ID;
25          f)     a picture ID; and
            g)     a biometric parameter.
            75.    Software for executing a wireless trade, the software being embodied
   in a computer readable medium and comprising computer code such that when
30 executed is operable to:
            communicate with a handheld device via a wireless network;
            send and receive financial information to and from the handheld device, the
   financial information being associated with a trade that can be initiated by the
   handheld device; and

            authorize the handheld device through location data, which is associated with
   a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
            76.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
 5          disable the handheld device.
            77.     The medium of Claim 76, wherein a portion of data being stored or
   displayed on the handheld device is removed when the handheld device is disabled.
10          78.     The medium of Claim 76, wherein the disabling of the handheld device
   is in response to the handheld device being lost or stolen.
            79.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
            verify the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
15 device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using geo-fencing.
            80.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
            verify the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using global
20 positioning satellite technology.
            81.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
            verify the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using triangulation.
25
            82.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
            verify the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using a geographic
   map.
30
            83.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
            designate one or more trading areas in which the handheld device is able to
   execute the trade.

           84.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
           store an end user profile associated with an end user of the handheld device.
           85.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
 5         communicate with a financial exchange in order to provide real-time data to an
   end user of the handheld device.
           86.     The medium of Claim 75, wherein the code is further operable to:
           authorize the handheld device using at least one of a group of elements, the
10 group consisting of:
           a)      a telephone ID;
           b)      a system ID;
           c)      an application ID;
           d)      a tradedesk verification mechanism;
15         e)      a user ID;
           f)      a picture ID; and
           g)      a biometric parameter.
           87.     A method for signing up an end user in a network environment,
20 comprising:
           enrolling an end user in a charging plan;
           generating a bill for the end user that corresponds to the charging plan,
   wherein the charging plan is based on a plurality of operations that include:
                   communicating with a handheld device via a wireless network;
25                 sending and receiving financial information to and from the handheld
   device, the financial information being associated with a trade that can be initiated by
   the handheld device; and
                   authorizing the handheld device through location data, which is
   associated with a location of the handheld device, before executing the trade.
30
           88.     The method of Claim 87, further comprising:
           disabling the handheld device.

            89.     The method of Claim 88, wherein a portion of data being stored or
   displayed on the handheld device is removed when the handheld device is disabled.
            90.     The method of Claim 88, wherein the disabling of the handheld device
 5 is in response to the handheld device being lost or stolen.
            91.     The method of Claim 87, further comprising:
            verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using geo-fencing.
10
            92.     The method of Claim 87, further comprising:
            verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using global
   positioning satellite technology.
15
            93.     The method of Claim 87, further comprising:
            verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using triangulation.
20          94.     The method of Claim 87, further comprising:
            verifying the location of the handheld device by interfacing with the handheld
   device, wherein the location of the handheld device is verified by using a geographic
   map.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
