An online mobile ordering platform is disclosed that is used by restaurants, cafes, or bars and allows
customers to order their food, have it delivered to their table and pay for it, all from their phone.
The platform includes an ordering software system for each restaurant which allows for
communication between the customer's phone and the business' kitchen and waitstaff. The
customer downloads an app and creates an account. The app's in-built QR code scanner is used to
scan a QR code which is located on the restaurant table. This QR code, which is specific to a table,
connects the customer to the restaurant. Payment occurs prior to the order being placed and
served. Also, the customer is able to earn loyalty points from each purchase and also contribute to a
two-way rating system.

         Editorial Note
           <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                                 DESCRIPTION - ORDERHERE
WHAT IT IS
The product is called "Orderhere". It's an online mobile ordering platform, that is used by
restaurants, cafes, or bars and allows customers to order their food, have it delivered to their
table and pay for it, all from their phone.
HOW IT WORKS
"Orderhere" includes an ordering software system for each restaurant which allows for smooth
communication between the customer's phone and the business' kitchen and waitstaff.
The customer connects to "Orderhere" by downloading the app (or visiting the website) and
creating an account. This will provide key customer information such as name, payment details
(through a secure platform) and email. The customer's "Orderhere" account will allow for
seamless ordering in the future at other businesses that have partnered with "Orderhere".
After creating their account, the customer will then use the app's in-built QR code scanner to
scan a QR code which is located on the restaurant table. This QR code connects the customer to
the restaurant as it allows the customer to access the restaurants menu. Additionally, each code
is specific to a table, making the destination of the order and customer known to staff. By
placing their order from their own phone, the customer avoids any potentially
miscommunication errors between themselves and the restaurants waitstaff.
After the customer places their order they then directed to the checkout page where they can
see the receipt of their order. From there, the customer is able to use their stored payment
details to pay for the meal and even split the bill with friends if they happen to be eating in a
group.
Once the bill has been paid for on their "Orderhere" account, the customer's order is then sent
to the kitchen and the preparation of the order begins.
Once the customer has finished the meal they are then free to leave without having to wait in
line to pay, deal with cash or even face potential "minimum on card" policies.
The user experience continues after the meal is finished, as the customer is able to earn loyalty
points from each purchase and also contribute to a two-way rating system. The two-way rating
system is particularly important since it allows the restaurant to rate the customer, which will
improve the exchange between the buyer and the seller through increased accountability on
both sides.

      Editorial Note
         <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                    CLAIMS - ORDERHERE
Claim 1 (Independent):
Orderhere is the first online service that allows customers to order from a menu within a
cafes/restaurants/bars from your phone and have that order delivered to your table without
having to personally speak to an employee beforehand.
Claim 2 (Independent):
Orderhere is the first online service that allows customers to pay for their food and beverage
orders at cafes/restaurants/bars through online payment methods. Eradicating the use of cash
and card payments for both customers and businesses.
Claim 3 (Independent):
Orderhere is the first online platform that gives cafes/restaurants/bars the ability to rate
customers, as uber has done, which improve the exchange between the buyer and the seller
through increased accountability on both sides.

