A method to improve the flavour of fermented then distilled selected vegetable potable spirit or
liqueur beverages, made from physically damaged, or miss-shaped/sized, or otherwise commercially
non-standard and standard product.
By increasing the flavour of selected vegetable distilled beverages, it should increase consumer
acceptability and in turn find a commercial recovery option for some previously discarded or
reduced value non-standard agricultural products.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

A method to improve the flavour of fermented then distilled selected vegetable potable spirit or
liqueur beverages, made from physically damaged, or miss-shaped/sized, or otherwise commercially
non-standard and standard product.
By increasing the flavour of selected vegetable distilled beverages, it should increase consumer
acceptability and in turn find a commercial recovery option for some previously discarded or
reduced value non-standard agricultural products.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

A process to make impact damaged, or miss-shaped, or otherwise commercially non-standard and
standard vegetables suitable for fermentation and distillation, but also maximises the retention of
phytochemicals, especially flavonoids with the following procedures:
    1. Vegetables are brushed, washed and dried after harvesting in the usual manner.
    2. Immersed for 1-2 minutes in 60% to 70% industrial grade ethanol and drained. The drained
        ethanol is filtered and retained in a suitable closed vessel. This ethanol is available for
        sterilising reuse on subsequent batches of vegetables, until it becomes sufficiently diluted by
        either evaporation or the slight dehydration effect from each batch of vegetables.
    3. The vegetables are then lightly rinsed with chlorine filtered potable water, drained then the
        diluted ethanol rinse water is filtered and retained in a separate vessel. Subsequent rinse
        waters containing some ethanol and the expended concentrated ethanol in step 2 are mixed
        together. This diluted ethanol is then concentrated and purified by distillation in a reflux
        column still, which makes it suitable for its recycling use in step 2.
    4. This ethanol sterilisation method ensures that fungal or bacterial infections don't proliferate
        in subsequent fermentation vats. These infections could be encouraged to grow aerobically
        and/or anaerobically by yeast's usual warming exothermic fermentation reaction. (Most
        infections will spoil the flavour of the fermented liquid).
    5. Depending on the vegetable type, it is then coarsely chopped or sliced, then dry heated to
        40- 60 C in a vacuum cooker at approximately -1 atmospheres. This method follows the sous
        vide cooking principle, which retains more flavonoids.
    6. After returning the cooked vegetables to normal atmospheric pressure, they are liquified
        with some added potable, but chlorine filtered water, then amylase enzyme is added to
        convert the starch to sugar.
    7. This liquid then undergoes yeast fermentation in the standard manner, then is double
        distilled in a copper pot still, as this distillation process is best for optimising distillate
        flavours.
    8. The flavoured concentrated ethanol from the second distillation can then be used as food
        safe distilled alcoholic beverages. Distillation is important, as in its fermented wine state I
        would not advocate that wine would be completely free of food safety compromising
        bacteria. (Step 2 concentrated ethanol sterilisation is to make the products suitable for yeast
        fermentation reactions only)

