                                        Abstract
 5
   A method of processing a lithium concentrate is disclosed. The method
   comprises the steps of: transporting the lithium concentrate to an existing
   HPAL processing facility; and, processing the lithium concentrate through the
   existing HPAL processing facility to produce a battery grade lithium product.
10 There is also disclosed a method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a
   lithium concentrate. The method comprises the steps of: transporting a
   lithium concentrate to an existing HPAL processing facility, and transporting a
   nickel laterite ore to the existing HPAL processing facility. Then the nickel
   laterite ore and lithium concentrate are blended, followed by co-processing of
15 the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate in the existing HPAL processing
   facility to produce nickel and a battery grade lithium product.
   Drawing suggested to accompany Abstract: Figure 1

              LLI
              z         0
              uj
              v
              u                                                                                     00
                                                             -4
              LU                                                                                              :D
                                                                                                                    0
                                                         0                                                    ()    !;
              0                                    a- ;E                                                      0 pe
                                                         uj                                                   w n
                                                                                                             IL     LL
Clq
                                                                             00
           C                                                                 ts)
                                                      t                                               0
     t2                                                                   z
     0                       ()     V,
           ()    V-)                                                     0                              \1
     0     z     LU          Z      U-i            LU
    u            z    0      5:: Z                                    z <                                           LU
                                    0              U                  z U                                     M zLLJ
                                                   >-                 LU                                      0 NZ
                                                   ()                 NZ a::
                                                   UJ                                                               u
                                                                                                             CL     3:
          U     U
                                                                     F
                                                      t                t
                                                      LLI
                                    uj
                                    ca                                                                           C14
                                    .0                               o                                           IL
                             w      OR               >                   uj
                             0      u                 x                  >
              <                                       V)                  <
                                   C/)                <                  u
                                                                         V)
                                                     LL
                     00
                     C*A
                                t                                                        0
        Lu    Z                                       LLJ                               70
        z     0            LU           LU
                                                                       0&                c
        uj    -            w
              V)          0      u      CL                             U.1
                   z
              LLI                ui U                 u                0
              >            <                          0                0
        o                       co 0                                                                                ck
        CL    0                        V)
                                                                       u                                            Lij
        V)                                                                                                   C14 z
                                                     <                                                       CL LLJ
                                                                                                                    NZ
                                                                                                                    M
              t                                       t
                                                                                   0
        U.j                                                                        E
        0                                          z                               Q)              VC,
        <                    cj UJ                 0                              _0    o     <
              <               < u'i        9             uj                                  V)
              ca ul           :5 v)
                                                         V)                        c    z
                                    :D             U     V)                      -2     -    0a
              0                                          LLI                            =n!
                                                   <                   u                F7 V)
                   0         CL    U                    >                                    Q
                                                                00
                                                                                                              >
                                                 L                                    0                      0
                                                                                     In
                                                         V)
                 ui                                      0V)                              :E   U
                                                                          uj
                 <                                        Z               >                                       LU >
                                                          LU                                                      z    0
                                                          C)                                   0
                 z
                 w                                        0Z                                  CLaf         <      <    Lu
                 u                                                                                 00
                 z                                      u
                 0              Cie
                 u
                                                                   r   t
                                C4
                                 T-
                                              f,
                                             C-0

                                       ORIGINAL
                                    AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
Invention title:
   "METHOD OF CO-PROCESSING NICKEL
            LATERITE ORES AND LITHIUM
                          CONCENTRATE"
Applicant:
               POSEIDON NICKEL LIMITED
Associated Provisional Application No.: <removed-apn>
The following statement is a full description of the invention, including the best
method of performing it known to me:

                                              2
         "METHOD OF CO-PROCESSING NICKEL LATERITE ORES AND
                              LITHIUM CONCENTRATE"
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present invention relates to a method of co-processing nickel laterite
   ores and a concentrate and relates particularly, although not exclusively, to a
   method for co-processing a blend of nickel laterite ores and lithium
   concentrate.
10 Background to the Invention
   The market for electric vehicles as well as on-grid and off-grid electrical
   storage batteries is rapidly expanding, and there is also growth in non-battery
   applications for lithium. This is forcing lithium producers to look for new ways
15 to meet growing demand. Because historic demand for lithium was small
   and easily satisfied, producers focused on mining only the most accessible,
   highest-grade lithium      minerals and      processing them     using the most
   inexpensive (though inefficient) methods. Moving forward, however, deposits
   of lithium will need to be considered which are of lower grade and more
20 difficult to identify and to mine. Processes for concentrating and extracting
   lithium oxide and conversion to higher grade lithium products such as lithium
   carbonate and/or lithium hydroxide will also need to become more efficient
   and able to accommodate lower grade materials. A new focus on recovery
   rates and an awareness and understanding of detrimental elements will need
25 to be developed.
   Mineral sources of Lithium are predominantly in two forms: in silicates such
   as the minerals spodumene, zinnwaldite, and tourmaline; and in mica
   (orthosilicates) such as lepidolite. There are also rarer lithium-bearing
   minerals       belonging    to    philosilicates,   cyclosilicates,   phosphates,
30 fluorophosphates, and even clays such as hectorite. Lithium-bearing minerals
   spodumene, tourmaline and lepidolite are found in association with tantalum

                                            3
   and    niobium    minerals   (columbite, tantalite, niobite)   in  the   massive
   Greenbushes pegmatite in the Yilgarn Craton of Western Australia.
   However, most of the current production of lithium comes from evaporation
   ponds into which lithium-bearing brine (containing highly soluble LiCI) is
 5 pumped from underground and allowed to evaporate. The dissolved lithium
   salts precipitate from the brine and are collected and processed into lithium
   carbonate (Li 2CO 3 ), the primary precursor material for many commercial
   uses of lithium.    Lithium production from brines suffers from being land
   intensive, inefficient, environmentally questionable, and unable to respond
10 quickly to the large increases in lithium demand that are being recorded and
   forecast for the near future. Many analysts do not anticipate that brine ponds
   will be capable of satisfying future forecast demand for lithium.
   Mineral or non-brine sources of lithium are therefore increasingly being
   developed, especially as the price of lithium is able to support more input
15 intensive means of lithium production. The most common mineral source of
   lithium in Western Australia currently is spodumene, most of which is
   produced in one location in WA, the Talison mine in Greenbushes. Lepidolite
   is a secondary but increasingly important source of lithium. While it is slightly
   more challenging to mine and has inherently lower concentrations of lithium,
20 innovations in this area are taking place at an increasing rate which could
   make lepidolite economically feasible and thereby greatly expand the world's
   accessible lithium resources.
   In Western      Australia  there   are a    number   of failed    nickel  laterite
   hydrometallurgical plants that are either mothballed, in care and maintenance
25 or operating at a loss. These plants utilised high pressure acid leach (HPAL)
   typically operating at 2500 C. The hydrometallurgical           plants produced
   different intermediate products. Cawse and Ravensthorpe produced or
   produce a mixed hydroxide product whilst Murrin Murrin produces a mixed
   sulphide and Bulong applied direct solvent extraction technology to produce
30 nickel cathode plate.

                                           4
   The mixed hydroxide HPAL plants can treat lithium hosted pegmatites to
   produce a lithium hydroxide product as well as a nickel hydroxide product.
   Poseidon     Nickel Ltd (PNL) proposes to convert the nickel sulphide
   concentrator to a lithium spodumene concentrate process plant. Previous
 5 operators    of the nickel laterite hydrometallurgical    plants encountered
   significant technical obstacles as well as changing market and industry
   requirements in realizing value from these assets in spite of significant R&D
   work done at the sites.
   Lake Johnston is a nickel mine and concentrator plant located 110 km west
10 of Norseman that has operated since 2001.        Discovered in 1971, the main
   ore bodies at Lake Johnston operations (LJO) underground consisted of the
   Emily Ann massive sulphide deposit (now mined out) and the Maggie Hayes
   (MH) deposit, consisting of a lower grade disseminated zone that has
   historically been mined through sub-level caving (called the sub-level cave
15 zone), a higher grade massive zone referred to as North Shoot that was
   mined only opportunistically (being too narrow for large-scale mechanized
   mining), and the "Suture Zone" (being situated between the two).
   PNL's Lake Johnston tenements are historically known to have lithium
   bearing pegmatites (intrusive igneous rock comprised of various interesting
20 minerals), and recent reconnaissance has confirmed the presence of surface
   and near-surface outcrops of Li-bearing minerals (spodumene, lepidolite, and
   muscovite) in pegmatites. What was not known at the commencement of this
   project is whether commercial quantities of lithium are present, and whether
   those lithium-bearing minerals are well-suited to extraction, concentration,
25 and processing into viable lithium materials products.
   Lithium ore concentration is typically undertaken in two parallel processes,
   one being a technical-grade lithium process for use in glass and ceramics
   which have very low tolerance for contaminants such as iron, and the
   other(s) being chemical grade lithium for use in the production of Li 2 CO3
30 (lithium carbonate) and LiOH (lithium hydroxide), the precursor commodity
   used for batteries and other industrial uses of Li.

                                             5
   A number of new hydrometallurgical processes are being developed such as
   SiLeach and L-Max which aim to eliminate the requirement to use
   pyrometallurgical techniques to convert the spodumene from alpha crystal
   through to beta crystal and treating non-commercial lithium minerals such as
 5 lepidolite respectively. These new processes are not commercially proven
   and insufficient information is currently available on the technical risks
   associated with the relevant flowsheets.
   The L-Max process developed by Lepidico Ltd is mainly intended for lithium
   minerals that are types of mica, for example lepidiolite.          The SiLeach
10 process, evidently an outgrowth or variation of the L-Max process, is being
   developed by Lithium Australia (LIT). These competing processes were too
   new for any expert familiar with the technology to state with any confidence
   how or whether they will work with any given concentrate, or more
   importantly to PNL, how lithium concentrate should be processed to produce
15 a battery grade hydroxide or carbonate.
   PNL plan to utilise the existing Lake Johnston nickel sulphide concentrator to
   treat lithium minerals such as spodumene, petalite, eucryptite, zinnwaldite,
   and lepidolite to produce a lithium concentrate. As this is substantially
   different to the original design criteria for Lake Johnston significant research
20 and experimentation must be applied including trial mining and trial
   processing.
   The technology for processing spodumene, eucryptite and petalite to produce
   Li 2 CO3 or LiOH is well established and commercial. High purity product
   quality is required if the hydroxide or carbonate is to be used in the
25 manufacture of batteries. Trace elements only are acceptable as impurities in
   the hydroxide or carbonate product.
   A further unknown prior to the commencement of this project was the ability
   to recommission one of the existing HPAL plants capable of producing a
   mixed nickel hydroxide at either Cawse or Ravensthorpe for the purpose of
30 processing lithium concentrate to produce battery grade lithium product. PNL

                                             6
   understands this has not been done before, and there are a number of key
   risks on the approach that must be investigated and understood.
   The present invention was developed with a view to providing a method of
   co-processing nickel-bearing ores and lithium concentrates or independently
 5 processing lithium concentrates via an existing HPAL plant.
   Tianqi Lithium plans to build a refinery in Kwinana Western Australia to treat
   spodumene concentrate to produce battery grade lithium products. Similarly
   Neo Metals plans to build a refinery in Kalgoorlie to process spodumene
   concentrate from Mt Marrion to produce battery grade lithium products. Both
10 refineries will require a significant capital expenditure and take up to 2 years
   to design, construct and commission. Utilising an existing HPAL plant with
   minor changes, whilst high risk, eliminates the substantial capital investment
   and time prior to producing battery grade lithium products that attracts a
   premium to the spodumene concentrate.
15 The previous discussion of the background to the invention is intended to
   facilitate an understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is
   not an acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is
   or was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of this
   application. References to prior art in this specification are provided for
20 illustrative purposes only and are not to be taken as an admission that such
   prior art is part of the common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.
   Summary of the Invention
   According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
25 of processing a lithium concentrate, the method comprising the steps of:
   transporting the lithium concentrate to an existing HPAL processing facility;
   and
   processing the lithium concentrate through the existing HPAL processing
   facility to produce a battery grade lithium product.

                                             7
   Typically the lithium concentrate is spodumene concentrate. Preferably the
   method further comprises, prior to the step of processing, the step of pre
   treating the spodumene concentrate to effect alpha to beta crystal
   transformation. Typically the alpha to beta crystal transformation is performed
 5 by heating the alpha spodumene to over 11000 C in a rotary kiln. Preferably
   the step of processing comprises leaching the concentrate via an autoclave
   at a temperature within the range of 2500 to 2600 C. More typically the
   temperature in the autoclave is around 2500 C. Typically the residence time
   in the autoclave is in the range of 70 minutes to 90 minutes. More typically
10 the residence time is about 90 minutes.
   According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate, the
   method comprising the steps of:
   transporting a lithium concentrate to an existing HPAL processing facility;
15 transporting a nickel laterite ore to the existing HPAL processing facility;
   blending the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate; and,
   co-processing the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate in the existing
   HPAL processing facility to produce nickel and a battery grade lithium
   product.
20 Preferably the method also includes crushing the nickel laterite ore and pre
   treating the lithium concentrate prior to the step of blending the nickel laterite
   ore and lithium concentrate. Typically the lithium concentrate is spodumene
   concentrate. Preferably the step of pre-treating the spodumene concentrate
   includes alpha to beta crystal transformation. Typically the alpha to beta
25 crystal transformation is performed by heating the alpha spodumene to over
   11000 C in a rotary kiln prior to co-processing. Preferably the step of co
   processing the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate comprises leaching
   the ore and concentrate via an autoclave at 2500 C. Typically the residence
   time in the autoclave is about 90 minutes.

                                           8
   Preferably the method further comprises, after the step of leaching,
   separating the solid tailings from the liquor containing lithium and nickel
   sulphate in solution.
   Typically following solid/liquid separation the main solid impurities are
 5 separated from the liquor and discharged to a tailings storage facility.
   Preferably prior to solid/liquid separation the main solution impurities are
   removed through a primary impurities removal circuit with the addition of lime
   or quicklime.
   Typically following primary impurity removal the solids waste is separated
10 from the liquid in a counter current decantation (CCD) circuit.
   Preferably the method comprises the application of a secondary impurity
   removal circuit for removing any remaining iron, aluminium and silica.
   Typically following secondary impurity removal the main solid impurities are
   separated from the liquor and recycled back to the CCD circuit.
15 Preferably the method further comprises selectively precipitating the nickel
   and lithium separately by the addition of sodium carbonate, magnesia or
   quicklime.
   Preferably the secondary impurity removal circuit is followed by a primary
   mixed hydroxide precipitation (MHP1)        step for recovering mixed metal
20 hydroxides from the leach solution by precipitation. Typically following the
   MHP1 step the main solids are separated in a MHP1 product thickener.
   Advantageously the method further comprises the application of a secondary
   mixed hydroxide precipitation (MHP2) step for removing the remaining nickel
   and cobalt.      Preferably following the MHP2 step the main solids are
25 separated in a MHP2 product thickener and the underflow recycled back to
   the secondary impurity removal circuit.
   Advantageously after precipitating the nickel and lithium separately the
   hydroxides or carbonates are dewatered and filtered to achieve a low
   moisture level prior to packaging.

                                            9
   Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers. Likewise the word
 5 "preferably" or variations such as "preferred", will be understood to imply that
   a stated integer or group of integers is desirable but not essential to the
   working of the invention.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The nature of the invention will be better understood from the following
10 detailed description of preferred embodiments of the process, given by way
   of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
           Figure 1 is processing plant flow diagram illustrating a preferred
           embodiment of the method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and
           lithium concentrates in an existing HPAL plant according to the
15         present invention.
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
   PNL has an overall company objective in defining the opportunities that exist
   in the lithium market. In order to move towards that goal, an essential R&D
20 objective was to trial mine a representative sample of pegmatite (up to
   20,000 t), to concentrate the bulk sample of ore at LJO, and to see the
   concentrate further processed into a viable Li 2 CO3 product.     To do this, a
   number of unknowns had to be addressed.             These included gaining an
   understanding of the specific lithium minerals that exist at Lake Johnston,
25 developing an understanding of how to use the LJO concentrator to produce
   a lithium concentrate, and understanding the alternatives for downstream
   processing into Li 2CO3 .   Intrinsic to these objectives is understanding the
   various gangue minerals, deleterious elements, the grade of the minerals,
   and their responsiveness to various processing treatments.

                                         10
   The ability to fine-tune ore feedstock through blending has previously been
   shown to have economic benefits both by influencing the product quality and
   by raising the overall recovery rate of nickel from extracted material.
   However, the ability to do so in the case of a blend of Black Swan and/or
 5 Lake Johnston ores with lithium-bearing ores was by no means assured.
   Co-pending Australian Provisional Application No <removed-apn>, filed 29
   September 2016, describes a Method of Co-Processing Nickel Sulphide Ores
   and other Ores. The main purpose of the method of co-processing nickel
   sulphide ores and lithium ores described in AU<removed-apn> is to minimise
10 capital expenditure by maximising use of an existing Lake Johnston
   operation (LJO) concentrator. One of the products of the method of co
   processing nickel sulphide ores and lithium ores described in AU<removed-apn>
   is a lithium concentrate.
   The main purpose of the method of co-processing according to the present
15 invention is to make use of the existing HPAL plants capable of producing a
   mixed nickel hydroxide at either Cawse or Ravensthorpe for the purpose of
   processing lithium concentrate to produce battery grade lithium product.
   In order to determine how the co-processing of nickel laterite ores and lithium
   concentrate can be done using an existing HPAL plant, a research and
20 development program is being implemented to address a number of issues.
   A first embodiment of the method of co-processing of nickel laterite ores and
   a lithium concentrate in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in
   the flow diagram of Figure 1 for a co-processing plant 10. The method
   typically comprises the step of transporting a nickel laterite ore to an existing
25 HPAL processing plant 10 where it is stored in ROM (Run of Mine) bin 12.
   The method also comprises the step of transporting a lithium concentrate to
   the same HPAL processing plant 10, where it is stored in high grade cobalt
   ore bin 32. In the described embodiment the processing plant is an existing
   HPAL plant 10 located at Cawse, and the lithium concentrate is spodumene
30 concentrate. Typically the spodumene concentrate is a product of the method
   of co-processing nickel sulphide ores and lithium ores described in

                                            11
   AU<removed-apn>, using the LJO concentrator. However it will be understood
   that any suitable lithium concentrate may be employed, and the invention is
   not necessarily limited to processing of spodumene concentrates.
   The method of co-processing according to the present invention preferably
 5 comprises the further steps of crushing and blending the nickel laterite ore
   with the lithium concentrate to produce a blended ore having a desired
   mineralogy. Typically the step of crushing the nickel laterite ore includes
   passing the ore from ROM bin 12 through a crushing circuit 14 comprising a
   primary crusher 16. The crushed nickel laterite ore from the crushing circuit is
10 stockpiled in stockpile 18, from where it passes through a drum scrubber 20,
   is screened and the undersize material is sent to a first cyclone classifier 24.
   Typically the step of blending the nickel laterite ore and the lithium
   concentrate is at least partially performed by passing the crushed ore and the
   concentrate through a milling circuit 22. The milling circuit 22 comprises the
15 first cyclone classifier 24, a second cyclone classifier 26 and a ball mill 28.
   Coarse ore from the first cyclone classifier 24 passes to the second cyclone
   classifier 26, while the fines from the first cyclone classifier 24 go to an ore
   thickener 30, where it is blended with the fines from the second cyclone
   classifier 26. Coarse material from the second cyclone classifier 26 passes
20 through the ball mill 28 in the milling circuit where it is blended with the
   lithium concentrate.
   Because in this embodiment, the lithium concentrate is a spodumene
   concentrate,    the   method    also   includes  pre-treating   the  spodumene
   concentrate prior to the step of blending the nickel laterite ore and the lithium
25 concentrate. The step of pre-treating the spodumene concentrate typically
   includes alpha to beta crystal transformation. Typically the alpha to beta
   crystal transformation is performed by heating the alpha spodumene from bin
   32 to over 11000 C in a rotary kiln 34. From the kiln 34 the spodumene
   concentrate passes to ball mill 28. In the ball mill 28 the spodumene
30 concentrate is blended with the coarse material from the second cyclone
   classifier 26. Preferably the blended overflow (fines) from the second cyclone

                                            12
   classifier 26 is sent to an ore thickener 30, in which it is blended with the
   fines from the first cyclone classifier 24 to form a blended slurry.
   Preferably the method further comprises co-processing the nickel laterite ore
   and lithium concentrate in an existing mixed hydroxide HPAL processing
 5 plant to produce a nickel product and a battery grade lithium product. The
   blended slurry underflow from ore thickener 30 passes to a leach circuit 31
   for co-processing. Typically the blended slurry from the ore thickener 30 is
   heated through splash condensors 36, and passes through a reaction vessel
   38 prior to high pressure leaching of the blended ore in an autoclave 40.
10 Preferably leaching of the blended slurry in autoclave 40 occurs at a
   temperature within the range of 2500 C to 2600 C. More typically the
   temperature in the autoclave 40 is around 2500 C. Typically the residence
   time in the autoclave 40 is in the range of 70 minutes to 90 minutes. More
   typically the residence time in the autoclave 40 is about 90 minutes. Then the
15 slurry is cooled in flash vessels 42, prior to passing to a recycle leach vessel
   44.
   Preferably the method further comprises, after the leaching step, separating
   the solid tailings from the liquor containing lithium and nickel in solution.
   Typically the solid/liquid separation circuit comprises a counter current
20 decantation (CCD) circuit 50. Preferably during solid/liquid separation the
   solid impurities are separated from the liquor and discharged to a tailings
   storage facility 52. Preferably prior to solid/liquid separation the slurry from
   the recycle leach vessel 44 passes through a primary impurity removal circuit
   46 in which some of the primary impurities are removed with the addition of
25 lime or quicklime. This removes most of the iron and aluminium as
   hydroxides, and silica precipitates as a silicate.
   Preferably following solid/liquid separation in CCD circuit 50, after cooling of
   the liquor in cooler 54, some of the remaining impurities are removed through
   a secondary impurity removal circuit 56 with the addition of lime or quicklime.
30 Typically following secondary impurity removal the liquor passes through a
   thickening/clarification circuit 58, and the main impurities are separated from

                                            13
   the liquor and the underflow recycled back to the recycle leach vessel 44.
   Preferably the secondary impurity removal circuit 56 is followed by a primary
   mixed hydroxide precipitation (MHP1) step 60 for recovering mixed metal
   hydroxides from the leach solution by precipitation. Typically in this mixed
 5 hydroxide precipitation step hydroxides of nickel, cobalt, aluminium and other
   minor metals are formed by the addition of magnesium hydroxide to the
   solution. Typically following the primary MHP1 step 60 the main solids are
   separated in MHP1 product thickener 62 and the underflow passes to
   product filtration 68 for dewatering and washing to achieve a low moisture
10 level prior to packaging of the final nickel / cobalt product for dispatch.
   Preferably the method comprises the application of a secondary mixed
   hydroxide precipitation (MHP2) step 64 for removing the remaining nickel and
   cobalt. Typically following the secondary MHP2 step 64 the main solids are
   separated in MHP2 product thickener 66 and the underflow recycled back to
15 secondary impurity removal circuit 56.
   Preferably following solid/liquid separation in MHP2 product thickener 66, the
   overflow liquor passes through a final impurity removal circuit 68 wherein
   essentially all of the remaining impurities (Calcium, Magnesium, etc.) in
   solution are removed with the addition of sodium carbonate (or a similarly
20 effective reagent such as sodium hydroxide). Typically following final impurity
   removal the precipitated solid impurities are separated from the liquor and
   discharged to a tailings storage facility 52. Preferably following final impurity
   removal the lithium is recovered from the purified liquor treated through IX to
   remove trace elements, causticisation tanks followed by sodium sulphate
25 decahydrate crystalliser and the lithium recovery circuit 70 using two stage
   lithium crystallisation process to produce lithium monohydrate. The final
   lithium recovery process will be determined by the preferred lithium product,
   e.g. either a lithium hydroxide or a lithium carbonate will define the process.
   Typically following the lithium recovery step, the lithium product is further
30 processed and packaged ready for dispatch.

                                               14
   Please note, the above description has been given for co-processing of a
   nickel laterite and lithium concentrate in an existing HPAL processing facility.
   However the same HPAL processing facility can also be used for processing
   a lithium concentrate by itself to produce a battery grade lithium product, with
 5 only minor modifications to the flow sheet.
   Now that a preferred embodiment of the method of co-processing has been
   described in detail, it will be apparent that the described embodiment
   provides a number of advantages over the prior art, including the following:
        (i) It facilitates the processing of lithium concentrates using an existing
10                HPAL plant built for an entirely different purpose, thus enabling
                  significant savings in capital costs.
        (ii) It addresses the current limitations of brine ponds and provides a cost
                  effective alternative that may be capable of satisfying future
                  forecast demand for lithium.
15      (iii) It enables co-processing of lithium concentrate with laterite ores in an
                  existing HPAL plant to produce a battery grade lithium product.
        (iv)Utilising an existing HPAL plant with minor changes eliminates
                  substantial capital investment and time prior to producing battery
                  grade lithium products that attracts a premium to the spodumene
20                concentrate.
   It will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts that various
   modifications        and    improvements      may    be made   to   the   foregoing
   embodiments, in addition to those already described, without departing from
25 the basic inventive concepts of the present invention. Therefore, it will be
   appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to the specific
   embodiments described and is to be determined from the appended claims.

                                            15
   The Claims defining the Invention are as follows:
   1. A method of processing a lithium concentrate, the method comprising the
 5 steps of:
   transporting the lithium concentrate to an existing HPAL processing facility;
   and
   processing the lithium concentrate through the existing HPAL processing
   facility to produce a battery grade lithium product.
10 2. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in claim 1,
   wherein the lithium concentrate is spodumene concentrate.
   3. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in claim 1 or
   claim 2, wherein the method further comprises, prior to the step of
   processing, the step of pre-treating the spodumene concentrate to effect
15 alpha to beta crystal transformation.
   4. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in claim 3,
   wherein the alpha to beta crystal transformation is performed by heating the
   alpha spodumene to over 11000 C in a rotary kiln.
   5. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in any one of
20 claims 1 to 4, wherein the step of processing comprises leaching the
   concentrate via an autoclave at a temperature within the range of 2500 to
   2600 C.
   6. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in claim 5,
   wherein typically the temperature in the autoclave is around 2500 C.
25 7. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in claim 5,
   wherein the residence time in the autoclave is in the range of 70 minutes to
   90 minutes.

                                            16
   8. A method of processing a lithium concentrate as defined in claim 7,
   wherein typically the residence time is about 90 minutes.
   9. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate,
   the method comprising the steps of:
 5 transporting a lithium concentrate to an existing HPAL processing facility;
   transporting a nickel laterite ore to the existing HPAL processing facility;
   blending the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate; and,
   co-processing the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate in the existing
   HPAL processing facility to produce nickel and a battery grade lithium
10 product.
   10. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 9, wherein the method also includes crushing the nickel
   laterite ore and pre-treating the lithium concentrate prior to the step of
   blending the nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate.
15 11. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the lithium concentrate is
   spodumene concentrate.
   12. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 11, wherein the step of pre-treating the spodumene
20 concentrate includes alpha to beta crystal transformation.
   13. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 12, wherein the alpha to beta crystal transformation is
   performed by heating the alpha spodumene to over 11000 C in a rotary kiln
   prior to co-processing.
25 14. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the step of co-processing the
   nickel laterite ore and lithium concentrate comprises leaching the ore and
   concentrate via an autoclave at 2500 C.

                                           17
   15. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 14, wherein the residence time in the autoclave is about
   90 minutes.
   16. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
 5 as defined in any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein the method further
   comprises, after the step of leaching, separating the solid tailings from the
   liquor containing lithium and nickel sulphate in solution.
   17. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 16, wherein following solid/liquid separation the main solid
10 impurities are separated from the liquor and discharged to a tailings storage
   facility.
   18. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 17, wherein prior to solid/liquid separation the main
   solution impurities are removed through a primary impurities removal circuit
15 with the addition of lime or quicklime.
   19. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 18, wherein following primary impurity removal the solids
   waste is separated from the liquid in a counter current decantation (CCD)
   circuit.
20 20. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 19, wherein the method further comprises the application
   of a secondary impurity removal circuit for removing any remaining iron,
   aluminium and silica.
   21. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
25 as defined in claim 20, wherein following secondary impurity removal the
   main solid impurities are separated from the liquor and recycled back to the
   CCD circuit.
   22. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 21, wherein the method further comprises selectively

                                          18
   precipitating the nickel and lithium separately by the addition of sodium
   carbonate, magnesia or quicklime.
   23. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 22, wherein the secondary impurity removal circuit is
 5 followed by a primary mixed hydroxide precipitation (MHP1)             step for
   recovering mixed metal hydroxides from the leach solution by precipitation.
   24. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 23, wherein following the MHP1 step the main solids are
   separated in a MHP1 product thickener.
10 25. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in claim 24, wherein the method comprises the application of a
   secondary mixed hydroxide precipitation (MHP2) step for removing the
   remaining nickel and cobalt.
   26. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
15 as defined in claim 25, wherein following the MHP2 step the main solids are
   separated in a MHP2 product thickener and the underflow recycled back to
   the secondary impurity removal circuit.
   27. A method of co-processing nickel laterite ores and a lithium concentrate
   as defined in any one of claims 22 to 26, wherein after precipitating the nickel
20 and lithium separately the hydroxides or carbonates are dewatered and
   filtered to achieve a low moisture level prior to packaging.
   Dated this   6 th day of December 2017
   Poseidon Nickel Limited
25 by its Patent Attorneys
   Wrays

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
