                                                              ABSTRACT
An intravascular device (4) for placement within an animal vessel (6), the intravascular device (4) being adapted to at least one of
sense and stimulate activity of neural tissue (54) located outside the vessel (6) proximate the intravascular device (4).

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                  SENSING OR STIMULATING ACTIVITY OF TISSUE
     TECHNICAL FIELD
            In a particular aspect, the        present invention       may relate to
 5   intravascularly sensing or stimulating electrical activity of neural tissue.
     BACKGROUND ART
            Any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
     specification is included to explain the context of the invention. It should not
10   be taken as an admission that any of the material forms a part of the prior art
     base or the common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia or
     elsewhere on or before the priority date of the disclosure and broad
     consistory statements herein.
            The ability to sense or stimulate nervous tissue in an animal confers
15   many therapeutic, analytic, and diagnostic advantages or opportunities, some
     of which may become apparent on further reading of this specification.
            Without being an admission of common general knowledge, current
     techniques for measuring electrical activity of the brain involve the use of
     extra-cranial electrodes placed on the scalp, or intra-cranial electrodes
20   surgically implanted on the outer cortical surfaces of the brain, or in the
     epidural or subdural spaces.
             Unfortunately there are significant disadvantages associated with
     these current methods.       For example, there may be a lack of clarity or
     predisposition to disturbances such as noise or movement when using extra
25   cranial electrodes applied externally on the scalp.
             Further, when using intra cranial electrodes, there is a requirement for
     invasive surgery to be performed.          This carries considerable risk of
     complications such as infections or bleeding, and only provides access for
     electrode placement on the outer surfaces of the brain, at least without
30   cutting into and damaging the brain.
             Relocation of an implanted electrode may be required where further
     investigation of a different region of the brain is desired, or where the signal
     from the electrode has deteriorated due to scar formation about the site of

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             2
    implantation. However, there are also difficulties associated with relocation
    of electrodes due to the requirement for further invasive surgery and possible
    entrapment of the electrode in scar tissue.
             Current intra cranial electrodes can also require a direct electrical
 5   connection to computer equipment which is located external to the patient's
     body.
             Thus, it may advantageous to provide a new method or means for
     sensing or stimulating neuronal cells or neural tissue which reduces, limits,
     overcomes,     or    ameliorates  some    of the    problems,   drawbacks, or
io   disadvantages associated with prior art devices or methods, or provides an
     effective alternative to such devices or methods.
     DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
             In one aspect the invention may provide an intravascular device for
15   placement within an animal vessel, the intravascular device being adapted to
     sense or stimulate activity of neural tissue located outside the vessel
     proximate the intravascular device.
             The neural tissue may comprise neuronal cells. The device may be
     adapted to sense or stimulate activity of one or more neuronal cells.
20           The intravascular device may comprise a sensor adapted to sense
     activity of neural tissue located outside the vessel proximate the intravascular
     device.
             The intravascular device may comprise a stimulator adapted to
     stimulate activity of neural tissue located outside the vessel proximate the
25   stimulator.
             Thus, the intravascular device may comprise at least one of a sensor
     and a stimulator for respectively sensing or stimulating activity or neural
     tissue located outside the vessel proximate the intravascular device.
             The intravascular device, or sensor or stimulator thereof, may
30   comprise an electrode. The electrode may be adapted to engage the wall of
     the vessel. The electrode may protrude slightly from the outer surface of the
     intravascular device.

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              3
             The electrode may comprise an inert substance. The inert substance
     may comprise platinum or nitinol. The use of an inert substance may allow
     deposition of the electrode within the vessel for several years, or the
     remainder of the animal's life.
 5           There may be multiple electrodes.       For instance, there may be a
     plurality of electrodes arranged in a 2 X 4 array.
             The intravascular device, or the sensor thereof, may be adapted to
     sense local field potentials from proximate neural tissue.       Additionally, or
     alternatively, the intravascular device, or the sensor thereof, may be adapted
10   to sense electrical activity of a single neuron of the proximate neural tissue.
     Thus the intravascular device may be adapted to sense an action potential of
     a neuronal cell.
             The intravascular device, or the stimulator thereof, may be adapted to
     stimulate a local field potential in proximate neural tissue. Additionally, or
15   alternatively, the intravascular device, or stimulator thereof, may be adapted
     to stimulate electrical activity of a single neuron of the proximate neural
     tissue. Thus the intravascular device may be adapted to stimulate an action
     potential in a neuronal cell.
             The electrode may be disposed on a mounting member.                  The
20   mounting member may comprise the electrode. The mounting member may
     be adapted to conduct electrical signals. Thus, the mounting member may
     comprise an electrically conductive member.
             The intravascular device may comprise the mounting member. The
     mounting member may comprise silicone.
25           Suitably, the mounting member          may be encased in a stable
     substance. The stable substance may encase the mounting member and
     electrode. The stable substance may comprise silicone.
             The mounting member may comprise a board.           The board may be
     encased in silicone. The board may comprise a printed circuit board.
30           The mounting member may comprise a flexible flap. The flexible flap
     may comprise silicone.

   WO 2013/049887                                                    PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              4
              The mounting member may comprise a wire, or a wire may be
     disposed on the mounting member. There may be a plurality of wires.
              The intravascular device may comprise a microchip. The microchip
     may be electrically connected to the electrode.        The wire may extend
 5   between the electrode and the microchip.
              The microchip may comprise a microprocessor.
              The microchip may comprise a channel amplifier.
              The microchip may comprise a digital signal converter.
              The microchip may comprise an RF transmitter/receiver.
10            The wire may extend from the electrode to an external device located
     outside of the body of the animal. There may be multiple wires extending
     from multiple electrodes. The wires may congregate to form a bundle which
     passes out of the body of the animal.
              In another aspect, the invention may provide a retainer for retaining
15   the intravascular device at a position within the vessel. The intravascular
     device may be disposed on the retainer
              The retainer may be expandable. The retainer may comprise a stent.
     The stent may comprise a mesh framework. The stent may be expandable to
     take the shape of the surrounding vessel.
20            The stent may comprise a biodegradable or bioabsorbable substance.
     The stent may be gradually broken down inside the body.
              Alternatively, the stent may comprise an inert substance such as
      nitinol or platinum.    Thus the stent may remain functional in the body for
      several years, or even the lifetime of the animal.
25            The retainer may comprise a probe. The probe may comprise an
      elongate flexible micro-tube.
              The stent may be adapted to expand when ejected out of an end of
     the probe. The stent may be adapted to contract when retracted into the
      probe. Thus the stent may be adapted to be deployed, retrieved, and re
30   deployed. The redeployment may take place at a different region within the
     vessel to that of the earlier deployment.

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             5
             In another form, the intravascular device may be mounted on the
     probe. The stent may be absent in such an embodiment. The probe may be
     adapted to conduct electrical signals to or from the intravascular device. The
     probe may comprise a guide wire or cable.           The electrode wires may
 5   electrically connect with the guide wire or cable.
             The retainer may comprise an adhesive substance adapted to cause
     adhesion of the intravascular device to the inside of the vessel wall. The
     adhesive substance may be present on an outer surface of the intravascular
     device.
10           In another aspect, the invention may provide a system for sensing or
     stimulating activity of neural tissue comprising an intravascular device for
     placement within an animal vessel, the intravascular device being adapted to
     sense or stimulate activity of neural tissue located outside the vessel
     proximate the intravascular device.
15           The system may further comprise a guide member for guiding the
     intravascular device to a region within the vessel proximate the neural tissue
     to be sensed or stimulated.
             The guide member may be adapted for passing into and through the
     animal vessel.     The guide member may be adapted for passage of the
20   intravascular device therethrough.
             The guide member may comprise a catheter. Thus, the intravascular
     device may be passed through the catheter to a region within the vessel
     proximate the neural tissue to be sensed or stimulated.
             The catheter may be flexible. The external diameter of the catheter
25   may be less than 3 millimetres. The internal diameter of the catheter may be
     greater than 0.5mm.
             The system may comprise a retainer or retaining member for retaining
     the intravascular device at a region within the vessel proximate the neural
     tissue to be sensed or stimulated. The retaining member may be adapted for
30   passage through the guide member.
             The system may comprise an electronic system.

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             6
            The electronic system may comprise an electrode of the intravascular
     device, and an electrically conductive member connected with the electrode.
            The electronic system may comprise a processor. The processor may
     be located within or without the body of the animal.     For example, in one
 5   embodiment the processor is an internal processor in the form of a
     microprocessor which is mounted on the intravascular device, whereas in
     another form the electrodes are electrically connected to an external
     processor such as a computer. In yet another form, the processor may be an
     internal processor in the form of a microprocessor which is mounted on a unit
10   located in the body separately -to the intravascular device. The processor
     may comprise a channel amplifier.
            The processor may comprise a digital signal converter.
            The processor may comprise an RF transmitter/receiver.
            The processor may comprise at least one of an internal processor
15   disposed on the intravascular device, and an external processor which is
     present outside the body.
          - A wireless form of the intravascular device may comprise the internal
     processor. The internal processor may comprise a channel amplifier, digital
     signal converter and RF transmitter/receiver.
20           A non-wireless version of the intravascular device may comprise the
     external processor. The external processor may comprise the channel
     amplifier and the digital signal converter. The RF transmitter/receiver may be
     absent in the non-wireless version.      This omission may be made due to
     power being directly received from an external power source, or signals
25   being directly transmitted through a solid medium such as a wire. Thus, the
     system may comprise a unit.        The unit may be located separately to the
     intravascular device. The unit may be located internally or in the body. In a
     particular form, the unit may be located subcutaneously in the pectoral
     region.    There may be more than one. internal unit. Additionally or
30   alternatively, the unit may be located externally. For instance, the unit may
     be mounted on the patient's head. Thus, the system may comprise at least

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                               7
     one of an internal unit and an external unit. Where there is an internal unit,
     an external unit may be paired for wireless coupling therewith.
             The external unit may be adapted to communicate wirelessly with the
     internal unit. The external unit may be adapted for placement about a region
 5   of the body adjacent the internal unit.
             The unit may be connected by an elongate electrically conducting
     member, such as a wire, to the intravascular device.            The electrically
     conducting member may run substantially through the vasculature between
     the unit and the intravascular device.
10           It may be that the internal unit, or one of the internal units, is
     connected by wire to the intravascular device, whereas the external unit, or
     one of the external units, is electrically connected to an external device. The
     external device may comprise at least one of a computer, stimulation box,
     and prosthetic limb.
15           The unit may comprise a retaining mechanism for retaining the unit in
     the desired position. The retaining mechanism may comprise suture holes.
     The unit may comprise a power source. Power may be transferred wirelessly
     from the external unit to the internal unit. The wireless energy transfer may
      occur via electromagnetic induction. The power source may comprise a pair
20   of conducting members adapted to be inductively coupled. The internal unit
      may comprise one of the conducting members and the external unit may
      comprise the other.
              The internal unit may comprise a data transfer mechanism for wireless
      transfer of data to the external unit. In a particular form, the data may be
25    transferred via the electromagnetic coupling.         In another form, an RF
      transmitter/receiver may be used for wireless data transfer to the external
      unit.
              The system may comprise alignment means for aligning the external
      unit with the internal unit or intravascular device. The alignment means may
30    comprise a magnetic element. There may be a pair of magnetic elements
      cooperatively disposed on the external unit and the internal unit or
      intravascular device.

   WO 2013/049887                                                    PCT/AU2012/001203
                                               8
             Additionally or alternatively, the power source may comprise at least
    one of a battery or capacitor and RF transmitter/receiver.
             The unit may comprise a microchip. The microchip may comprise a
    microprocessor with signal amplifier and multiplexor.
 5           The system may comprise a wireless transmission system for
    wirelessly transmitting at least one of data and energy to or from the
    intravascular device.
             The wireless transmission system may comprise at least one of a
    magnetic induction coil and an RF transmitter/receiver.
10           The system may comprise an alert system. The alert system may be
    adapted for signalling an alert when the sensed activity of neural tissue falls
    outside of a predetermined parameter.
             The alert may comprise a warning signal which is activated when
     sensed electrical activity indicates possible imminent onset of seizure in the
15   animal.
             The system may comprise a device located separately to the
     intravascular device, the device being adapted for at least one of storage,
     processing, and transmission of data or energy to or from the intravascular
     device. The device may directly connected to the intravascular device by a
20   solid transmitting medium such as a wire or fibre optic cable. Additionally or
     alternatively, the intravascular device and the device may be wirelessly
     linked.
             The device may comprise a wireless transmission mechanism for
     transmitting at least one of data and energy between the intravascular device
25   and the device, or between two devices.
             The device may comprise an internal device. The internal device may
     comprise an internal unit. The internal unit may be adapted for intravascular
     deposition.     In another form, the internal unit may be adapted for
     subcutaneous deposition.
30           The device may comprise an external device. The external device
     may comprise an external unit adapted for placement on or outside the body.
             The external device may comprise a computer.

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              9
            The device may comprise a prosthetic limb.
            There may be multiple devices of same or different forms.
            The system may further comprise alignment means for aligning the
     intravascular device, or intemal device, with an external device.           The
 5   alignment means may comprise a pair of magnetic members cooperatively
     disposed on the intravascular device, or internal device, and the external
     device.
            The system may comprise multiple intravascular devices retained at
     various regions in one or more animal vessels. Thus, electrical activity of
io   various regions of neural tissue proximate the intravascular devices may be
     sensed or stimulated.
             In another aspect the invention may provide an apparatus for sensing
     or stimulating activity of neural tissue comprising:
            -    an intravascular device for placement within an animal vessel, the
15               intravascular device being adapted to sense or stimulate activity of
                 neural tissue located outside the vessel proximate the intravascular
                 device, and
             -   a retaining member for retaining the intravascular device at a
                 region within the vessel.
20           The animal vessel may comprise an artery, vein, or lymph vessel.
             The animal vessel may comprise a mammalian vessel. In a particular
     aspect, the mammalian vessel may comprise a human vessel.
             The human vessel may comprise a cerebral vessel. For instance, the
      human vessel may comprise the anterior, middle, or posterior cerebral artery.
25           In a particular form, the human vessel may comprise the second or
     third branches of the middle cerebral artery which track along the post central
     gyrus of the brain.
             In another aspect, the mammalian vessel may comprise a sheep
      vessel. The sheep vessel may comprise the superior sagittal sinus.
30           The vessel may be between 1 and 5 millimetres in diameter at the
      region where the intravascular device is to be retained. In a particular form,

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                                               10
     the vessel may be about 3 millimetres in diameter at the region where the
     intravascular device is to be retained.
             The neural tissue may comprise brain tissue.
             The brain tissue may comprise the post central gyrus.           The brain
 5  tissue, or post central gyrus, may comprise the motor homunculus.
             The brain tissue may comprise the pre central gyrus. The brain tissue,
    or pre central gyrus, may comprise the sensory homunculus.
             Thus, depending on the position of the intravascular device or devices,
    various regions of the brain may be sensed or stimulated, including the pre
io  central gyrus and the post central gyrus.             This means that imagined
     movements of limbs or other parts of the body may be sensed when sensing
     activity of the pre central gyrus, or movements of the limbs or other parts of
     the body may be activated when stimulating the post central gyrus.
             Intravascular sensing of the electrical activity of various regions of the
is   brain may be used for monitoring epileptic patients and detecting seizure
     focus points.
             Intravascular stimulation .of brain tissue may allow for preoperative
     brain mapping.
             Intravascular deep brain stimulation may be used in the treatment of
20   medical conditions.       The medical conditions may include Parkinson's
     Disease,     Depression,    Obsessive     Compulsive     Disorder   or  Tourette's
     syndrome. Suitably, intravascular stimulation of deep brain tissue may be
     used in the treatment of conditions including Parkinson's disease, depression
     or Obsessive Compulsive Disorder.
25           The system may comprise a brain computer interface (BCI).
             In another aspect the invention may provide a method for sensing or
     stimulating electrical activity of neural tissue from within an animal vessel.
             The method may comprise using an intravascular device to sense or
     stimulate the electrical activity of the neural tissue from within an animal
30   vessel proximate the neural tissue.
             The electrical activity may comprise a local field potential.

   WO 2013/049887                                                       PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              11
              The electrical activity may comprise an action potential. The electrical
     activity may comprise activity of a single neuron.
              The method may comprise guiding the intravascular device to a region
    within the vessel proximate the neural tissue to be sensed or stimulated. The
 5   intravascular device may be guided through a catheter.
              The method may comprise visualising the vessel by a medical imaging
    technique in order to facilitate guidance of the intravascular device to the
     region of the vessel.          The medical imaging technique may comprise
     angiography.
10            The method may comprise retaining the intravascular device at the
     region of the vessel. The intravascular device may be retained against the
     inner wall of the vessel.. The method may comprise expanding a stent to
     retain the intravascular device against the vessel wall.       The method may
     comprise gradual biological decomposition of the stent.
15             The method may comprise gradual biological incorporation of the
     intravascular device into the vessel wall. The intravascular device, or
     retaining member, is still considered to be 'in' the vessel when incorporated
     into the vessel wall or projecting into the vessel wall from within the vessel.
               The method may comprise endothelialisation of the intravascular
20   device into the vessel wall.       The method may comprise scarring of the
      intravascular device into the vessel wall.
               The method may comprise amplifying a signal sensed by the
      intravascular device.
               The method may comprise converting the signal from analogue to
25    digital.
               The method may comprise monitoring the signal. The signal may be
      monitored external to the animal.      The signal monitored may comprise an
      intravascular electroencephalographic (EEG) signal.
               The  method    may comprise powering the intravascular device
30    wirelessly. The intravascular device may be powered by passive induction.
               The intravascular device may be powered by radio waves.             The
      method may comprise using radiofrequency identification to transfer data.

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              12
             The method may comprise long term deposition of the intravascular
     device in the animal vessel. The intravascular device may be deposited. in
     the animal vessel for multiple years. It may be deposited in the animal vessel
     for the remainder of the animal's lifetime.
 5           The method may comprise sensing or stimulating electrical activity of
     neural tissue from various regions in one or more animal vessels. Thus, the
     electrical activity of various regions of neural tissue may be sensed or
     stimulated.
             The neural tissue may comprise a deep brain region.          Thus, the
1o   method may comprise sensing or stimulating electrical activity of a deep
     brain region from within an animal vessel.
             The method may comprise retaining or depositing the intravascular
     device within an animal vessel proximate a deep brain region.
             The method may comprise detecting epileptic seizures, or the focus
15   thereof, by monitoring intravascular EEG activity.
             The method may comprise mapping quantities or properties of sensed
     or stimulated neural tissue. A property may comprise function. Thus, the
     method may comprise mapping the function of sensed or stimulated neural
     activity.  The method may comprise brain mapping.           The method may
20   comprise stimulating deep brain tissue in order to map its function.
             The method may comprise stimulating deep brain tissue for treatment
     of a medical disorder.     The disorder may comprise Parkinson's disease,
     depression, or obsessive compulsive disorder.
             The method may comprise sending signals from the neural tissue to a
25   computer. The computer may receive signals relating to the electrical activity
     of the neural tissue.
             The method may comprise sending signals from a computer to the
     neural tissue.     These signals may be sent in response to the signals
     received.    The neural tissue may receive command signals from the
30   computer which excite the neural tissue.
             The computer may be comprised of or by an external device.

   WO 2013/049887                                                       PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             13
              The method may comprise sending signals from the neural tissue to
     an external device.     These signals may be sent in response to signals
     received by the neural tissue. The neural tissue may receive command
     signals from the external device which excite the neural tissue.
 5            The external device may comprise an input device such as a keyboard
     or mouse. Thus an input device may be controlled by the animal.
              The external device may comprise a prosthetic limb. Movement of the
     prosthetic limb may occur in response to neural tissue activity. Activation of
     neural tissue may occur in response to stimulation, such as movement or
io   touch, of the prosthetic limb.
               The method may comprise wirelessly transmitting data or energy
     between the intravascular device and a separate device adapted for storing,
     processing, or transmitting signals to or from the device.
               The method may comprise retaining or depositing the intravascular
15   device within an animal vessel proximate a deep brain region.           Electrical
     activity of the deep brain region may be sensed or stimulated.
               The method may comprise retaining or depositing the intravascular
      device in a vessel traversing the hippocampus. This may allow detection of
      seizures or imminent seizure threat.
20             The method may comprise sensing changes in electrical activity in the
      pre central gyrus resulting from attempted movement of natural, absent, or
      artificial body parts.
               The method may comprise causing movement of a natural or artificial
      body part by intravascularly stimulating the pre central gyrus.
25             The method may comprise placing an external unit over a region of
      the body proximate the intravascular device, or over a region of the body
      proximate an internal device linked to the intravascular device, in order to
      facilitate wireless transmission between the external device and the
      intravascular device, or between the external device and the internal device.
30             In another aspect, the invention may provide use of an intravascular
      device to sense or stimulate electrical activity of neural tissue from within an
      animal vessel proximate the neural tissue.

     WO 2013/049887                                                       PCT/AU2012/001203
                                               14
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           illustrative but non-limiting embodiments of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the drawings wherein:
           Fig. 1 Is a diagram showing a section of the second branch of the middle
 5 cerebral artery of a human prior to deposition of a wireless version of an
   intravascular device with stent;
           Fig. 2 Is a diagram of the section of the middle cerebral artery shown in Fig. 1,
   with the stent expanded and the intravascular device retained against the arterial
   wall;
10        Fig. 3 is a diagram showing the same region of the middle cerebral artery as
   Fig. 1 with the stent and the intravascular device deposited In the middle cerebral
   artery, and objects required for insertion and deployment removed; the magnified
   portion shows the intravascular device and expanded stent;
          Fig. 4 is a diagram with a magnified portion showing the intravascular device
15 fused with the arterial wall, and the stent absent due to biological decomposition;
          Fig. 5 Is a diagram showing how the intravascular device acts as a brain
   computer interface with a prosthetic limb of a human being;
           Fig, 6 Is a diagram showing a section of the second branch of the middle
   cerebral artery of a human prior to deposition of a wired version of an Intravascular
20 device with stent;
           Fig. 7 is a diagram of the section of the middle cerebral artery shown in Fig. 6,
   with the stent expanded and the intravascular device retained against the arterial
   wall;
          Fig. 8 is a diagram showing the same region of the middle cerebral artery as
25 Fig. 6 with the stent and the intravascular device deposited in the middle cerebral
   artery and objects required for insertion and deployment removed; the magnified
   portion shows the Intravascular device, expanded stent, and wire bundle which
   connects externally;
          Fig. 9 is a diagram showing the arterial pathway for Insertion of an
30 intravascular device adjacent brain tissue; a wired version of the device is shown;
                                       RECTIFIED SHEET

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             15
             Fig. 10 is a diagram showing a wireless version of the intravascular
    device deposited in the brain, with the intravascular device transmitting to
     and receiving signals from an external computing and monitoring device;
            Fig. 11 is a block diagram of the front end electronics of a wireless
 5  version of the intravascular device which is to be located within an animal
    vessel;
            Fig. 12 is a block diagram of the back end electronics of a wireless
    version of the intravascular device to be located external to the body of the
     animal; and
10          Fig 13 is a diagram of a further wired version of an intravascular
    device having an elongate probe with guide wire passing therethrough.
            Fig. 14 is a diagram showing a subcutaneous pectorally located
     internal device which is wired back to the intravascular device in a brain
     vessel and inductively coupled to an external unit controlling a prosthetic
15   limb;
            Fig. 15 is a diagram of an internal unit;
            Fig. 16 is a diagram of an external unit;
            Fig. 17 is a block diagram illustrating possible electrical and data flow
     within and between intemal and external units;
20          Fig. 18 is a diagram illustrating various arrangements of internal and
     external units;
            Fig.   19 diagrammatically illustrates a wireless version of the
     intravascular device which communicates directly with an external unit
     overlying an adjacent region of the skull;
25          Fig. 20 is a diagram illustrating how the intravascular device may be
     deposited in the hippocampal region of the brain for pre-seizure detection or
     deep brain stimulation;
            Fig. 21 is a diagram illustrating a testing procedure utilising stimulating
     electrodes for mapping and identifying optimal regions for placement of the
30   intravascular device within a vessel;
            Fig. 22 illustrates arterial vasculature traversing a human brain and
     potential deposition sites for an intravascular device; and

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                               16
            Fig. 23 illustrates venous vasculature traversing a human brain and
     potential deposition sites for an intravascular device.
     MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
 5           Referring to the drawings, there is shown a system, generally
     designated 2, for sensing or stimulating activity of neural tissue 54, such as
     brain tissue 192.     The system 2 comprises an intravascular device 4 for
     placement in an animal vessel 6, such as the second branch 166 (see Figure
     22) of the middle cerebral artery 160 of a human being 8. A wireless version
10   of the intravascular device 4 is shown in Figures 1-5 & 10, and a wired
     version of the intravascular device 4 is shown in Figures 6 to 9.
            The system 2 further comprises a retainer 12 for retaining the
     intravascular device at a region within the artery 6, and a flexible micro
     catheter 10 which is to be passed up through the subject's vascular system
15   and allows passage of the intravascular device 4 therethrough.
             As shows more clearly in Figure 3, the wireless version of the
     intravascular device 4 comprises a 2 X 4 array of circular electrodes 14.
             The electrodes 14 are mounted on and project from the outer surface
     of a rectangular semiconductor board 16 which in this instance is in the form
20   of a soft printed circuit board in a silicone encasement.
             Located centrally on an outer surface of the board 16, between two 2
     X 2 arrays of electrodes 14, is a rectangular shaped microchip 18.         The
     microchip 18 is electrically connected to each of the electrodes 14 by
     electrode wires 56.
25           In the wired embodiment shown in Figures 6 to 9, the microchip is
     omitted and the electrode wires 56 congregate to form a wire bundle 58
     which extends back through the vascular system and connects with an
     external computing device 52 (see Figure 9). Thus, in the particular wired
     version of the intravascular device 4 shown, the external computing device
30   52 performs the processing functions that the microchip 18 carries out in the
     wired version.

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             17
             The retainer 12 comprises a stent 20 and a flexible micro-tube probe
     22 which, in Figures 1 & 2, is attached to the stent at one end, and in Figures
     6 & 7, acts as a housing for the stent when the stent is in a contracted and
     retracted state.
 5           The stent 20 has a mesh configuration or lattice framework, and is
     made of a bio absorbable substance which breaks down gradually in the
     body, such as over a period of one to two years when deposited into a
     human vessel. In an alternative embodiment the mesh stent is made of an
     inert metallic substance which can remain functional in the body for several
io   years or the life of the person.
             The stent 20 as shown in Figures 6 to 8 is biased to expand. Thus,
     when the stent 20 is retracted in the micro-tube 22 it conforms to the inner
     wall of the micro-tube 22, and when it is ejected from the proximal end of the
     micro-tube it expands, conforming to the shape of the inner arterial wall
15   (assuming the diameter of the inner wall of the vessel is less than that of the
     stent). The stent takes on a tubular shape when allowed to fully expand.
             The semi-conductor board 16 is mounted on the outer mesh surface of
     the stent 20 so that when the stent is expanded to take the shape of the
     vessel, the electrodes 14 of the intravascular device 4 are brought into
20   contact with the inner wall of the artery 6.
             The guide catheter 10 has an internal diameter of about 0.15mm
     which is enough to enable the passage of the micro-tube 22 with retracted
     stent and intravascular device therethrough.
             Figure 13 shows a wired version of the system 2 wherein the
25   intravascular device 4 comprises a 2 X 4 array of electrodes 14 encased in a
     silicone flap 64.
             The silicone flap 64 is mounted at the end of an elongate tubular
     shaped silicone probe 22. Passing centrally through the probe is a guide
     wire 62 and wire bundles 58. The wire bundles are formed from individual
30   wires 56 which extend from respective electrodes which are attached to but
     insulated from the guide wire 62.

   WO 2013/049887                                                       PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              18
            The guide wire passes out of the patient's body to external processing
     equipment 34. As signal processing occurs externally, there is no need for a
     microchip to be present in this version of the intravascular device.
            A wired system 2 such as that shown in Figure 13 may be used to
 5   sense or stimulate neural tissue in order to determine an appropriate location
     for deposition of a wireless version of the intravascular device.
            The intravascular device 4 may be inserted and retained in the desired
     region of a vein or artery 6 by performing the following steps:
            - A radio opaque contrast agent is injected into the blood vessel 6
10              through which the catheter 10 is to be inserted. In this instance,
                the contrast agent is injected into the femoral artery or internal
                jugular vein in order to visualise blood vessels and organs of the
                body using an imaging technique such as radiography, CT and MR
                angiography.
15          -   The catheter 10 is then threaded into and through the femoral
                artery, and further up through continuing branches of the femoral
                artery until it reaches the desired position in the second branch of
                the middle cerebral artery (see Figure 9 for vascular pathway of
                catheter). Alternatively, the catheter is threaded into branches of
20              the venous system, initially entering the internal jugular vein up
                through the branches until entering the superior sagittal sinus and
                desired position within the cortical veins.
            -    If not already present within the catheter 10, the micro-tube 22 with
                intravascular device 4 and stent 20 is threaded up through the
25              catheter 10 to proximate the region where the intravascular device
                is to be retained (see Figure 6).
            -   The stent 20 is then protruded beyond the proximal end of the
                micro-tube 22 which has housed it to this point. As the stent 20 is
                protruded beyond the end of the micro-tube 22 it expands to take
30              on the shape of the blood vessel wall 6, thereby retaining the
                intravascular device 4 against the inner wall of the vessel 6.

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             19
            -   In another form of the invention, the catheter 10 is omitted from the
                system 2 and the micro-tube 22 acts as both the guide for the stent
                through the vasculature, as well as the housing for the stent before
                deposition.
 5          -   Where long term deposition of the stent 20 is intended, the micro
                tube 22 may be detached and separated from the stent 20. A
                voltage   may    be   delivered     to   a discrete   metallic   area
                interconnecting the micro-tube and the stent, thereby causing
                induced thermal fatigue of the discrete area and detachment of the
10              stent.
            -   If a new location of the intravascular device is desired, the stent
                with intravascular device may be withdrawn back into the micro
                tube 22, and the system 2 moved to a desired region where
                redeployment of the stent with intravascular device may then take
15              place.
            -   For long term deposition of the intravascular device, the catheter
                and detached micro-tube are withdrawn back through and removed
                from the femoral artery, leaving the stent and intravascular device
                retained at the desired arterial region.
20          -   In a wired version of the device, a device wire 58 formed from a
                bundle of wires 56 extending from the electrodes 14 may remain in
                the body during use of the intravascular device 4 (see Figures 8 &
                9). In one form, the device wire 58 may extend from the
                intravascular device all the way to and through the femoral artery
25              where it exits the body and attaches to external monitoring or
                stimulating equipment (see Figure 9) for short term recording and
                monitoring during the angiography procedure. Suitably, for longer
                term recording or monitoring, the device wire may extend from the
                intravascular device, back through the vasculature to a peripheral
30              blood vessel such as the subclavian artery when the intravascular
                device is retained in the arterial system or the subclavian vein
                when the intravascular device is retained in the venous system. At

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              20
               this point, the wire exits through the vessel wall and into the
               subcutaneous tissue of the pectoral region where it attaches to an
               internal unit 68 (see Figure 14).
            -  In one form, the stent biologically decomposes gradually over time,
 5             leaving only the intravascular device in place, and the intravascular
               device is gradually endotheliolised into the inner wall of the artery.
            -  In another form, the stent is made of an inert material, such as
               platinum or nitinol which is resistant to decomposition, thereby
               leaving the stent to be incorporated along with the intravascular
10             device into the 'arterial wall by a process of endothelialisation
               and/or scarring.
    Depending on its location and function, neural tissue of the brain adjacent the
    intravascular device may be stimulated, or electrical activity in this tissue may
    be changed, in various manners including:
15          -   By the patient actively moving a part of their body. For example, a
                patient's active movement of their right arm may result from
                electrical activity in the area of the motor homunculus representing
               the arm in the pre central gyrus 90 of the brain. In such instances,
               one or more intravascular devices retained or deposited in a
20              portion of the middle cerebral artery or cortical veins adjacent to
               the motor homunculus may sense electrical activity such as
                electroencephalography, local field potentials or action potentials in
                this area of the brain.
             -  By the patient attempting active movement of a part of their body
25              which is no longer present or to which neural connection has been
                lost.   For example, where a patient has had their right arm
                amputated, attempts to move their absent right arm may still
                produce a change in electrical activity in the arm portion of the
                motor homunculus despite the arm not being present.
30           -  By part of the patient's body being passively moved by an external
                force.   For example, a physical therapist may passively move a
                patient's right arm without any active muscle contraction performed

   WO 2013/049887                                                         PCT/AU2012/001203
                                                21
                by the patient.      Such passive movement may cause increased
               activation of part of the sensory homunculus in the post central
               gyrus 190 relating to arm joint proprioception and skin sensation,
                as well as sensory feedback resulting from the pressure and
 5             warmth of the therapist's hands.
            -   By pricking the patient's forearm with a pin 60, thereby causing a
                change or increase in electrical activity in the sensory portion of the
                brain associated with touch and pain in the hand (see Figure 10).
            -   By the patient imagining, remembering or performing a new mental
10              activity, thereby causing electrical activity to be produced in various
                regions of the brain.
            -   By the patient developing an epileptic seizure. A foci of electrical
                activity that sparks a seizure within brain tissue may be detected
                with      accurate      spatial      localisation    by   changes     in
15              electroencephalography using one or more intravascular devices
                near the area of seizure focus.
            -   By involuntary intrinsic processes.            For example, changes in
                electrical activity in regions of the brain may result from conditions
                or disease processes such as epilepsy, Parkinson's disease,
20              depression and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder.                Deep brain
                activity may be particularly affected by such conditions.
     Once retained in the vessel, the intravascular device 4 may be used to sense
     the electrical activity, or changes in the electrical activity, of adjacent extra
     vascular neural tissue, and the electrical activity may be processed, in the
25   following manner:
             -  The electric charge emitted from the stimulated or pathological
                 adjacent neural tissue is sensed and collected by the electrodes
                 14, and conducted by wires 20 to the microchip 18 (see Figure 3).
                As shown in Fig. 11, the microchip houses a channel amplifier 24,
30              filter  26,   analogue     to    digital   converter 28,   and  an   RF
                transmitter/receiver 30.

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             22
            -  The signal from the electrodes 14 is passed to the channel
                amplifier 24 which amplifies the signal from the electrodes.
            -  The amplified signal is converted from analogue to digital by the
                converter 28.
 5          -  A microprocessor controlled induction coil or RF transmitter 30
               then transmits the digital signal wirelessly to a corresponding
                induction coil or RF receiver 32 which forms part of an external
                processing system 34, such as a computer. The computer 34 also
                comprises a power source 36, a signal display 38, signal processor
10              software 40 which is adapted to perform feature extraction 42 and
               translation 44, and a brain computer interface output 46 which in
               this instance is adapted to cause mechanical limb movement 48 of
                a prosthetic limb 50. The signal display 38 is in the form of an
                intravascular EEG signal which is displayed on a monitor 52.
15          -   The intravascular EEG signal may be processed by software which
                enables feature extraction and translation for a brain computer
                interface. The resultant BC output 46 enables the patient to control
                operation of devices in the external environment. This may include
                movement of mechanical limbs 48 and control of computer
20              inputting devices such as mice or keyboards.
            -   Monitoring the display signal may enable detection and diagnosis
                of conditions in the brain, such as the detection of epileptic
                seizures or parameters which indicate that a seizure is imminent.
                Further, detection and monitoring of conditions such as Parkinsons
25              disease, depression, and Obsessive Compulsive Disorder may be
                achieved by monitoring intravascular EEG signals from adjacent
                deep brain regions.
             Once retained or deposited in the artery 6, the intravascular device
     may be used to stimulate regions of adjacent neural tissue in the following
30   manner:
            -   In the wireless version of the device 4, a signal is sent by the
                external    RFID    receiver    32  and    received    by    the  RF

   WO 2013/049887                                                       PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              23
                 transmitter/receiver 30 of the intravascular device. The signal may
                 be sent in response to a signal transmitted by the intravascular
                 device 4 to the external computer 34, with the response to the
                 transmitted signal being determined by the signal processor
 5               software 40.
            -    The signal is then transmitted from the RF transmitter/receiver 30
                 to the electrodes in a form which may then be further transmitted to
                 the adjacent neural tissue, thereby causing excitation or activation
                 of a local field potential or action potential in the adjacent neural
10               tissue.
             Intravascular neural stimulation may have various applications such as
     in preoperative mapping whereby areas of a patient's brain are stimulated to
     determine the nature of their function. The purpose of preoperative mapping
     may be to locate important or non-expendable areas of the brain that are not
is   to be sacrificed during operations such as brain tumour resections or
     epilepsy focus resections.
             There may be many therapeutic applications for intravascular neural
     tissue stimulation including deep brain stimulation in the treatment of
     Parkinson's disease, depression, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and
20   Tourette's Syndrome.        Advantageously such stimulation may be achieved
     without the need for invasive brain surgery.
             It should be noted that several intravascular devices can be deployed
     in one or more vascular regions throughout the animal body in order to sense
     or stimulate neural tissue focussed in one area or various areas throughout
25   the body.       Sensing neural activity in various areas may be particularly
     applicable when diagnosing and monitoring seizures in epilepsy.
             Referring now to Figure 14, there is shown a further system 2
     comprising an internal unit 68 located subcutaneously in the left pectoral
      region 118 and connected by wire 58 back through the vasculature 6 to an
30   intravascular device 4 deposited within a brain vessel 6. The system further
     comprises an external unit 70 mounted externally on the skin overlying the

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                            24
     internal unit 68 and being inductively coupled therewith, the external unit
     being connected by wire 72 to a prosthetic limb 50.
             As shown in Figure 15, the internal unit 68 comprises an internal
     mounting member 74 which defines suture holes 116 for fixing the unit
 5   subcutaneously. Mounted on the internal mounting member 74 is an internal
     microchip 76 comprising an application specific integrated circuit.        Also
     mounted on the internal mounting member is an internal magnetic induction
     coil 78 connected to the internal microchip 76, as well as an internal magnet
     80.
10           The internal unit 68 in Figure 15 is also shown having an internal RF
     transmitter/receiver 82 and an internal battery or capacitor 84, although it is
     envisaged that the battery and RF transmitter/receiver may not be required in
     some versions of the internal unit, particularly where electrical and data
     transfer is already effectively achieved by wireless inductive coupling with the
15   external unit. However, inclusion of a battery adapted to be charged by the
     inductive coupling may also be useful as a back-up energy source when the
     external unit is moved to location remote from the internal unit and ceases to
     effectively produce energy of its own.
             The internal unit 68 further comprises an alert system in the form of a
20   alert light 110 and a speaker 112, although it is envisaged that other alert
     devices may be used, including vibrating devices.
             Figure 16 shows the external unit 70 which comprises an external
     magnet 114, external microchip 86 with application specific integrated circuit,;
     and an external magnetic induction coil 88 wired to the microchip, all
25   mounted on an external mounting board. The external magnetic induction coil
     88 and external magnet 80 are arranged to correspond with like components
     of the internal unit 68.
             The external unit 70 is located on the skin overlying the internal unit
     68. Attraction between the internal and external magnets of the respective
30   units facilitates achievement of optimal alignment for transmission between
     the internal and external magnetic induction coils.

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                            25
            The external unit 68 in Figure 16 is also shown having an external RF
    transmitter/receiver 122 and an external battery or capacitor 120, although it
    is envisaged that the battery and RF transmitter/receiver may not be required
    in some versions of the external unit, particularly where electrical and data
 5  transfer is already effectively achieved by wireless inductive coupling with the
    external unit.
             The external unit 70 further comprises a connection port 124 enabling
    connection of the external unit 70 with cable 126 which may in turn be
    connected to an external device such as a computer or power outlet thereby
10  enabling wired transfer of data and energy between the external unit 70 and
    another external device.
             Also comprised by the internal unit 69 is an alert system in the form of
    an alert light 110 and a speaker 112, although it is envisaged that other alert
    devices may be used, including vibrating devices, The alert system may be
15   used for various alerts including in cases of low power, device or system
     malfunction, completed periods of monitoring or recording, or current or
     impending medical pathology or irregularity.
             The incorporation of a power source and information processor in the
     internal unit version shown in Figure 15 means that these features may
20   potentially be omitted from the intravascular device of the system shown in
     Figure 14. Thus, the deposited intravascular device in this system may be
     similar to intravascular device previously discussed with respect to Figure 8,
     i.e. not having its own power source or microchip, but comprising electrodes
     14 and a wire bundle 58 which extends down through the vasculature to
25   connect with the microchip 76 of the internal unit.
             In the system of Figure 14, the intravascular device 4 is located in a
     portion of a vessel 6 adjacent the motor homunculus. In this instance, the
     intravascular device 4 was passed into the internal jugular vein 170 and
     guided up through the sigmoid sinus 172, transverse sinus 174 and into the
30   superior sagittal sinus 178 where it is deposited. It is envisaged, however,
     that other routes and places of deposition may also be suitable, including
     places for deposition such as the cerebral veins 184 (see Figure 23)

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              26
     branching off the superior sagittal sinus, other veins lying adjacent the motor
     cortex, the second branch of the middle cerebral artery 160 (see Figure 22),
     and other arteries lying adjacent the motor cortex.
             Attempted active movement of the prosthetic limb 50 by the human
 5   being 8 results in generation of action potentials in the upper limb
     homuncular region of the pre-central gyrus.            The resultant cortically
     originating changes in electrical potential are sensed by the electrodes 14 of
     the intravascular device 4 and transmitted along the wire bundle 58 to the
     microchip 76 of the internal unit 68.
10           Figure .17 illustrates possible flow of data and/or energy between the
     intravascular device 4, internal unit 68, external unit 70, and external device
     which comprises a prosthetic limb 50 in this instance.
             As previously mentioned, the electrical signal passes from the
     electrodes 14 to the internal microchip. The internal microchip 76 comprises
15   an application specific integrated circuit with         microprocessor 92 for
     processing the received signal. The microchip further comprises an amplifier
     94 for amplifying the signal, and a multiplexer 96 for digitally converting the
     signal, before the signal is passed to the internal inductive loop 78 and
     wirelessly transmitted through the cutaneous pectoral tissue to the external
20   coil 88 of the external unit 70.
             The external unit passes the signal through its own external microchip
     98 with microprocessor 100 which decodes the signal.              The external
     microchip further comprises a rectifier 102 for converting the signal and an
     amplifier 104 for amplifying the signal. The signal is decoded by the
25   microprocessor and the decoded signal is used to control microprocessors
     and motors on the prosthetic limb 50, thereby causing movement of the limb
     to occur in accordance with the area and degree of precentral gyrus
     activation.
             The prosthetic limb comprises sensors 114 (see Fig. 14) adapted to
30   sense touch, temperature, pressure or vibration in the area of the sensor
     114. The sensors are smaller and more tightly packed anteriorly in the robotic

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             27
     fingers than in the robotic forearm, thereby providing more finely tuned
     sensation in the fingers for grasping and handling objects.
             When activated, the sensors 114 send electrical signal from the
     prosthetic limb to the external unit where the signal is processed and
 5   conducted across the skin to the internal unit where further processing
     occurs, before the signal is passed up to the intravascular device 4, or
     another intravascular device 4, deposited adjacent the post-central gyrus.
     Here, the electrodes stimulate the area of brain corresponding to the signal
     received from the sensors 144, such that the patient is able to feel what is.
io   sensed by the prosthetic limb.
            Additionally or alternatively, the signal from the sensors 114 may be
     passed up to another intravascular device located in a vessel adjacent the
     precentral gyrus.    This signal causes the intravascular electrodes 14 to
     stimulate the adjacent neural tissue of the motor homunculus, thereby
is   causing movement of the limb such as may reflexively occur when the
     muscle spindles of a natural limb are quickly stretched or the skin is burnt.
             Figure  18 illustrates various methods of connection from             the
     intravascular device 4 to the prosthetic limb 50 via internal and external units,
     68 and 70 respectively. As was evident in the system of Figure 14, method
20   "C" shows a wire 58 running from an intravascular device (not shown)
     through the vessel 6 before piercing the vessel wall and connecting with an
     extravascular subcutaneous internal unit 68. The internal unit communicates
     wirelessly with an adjacent external unit 70 mounted on the skin 128, which
     external unit is wired to the prosthetic limb 50. It is envisaged that regions
25   other than the pectoral region may also be suitable for placement of the
     internal and external units, such as the neck region.
             Method "A" shows an intravascularly placed internal unit 68c, which is
     wired to an intravascular device 4 (not shown) communicating wirelessly with
     an external unit 70 disposed on the skin 128 and wired to the prosthetic limb
30   50. Rather than having a processor and wireless transmission system
     located on the intravascular device, this arrangement allows the processor
     and/or wireless transmission system to be located on the internal unit,

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             28
     meaning that the intravascular device may be of smaller size, and the
     wireless transmission system may be placed in a region which is more
     suitable for wireless transmission to an external unit.
             Method "B" shows a double induction coupling system whereby an
 5   intravascular internal unit 68a, which is wired to an intravascular device (not
     shown) communicates wirelessly across the vessel wall with an adjacent
     proximal extravascular internal unit 68b. The internal unit 68b is in turn wired
     to a distal subcutaneous internal unit 68c that communicates wirelessly
     across the skin 128 with an external unit 70 which is mounted externally on
10   the skin and wired to the prosthetic limb. This arrangement potentially allows
     for more closely coupled wireless transmissions and avoids piercing of
     tissues such as vessels and skin.
             Method "D"provides for an intravascular device 4 (not shown) which is
     wired directly to an external unit 70 located on the surface of the skin, which
is   external unit is connected by wire 72 to the prosthetic limb. Thus, no internal
     unit is present in this arrangement.
             Referring now to Figure 19 there is shown a system 2 comprising a
     wireless version of an intravascular device 4 which is inductively coupled to
     an external unit placed over the skin adjacent the region of deposition of the
20   intravascular device. As shown in the inset, intravascular device 4 comprises
     an array of electrodes 14 connected by wires 56 to a microchip 18 which is in
     turn connected to an internal magnetic induction coil 78. The intravascular
     device further comprises an internal magnet 80 for facilitating optimal
     placement of the external unit by magnetic attraction. The external unit 70
25   shares the same features as that shown in Figure 16, and is connected by
     wire 72 to the prosthetic limb 50.
             The system 2 of Figure 19 works in a similar fashion as that shown in
     Figure 14 except rather than the electrical signal received by the electrodes
     being passed by wire 58 down through the vasculature to an internal unit, the
30   signal passes directly from electrode wires 56 into the microchip 18 where
     similar processing as occurred in the internal unit takes place. The processed

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             29
     signal is then transmitted via magnetic induction to the external unit 70
     mounted on the adjacent portion of skin overlying the skull.
            Figure 20 shows yet another system 2 wherein the intravascular
     device is specifically lodged in a vessel 54 traversing the hippocampus 54.
 5   For instance, intravascular device 4 may be entered into the vascular system
     6 via the cavernous sinus and passed up therethrough before being
    deposited in the internal cerebral vein or one of its branches 186 (see Figure
     23). Here, intravascular device can be used as an early warning seizure
     detection system, whereby abnormal excitation in hippocampal tissue
10   adjacent the intravascular device is sensed by the electrodes of the device,
     and the electrical signal is in turn transmitted to an internal unit 68 which is
     located subcutaneously in the pectoral region in this instance, although it is
     envisaged that the wire could run directly to an external unit 70 mounted on
     to the outer surface of the skin. Here, an alert system in the form of an alert
15   light 110 or speaker 112 may be activated to cause the emission of light or
     sound, thereby alerting the user that a seizure may be imminent, and
     allowing them to take necessary prophylactic action such as the ingestion of
     anti-epileptic drugs.
            The internal unit may draw energy from an internal battery or capacitor
20   84 which is adapted to be charged by magnetic induction when the external
     units is located adjacent the internal unit. Thus, this arrangement allows the
     external unit to be situated remotely from the user, only being fastened to the
     skin overlying the internal unit when transfer of data or charging of the battery
     or capacitor is required. Alternatively, there may be no external unit, and the
25   internal unit may operate on a long life battery, such as those used in cardiac
     pacemakers, activating alert signals when the hippocampal signal threshold
     is passed.
            The embodiment of Figure 20 also shows an external unit connected
     to a box 132 which is adapted to measure and compute signals received. In
30   another aspect, the box 132 may be adapted to send electrical signals to the
     external unit, where the signals are conducted to the internal unit and passed
     up by wire to the intravascular device, thereby activating the electrodes to

   WO 2013/049887                                                      PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             30
    stimulate adjacent deep cortical tissue. Thus, brain stimulation may be
    achieved in such a fashion, with placement of the intravascular device
    varying depending on the region of the brain to be stimulated.
            Figure 21 illustrates how testing may be conducted to map or identify
 5  optimal placement of the intravascular device 4. For example, testing may
    occur preoperatively in humans prior to long-term deposition of an
    intravascular device, or may be performed in animals for mapping optimal
    locations in like structures to humans.
            In the testing procedure, the intravascular device 4 is retained in a
io  location within a vessel for testing. A hole is drilled through the skin layer,
    skull and dura, and stimulating electrodes 134 are inserted into the
     subarachnoid space 136 and subdural space -138 beneath the skull 140, sub
    dermally, and externally on the skin, with each of the devices being
     connected by wires 142 back to an external stimulating box 132.           Under
15   control of the box 132, the electrodes 134 are used to stimulate areas of the
     brain which are desired' to be sensed, and the signal detected by the
     intravascular device 4 is recorded. The procedure is then repeated with the
     intravascular device retained in different regions in the vessel to determine
     where optimal signal sensing occurs. This location may be suitable for long
20   term deposition of an intravascular device for sensing and/or stimulating
     purposes.
            Figure 22 illustrates arterial vasculature which leads to and traverses a
     human brain, providing potential pathways for passage, and sites for
     deposition, of one or more intravascular devices. Specifically referenced is
25   the common carotid artery 150, external carotid artery 152, internal carotid
     artery 154, ophthalmic artery 156, anterior cerebral artery 158, middle
     cerebral artery 160, anterior choroidal artery 162, posterior communicating
     artery 164 and the second branch of the middle cerebral artery 166 in which
     an intravascular device 4 is deposited.
30           Figure 23 illustrates venous vasculature which leads traverses and
     passes from a human brain, providing potential pathways for passage, and
     sites for deposition, of one or more intravascular devices. Specifically

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              31
     referenced is the internal jugular vein 170, sigmoid sinus 172, transverse
     sinus 174, straight sinus 176, superior sagittal sinus 178, falx cerebri 180,
     inferior sagittal sinus 182, cortical veins 184, in one of which an intravascular
     device 4 is deposited, and internal cerebral vein 186 and its deep branches,
 5   in one of which an intravascular device 4 is deposited.
             Where the terms "comprise", "comprises",      ''comprised" or "comprising"
     are used in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the
     presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components referred to,
     but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features,
10   integers, steps, components to be grouped therewith.

   WO 2013/049887                                                     PCT/AU2012/001203
                                            32
    CLAIMS
    1. A system for at least one of sensing and stimulating activity of neural
        tissue comprising an intravascular device for placement within an animal
 5      vessel, the intravascular device being adapted to at least one of sense
        and stimulate activity of neural tissue located outside the vessel
        proximate the intravascular device.
    2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the intravascular device
1o      comprises an electrode for at least one of sensing and stimulating activity
        of neural tissue located outside the vessel proximate the electrode.
    3. The system according to claim 1 or claim 2 comprising a retaining
         member for retaining the intravascular device at a region within the vessel
15       proximate the neural tissue to be at least one of sensed and stimulated.
    4. The system according to claim 3 wherein the retaining member is adapted
        for expansion within the vessel.
20   5. The system according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the retaining member
         is adapted for deposition and gradual decomposition within the body.
     6. The system according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the retaining member
         is adapted for long term deposition in the vessel.
25
     7. They system according to claims 3 to 6 wherein the retaining member is
         adapted to be deployed at a region within the vessel, retrieved, and then
         redeployed at a different region within the vessel.
30   8. The system according to claims 3 to 7 wherein the retaining member
         comprises a stent.
     9. The system according to claims 3 to 8 wherein the retaining member
         comprises a probe.

   WO 2013/049887                                                    PCT/AU2012/001203
                                             33
     10.The system according to claim 9 wherein the probe comprises an
         elongate flexible mirco-tube.
 5   11. The system according to claims 9 and 10 wherein the intravascular device
         is mounted on the probe and the probe is adapted to conduct electrical
         signals to or from the intravascular device.
     12. The system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein system
10       comprises a processor for processing signals transmitted to or from the
         intravascular device.
     13.The system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein system
         comprises a wireless transmission system for wirelessly transmitting at
15       least one of data and energy to or from the intravascular device.
     14.The system according to claim 13 wherein the wireless transmission
         system comprises at least one of a magnetic induction coil and an RF
         transmitter/receiver.
20
     15.The system according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
         system comprises an alert system adapted for signalling an alert when
         the sensed activity of neural tissue falls outside of a predetermined
         parameter.
25
     16. The system according to claim 15 wherein the alert comprises a warning
         signal which is activated when sensed activity indicates possible imminent
         onset of seizure in the animal.
30   17. The system according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a
         guide member adapted to be passed into and through the animal vessel,
         the guide member being adapted for guiding the intravascular device to a
         region within the vessel proximate the neural tissue to be at least one of
         sensed and stimulated.
35

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              34
     18.The system according to claim 17 wherein the guide member is adapted
         for passage of the intravascular device therethrough.
     19.The system according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a
 5       device located separately to the intravascular device, the device being
         adapted for at least one of storage, processing, and transmission of data
         or energy to or from the intravascular device.
     20.The system according to claim 19 wherein the device comprises a
10       wireless transmission mechanism for transmitting at least one of data and
         energy between the intravascular device and the device, or between two
         devices.
     21.The system according to claim 19 or claim 20 wherein the device
15       comprises an internal unit adapted for intravascular deposition.
     22. The system according to claims 19 to 21 wherein the device comprises an
         internal unit adapted for subcutaneous deposition.
20   23.The system according to claim 19 or claim 20 wherein the device
         comprises an external unit adapted for placement on or outside the body.
     24.The system according to claim 19 or claim 20 wherein the device
         comprises a prosthetic limb.
25
     25.The system according to any one of the preceding claims comprising
         multiple intravascular devices adapted to be retained at various regions in
         one or more animal vessels, thereby enabling at least one of sensing and
         stimulating electrical activity of neural tissue at various regions proximate
30       the intravascular devices.
    26.A method for sensing or stimulating electrical activity of neural tissue from
         within an animal vessel comprising using an intravascular device to at

   WO 2013/049887                                                       PCT/AU2012/001203
                                            35
         least one of sense and stimulate the electrical activity of the neural tissue
         from within an animal vessel proximate the neural tissue.
     27.The method according to claim 26 comprising guiding the intravascular
 5       device to a region within the vessel proximate the neural tissue to be
         sensed or stimulated.
     28.The method according to claim 26 or claim 27 comprising retaining the
         intravascular device against the inner wall of the vessel.
10
     29.The method according to claims 26 to 28 comprising expanding a
         retaining member within the vessel in order to retain the intravascular
         device against the inner vessel wall.
15   30.The method according to claims 26 to 29 comprising producing an
         intravascular electroencephalographic signal based on sensed activity of
         the neural tissue.
     31. The method according to claims 26 to 30 comprising wirelessly
20       transmitting data or energy between the intravascular device and a
         separate device adapted for storing, processing, or transmitting signals to
         or from the device.
     32.The method according to claims 26 to 31 comprising sensing or
25       stimulating electrical activity of multiple regions of neural tissue from
          multiple intravascular devices deposited within various regions of one or
          more vessels.
     33.The method according to claims 26 to 32 comprising retaining or
30       depositing the intravascular device within an animal vessel proximate a
         deep brain region, and intravascularly sensing or stimulating electrical
         activity of the deep brain region.

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              36
     34.The method according to claims 26 to 33 comprising intravascularly
         stimulating neural tissue for treatment of medical disorders including
         Parkinson's Disease, Depression, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder or
         Tourette's Syndrome.
 5
     35. The method according to claims 26 to 34 comprising mapping properties
         of neural tissue on the basis of signals sensed by the intravascular device
         when situated proximate the neural tissue.
10   36.The method according to claims 26 to 35 comprising transmitting signals
         from an internal or external device to the intravascular device in order to
         cause stimulation of neural tissue proximate the intravascular device.
     37. The method according to claims 26 to 36 comprising transmitting signals
15       based on electrical activity sensed by the intravascular device to an
          internal or external device in order to cause operation of the internal or
         external device.
     38.The method according to claims 26 to 37 transmitting signals based on
20        electrical activity sensed by the intravascular device to a prosthetic limb in
         order to cause movement thereof.
     39. The method according to claims 26 to 38 wherein the intravascular device
          is retained or deposited in the second or third branches of the middle
25        cerebral artery where they track in or along the post central gyrus of the
          brain.
     40. The method according to claims 26 to 39 comprising detecting epileptic
          seizures or seizure focal points by monitoring sensed electrical activity.
30
     41.The method according to claims 26 to 40 comprising retaining or
         depositing the intravascular device in a vessel traversing part of the
         hippocampus in order to detect threat of imminent seizure.

   WO 2013/049887                                                        PCT/AU2012/001203
                                              37
     42. The method according to claims 26 to 41 comprising sensing changes in
         electrical activity in the pre central gyrus resulting from attempted
         movement of natural, absent, or artificial body parts.
 5
     43. The method according to claims 26 to 42 causing movement of a natural
         or artificial body part by intravascularly stimulating the pre central gyrus.
     44. The method according to claims 26 to 43 comprising placing an external
10       unit over a region of the body proximate the intravascular device, or over
         a region of the body proximate an internal device linked to the
         intravascular device, in order to facilitate wireless transmission between
         the external device and the intravascular device, or between the external
         device and the internal device.
15

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012321050, is current as of 2017-12-13 21:00 AEST

