ABSTRACT
A figure plotting device has a controller.    The controller performs following processes:       plotting a
first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane which is a desired
plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a display unit; and
upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first shape is
outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is inside
the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least one
point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of the
plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                     1/7
FIG. 1A
                                     'FIC.IB
                                        - 12(Gd)
               p~-                         _FCa                FIG.1IB
                                            F    FC
                                             - 11                       F
              10(1-O/iOT
                   ECOR       F9URELPLTIGDVCAGAPIGC1DLTR
          -30  RECORDtN-MEDJIUM /FIGURE                  DISPL AY CONTROL PROGRAM -22a
 WEB SERVER      READING UNIT            22 -\VIEW          WINDOW DATA AREA
                                          -1       X, Y.AND ZCOORDraTE f22bRANGES
   .' .          ISPLAY OTPUT                  M     AND THE NUMBER OF GRIDS)
                        .,CDMUICTINFIGURE                         DA TA AREA      ~22c
                            UNTY                     FIGURE PLOTTING DATA AREA    -22d
                 KEPUT UNIT      /                        DISPLAY DATA ARE         22e

                                                          -1
    FIGURE PLOTTING DEVICE, FIGURE PLOTTING METHOD, AND RECORDING
                                                      MEDIUM
BACKGROUND
1. Technical Field
[0001]
                The technical field relates to a figure plotting device, a figure plotting method, and a non
transitory recording medium having a control program recorded thereon.
2. Description of Related Art
[0002]
                In the related art, as a method of plotting three-dimensional (3D) figures, there is a method
of determining Z coordinates corresponding to coordinates (X, Y) of individual points in an XYZ
coordinate space by a function Z = f(x, y) and plotting the determined coordinates (X, Y, Z) as a 3D
graph (see Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2005-182125 for instance).               This method of
plotting 3D figures as 3D graphs needs only relatively easy arithmetic processing, and thus can be
implemented without requiring a high-speed high-performance processor (CPU), however, it cannot
easily plot circular cylinders (including elliptic cylinders), cones (including elliptic cones), spheres
(elliptic spheres), and so on.
[0003]
               Also, in the related art, for example, as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Publication
No. 2005-182125, there is a method of modeling the surfaces of 3D figures 3D as sets of polygons
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                       -2
(grids).        This method can plot every 3D figure and can also perform processing such as shifting,
scaling, reversing, and rotating; however, relatively heavy arithmetic processing is required, and a
process of plotting a polygon protruding outward from a plotting area determined separately is not
particularly disclosed.
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0004]
               A figure plotting device having a controller, wherein
                the controller performs following processes:
               plotting a first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane
which is a desired plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a
display unit; and
               upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first
shape is outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is
inside the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least
one point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of
the plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
               A control method of a figure plotting device having a controller comprising following
processes:
               plotting a first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane
which is a desired plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        -3
display unit; and
               upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first
shape is outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is
inside the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least
one point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of
the plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
               A non-transitory recording medium having a program recorded thereon that is executable to
control a computer to perform following processes:
                plotting a first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane
which is a desired plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a
display unit; and
               upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first
shape is outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is
inside the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least
one point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of
the plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]
                The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale relative to each other.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                            -4
                FIGS. 1A and 1B are front views illustrating the configuration of the external appearance of
a figure plotting device 10 according to an embodiment, FIG 1A is view in the case of implementing
a graphing calculator 1OF as the figure plotting device 10, and FIG 1B is view in the case of
implementing a tablet terminal 1OT as the figure plotting device 10, respectively.
                FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating the electronic circuit configuration of the figure
plotting device 10 (1OF or lOT).
                FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating a circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
process which is performed according to a figure display control program 22a of the figure plotting
device 10.
                FIG. 4 is a flow chart illustrating a circle plotting process included in the circular-cylinder (a
figure having circles) plotting process of the figure plotting device 10.
                FIGS. 5A to 5D are views illustrating the relation between individual grids constituting a
circle and a plotting area Ad when the grids are plotted in the circle plotting process of the figure
plotting device 10.
                FIGS. 6A to 6D are views illustrating display operations (a first embodiment)
corresponding to user's operations according to the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
process of the figure plotting device 10.
                FIGS. 7A to 7C are views illustrating display operations (a second embodiment)
corresponding to user's operations according to the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
process of the figure plotting device 10.
                FIGS. 8A to 8C are views illustrating display operations (a third embodiment)
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        -5
corresponding to user's operations according to the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
process of the figure plotting device 10.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0006]
                Hereinafter, embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the
drawings.
[0007]
                FIGS. 1A and 1B are front views illustrating the configuration of the external appearance of
a figure plotting device 10 according to an embodiment, FIG. 1A is view in the case of implementing
a graphing calculator 1OF as the figure plotting device 10, and FIG. 1B is view in the case of
implementing a tablet terminal 1OT as the figure plotting device 10, respectively.
[0008]
               As the figure plotting device 10, besides the graphing calculator 1OF and the tablet terminal
1OT, other devices having a figure plotting function (having a figure display control program) such as
a personal computer, a smart phone, a portable phone, a touch panel type personal digital assistant
(PDA), an e-book, and a portable game console can be configured.
[0009]
               Also, examples of the figure plotting device 10 like the tablet terminal 1OT having no
physical keys (buttons) unlike the graphing calculator 1OF display a software keyboard similar to
keys of the graphing calculator 1OF, and performs processing according to key operations on the
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                       -6
software keyboard.
[0010]
                The graphing calculator 1OF is configured in such a small size that a user can hold it with
one hand and operate it with one hand, due to the necessity of portability, and a key input unit 11 and
a display output unit (a display unit) 12 are provided on the front surface of the main body of the
graphing calculator 1OF.
[0011]
                The key input unit 11 includes a number/operation-symbol key group 111 for inputting
numerical values or mathematical expressions, or issuing a calculation performance instruction, an
arithmetic-function function key group 112 for inputting various arithmetic functions or starting a
memory function, a mode setting key group 113 for displaying a menu screen of various operating
modes or issuing an operating-mode setting instruction, a function key group 114 for starting various
functions displayed along the lower end of the display output unit 12 by one key operation, and a
cursor key 115 for performing various operations such as an operation to move a cursor displayed on
the display output unit 12 and an operation to select a data item.
[0012]
               As the number/operation-symbol key group 111, "0" to "9" keys (number keys), "+", '"',
"       and "+" keys (keys for addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division), an "EXE" (execution)
key, an "AC"(clear) key, and so on are arranged.
[0013]
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                      -7
               As the arithmetic-function function key group 112, an "x2" key (a square key), a "sin"
(sine) key, a "cos" (cosine) key, a "tan" (tangent) key, and so on are arranged.
[0014]
               As the mode setting key group 113, a "MENU" (menu) key, and a "SHIFT" (shift) key, an
"OPTN" (option) key, and so on are arranged.
[0015]
               As the function key group 114, "Fl" to "F6" keys are arranged.
[0016]
               Also, each key of the number/operation-symbol key group 111, the arithmetic-function
function key group 112, and the mode setting key group 113 is configured so as to be able to act as a
key for a function written above the corresponding key, not a function written on the corresponding
key, if the corresponding key is operated after the "SHIFT" key is operated.        For example, an
operation on the "AC" key after an operation on the "SHIFT" key (hereinafter, referred to as a
"SHIFT" + "AC" key) acts as an "OFF" (power-off) key. A "SHIFT"+ "MENU' key acts as a
"SET UP" (set up) key, and a "SHIFT"+ "F3" key acts as a "V-Window" (view window) key (for
instructing display of a plotting-area setting screen Gv).
[0017]
                The display output unit 12 is composed of a dot matrix type liquid crystal display unit.
Also, the display output unit 12 of the tablet terminal lOT is composed of a liquid crystal display unit
superimposed on a touch panel.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                                -8
[0018]
                FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating the electronic circuit configuration of the figure
plotting device 10 (1OF or 1OT).
[0019]
                The electronic circuit of the figure plotting device 10 includes not only the key input unit 11
and the display output unit 12 but also a CPU 21 which is a computer, a memory 22, a recording
medium reading unit 24, and a communication unit 25.
[0020]
                The CPU 21 controls operations of the individual units of the circuit according to the figure
display control program 22a stored in the memory 22, thereby performing various calculation
processes based on key input signals from the key input unit 11.                 The figure display control program
22a may be stored in the memory 22 in advance, or may be a program read from an external
recording medium 23 such as a memory card through the recording-medium reading unit 13 and
stored in the memory 22.                 Even if the user operates the key input unit 11, the figure display control
program 22a is not rewritten.
[0021]
                The memory 22 has an area for storing data which the user can rewrite such as data on
mathematical expressions, table data, and graph data, other than such information which the user
cannot rewrite.               If the user sequentially inputs key code data by operating the keys of the key input
unit 11, whereby data is created by the key code data, the created data is stored in that area.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                           -9
[0022]
               Also, the area of the memory 22 for storing data which the user can rewrite includes a V
Window data area 22b, a figure data area 22c, a figure plotting data area 22d, and a display data area
22e.
[0023]
                If the user operates the "V-Window" (view window) key, a plotting-area setting screen Gv
(see FIGS. 6A and 6B) (here, a plotting-area setting screen Gv for plotting 3D figures) is displayed
on the display output unit 12.          Then, if the user inputs data on a 3D coordinate plotting area Ad
(Xmin, Xmax, Ymin, Ymax, Zmin, and Zmax) for plotting 3D figures and a division number for
grids (polygons) by performing operations on the plotting-area setting screen, the input data is stored
in the V-Window data area 22b.
[0024]
                If the user operates the "MENU" (menu) key, an operation menu (not shown in the
drawings) is displayed, and if the user selects an icon "3D-Graph" for plotting a 3D figure from the
operation menu, a 3D graph setting screen Gs (see FIG. 6C) (here, a 3D graph setting screen Gs for
plotting a circular cylinder (a figure having circles)) is displayed on the display output unit 12.       Then,
if the user inputs data on a 3D figure (a figure having circles) (plotting data (the radius R, the height Z,
and the coordinates X and Y of the center) for modeling the figure with reference to the plotting area
Ad) by operating the 3D graph setting screen, the input data is stored in the figure data area 22c.
[0025]
                If arithmetic processing is performed with reference to the plotting area Ad on the basis of
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 10
the data on the 3D figure stored in the figure data area 22c, plotting data on the 3D figure (the
coordinates of the apexes of individual grids (polygonal grids) constituting grid sets to constitute the
surfaces of the 3D figure) is generated, and the generated data is stored in the figure plotting data area
22d.
[0026]
                The display data area 22e includes a memory area corresponding to the display size of the
liquid crystal display unit constituting the display output unit 12, and in this memory area, display
data to be displayed on the liquid crystal display unit is stored as bitmap data (here, bitmap data
developed according to the data on the plotting area and the data on the 3D figure).
[0027]
                The CPU 21 controls operations of the individual circuit units according to commands
described in the figure display control program 22a such that software and hardware operate in
cooperation with each other, whereby the figure plotting device 10 (1 OF or 1OT) configured as
described above implements a figure plotting function to be described in the following operation
description.
[0028]
               Now, operations according to the figure plotting function of the figure plotting device 10
according to the above-described configuration will be described.
[0029]
                FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating a circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                           - 11
process which is performed according to the figure display control program 22a of the figure plotting
device 10.
[0030]
                FIG. 4 is a flow chart illustrating a circle plotting process included in the circular-cylinder (a
figure having circles) plotting process of the figure plotting device 10.
[0031]
                FIGS. 5A to 5D are views illustrating the relation between individual grids constituting a
circle and a plotting area Ad when the grids are plotted in the circle plotting process of the figure
plotting device 10.
[0032]
                FIGS. 6A to 8C are views illustrating display operations (first to third embodiments)
corresponding to user's operations according to the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
process of the figure plotting device 10.
[0033]
               Now, an overview of the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process will be
first described.
[0034]
                In the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process, if the user sets data on a
plotting area and data on a 3D figure (a circular cylinder (a figure having circles)) according to the
plotting-area setting screen Gv and the 3D graph setting screen Gs, a 3D-coordinate string
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        - 12
constituting the circumference of one circle (an upper lid) and a 3D-coordinate string constituting the
circumference of the other circle (a lower lid) are calculated by arithmetic processing (wherein the
circles correspond to the data on the circular cylinder).        Also, coordinate strings constituting lines
connecting the calculated coordinate string corresponding to the one circle and the calculated
coordinate string corresponding to the other circle are calculated as coordinate strings constituting the
side surface of the circular cylinder by arithmetic processing.
[0035]
                Thereafter, points of coordinates included in the calculated coordinate string corresponding
to the one circle, the calculated coordinate string corresponding to the other circle, and the coordinate
strings corresponding to the side surface of the circular cylinder and included in the plotting area are
plotted in the order of the one circle, the other circle, and the side surface, whereby the set circular
cylinder (a figure having circles) is displayed.
[0036]
               At this time, with respect to each of the one circle and the other circle, division is performed
along radial lines connecting the coordinate point of the center of the corresponding circle with
individual coordinate points corresponding to the circumference of the corresponding circle, and lines
connecting the individual coordinate points of the circumference of the corresponding circle,
whereby a number of triangles (grids; polygons) are formed, and the set of the formed triangles
(grids; polygons) constitutes the surface of the corresponding circle.         Also, with respect to the side
surface, division is performed along lines connecting the individual coordinate points corresponding
to the circumference of the one circle with the individual coordinate points corresponding to the
circumference of the other circle, whereby a number of quadrangles (grids) are formed, and the set of
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 13
the formed quadrangles (grids) constitutes the surface of the side surface.
[0037]
                However, actually, not all of the calculated coordinate points constituting the one circle and
the other circle are plotted. As will be described below, a division number for triangles (grids;
polygons) to constitute each circle and a division number for quadrangles (grids) to constitute the side
surface are set. Then, each of the one circle and the other circle is divided into triangles in the radial
direction according to the set division number, and the coordinates of the apexes of the individual
triangles are determined, and the corresponding circle is plotted. Also, the side surface is divided
into quadrangles in horizontal directions (X-Y directions) and vertical directions (Z directions) along
vertical lines connecting coordinate points constituting the individual triangles obtained by dividing
the one circle and positioned on the circumference of the one circle with coordinate points
constituting the individual triangles obtained by dividing the other circle and positioned on the
circumference of the other circle and horizontal lines dividing a part between the one circle and the
other circle according to the set division number, and the coordinates of the apexes of the individual
quadrangles are determined, and the side surface is plotted.
[0038]
                In the circle plotting process of the present embodiment, for example, as shown in FIG. 5A
to 5D, in the case where a triangle constituting a circle FCa has two coordinate points (coordinate
points 2 and 3) positioned on the circumference of the corresponding circle, and any one coordinate
point (here, the coordinate point 2) of them is positioned outside the set plotting area Ad (between
Xmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3"), the coordinate point (the
coordinate point 2) positioned outside the plotting area is changed to a coordinate point closest
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        - 14
thereto and positioned in the plotting area Ad, whereby a triangle (coordinate points 1, 2, and 3) is
configured, and a pseudo circle is plotted.
[0039]
                Therefore, in the case where the circle FCa protrudes from the plotting area Ad, it is
unnecessary to perform cumbersome and heavy surface processing for precisely fitting the
protruding part in the plotting area Ad.        Therefore, it is possible to plot a good-looking circular
cylinder (a figure having circles) without using a high-speed high-performance (expensive) processor
(CPU).
[0040]
                (FIRST EMBODIMENT)
                <Case where Setting of Circle FCa of Circular Cylinder FC does not protrude from Plotting
Area Ad>
               As shown in FIG. 6A, if the user operates the "MENU'key such that the operation menu
(not shown in the drawings) is displayed, and selects the icon "3D-Graph" for plotting 3D figures,
from the displayed operation menu, and operates the "V-Window" key, the plotting-area setting
screen Gv for plotting 3D figures is displayed on the display output unit 12.
[0041]
                Then, if the user inputs Xmin "-3", Xmax "3", Ymin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", Zmax
"3", and a division number "11" for grids (wherein the default of the division number is "25") as data
on a 3D coordinate plotting area Ad for plotting 3D figures as shown in FIGS. 6A and 6B by
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                           - 15
operating the plotting-area setting screen Gv, the input data on the plotting area (Xmin "-3", Xmax
"3", Yrnin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", Zmax "3", and the division number "11" for grids) is stored
in the V-Window data area 22b (STEP Si).
[0042]
                Then, as shown in FIG. 6C, a 3D graph setting screen Gs for plotting circular cylinders is
displayed on the display output unit 12.           If the user inputs data on a circular cylinder (a figure
having circles) by operating the 3D graph setting screen Gs, in other words, if the user inputs "2",           "
2", "2", "0", and "0" as the radius R, the minimum value and the maximum value in the height
direction (the Z direction), and the X and Y coordinates of the center, respectively, the input data (the
radius R "2", the maximum value "2" and the minimum value "-2" in the height direction (the Z
direction), and the X and Y coordinates (0, 0)) on the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is
stored in the figure data area 22c (STEP S2).
[0043]
                Then, if the user operates the "EXE"key as shown in FIG. 6D, whether the upper circle of
the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is inside the plotting area Ad is determined according to
whether the maximum value (here, "2") in the height direction (the Z direction) defined in the data on
the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is equal to or smaller than the maximum value (Zmax
"3") in the Z direction defined in the data on the plotting area Ad (STEP S3).
[0044]
                In this case, it is determined that the upper circle of the circular cylinder (a figure having
circles) is inside the plotting area Ad ("Yes" in STEP S3), and the maximum value in the Z direction
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                           - 16
(Z= 2) defined in the data on the circular cylinder is set as a position in the Z direction for plotting
the upper circle (STEP S4).
[0045]
                Then, a transition to the circle plotting process of FIG. 4 is performed, and plotting of the
upper circle is performed (STEP SA).
[0046]
                In the circle plotting process, first, a number (= 10) for dividing each circle which is a
plotting object is obtained by subtracting 1 from the division number for grids (here, "11") defined in
the data on the plotting area, and a division angle AG (= 36 degrees) is obtained by dividing 360
degrees by the circle division number (= 10) (STEP A1).
[0047]
                Then, the X and Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center defined in the data on the circular
cylinder (a figure) are determined as the coordinates of an intersection 1 with a grid (a triangle) to
constitute the circle which is a plotting object (STEP A2), and whether the coordinates of the
intersection 1 (the X and Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center of the circle) is inside a horizontal plotting
area (between Xmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") defined in the data
of the plotting area Ad is determined (STEP A3).
[0048]
                Then, it is determined that the coordinates of the intersection 1 (the X and Y coordinates (0,
0) of the center of the circle) is inside the plotting area (between Xrmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 17
between Ymin "-3" and Yniax "3") ("Yes" in STEP A3), and a variable 0 is set to 0 degrees (STEP
A4).
[0049]
                Thereafter, the coordinates of an intersection of a line expending in the direction of 0 (=0
degrees) from the X and Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center of the circle with the circumference of the
circle having the radius R (= 2) are determined, and are set as the coordinates of an intersection 2
(STEP A5).
[0050]
                Subsequently, the variable 0 is increased to 36 degrees by AG (STEP A6), and coordinates
of an intersection of a line extending in the direction of 0 (= 36 degrees) from the X and Y
coordinates (0, 0) of the center of the circle with the circumference of the circle are determined, and
are set as the coordinates of an intersection 3 (STEP A7).
[0051]
                Then, whether the coordinates of both of the intersections 2 and 3 of the circumference of
the circle with the lines extending in the directions of 0 degrees (=0 ) and 36 degrees (= 0) from the X
and Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center of the circle are inside the plotting area (between Xmin "-3"
and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") is determined (STEP A8).
[0052]
                In this case, it is determined that the coordinates of both of the intersections 2 and 3 are
inside the plotting area (between Xmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3")
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                         - 18
("Yes" in STEP A8), and a color is assigned to the area of a triangle defined by the coordinates of the
intersections 1, 2, and 3, and the triangle is plotted in a figure plotting data area 22e (STEP A9).
[0053]
                Then, whether the variable 0 (36 degrees) has reached 360 degrees is determined (STEP
A10), and if it is determined that the variable 0 has not reached 360 degrees ("No" in STEP A10), the
coordinates of the intersection 3 is set as the coordinates of a new intersection 2 (STEP Al1), and
processing from STEP A6 is repeated.
[0054]
                In other words, the variable 0 is increased to 72 degrees by AO (STEPA6), and the
coordinates of an intersection of a line extending in the direction of 0 (= 72 degrees) from the X and
Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center of the circle with the circumference of the circle are determined,
and are set as the coordinates of a new intersection 3 (STEP A7).
[0055]
                Then, whether the coordinates of both of the intersections 2 and 3 of the circumference of
the circle with the lines extending in the directions of 36 degrees (= 0) and 72 degrees (= 0) from the
X and Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center of the circle are inside the plotting area (between Xmin "-3"
and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") are determined (STEPA8), and if it is
determined that the coordinates of both of the intersections 2 and 3 are inside the plotting area ("Yes"
in STEP A8), and a color is assigned to the area of a triangle defined by the coordinates of the
intersections 1, 2, and 3, and the triangle is plotted in the figure plotting data area 22e (STEP A9).
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 19
[0056]
                Meanwhile, if it determined that the current variable 0 is 72 degrees and has not reached
360 degrees ("No" in STEP Al 0), the coordinates of the intersection 3 is set as the coordinates of a
new intersection 2 (STEPAl 1), and processing from STEP A6 is repeated again (STEPS A6 to All).
[0057]
               As a result, as shown in FIG. 6D, in the plotting areaAd (defined by Xmin "-3", Xmax "3",
Ymin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", and Zmax "3"), the upper circle FCa composed of ten triangles
arranged in the circumferential direction is displayed on the display output unit 12.
[0058]
                Then, returning to the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process of FIG. 3 is
performed, and whether the lower circle of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is inside the
plotting area Ad is determined according to whether the minimum value (here, "-2") in the height
direction (the Z direction) defined in the data on the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is equal
to or larger than the minimum value (Zmin "-3") in the Z direction defined in the data on the plotting
area Ad (STEP S5).
[0059]
                In this case, it is determined that the lower circle of the circular cylinder (a figure having
circles) is inside the plotting area Ad ("Yes" in STEP S5), and the minimum value in the Z direction
(Z = -2) defined in the data on the circular cylinder is set as a position in the Z direction for plotting
the lower circle (STEP S6).
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          -20
[0060]
                Then, a transition to the circle plotting process of FIG. 4 is performed, and plotting of the
lower circle is performed (STEP SA).
[0061]
                In other words, in the circle plotting process, in the same way as the processing of STEPS
Al to All of the circle plotting process of plotting the upper circle, , a lower circle FCb composed of
ten triangles arranged in the circumferential direction is plotted at a Z direction position (Z = -2) in
the plotting area Ad (defined by Xmin "-3", Xmax "3", Ymin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", and Zmax
"3"), and is displayed on the display output unit 12.
[0062]
                Then, returning to the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process of FIG. 3 is
performed, and a side surface FCs of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is plotted between
the upper circle FCa and the lower circle FCb.            In other words, on the basis of the coordinates of the
intersections 2 and 3 constituting the individual triangles of the upper circle FCa and corresponding
to the circumference of the upper circle, the coordinates of the intersections 2 and 3 constituting the
individual triangles of the lower circle FCb and corresponding to the circumference of the lower
circle, and the division number for grids ("11"), coordinate points which are apexes of individual
grids (rectangles) obtained as grids to constitute the side surface FCs are determined by performing
division into ten partitions in vertical directions and division into ten partitions in horizontal
directions, and the determined coordinate points are connected in the vertical directions and the
horizontal directions, whereby the individual rectangles are configured, and a color is assigned to the
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                         - 21
areas of them, and the side surface is plotted in the figure plotting data area 22e (STEP S7).
[0063]
               As a result, as shown in FIG. 6D, a circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC (FCa +
FCb + FCs) having the X and Y coordinates (0, 0) of the center, the radius R (= 2), and the height
(between -2 and 2 in the Z direction) is plotted in the plotting area Ad (defined by Xmin "-3", Xmax
"3", Yrmin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", and Zmax "3"), and is displayed as a 3D figure screen (a
display screen) Gd on the display output unit 12.
[0064]
                (SECOND EMBODIMENT)
                <Case where Setting of Circle FCa of Circular Cylinder FC protrudes in Horizontal
Direction from Plotting Area Ad>
                In a second embodiment, the case where the user sets the same plotting area (Xmin "-3",
Xmax "3", Yrmin "-3", Ymax "3", Zrmin "-3", Zmax "3", and the division number for grids "11") as
that set according to the plotting-area setting screen Gv shown in FIGS. 6A and 6B, and inputs data
on a circular cylinder (a figure having circles), i.e. the radius R "2", the minimum value "-2" and the
maximum value "2" in the height direction (the Z direction), and the X and Y coordinates (0, -1.2) of
the center as shown in FIG. 7A will be described.
[0065]
                In other words, in a circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process of the second
embodiment, the circular cylinder is like a circular cylinder obtained by shifting the center of the
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        - 22
circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC plotted in the first embodiment in the Y direction by
1.2; however, in each of the upper circle plotting process and the lower circle plotting process shown
in FIG. 4, for example, in the case where it is assumed that the negative direction of the Y axis is the
direction of 0 when the variable 0 is 0 degrees (or 360 degrees), if it is determined that X and Y
coordinates (0, -3.2) of an intersection 2 (or 3) of the circumference of a circle having the radius R (=
2) and a line extending in the direction of 0 from the X and Y coordinates (0, -1.2) of an intersection 1
which is the center of the circle are outside the plotting area (between Xmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and
between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3"), processing of STEPS A81 andA82 different from processing in
the first embodiment is performed.
[0066]
                Specifically, as shown in FIG. 7B, in the circle plotting process of the upper circle FCa of
the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC, the coordinates of an intersection 2 (or 3) which is
an intersection P (having X and Y coordinates (0, -3.2)) of the circumference of the circle having the
radius R (= 2) with the line extending in the direction of 0 (= 0 degrees) from the X and Y coordinates
(0, -1.2) of the intersection 1 which is the center of the circle are determined (STEPS A4 to A7), and
it is determined that the coordinates of the intersection 2 (or 3) are outside the plotting area (between
Xmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") ("Yes" in STEP A81).
[0067]
                Then, the X and Y coordinates of the intersection 2 (or 3) which is the intersection P
(having X and Y coordinates (0, -3.2)) determined as being outside the plotting area are shifted to X
and Y coordinates (here, (0, -3)) closest thereto and positioned in the plotting area (between Xmin "-3"
and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") as shown in FIGS. 5B and 5C (STEP A82).
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 23
[0068]
               After the coordinates of the intersection 2 (or 3) are shifted to the X and Y coordinates (0,
3) closest thereto and positioned in the plotting area, a color is assigned to the area of a triangle
defined by the coordinates of the intersections 1, 2, and 3, and the triangle is plotted (STEP A9).
[0069]
                Subsequently, the other triangles each of which is defamed by the coordinates of
intersections 1, 2, and 3 wherein the intersection 2 is inside the plotting area Ad are plotted according
to the same processing (STEPS A6 to All) as that of the first embodiment, and as shown in FIG. 7B,
the upper circle FCa composed of ten triangles arranged in the circumferential direction is displayed
on the display output unit 12.
[0070]
               Also, the circle plotting process of the lower circle FCb of the circular cylinder (a figure
having circles) FC is similar to the circle plotting process of the upper circle FCa, and thus a
description thereof will not be made.
[0071]
                Thereafter, similarly in the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process of the
first embodiment, a side surface FCs of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is plotted
between the upper circle FCa and the lower circle FCb, and a circular cylinder (a figure having
circles) FC (FCa + FCb + FCs) having the X and Y coordinates (0, -1.2) of the center, the radius R (=
2), and the height (between -2 and 2 in the Z direction) is plotted in the plotting area Ad (defined by
Xmin "-3", Xmax "3', Ymin "-3", Ymax "3', Zmin "-3", and Zmax "3"), and is displayed on the
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                         - 24
display output unit 12 (STEP A7).
[0072]
                Therefore, even in the case where the circles FCa and FCb are set to protrude from the
plotting area Ad, it is unnecessary to perform cumbersome and heavy surface processing for
precisely fitting the protruding part in the plotting area Ad.       Therefore, it is possible to plot a good
looking circular cylinder (a figure having circles) without using a high-speed high-performance
(expensive) processor (CPU).
[0073]
                FIG. 7C shows a display state which is obtained by performing a process of rotating the
plotted circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC shown in FIG. 7B in a planar direction.
[0074]
               Also, in the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) plotted as shown in FIG. 7B,
rectangles of the side surface FCs positioned between two triangles of the upper circle FCa and two
triangles of the lower circle FCb including the intersections P which are coordinate points 2 (or 3)
shifted into the plotting area Ad have not been plotted for the purpose of convenience; however, they
may be plotted.
[0075]
                (THIRD EMBODIMENT)
                <Case where Setting of Circle FCa of Circular Cylinder FC protrudes in Horizontal
Direction from Plotting Area Ad and Maximum Value in Height Direction (Z Direction) of Circular
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                             - 25
Cylinder FC exceeds Maximum Value in Z Direction of Plotting Area Ad>
                In a third embodiment, the case where the user sets the same plotting area Ad (Xmin "-3",
Xrmax "3", Ymin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", Zmax "3", and the division number for grids "11") as
that set according to the plotting-area setting screen Gv shown in FIGS. 6A and 6B, and inputs data
on a circular cylinder (a figure having circles), i.e. the radius R "2", the minimum value "-2" and the
maximum value "4" in the height direction (the Z direction), and the X and Y coordinates (0, -1.2) of
the center as shown in FIG. 8A will be described.
[0076]
                In other words, in a circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process of the third
embodiment, the circular cylinder is like a circular cylinder obtained by shifting the center of the
circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC plotted in the first embodiment in the Y direction by -1.2
and increasing the height of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC in the Z direction by
"+2" such that a minimum value and a maximum value in the Z direction become -2 and 4,
respectively.             Therefore, in the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process shown in
FIG. 3, it is determined that the upper circle FCa of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) is
outside the plotting area Ad ("No" in STEP S3).
[0077]
                Therefore, the circle plotting process of the upper circle FCa (STEPS S4 and SA) is not
performed.
[0078]
                Further, in the circle plotting process of the lower circle FCb which is performed thereafter,
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        -26
similarly in the second embodiment, the coordinates of an intersection 2 (or 3) which is an
intersection P (having X and Y coordinates (0, -3.2)) of the circumference of the circle having the
radius R (= 2) with the line extending in the direction of 0 (= 0 degrees) from the X and Y coordinates
(0, -1.2) of the intersection 1 which is the center of the circle are determined (STEPS A4 to A7), and
it is determined that the coordinates of the intersection 2 (or 3) are outside the plotting area (between
Xmin "-3" and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") ("Yes" in STEP A81).
[0079]
                Then, the X and Y coordinates of the intersection 2 (or 3) which is the intersection P
(having X and Y coordinates (0, -3.2)) determined as being outside the plotting area are shifted to X
and Y coordinates (here, (0, -3)) closest thereto and positioned in the plotting area (between Xmin "-3"
and Xmax "3" and between Ymin "-3" and Ymax "3") as shown in FIGS. 5B and 5C (STEP A82).
[0080]
               After the coordinates of the intersection 2 (or 3) are shifted to the X and Y coordinates (0,
3) closest thereto and positioned in the plotting area, a color is assigned to the area of a triangle
defined by the coordinates of the intersections 1, 2, and 3, and the triangle is plotted (STEP A9).
[0081]
                Subsequently, the other triangles each of which is defined by the coordinates of
intersections 1, 2, and 3 wherein the intersection 2 is inside the plotting area Ad are plotted according
to the same processing (STEPS A6 to All) as that of the second embodiment, and as shown in FIGS.
8B and 8C, the lower circle FCb composed of ten triangles arranged in the circumferential direction
is displayed on the display output unit 12.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 27
[0082]
                Thereafter, similarly in the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process of the
embodiment described above, the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC (FCb + FCs) having
the X and Y coordinates (0, -1.2) of the center, the radius R (= 2), and the height (between -2 and 4 in
the Z direction) and having no upper circle FCa is plotted in the plotting area Ad (defined by Xmin "
3", Xrmax "3", Ymin "-3", Ymax "3", Zmin "-3", and Zmax "3"), and is displayed on the display
output unit 12 (STEP A7).
[0083]
                Therefore, similarly in the second embodiment, even in the case where the circles FCa and
FCb are set to protrude in horizontal directions from the plotting area Ad, it is unnecessary to perform
cumbersome and heavy surface processing for precisely fitting the protruding parts in the plotting
area Ad.          Therefore, it is possible to plot a good-looking circular cylinder (a figure having circles)
without using a high-speed high-performance (expensive) processor (CPU).
[0084]
                FIG. 8C shows a display state which is obtained by performing a process of rotating the
plotted circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC shown in FIG. 8B in a planar direction.
[0085]
               Also, even in this third embodiment, similarly in the second embodiment, in the circular
cylinder (a figure having circles) plotted as shown in FIGS. 8B and 8C, rectangles of the side surface
FCs corresponding to two triangles of the lower circle FCb including a intersection P which is a
coordinate point 2 (or 3) shifted into the plotting area Ad have not been plotted for the purpose of
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                           -28
convenience; however, they may be plotted.
[0086]
                Therefore, according to the figure plotting device 10 having the above-described
configuration, the user sets data on a 3D figure plotting area Ad (Xmin, Xmax, Ymin, Ymax, Zmin,
and Zmax) according to the plotting-area setting screen Gv, and inputs plotting data on a circular
cylinder (a figure having circles) FC (the radius R, the height in the Z direction, and the X and Y
coordinates of the center) according to the 3D graph setting screen Gs.            Then, with respect to each
of the circles FCa and FCb of both ends of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC, the
coordinates of individual intersections of the circumference of the corresponding circle with
individual lines extending radially from the coordinates of the center of the corresponding circle at
intervals of AO are determined on the basis of the data on the plotting area Ad and the plotting data on
the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC, and a plurality of triangles (grid areas) is formed by
connecting the coordinates of the center with the coordinates of each of the intersections and
connecting the coordinates of the individual intersections, and the corresponding circle FCa or FCb is
plotted by the set of the triangles.        Also, with respect to the side surface FCs of the circular cylinder
(a figure having circles) FC, quadrangles (grid areas) are formed by lines connecting the coordinates
of the individual intersections determined on the circumference of one circle FCa of the circular
cylinder (a figure having circles) FC with the coordinates of the individual intersections determined
on the circumference of the other circle FCb and a plurality of dividing lines parallel to the circles
FCa and FCb, and the side surface FCs is plotted by the set of the quadrangles.
[0087]
                Further, in the case of plotting the circle FCa or FCb as the set of the plurality of triangles
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                       -29
(grid areas), if the coordinates of one of two points of a triangle positioned on the circumference of
the circle except an apex corresponding to the coordinates of the center of the corresponding circle
FCa or FCb is outside of the plotting area Ad set in advance, the coordinates of the corresponding
intersection positioned outside the plotting area is shifted to coordinates closest thereto and positioned
in the plotting area, and a plurality of triangles (grid areas) is formed by connecting the intersection
coordinates including the shifted coordinates, and the circle FCa or FCb is plotted by the set of the
formed triangles.
[0088]
                Therefore, even in the case where the plotting data on the circular cylinder (a figure having
circles) is set such that the circles FCa and FCb of the circular cylinder protrude from the plotting
area Ad, it is unnecessary to perform cumbersome and heavy surface processing for precisely fitting
the protruding parts in the plotting area Ad.       Therefore, it is possible to plot a good-looking circular
cylinder (a figure having circles) FC without using a high-speed high-performance (expensive)
processor (CPU).
[0089]
               Also, according to the figure plotting device 10 having the above-described configuration,
whether the maximum value Zmax and the minimum value Zmin in the height direction (the Z
direction) included in the plotting data of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC are inside
the area in the Z direction (between Zmin and Zmax) defined in the data on the plotting area Ad is
determined, and if they are inside the plotting area Ad (between Zmin and Zmax), each circle is
plotted. In the case where the maximum value Zmax or the minimum value Zmin in the height
direction (the Z direction) defined in the plotting data is outside the area in the Z direction (between
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          -30
Zmin and Zmax) defined in the data on the plotting area Ad, the circle positioned outside the area is
not plotted.
[0090]
                Therefore, even in the case where one circle of the circular cylinder (a figure having circles)
FC is outside the plotting area Ad, it is unnecessary to perform cumbersome and heavy surface
processing, and it is possible to plot a good-looking circular cylinder (a figure having circles) FC
without one circle in the plotting area Ad.
[0091]
               Also, in every embodiment described above, the case of plotting a circular cylinder (a 3D
figure) as a figure having circles has been described; however, examples of a figure having circles
may include elliptic cylinders having ellipses at both ends, cones, elliptic cones, spheres, and elliptic
spheres.          Further, with respect to these figures having circles, in the case where a coordinate point
positioned on the circumference of a circle (an ellipse) is outside a plotting area set in advance, the
coordinate point positioned outside the plotting area may be shifted to a coordinate point closest
thereto and positioned in the plotting area, and the corresponding circle may be plotted.
[0092]
               Also, the upper surface and the lower surface may not be circular, and may have any other
shape which can be formed by connecting a plurality of points. Examples of such a shape include
circles and polygons, i.e. shapes which can be formed by connecting points with straight lines or
curved lines. In this case, if the above-mentioned circle is replaced with a surface having a shape as
described above, and the center point of the circle is replaced with the centroid point of the
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        -31
corresponding shape, this technology can be used.
[0093]
               Also, this technology is not limited to the case of plotting the upper surface and lower
surfaces of circular cylinders, and can also be used in the case of plotting side surfaces of circular
cylinders and in the case of plotting figures other than circular cylinders.       In other words, a plane
which is a plotting object included in the figure is divided into two or more predetermined shapes
(wherein each predetermined shape is a polygon) each of which can be formed by connecting a
plurality of points, such that grids are formed, and a shape which can be formed by connecting the
plurality of points (in the case of the polygon, a plurality of apexes (The same is true in the following
parentheses)) and the centroid point of the predetermined shape is plotted, whereby the
predetermined shape (the polygon) is plotted in a plotting area of a display screen of the display unit.
On the occasion of plotting the predetermined shape, if at least one of the plurality of points (the
plurality of apexes of the polygon) and the centroid point of the predetermined shape is outside the
plotting area, another shape different from the predetermined shape (another polygon having a shape
different from the shape of the above-mentioned polygon) may be plotted, wherein the another shape
can be formed by shifting each point positioned outside the plotting area to a point in the plotting area
and connecting the at least one shifted point of the plurality of apexes of the polygon and one or more
points, having not been shifted, of the plurality of points of the predetermined shape (the plurality of
apexes of the polygon).
[0094]
               Also, all of the methods of the individual processes which are performed by the figure
plotting device 10 described in each embodiment, that is, all of the methods of various processes such
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                            - 32
as the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting process shown by the flow chart of FIG. 3
and the circle plotting processes included in the circular-cylinder (a figure having circles) plotting
process and shown by the flow chart of FIG. 4 can be configured as programs executable in a
computer, and the programs can be stored in media of external recording devices, such as memory
cards (such as ROM cards and RAM cards), magnetic disks (such as floppy (registered as a trade
mark) disks and hard disks), optical disks (such as CD-ROMs and DVDs), and semiconductor
memories, to distributed.               Also, a computer (a CPU) of an electronic device having a display
function can read the programs recorded on a medium of an external recording device, and can
control operations according to the read programs, thereby implementing the function of plotting
figures having circles described in each embodiment, and performing the same processes according
to the above-described methods.
[0095]
               Also, data on the programs for realizing the methods may be transmitted in a program code
form on a communication network (N), and the program data may be downloaded from a computer
device (a program server) connected to the communication network (N), into a storage device of an
electronic device having a display function, such that it is possible to realize the above-described
function of plotting figures having circles.
[0096]
                The present invention is not limited to the embodiments, and may have various
modifications within the scope without departing from the spirit thereof at the time of carrying out
the invention.              In addition, the embodiments include inventions of various stages, and thus various
inventions may be extracted by appropriate combinations of a plurality of disclosed constituent
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                        - 33
elements.           For example, even if some constituent elements are deleted from all the constituent
elements shown in the embodiments, or some constituent elements are combined in different forms, a
configuration in which the constituent elements are deleted or combined may be extracted as an
invention in a case of being capable of solving the problems described in the Problem that the
Invention is to Solve and achieving the effects described in the Advantage of the Invention.
[0097]
                In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise"
or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
[0098]
                It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general knowledge
in the art, in Australia or any other country.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          - 34
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.             A figure plotting device having a controller, wherein
                the controller performs following processes:
               plotting a first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane
which is a desired plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a
display unit; and
               upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first
shape is outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is
inside the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least
one point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of
the plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
2.              The figure plotting device according to claim 1, wherein the controller performs following
processes:
               upon plotting the plane, shifting each of the at least one point positioned outside the plotting
area to a position positioned inside the plotting area which is closest to each of the at least one point.
3.              The figure plotting device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the controller performs
following processes:
                on a basis of figure data for plotting a figure including the plane which is the desired
plotting object, setting points of a surface of the figure and a centroid of the plane which is the desired
plotting object as the plurality of points of the first shape, and plotting the plane.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          -35
4.              The figure plotting device according to claim 3, wherein the controller performs following
processes:
                on the basis of the figure data, setting a plurality of points corresponding to a circumference
of a circle as the plane which is the desired plotting object, setting a center point of the circle as the
centroid of the plane, and plotting the plane, and
                in a case where at least one point of two neighboring points of the plurality of points
corresponding to the circumference of the circle is outside the plotting area, setting a triangle which
includes, as apexes thereof, at least one point and the center point of the circle as the second shape,
and plotting the plane, the at least one point being determined by shifting each of the at least one
point positioned outside the plotting area to a point positioned inside the plotting area.
5.              The figure plotting device according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the controller performs
following processes:
                on a basis of a figure data specifying a circular cylinder as the figure, setting a plurality of
points on a circumference of one circle of the circular cylinder and a centroid of the one circle of the
circular cylinder as the plurality of the first shape, and plotting the plane.
6.              The figure plotting device according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the controller
performs following processes:
               upon plotting the plane, on a basis of a figure data specifying a circular cylinder as the
figure, plotting a plurality of rectangles in place of a side surface of the circular cylinder, in which
each of the rectangles has, as apexes thereof, a plurality of points positioned on circumferences of
two circles of the circular cylinder,
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                         -36
               upon plotting one rectangle of the plurality of rectangles,
                in a case where at least one of the apexes of the one rectangle is outside the plotting area,
not plotting the one rectangle, and
                in a case where all of the apexes of the one rectangle are inside the plotting area, plotting the
one rectangle.
7.              The figure plotting device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising the
display unit.
8.             A control method of a figure plotting device having a controller comprising following
processes:
                plotting a first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane
which is a desired plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a
display unit; and
               upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first
shape is outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is
inside the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least
one point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of
the plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
9.              The control method according to claim 8 comprising following processes:
               upon plotting the plane, shifting each of the at least one point positioned outside the plotting
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          -37
area to a position positioned inside the plotting area which is closest to each of the at least one point.
10.             The control method according to claim 8 or 9 comprising following processes:
                on a basis of figure data for plotting a figure including the plane which is the desired
plotting object, setting points of a surface of the figure and a centroid of the plane which is the desired
plotting object as the plurality of points of the first shape, and plotting the plane.
11.             The control method according to claim 10 comprising following processes:
                on the basis of the figure data, setting a plurality of points corresponding to a circumference
of a circle as the plane which is the desired plotting object, setting a center point of the circle as the
centroid of the plane, and plotting the plane, and
in a case where at least one point of two neighboring points of the plurality of points corresponding to
the circumference of the circle is outside the plotting area, setting a triangle which includes, as apexes
thereof, at least one point and the center point of the circle as the second shape, and plotting the plane,
the at least one point being determined by shifting each of the at least one point positioned outside the
plotting area to a point positioned inside the plotting area.
12.             The control method according to claim 10 or 11 comprising following processes:
                on a basis of a figure data specifying a circular cylinder as the figure, setting a plurality of
points on a circumference of one circle of the circular cylinder and a centroid of the one circle of the
circular cylinder as the plurality of the first shape, and plotting the plane.
13.             The control method according to any one of claims 10 to 12 comprising following
processes:
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                         -38
               upon plotting the plane, on a basis of a figure data specifying a circular cylinder as the
figure, plotting a plurality of rectangles in place of a side surface of the circular cylinder, in which
each of the rectangles has, as apexes thereof, a plurality of points positioned on circumferences of
two circles of the circular cylinder,
               upon plotting one rectangle of the plurality of rectangles,
                in a case where at least one of the apexes of the one rectangle is outside the plotting area,
not plotting the one rectangle, and
                in a case where all of the apexes of the one rectangle are inside the plotting area, plotting the
one rectangle.
14.            A non-transitory recording medium having a program recorded thereon that is executable to
control a computer to perform following processes:
               plotting a first shape which is formed by connecting a plurality of points included in a plane
which is a desired plotting object, thereby plotting the plane in a plotting area of a display screen of a
display unit; and
               upon plotting the plane, in a case where at least one of the plurality of points of the first
shape is outside the plotting area and one or more points of the plurality of points of the first shape is
inside the plotting area, plotting a second shape different from the first shape by connecting at least
one point and the one or more points, the at least one point being obtained by shifting at least one of
the plurality of points of the first shape outside the plotting area to corresponding at least one point
positioned inside the plotting area, the one or more points.
15.             The non-transitory recording medium according to claim 14, wherein the program is
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                          -39
executable to control the computer to perform following processes:
               upon plotting the plane, shifting each of the at least one point positioned outside the plotting
area to a position positioned inside the plotting area which is closest to each of the at least one point.
16.             The figure plotting device according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the program is executable
to control the computer to perform following processes:
                on a basis of figure data for plotting a figure including the plane which is the desired
plotting object, setting points of a surface of the figure and a centroid of the plane which is the desired
plotting object as the plurality of points of the first shape, and plotting the plane.
17.             The figure plotting device according to claim 16, wherein the program is executable to
control the computer to perform following processes:
                on the basis of the figure data, setting a plurality of points corresponding to a circumference
of a circle as the plane which is the desired plotting object, setting a center point of the circle as the
centroid of the plane, and plotting the plane, and
in a case where at least one point of two neighboring points of the plurality of points corresponding to
the circumference of the circle is outside the plotting area, setting a triangle which includes, as apexes
thereof, at least one point and the center point of the circle as the second shape, and plotting the plane,
the at least one point being determined by shifting each of the at least one point positioned outside the
plotting area to a point positioned inside the plotting area.
18.             The figure plotting device according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the program is executable
to control the computer to perform following processes:
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

                                                         - 40
                on a basis of a figure data specifying a circular cylinder as the figure, setting a plurality of
points on a circumference of one circle of the circular cylinder and a centroid of the one circle of the
circular cylinder as the plurality of the first shape, and plotting the plane.
19.             The figure plotting device according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein the program is
executable to control the computer to perform following processes:
               upon plotting the plane, on a basis of a figure data specifying a circular cylinder as the
figure, plotting a plurality of rectangles in place of a side surface of the circular cylinder, in which
each of the rectangles has, as apexes thereof, a plurality of points positioned on circumferences of
two circles of the circular cylinder,
               upon plotting one rectangle of the plurality of rectangles,
                in a case where at least one of the apexes of the one rectangle is outside the plotting area,
not plotting the one rectangle, and
                in a case where all of the apexes of the one rectangle are inside the plotting area, plotting the
one rectangle.
9829350_1 (GHMatters) P107887.AU

        <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
FIG.2
                               FIG.1A
                                        1/7
                     FIG.1B

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      FIG.3
                              2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      FIG.4
                              3/7

                       4/7
<removed-date>
              FIG.5A
<removed-apn>
              FIG.5B
              FIG.5C
              FIG.5D

                       5/7
<removed-date>
              FIG.6A
<removed-apn>    FIG.6B
              FIG.6C
              FIG.6D

                       6/7
<removed-date>
              FIG.7A
<removed-apn>
              FIG.7B
              FIG.7C

                       7/7
<removed-date>
              FIG.8A
<removed-apn>
              FIG.8B
              FIG.8C

