                     A METHOD FOR CONFIGURING CASINO OPERATIONS
                                 ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
5          Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a method of optimizing at least one
  performance variable, such as revenue or profitability, indicative of the performance of a casino.
  An initial set of operating parameters is set. At least one environmental variable, such as traffic,
  weather, time, cost of transportation, etc. are monitored as is the performance variable. An
  artificial intelligence program changes operating parameters, such as player-tracking rewards,
0 bonuses, comps, advertising, etc. The program determines the effect of the change, and further
  changes the operating parameter as a function of the effect and the environmental variable.

                                        John P. Acres
                   A METHOD FOR CONFIGURING CASINO OPERATIONS
                 Attorney Docket No. 1351 -001/Application No. Filed Herewith
                                             6/8
     72     73             70                         EGM      EGM            70
  Wireless Cell5          EGHV      EGH              EGIV      EGMV
                                                                             60
                                                     Bank Controler
                                                                                  Network
                                         Elect                        G
62         Internet                   Conye r63
                                                   175
           Computer                         e             65
                                      Converter
                             1     R                                              Server
             74
                                H
                                        +H                                     90
                       71
                                   FIG. 3

                                                   TITLE
 5
                     "A METHOD FOR CONFIGURING CASINO OPERATIONS"
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise"
 0  and variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be understood to imply
    the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
    group of integers.
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "include"
    and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be understood to imply the
 5  presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
    group of integers.
                                           TECHNICAL FIELD
            This disclosure relates generally to operation of casinos and more particularly to
 '0 operations including configuring games, advertising, and/or staffing.
                                          BACKGROUND ART
            Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
    information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for the
25  purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is not
    an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the common general
    knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the priority date of the application in relation
    to which this specification has been filed.
            Casino performance is affected by a host of factors, some of which the casino can
30  control. Other factors are environmental factors over which the casino has no or little ability to
    control. For example, factors that the casino can control include its player-loyalty program,
                                                      1

    complementary amenities to players, promotions, and bonuses, which are awards given to
    players over and above any payment required by a paytable in a game. The type of games
    available to play, and factors such as their payback percentages, location, denomination, and
    speed are also under control of the casino.
 5           The player-loyalty program tracks the play of enrolled players and typically provides
    goods and services, including additional gaming credits, in proportion to the amount wagered.
    All of the foregoing can be configured by the casino to be richer or leaner from the players'
    perspective. Obviously, if the casino is always packed with players there is little motivation to
    provide extensive promotional give-aways, free gaming credit, and lavish complementary
 0  amenities, all of which cut into casino profitability. On the other hand, if there are few players
    on the floor, profitability might be increased by spending more for these kinds of inducements to
    draw players to the games.
             Another factor over which the casino can exert control is staffing levels, which are set by
    the casino. Too few staff for the customers results in poor service and may ultimately result in
 5  lower profitability, even thought there is a labor savings. Similarly, if there is too many staff for
    the crowd, although service is presumably at a high level, cost is up thus reducing profitability.
             Advertising by the casino, either through print or broadcast media, or directly targeted by
    mail, email, phone call, text message, and similar communications, also affects business. Too
    little advertising may save money in the budget, but diminishing customer numbers results in
 '0 decreased profitability. Like staffing, there is a law of diminishing returns: too much
    advertising may not be drawing in much in the way of additional players while increasing casino
    expenses.
             Environmental factors over which the casino has virtually no control include such things
    as the weather, local traffic, cost and availability of transportation (gas, airline tickets, rental
25  cars, etc.), and competition for the gaming dollar, including competitor casinos and other area
    events. The time of each day and the day of the week correlate with the numbers of players on a
    casino floor. Holidays and the times immediately before and after also have a generally known
    effect that either tends to increase or decrease the number of players.
                                                        2

            It is extremely complex to consider all of the factors that might affect casino
    performance, such as profitability a market share, and to adjust the variables over which the
    casino can exert control in a way that optimizes desired performance.
 5                                     SUMMARY OF INVENTION
            In accordance with one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
    optimizing at least one performance variable indicative of the performance of a casino having a
    plurality of operating parameters and a plurality of gaming machines interconnected via a
    communication network comprising:
 0          (a) initializing operating parameters for the casino's operations using commands
    delivered over the network;
            (b) monitoring, by a computer connected to the communication network, at least one
    environmental variable that affects casino performance;
            (c) monitoring, in the computer, the performance variable;
 5          (d) generating, in the computer, an automated command to change at least one of the
    casino's operating parameters;
            (e) transmitting the automated command via the communication network;
            (f) determining, in the computer, the effect of the changed operating parameter on the
    performance variable; and
 10         (g) further changing, in the computer, the operating parameter as a function of the effect
    and the environmental variable.
            In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
    managing a casino having a plurality of gaming machines connected to a communication
    network, the method comprising:
25          monitoring at least one environmental variable that affect casino performance;
            providing data related to the monitored variables to a first node on the communication
    network;
            monitoring at least one variable indicative of the performance of the casino;
                                                       3

           providing data related to the monitored variable to a second node on the communication
   network;
           processing the data;
           generating at least one communication responsive to the processed data; and
 5         automatically transmitting the at least one communication on a communication network.
           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
   automating at least some aspects of casino management in a casino having a plurality of gaming
   machines connected to a communication network, the method comprising:
           establishing an initial value for at least one casino operating parameter;
 0         implementing the initial value using a first command sent over the network;
           monitoring at least one environmental variable that affects casino performance;
           providing data related to the monitored variables to a first node on the communication
   network;
           monitoring at least one variable indicative of the performance of the casino;
 5         providing data related to the monitored variable to a second node on the communication
   network;
           processing the data; and
           responsive to the processed data, changing the initial value using a second command sent
   over the network.
 0
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
           FIG. 1A is a functional block diagram that illustrates a gaming device according to
25 embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 1B is an isometric view of the gaming device illustrated in FIG. 1A.
           FIGs. 2A, 2B, and 2C are detail diagrams of exemplary types of gaming devices
   according to embodiments of the invention.
                                                       4

            FIG. 3 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
    embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 4 is a functional block diagram showing an additional portion of the network of
    FIG. 3.
 5          FIG. 5 is a flow chart depicting operation of an embodiment of the invention.
                                  DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            FIGs. 1A and 1B illustrate example gaming devices according to embodiments of the
    invention.
 0          Referring to FIGs. 1A and 1B, a gaming device 10 is an electronic gaming machine.
    Although an electronic gaming machine or "slot" machine is illustrated, various other types of
    devices may be used to wager monetarily based credits on a game of chance in accordance with
    principles of the invention. The term "electronic gaming device" is meant to include various
    devices such as electro-mechanical spinning-reel type slot machines, video slot machines, and
 5  video poker machines, for instance. Other gaming devices may include computer-based gaming
    machines, wireless gaming devices, multi-player gaming stations, modified personal electronic
    gaming devices (such as cell phones), personal computers, server-based gaming terminals, and
    other similar devices. Although embodiments of the invention will work with all of the gaming
    types mentioned, for ease of illustration the present embodiments will be described in reference
 '0 to the electronic gaming machine 10 shown in FIGs. 1A and 1B.
            The gaming device 10 includes a cabinet 15 housing components to operate the gaming
    device 10. The cabinet 15 may include a gaming display 20, a base portion 13, a top box 18, and
    a player interface panel 30. The gaming display 20 may include mechanical spinning reels (FIG.
    2A), a video display (FIGs. 2B and 2C), or a combination of both spinning reels and a video
25  display (not shown). The gaming cabinet 15 may also include a credit meter 27 and a coin-in or
    bet meter 28. The credit meter 27 may indicate the total number of credits remaining on the
    gaming device 10 that are eligible to be wagered. In some embodiments, the credit meter 27
    may reflect a monetary unit, such as dollars. However, it is often preferable to have the credit
    meter 27 reflect a number of 'credits,' rather than a monetary unit. The bet meter 28 may
                                                      5

    indicate the amount of credits to be wagered on a particular game. Thus, for each game, the
    player transfers the amount that he or she wants to wager from the credit meter 27 to the bet
    meter 28. In some embodiments, various other meters may be present, such as meters reflecting
    amounts won, amounts paid, or the like. In embodiments where the gaming display 20 is a video
 5  monitor, the information indicated on the credit meters may be shown on the gaming display
    itself 20 (FIG. 2B).
             The base portion 13 may include a lighted panel 14, a coin return (not shown), and a
    gaming handle 12 operable on a partially rotating pivot joint 11. The game handle 12 is
    traditionally included on mechanical spinning-reel games, where the handle may be pulled
 0  toward a player to initiate the spinning of reels 22 after placement of a wager. The top box 18
    may include a lighted panel 17, a video display (such as an LCD monitor), a mechanical bonus
    device (not shown), and a candle light indicator 19. The player interface panel 30 may include
    various devices so that a player can interact with the gaming device 10.
             The player interface panel 30 may include one or more game buttons 32 that can be
 5  actuated by the player to cause the gaming device 10 to perform a specific action. For example,
    some of the game buttons 32 may cause the gaming device 10 to bet a credit to be wagered
    during the next game, change the number of lines being played on a multi-line game, cash out
    the credits remaining on the gaming device (as indicated on the credit meter 27), or request
    assistance from casino personnel, such as by lighting the candle 19. In addition, the player
 ,0 interface panel 30 may include one or more game actuating buttons 33. The game actuating
    buttons 33 may initiate a game with a pre-specified amount of credits. On some gaming devices
     10 a "Max Bet" game actuating button 33 may be included that places the maximum credit
    wager on a game and initiates the game. The player interface panel 30 may further include a bill
    acceptor 37 and a ticket printer 38. The bill acceptor 37 may accept and validate paper money or
25  previously printed tickets with a credit balance. The ticket printer 38 may print out tickets
    reflecting the balance of the credits that remain on the gaming device 10 when a player cashes
    out by pressing one of the game buttons 32 programmed to cause a 'cashout.'      These tickets may
    be inserted into other gaming machines or redeemed at a cashier station or kiosk for cash.
                                                       6

            The gaming device 10 may also include one or more speakers 26 to transmit auditory
    information or sounds to the player. The auditory information may include specific sounds
    associated with particular events that occur during game play on the gaming device 10. For
    example, a particularly festive sound may be played during a large win or when a bonus is
 5  triggered. The speakers 26 may also transmit "attract" sounds to entice nearby players when the
    game is not currently being played.
            The gaming device 10 may further include a secondary display 25. This secondary
    display 25 may be a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a cathode
    ray tube (CRT), a plasma screen, or the like. The secondary display 25 may show any
 0  combination of primary game information and ancillary information to the player. For example,
    the secondary display 25 may show player tracking information, secondary bonus information,
    advertisements, or player selectable game options.
            The gaming device 10 may include a separate information window (not shown) dedicated
    to supplying any combination of information related to primary game play, secondary bonus
 5  information, player tracking information, secondary bonus information, advertisements or player
    selectable game options. This window may be fixed in size and location or may have its size and
    location vary temporally as communication needs change. One example of such a resizable
    window is International Game Technology's "service window". Another example is Las Vegas
    Gaming Incorporated's retrofit technology which allows information to be placed over areas of
 '0 the game or the secondary display screen at various times and in various situations.
            The gaming device 10 includes a microprocessor 40 that controls operation of the gaming
    device 10. If the gaming device 10 is a standalone gaming device, the microprocessor 40 may
    control virtually all of the operations of the gaming devices and attached equipment, such as
    operating game logic stored in memory (not shown) as firmware, controlling the display 20 to
25  represent the outcome of a game, communicating with the other peripheral devices (such as the
    bill acceptor 37), and orchestrating the lighting and sound emanating from the gaming device 10.
    In other embodiments where the gaming device 10 is coupled to a network 50, as described
    below, the microprocessor 40 may have different tasks depending on the setup and function of
    the gaming device. For example, the microprocessor 40 may be responsible for running the base
                                                      7

   game of the gaming device and executing instructions received over the network 50 from a
   bonus server or player tracking server. In a server-based gaming setup, the microprocessor 40
   may act as a terminal to execute instructions from a remote server that is running game play on
   the gaming device.
 5         The microprocessor 40 may be coupled to a machine communication interface (MCI) 42
   that connects the gaming device 10 to a gaming network 50. The MCI 42 may be coupled to the
   microprocessor 40 through a serial connection, a parallel connection, an optical connection, or in
   some cases a wireless connection. The gaming device 10 may include memory 41 (MEM), such
   as a random access memory (RAM), coupled to the microprocessor 40 and which can be used to
 0 store gaming information, such as storing total coin-in statistics about a present or past gaming
   session, which can be communicated to a remote server or database through the MCI 42. The
   MCI 42 may also facilitate communication between the network 50 and the secondary display 25
   or a player tracking unit 45 housed in the gaming cabinet 15.
           The player tracking unit 45 may include an identification device 46 and one or more
 5 buttons 47 associated with the player tracking unit 45. The identification device 46 serves to
   identify a player, by, for example, reading a player-tracking device, such as a player tracking
   card that is issued by the casino to individual players who choose to have such a card. The
   identification device 46 may instead, or additionally, identify players through other methods.
   Player tracking systems using player tracking cards and card readers 46 are known in the art.
 0 Briefly summarizing such a system, a player registers with the casino prior to commencing
   gaming. The casino issues a unique player-tracking card to the player and opens a corresponding
   player account that is stored on a server or host computer, described below with reference to
   FIG. 3. The player account may include the player's name and mailing address and other
   information of interest to the casino in connection with marketing efforts. Prior to playing one of
25 the gaming devices in the casino, the player inserts the player tracking card into the identification
   device 46 thus permitting the casino to track player activity, such as amounts wagered, credits
   won, and rate of play.
           To induce the player to use the card and be an identified player, the casino may award
   each player points proportional to the money or credits wagered by the player. Players typically
                                                      8

   accrue points at a rate related to the amount wagered, although other factors may cause the
   casino to award the player various amounts. The points may be displayed on the secondary
   display 25 or using other methods. In conventional player tracking systems, the player may take
   his or her card to a special desk in the casino where a casino employee scans the card to
 5 determine how many accrued points are in the player's account. The player may redeem points
   for selected merchandise, meals in casino restaurants, or the like, which each have assigned point
   values. In some player tracking systems, the player may use the secondary display 25 to access
   their player tracking account, such as to check a total number of points, redeem points for
   various services, make changes to their account, or download promotional credits to the gaming
 0 device 10. In other embodiments, the identification device 46 may read other identifying cards
   (such as driver licenses, credit cards, etc.) to identify a player and match them to a corresponding
   player tracking account. Although FIG. 1A shows the player tracking unit 45 with a card reader
   as the identification device 46, other embodiments may include a player tracking unit 45 with a
   biometric scanner, PIN code acceptor, or other methods of identifying a player to pair the player
 5 with their player tracking account.
           During typical play on a gaming device 10, a player plays a game by placing a wager and
   then initiating a gaming session. The player may initially insert monetary bills or previously
   printed tickets with a credit value into the bill acceptor 37. The player may also put coins into a
   coin acceptor (not shown) or a credit, debit or casino account card into a card reader/authorizer
 0 (not shown). One of skill in the art will readily see that this invention is useful with all gambling
   devices, regardless of the manner in which wager value-input is accomplished.
           The credit meter 27 displays the numeric credit value of the money inserted dependent on
   the denomination of the gaming device 10. That is, if the gaming device 10 is a nickel slot
   machine and a $20 bill inserted into the bill acceptor 37, the credit meter will reflect 400 credits
25 or one credit for each nickel of the inserted twenty dollars. For gaming devices 10 that support
   multiple denominations, the credit meter 27 will reflect the amount of credits relative to the
   denomination selected. Thus, in the above example, if a penny denomination is selected after the
   $20 is inserted the credit meter will change from 400 credits to 2000 credits.
                                                       9

             A wager may be placed by pushing one or more of the game buttons 32, which may be
    reflected on the bet meter 28. That is, the player can generally depress a "bet one" button (one of
    the buttons on the player interface panel 30, such as 32), which transfers one credit from the
    credit meter 27 to the bet meter 28. Each time the button 32 is depressed an additional single
 5  credit transfers to the bet meter 28 up to a maximum bet that can be placed on a single play of
    the electronic gaming device 10. The gaming session may be initiated by pulling the gaming
    handle 12 or depressing the spin button 33. On some gaming devices 10, a "max bet" button
    (another one of the buttons 32 on the player interface panel 30) may be depressed to wager the
    maximum number of credits supported by the gaming device 10 and initiate a gaming session.
 0           If the gaming session does not result in any winning combination, the process of placing
    a wager may be repeated by the player. Alternatively, the player may cash out any remaining
    credits on the credit meter 27 by depressing the "cash-out" button (another button 32 on the
    player interface panel 30), which causes the credits on the credit meter 27 to be paid out in the
    form of a ticket through the ticket printer 38, or may be paid out in the form of returning coins
 5  from a coin hopper (not shown) to a coin return tray.
             If instead a winning combination (win) appears on the display 20, the award
    corresponding to the winning combination is immediately applied to the credit meter 27. For
    example, if the gaming device 10 is a slot machine, a winning combination of symbols 23 may
    land on a played payline on reels 22. If any bonus games are initiated, the gaming device 10
 '0 may enter into a bonus mode or simply award the player with a bonus amount of credits that are
    applied to the credit meter 27.
             FIGs. 2A to 2C illustrate exemplary types of gaming devices according to embodiments
    of the invention. FIG. 2A illustrates an example spinning-reel gaming machine 10A, FIG. 2B
    illustrates an example video slot machine 10B, and FIG. 2C illustrates an example video poker
25  machine 1OC.
             Referring to FIG. 2A, a spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA includes a gaming display
    20A having a plurality of mechanical spinning reels 22A. Typically, spinning-reel gaming
    machines bOA have three to five spinning reels 22A. Each of the spinning reels 22A has
    multiple symbols 23A that may be separated by blank areas on the spinning reels 22A, although
                                                      10

    the presence of blank areas typically depends on the number of reels 22A present in the gaming
    device 1OA and the number of different symbols 23A that may appear on the spinning reels 22A.
    Each of the symbols 22A or blank areas makes up a "stop" on the spinning reel 22A where the
    reel 22A comes to rest after a spin. Although the spinning reels 22A of various games 1OA may
 5  have various numbers of stops, many conventional spinning-reel gaming devices 1OA have reels
    22A with twenty two stops.
             During game play, the spinning reels 22A may be controlled by stepper motors (not
    shown) under the direction of the microprocessor 40 (FIG. 1A). Thus, although the spinning-reel
    gaming device 10A has mechanical based spinning reels 22A, the movement of the reels
 0  themselves is electronically controlled to spin and stop. This electronic control is advantageous
    because it allows a virtual reel strip to be stored in the memory 41 of the gaming device 10A,
    where various "virtual stops" are mapped to each physical stop on the physical reel 22A. This
    mapping allows the gaming device 1 OA to establish greater awards and bonuses available to the
    player because of the increased number of possible combinations afforded by the virtual reel
 5  strips.
             A gaming session on a spinning reel slot machine 10A typically includes the player
    pressing the "bet-one" button (one of the game buttons 32A) to wager a desired number of
    credits followed by pulling the gaming handle 12 (FIGs. 1A, IB) or pressing the spin button 33A
    to spin the reels 22A. Alternatively, the player may simply press the "max-bet" button (another
 '0 one of the game buttons 32A) to both wager the maximum number of credits permitted and
    initiate the spinning of the reels 22A. The spinning reels 22A may all stop at the same time or
    may individually stop one after another (typically from left to right) to build player anticipation.
    Because the display 20A usually cannot be physically modified, some spinning reel slot
    machines 1OA include an electronic display screen in the top box 18 (FIG. IB), a mechanical
25  bonus mechanism in the top box 18, or a secondary display 25 (FIG. 1A) to execute a bonus.
             Referring to FIG. 2B, a video gaming machine 1OB may include a video display 20B to
    display virtual spinning reels 22B and various other gaming information 21B. The video display
    20B may be a CRT, LCD, plasma screen, or the like. It is usually preferable that the video
    display 20B be a touchscreen to accept player input. A number of symbols 23A appear on each
                                                       11

   of the virtual spinning reels 22B. Although FIG. 2B shows five virtual spinning reels 22B, the
   flexibility of the video display 20B allows for various reel 22B and game configurations. For
   example, some video slot games 1OB spin reels for each individual symbol position (or stop) that
   appears on the video display 20B. That is, each symbol position on the screen is independent of
 5 every other position during the gaming sessions. In these types of games, very large numbers of
   pay lines or multiple super scatter pays can be utilized since similar symbols could appear at
   every symbol position on the video display 20B. On the other hand, other video slot games 1OB
   more closely resemble the mechanical spinning reel games where symbols that are vertically
   adjacent to each other are part of the same continuous virtual spinning reel 22B.
 0          Because the virtual spinning reels 22B, by virtue of being computer implemented, can
   have almost any number of stops on a reel strip, it is much easier to have a greater variety of
   displayed outcomes as compared to spinning-reel slot machines 1OA (FIG. 2A) that have a fixed
   number of physical stops on each spinning reel 22A.
            With the possible increases in reel 22B numbers and configurations over the mechanical
 5 gaming device 1OA, video gaming devices 1OB often have multiple paylines 24 that may be
   played. By having more paylines 24 available to play, the player may be more likely to have a
   winning combination when the reels 22B stop and the gaming session ends. However, since the
   player typically must wager at least a minimum number of credits to enable each payline 24 to be
   eligible for winning, the overall odds of winning are not much different, if at all, than if the
 O player is wagering only on a single payline. For example, in a five line game, the player may bet
   one credit per payline 24 and be eligible for winning symbol combinations that appear on any of
   the five played paylines 24. This gives a total of five credits wagered and five possible winning
   paylines 24. If, on the other hand, the player only wagers one credit on one payline 24, but plays
   five gaming sessions, the odds of winning would be identical as above: five credits wagered and
25 five possible winning paylines 24.
            Because the video display 20B can easily modify the image output by the video display
   20B, bonuses, such as second screen bonuses are relatively easy to award on the video slot game
   1OB. That is, if a bonus is triggered during game play, the video display 20B may simply store
   the resulting screen shot in memory and display a bonus sequence on the video display 20B.
                                                     12

    After the bonus sequence is completed, the video display 20B may then retrieve the previous
    screen shot and information from memory, and re-display that image.
             Also, as mentioned above, the video display 20B may allow various other game
    information 21B to be displayed. For example, as shown in FIG. 2B, banner information may be
 5  displayed above the spinning reels 22B to inform the player, perhaps, which symbol combination
    is needed to trigger a bonus. Also, instead of providing a separate credit meter 27 (FIG. 1A) and
    bet meter 28, the same information can instead be displayed on the video display 20B. In
    addition, "soft buttons" 29B such as a "spin" button or "help/see pays" button may be built using
    the touch screen video display 20B. Such customization and ease of changing the image shown
 0  on the display 20B adds to the flexibility of the game 1OB.
             Even with the improved flexibility afforded by the video display 20B, several physical
    buttons 32B and 33B are usually provided on video slot machines 1OB. These buttons may
    include game buttons 32B that allow a player to choose the number of paylines 24 he or she
    would like to play and the number of credits wagered on each payline 24. In addition, a max bet
 5  button (one of the game buttons 32B) allows a player to place a maximum credit wager on the
    maximum number of available paylines 24 and initiate a gaming session. A repeat bet or spin
    button 33B may also be used to initiate each gaming session when the max bet button is not
    used.
             Referring to FIG. 2C, a video poker gaming device 1OC may include a video display 20C
 '0 that is physically similar to the video display 20B shown in FIG. 2B. The video display 20C
    may show a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player information 21C including a
    paytable for various winning hands, as well as a plurality of player selectable soft buttons 29C.
    The video display 20C may present a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player
    information 21C including a number of player selectable soft (touch-screen) buttons 29C and a
25  paytable for various winning hands. Although the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3C shows only
    one hand of poker on the video display 20C, various other video poker machines 1OC may show
    several poker hands (multi-hand poker). Typically, video poker machines 1OC play "draw"
    poker in which a player is dealt a hand of five cards, has the opportunity to hold any combination
    of those five cards, and then draws new cards to replace the discarded ones. All pays are usually
                                                      13

    given for winning combinations resulting from the final hand, although some video poker games
    10C may give bonus credits for certain combinations received on the first hand before the draw.
    In the example shown in FIG. 2C a player has been dealt two aces, a three, a six, and a nine. The
    video poker game 1OC may provide a bonus or payout for the player having been dealt the pair
 5  of aces, even before the player decides what to discard in the draw. Since pairs, three of a kind,
    etc. are typically needed for wins, a player would likely hold the two aces that have been dealt
    and draw three cards to replace the three, six, and nine in the hope of receiving additional aces or
    other cards leading to a winning combination with a higher award amount. After the draw and
    revealing of the final hand, the video poker game 1 OC typically awards any credits won to the
 0  credit meter.
             The player selectable soft buttons 29C appearing on the screen respectively correspond to
    each card on the video display 20C. These soft buttons 29C allow players to select specific cards
    on the video display 20C such that the card corresponding to the selected soft button is "held"
    before the draw. Typically, video poker machines 1OC also include physical game buttons 32C
 5  that correspond to the cards in the hand and may be selected to hold a corresponding card. A
    deal/draw button 33C may also be included to initiate a gaming session after credits have been
    wagered (with a bet button 32C, for example) and to draw any cards not held after the first hand
    is displayed.
             Although examples of a spinning reel slot machine 1OA, a video slot machine 1OB, and a
 '0 video poker machine 1OC have been illustrated in FIGs. 2A-2C, gaming machines and various
    other types of gaming devices known in the art are contemplated and are within the scope of the
    invention.
             FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating networked gaming devices according to
    embodiments of the invention. Referring to FIG. 3, multiple electronic gaming devices (EGMs)
25  70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75 may be coupled to one another and coupled to a remote server 80
    through a network 50. For ease of understanding, gaming devices or EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74,
    and 75 are generically referred to as EGMs 70-75. The term EGMs 70-75, however, may refer to
    any combination of one or more of EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75. Additionally, the gaming
    server 80 may be coupled to one or more gaming databases 90. These gaming network 50
                                                      14

    connections may allow multiple gaming devices 70-75 to remain in communication with one
    another during particular gaming modes such as tournament play or remote head-to-head play.
    Although some of the gaming devices 70-75 coupled on the gaming network 50 may resemble
    the gaming devices 10, 10A, 10B, and 1OC shown in FIGs. lA-1B and 2A-2C, other coupled
 5  gaming devices 70-75 may include differently configured gaming devices. For example, the
    gaming devices 70-75 may include traditional slot machines 75 directly coupled to the network
    50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to the network 50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled
    to the network through a bank controller 60, wireless handheld gaming machines 72 and cell
    phones 73 coupled to the gaming network 50 through one or more wireless routers or antennas
 0  61, personal computers 74 coupled to the network 50 through the internet 62, and banks of
    gaming devices 71 coupled to the network through one or more optical connection lines 64.
    Additionally, some of the traditional gaming devices 70, 71, and 75 may include electronic
    gaming tables, multi-station gaming devices, or electronic components operating in conjunction
    with non-gaming components, such as automatic card readers, chip readers, and chip counters,
 5  for example.
             Gaming devices 71 coupled over an optical line 64 may be remote gaming devices in a
    different location or casino. The optical line 64 may be coupled to the gaming network 50
    through an electronic to optical signal converter 63 and may be coupled to the gaming devices 71
    through an optical to electronic signal converter 65. The banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to
 '0 the network 50 may be coupled through a bank controller 60 for compatibility purposes, for local
    organization and control, or for signal buffering purposes. The network 50 may include serial or
    parallel signal transmission lines and carry data in accordance with data transfer protocols such
    as Ethernet transmission lines, Rs-232 lines, firewire lines, USB lines, or other communication
    protocols. Although not shown in FIG. 3, substantially the entire network 50 may be made of
25  fiber optic lines or may be a wireless network utilizing a wireless protocol such as IEEE 802.11
    a, b, g, or n, Zigbee, RF protocols, optical transmission, near-field transmission, or the like.
             As mentioned above, each gaming device 70-75 may have an individual processor 40
    (FIG. 1A) and memory 41 to run and control game play on the gaming device 70-75, or some of
    the gaming devices 70-75 may be terminals that are run by a remote server 80 in a server based
                                                      15

   gaming environment. Server based gaming environments may be advantageous to casinos by
   allowing fast downloading of particular game types or themes based on casino preference or
   player selection. Additionally, tournament based games, linked games, and certain game types,
   such as BINGO or keno may benefit from at least some server 80 based control.
 5          Thus, in some embodiments, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be
   dedicated to communications regarding specific game or tournament play. In other
   embodiments, however, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be part of a player
   tracking network. For player tracking capabilities, when a player inserts a player tracking card in
   the card reader 46 (FIG. 1A), the player tracking unit 45 sends player identification information
 0 obtained on the card reader 46 through the MCI 42 over the network 50 to the player tracking
   server 80, where the player identification information is compared to player information records
   in the player database 90 to provide the player with information regarding their player account or
   other features at the gaming device 10 where the player is wagering. Additionally, multiple
   databases 90 and/or servers 80 may be present and coupled to one or more networks 50 to
 5 provide a variety of gaming services, such as both game/tournament data and player tracking
   data.
            The various systems described with reference to FIGs 1-3 can be used in a number of
   ways. For instance, the systems can be used to track data about various players. The tracked
   data can be used by the casino to provide additional benefits to players, such as extra bonuses or
 0 extra benefits such as bonus games and other benefits as described above. These added benefits
   further entice the players to play at the casino that provides the benefits.
            Indicated generally at 92 in FIG. 4 is another portion of network 50. It includes a
   configuration server 94 and a workstation 96, both of which are operatively connected for
   communication with other elements on the network. Network 50 is also operatively connected to
25 at least one electronics communications network 98. Network 98 comprises or may be
   connected to a cellular network for sending text and voice messages, a telephone network for
   sending voice messages, and/or a global communications network such as the Internet for
   sending email messages or posting messages, such as banner ads, to websites.
                                                      16

            The configuration server 94 includes a memory having a computer program for
    processing data that is also stored in the memory. Workstation 96 may be used by casino
    personnel to enter data that can be stored in memories connected to the network, including the
    memory in configuration server 94, and to issue commands on the network.
 5          Among other things, the memory associated with server 94 may store a budget, or a
    process for calculating a budget, for at least a portion of the casino operating expenses and
    projected revenues. Such a budget typically includes amounts allocated to the cost and numbers
    of staff for providing gaming and ancillary services provided on the casino floor and to
    advertising for the casino. The advertising budget may be subdivided to include Internet
 0  advertising, which may include banner ads on websites and direct emailing; advertising on
    broadcast radio and television as well as on cable and satellite providers; print media; and phone
    advertising, including delivery by voice and text on telephone and cellular networks.
            In addition to budget items allocated to advertising, portions of the budget related to
    marketing may also be included. Such marketing promotions may include complementary
 5  amenities provided to selected players as well as promotions to induce players to come to the
    casino. Such marketing promotions may be tiered to provide incentives that are roughly
    proportional to the amount of wagering that may be expected from a particular player or a
    particular class of players.
            The computer program in the memory of server 94 implements an artificial intelligence
 '0 (AI) process. The program may be of several different types, e.g., search and optimization. This
    approach searches for a solution among a number of possibilities or takes a base solution and
    optimizes it until it cannot be improved. It may include evolutionary computation in which
    solutions over several generations are evolved. Another Al approach that could implement the
    present method includes logical models, such as propositional or sentential logic, first-order
25  logic, and fuzzy logic. Probabilistic methods are other Al approaches that are suitable for the
    present method. These include Bayesian networks, Markov models, Kalman filters, decision
    theory, game theory, and utility theory. Still further approaches include classifiers and statistical
    learning models, neural networks, and control theory. A person having ordinary skill in the art
                                                      17

    could use any of these kinds of programs to implement the preferred embodiment as described
    herein.
             In addition to the computer program and the budget, server 94 receives and monitors a
    number of performance variables that indicate how well the casino is performing. It should be
 5  appreciated that there may be different kinds of casino performance. An obvious one, of course,
    is casino profitability. But that is not necessarily always the single objective. For example, a
    casino may want to develop market share at the expense of profitability, at least for a while.
    Other performance objectives may also be targeted.
             The performance variables may include accounting data gathered from network 50 and
 0  information gathered from the player-tracking system on the network, both of which can be
    contrasted against the budget data stored in the memory associated with server 94. A dedicated
    accounting server (not shown) may receive information on the network from all of the gaming
    machines concerning amounts wagered, jackpots paid, and other accounting data. This
    accounting information, or some portion of it, may in turn be provided to server 94.
 5           In addition to the performance variables, server 94 is provided with data that includes
    information about local weather; local traffic; transportation costs, including information about
    the price of gas, plane tickets, and rental cars; competitors' activities, including promotions,
    activities and other inducements offered by direct competitors as well as competition from other
    types of entertainment, such as musical and theatrical performances; cost of advertising via, e.g.,
 '0 website banners, print media, broadcast media, etc.; and time, day, date, month, and timing of
    holidays. These types of factors are referred to herein as environmental factors.
             Many of these environmental variables are now available as electronic data from
    electronic communications network 98, including the Internet. Others may be entered manually
    by casino personnel via workstation 96. Still others, such as the time, may be provided from
25  other sources.
             As discussed above, the casino can exercise control over a number of variables that affect
    casino performance. And many of these variables are associated with elements that reside on
    and/or may be controlled by network 50. For example, the player-tracking system may be
    located on server 80 or on an independent server (not shown) connected to network 50. The
                                                       18

    player tracking system provides incentives to wager, much like airline frequent-flier programs
    provide incentives to fly. Player-tracking incentives may be added or modified, by reducing or
    enhancing incentives, as a result of a command sent over network 50 to either the player-tracking
    server or to one or more of gaming machines 70.
 5           Concerning complementary amenities ("comps"), some casinos use customer relationship
    databases (not shown), which is also on network 50. It may include contact information such as
    mailing address, with zip code, and phone and email contact information. This database tracks
    the level of play and other information about customers and potential customers. It typically
    indicates what kinds of comps, such as free meals, drinks, rooms, shows, etc., each tracked
 0  customer may be entitled to. As with the player-tracking system, commands over network 50
    from server 94 may add or modify, by reducing or enhancing, comps associated with a particular
    player or with a class of players. The customer relationship databases receive information from a
    variety of sources, including over the network in the form of accounting data related to wagers
    placed. This information enables the casino to consider individual players, or an aggregate group
 5  of players with a least one common attribute, in accordance with their potential or estimated net
    worth, which is often useful to the casino.
             In other words, the casino can infer how much money a player or group of players is
    likely to spend n the future. Worth is traditionally estimated by reviewing a player's past play
    records and projecting future potential. Such a projection is not possible when the player's past
 '0 performance records are unavailable or the player's past performance has been limited. For
    example, a player might have a significant capacity to spend and even a propensity to gamble.
    But if that player felt mistreated, believed the cost of gambling was too expensive, gambled at
    another location, was not tracked in prior play at a given location or simply did not like-or did
    not understand-an offering, his play history would not accurately reflect his worth.
25           The first element of worth valuation is capacity to spend. Does a given player, or group
    of players, have funds with which to gamble and, if so, how much do they have? When this
    measure is known, management can decide what incentives to potentially offer. For example, a
    player with capacity to spend $2,000/month is a very valuable player. But a casino could not
    afford to charter a jet to fly him cross-country, nor could it put him up in a $3,000/night suite.
                                                       19

    The casino could offer a free standard room, dinner for two in the steak house and free tickets to
    a concert. For reasons just described, the player's capacity to spend has great influence on
    incentives and rewards that can be profitably offered to him.
             The second element of worth valuation is propensity to gamble. Many people have
 5  significant available financial funds but have no desire to gamble. In these cases, management
    may offer significant benefits-possibly including a charted jet-because if the player rejects the
    offer, the casino has only spent the cost of making the offer. In these cases, the magnitude of
    offer may be a secondary consideration to the cost of marketing and communicating the offer.
             Both capacity to spend and propensity to spend may be determined by historical
 0  performance, as described earlier, or by projection. This last technique uses known attributes
    (besides historic play) to project a player's characteristics. For example, a person living in an
    affluent neighborhood, as determined by physical address, could imply having a significant
    capacity to spend. Management could turn to a free website, such as Zillow.com, to determine
    specific worth of the home or it could turn to fee-based services such as credit checks, credit card
 5  ratings, etc. for information on which to base a projection. This is one of the sources of
    information on which the present implementation of the method could rely.
             The same home address information could be used to assess propensity to gamble. If the
    person lives in a neighborhood with other known gamblers, he is more likely to be a gambler too.
    Similarly, the person's name could be compared against public records of slot tournaments, golf
 '0 tournaments, participants in World Series of Poker, membership in Internet gambling sites, etc.
    to better gauge propensity to gamble.
             The above is simply a brief description of determining a player's potential worth. The
    Internet, available mailing lists, housing records and other such databases of information,
    combined with personal referrals and other information sources are all useful in determining
25  player worth.
             When such information is made part of the automated configuration decisions
    accomplished by the implementation of the present method, the efficiency and efficacy of casino
    operations are vastly improved.
                                                      20

            A bonus is an award to a player that is beyond what the game played by the player is
    required to pay according to the game's paytable. These are often delivered via network 50 to
    the player's gaming machine and may include credits for game play, double jackpots, random
    awards, and other bonuses. Commands from configuration server 94 may be issued over
 5  network 50 to the bonus server to affect the amount and frequency of bonus awards.
            The characteristics of the games themselves, including both electronic gaming machines
    and table games, are important in determining casino performance. These characteristics can
    include some aspects that can be implemented and/or changed over network 50 and other aspects
    that cannot be. Game features that might be changed by network commands include payback
 0  percentage and game speed. Other characteristics, such as the type of game and whether that
    game or another game should be on the floor, game location, and game denomination may
    require human intervention to, e.g., change the location of a game on the floor or change a rule of
    a table game. As will be seen, however, configuration server 94 may be helpful in determining
    when and how to change operating parameters that require human intervention to optimize
 5  casino performance.
            Additional operating parameters that may be influenced by network 50 include
    advertising and promotions. As will be described in more detail, configuration server 94 may
    determine that a particular kind of advertising should be increased, decreased, or redirected. If
    so, an electronic message such as an email or text message can be generated by server 94 and
 '0 transmitted via electronic communications network 96. It may be transmitted to an advertising
    agency with an instruction to modify the current advertising or it may be transmitted directly to
    broadcasters and/or publishers with instructions concerning further placement of ads.
            Similarly, in response to a command by server 92 a promotional email, letter, or text
    message may be delivered via network 98. In the case of a letter, an electronic message could go
25  to direct-mailing concern or other entity charged with sending promotional letters to initiate a
    mailing or place an Internet ad or series of ads. In any event, the promotional communication
    could contain information about an incentive for a potential player to come to the casino and play
    its gaming devices. Such an incentive might include, e.g., free credits usable only to make
    wagers on machines connected to network 50. A promotional code might be required to be
                                                      21

    entered, e.g., by the player via the player tracking system to permit the programmed
    configuration server to evaluate the effectiveness of various promotions.
             Implementation of these bonuses is accomplished by broadcasting corresponding
    instructions to the casino floor and the player tracking or bonus servers. For example, a
 5  promotion saying that all players are eligible for doubled payments on any jackpot won of $100
    or above during the next 24 hours is described in an email blast to known players and in an
    electronic billboard along a busy freeway. Additionally, newspaper ads carry the same message.
    Within each message is a code, for example "12369." The code varies according to the ad in
    which it is run. To be eligible for the bonus, a player must enter the code into the player tracking
 0  unit 45 before inserting money into the game. The casino floor is configured to recognize this
    code and activate the doubled bonus opportunity.
             The system tracks all codes entered and the amount of play generated by players using
    each code. It then automatically compares the value of each group's response to the cost of the
    advertisement. The advertising venues and formats that return a profitable response are
 5  increased while the less profitable ones are decreased or eliminated. The system thus learns
    which advertising is most effective. It may, however, continue to run small tests on the lower
    performing mediums to see if they eventually become more effective.
             All sorts of promotions are possible in addition to doubled jackpots. For example, by
    entering the proper code, a game outcome of BAR BAR BLANK could become a winning
 '0 outcome even though it otherwise is not. Also, the player may enter his code through the game
    itself and not the player tracking system. Or the player could enter the code from his cell phone
    through the Internet and specify which game he is currently playing. In some cases a code could
    be entered only when the promoted event occurs. A prerequisite could be the use of a player
    tracking card.
25           Turning now to FIG. 5, indicated generally at 100 is a flow chart that depicts the
    operation of the Al program associated with server 94. To begin, operating parameters are set to
    an initial value at 102. These operating parameters include those things, some of which are
    discussed above, over which the casino can exert control, e.g., game configuration and location,
    player-loyalty program, comps, promotions, bonuses, staffing levels, advertising, etc. These
                                                      22

    initial parameters may be set by the managers of the casino where network 50 is implemented,
    and may be based on their training and experience in connection with managing a casino toward
    a performance goal.
             After so setting the initial parameters at 102, the environment variables and the
 5  performance variables are monitored at 104 as described above. Examples of the environmental
    factors include weather, traffic, transportation cost, time, and cost of advertising.
     [atml ]Examples of performance variables may be derived from the accounting data and may
    include gross revenues or revenues related to specific aspects of casino operations or calculations
    based on the budget stored in the memory associated with server 92 to determine such things as
 0  overall profitability or profitability of specific aspects of casino operations, etc. Alternatively,
    performance variables could be derived from the player-tracking system and may include total
    tracked players or tracked players playing a particular type or class of games. Still another
    performance variable might be the total number of games being played, regardless of whether
    each player is tracked, or the total number-tracked and untracked-of a particular type or class
 5  of games being played. Any performance goal that can be derived from data on the network can
    comprise a performance variable according to the present method.
             After monitoring has begun at 104 the Al program makes a determination concerning
    whether or not to change one of the operating parameters at 106. The decision concerning
    whether to change-and, if so, by how much-may be based on several factors. First, different
 .0 operating parameters require different lengths of time after implementation or changing to
    determine what, if any, effect the change makes. For example, initiating a round of double
    jackpots or random bonuses might have an almost immediate effect as those in the casino
    observe celebrations, by the gaming machines as well as by the players, resulting from an
    increase in bonus payments over and above the pay tables. Whether this effect tends to drive the
25  system toward or away from the performance objective must then be considered. But it can be
    considered fairly quickly after the bonus is implemented or changed.
             On the other hand, some operating parameters require a longer time period to determine
    their affect on the performance goal. For example, advertising in print media might not even be
    published for several days or longer, and a single publication may not make an impact on the
                                                        23

    performance goal. As a result, the determination concerning whether to change an operating
    parameter at 106 will be delayed by different times for different parameters.
             Some promotions may take longer to evaluate than others. Perhaps an initial response to
    a double jackpot offer is very strong but falls off after two weeks of use. A second promotion
 5  offering a payment on BAR BAR BLANK outcomes is then instituted in place of doubled
    jackpots, thus causing revenues to rise again. The system tracks long-term effectiveness. If
    response is building, the system may retain a promotion, or even amplify it, in the belief that
    player response will eventually rise enough to justify its costs. In the case of declining response,
    the system may substitute alternate promotions, as just described, and test different periods
 0  between alternations. The system may learn, for example, that rotating between five different
    promotions is effective. It may learn that promotion A is good for 10 days, promotion B is good
    for 7, etc. As the system learns, it remembers and uses that information as a starting point for the
    next promotional cycle. However, just as with direct marketing, the system regularly tests new
    ideas, or even ideas that had worked in the past, or even ideas that never worked, to see if the
 5  market's appetite has changed. Retaining a benchmark of performance and constantly testing
    new promotions and configurations is vital to finding the most effective combinations and
    configurations for current times. Also, promotions may only be offered to certain player
    segments or audiences. Some promotions might go to known loyal players, while others are
    available to known players, i.e., anyone in the player-tracking system and still others can include,
 '0 or even be limited to, unknown players.
             In addition to the variations in response times, at least some of the parameters will have
    defined limits beyond which the Al program cannot change them. This prevents a single
    parameter from being driven to an extreme that might tend to achieve the performance goal, but
    might be objectionable for one reason or another. When a performance variable is set at a limit,
25  the Al program will continue adjusting other variables in a manner that tends to optimize at least
    one of the performance variables.
             If the Al program decides to make a change to the operating parameter at 106, the
    parameter is changed at 108 by sending a network command from configuration server 94 and
    monitoring continues at 104.
                                                       24

             Even if there is no change to the performance variable under consideration at 106,
    monitoring continues at 104. In addition, casino personnel may enter a manual change at 108 via
    workstation 96. This enables the casino to control a performance variable for reasons that may,
    at least temporarily, supersede a longer term goal of achieving the performance objective. In
 5  addition, the casino has the opportunity at 108 to set at least some of the operating parameters
    beyond the limits contained in the Al program. As just mentioned, this allows the casino to
    achieve a shorter term objective, such as generating excitement on the floor by awarding extra
    bonuses, which might not necessarily align with the performance goal. What is more, setting a
    single operating parameter outside its limit may result in the Al program determining values for
 0  at least one other operating parameter that are helpful in achieving the performance variable and
    which may ultimately result in resetting the limits for the operating parameter in question.
    Whether or not there is a manual change at 110, monitoring ultimately continues at 104.
             Because the system is constantly receiving information about revenues and expenses, it
    can calculate or modify the budget or a portion thereof based on current and projected
 5  operations.
             Consideration will now be given to specific examples of changes made by the present
    embodiment of the method. The Al program may call for a very specific change in advertising,
    e.g., relying on, among other things, the information in the customer relationship database to
    increase a certain type of advertising in a certain zip code. This may result in an email initiated
 '0 by the Al program to the casino advertising manager to that effect. The advertising manager can
    proceed to place the ad(s) in a conventional manner. Or the email may go direct to an ad agency
    or the entity that will carry the ad.
             Some entities could have a set of pre-existing orders, such as "place banner ad abc on
    website xyz for n days." Electronic notification via network 98 by the Al program could easily
25  implement this or any number of similar orders from a library of possible orders. Using the
    budget stored in configuration server 94, the Al program may determine where to advertise and
    at what rate.
             Some advertising mediums, e.g., Google, allow bidding on ads, such as website banner
    ads. The system could set the maximum amount bid on a keyword, or set of keywords, and
                                                      25

    change the bid depending on conditions. The bid can be submitted electronically as described
    above or could be placed by casino management or its advertising agency in response to a
    prompt from the system.
             Concerning game types and placement, the Al program can generate directions that could
 5  be used by casino employees to change out gaming machines, change the placement of gaming
    machines or implement any other proposed configuration change that cannot be effectively
    implemented by network 50 or elements connected to the network.
             Emails may be automatically directed to those in the customer relationship database and
    to any other email addresses the casino might have access to. The email could be a simple as
 0  "Come in to play tonight." Or it might contain a promotional code that when entered, e.g., via
    player interface panel 39, entitle the player to free or reduced cost gaming credits. The code
    enables the system to track its costs and evaluate its effectiveness in achieving the performance
    goal. In this manner feedback loops among a plurality of variables are created. A parameter is
    changed and the Al program determines the effect of the change relative to a performance
 5  variable. After changing the Al program whether to maintain that change or make further
    modifications. The system therefore tends to optimize at least one performance variable of the
    casino.
             Some embodiments of the invention have been described above, and in addition, some
    specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However,
 '0 numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this
    patent disclosure. The scope of the present invention is not limited to the embodiments and
    specific details, and may be embodied in other ways, as will be apparent to a skilled addressee.
    Further, well known processes have not been described in detail in order not to obscure the
    invention. Thus, while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific embodiments
25  illustrated in the drawings, it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings. Rather, the
    invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that come within the
    scope and spirit of the inventive principles such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the
    art.
                                                        26

    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.       A method of optimizing at least one performance variable indicative of the
    performance of a casino having a plurality of operating parameters and a plurality of gaming
 5  machines interconnected via a communication network comprising:
            (a) initializing operating parameters for the casino's operations using commands
    delivered over the network;
            (b) monitoring, by a computer connected to the communication network, at least one
    environmental variable that affects casino performance;
 0          (c) monitoring, in the computer, the performance variable;
            (d) generating, in the computer, an automated command to change at least one of the
    casino's operating parameters;
            (e) transmitting the automated command via the communication network;
            (f) determining, in the computer, the effect of the changed operating parameter on the
 5  performance variable; and
            (g) further changing, in the computer, the operating parameter as a function of the effect
    and the environmental variable.
            2.       The method of claim 1 further comprising repeating steps (b) through (g).
 10
            3.       The method of claim 2 further comprising:
            determining, in the computer, which effects enhance casino performance; and
            changing the parameter in a manner that increases optimization of the performance
    variable.
25
            4.       The method of claim 2 wherein one of the variables comprises the estimated
    worth of players that play gaming machines within a time period.
                                                      27

           5.     The method of claim 1 wherein at least some of the operating parameters
   comprise operating parameters of the gaming machines.
           6.     The method of claim 5 wherein one of the operating parameters of the gaming
 5 machines comprise payback percentage.
           7.     The method of claim 5 wherein one of the operating parameters of the gaming
   machines comprise game speed.
 0         8.     The method of claim 5 wherein one of the operating parameters of the gaming
   machine comprise changing the frequency of winning outcomes.
           9.     The method of claim 1 wherein some of the operating parameters comprise
   operating parameters of a system implemented on the network.
 5
           10.    The method of claim 9 wherein the operating parameters of the system
   implemented on the network comprise operating parameters related to a bonus award for the
   gaming machines.
 0         11.    The method of claim 9 further comprising obtaining data related to weather from
   a communication network connected to the computer.
           12.    The method of claim 1 wherein one of the variables comprises weather.
25         13.    The method of claim 1 wherein one of the variables comprises the number of
   people that play gaming machines within a time period.
           14.    The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the variables is manually entered
   into the computer via a user interface.
                                                 28

            15.     The method of claim 1 wherein records related to play of at least some of the
    players of the gaming machines are stored in a database, and casino performance comprises
    profitability of game play by at least some of the players stored in the database.
 5
            16.     The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the operating parameters comprises
    advertising the casino's services.
            17.     The method of claim 16 wherein the automated command initiates
 0  communications to potential players of the gaming devices.
            18.     The method of claim 16 wherein the automated command relates to advertising
    using at least one of email, Internet text message, print media, and broadcast media.
 5          19.     A method of managing a casino having a plurality of gaming machines connected
    to a communication network, the method comprising:
            monitoring at least one environmental variable that affect casino performance;
            providing data related to the monitored variables to a first node on the communication
    network;
 10         monitoring at least one variable indicative of the performance of the casino;
            providing data related to the monitored variable to a second node on the communication
    network;
            processing the data;
            generating at least one communication responsive to the processed data; and
25          automatically transmitting the at least one communication on a communication network.
            20.     The method of claim 19 wherein the at least one environmental variable
    comprises data related to the level of casino business and wherein automatically transmitting the
                                                     29

    at least one communication on a communication network further comprises sending a
    communication to at least one of a plurality of off-duty casino employees.
             21.     The method of claim 20 wherein the message comprises a request to report to
 5  work at the casino.
             22.     The method of claim 20 further comprising providing data related to the number
    of casino employees on duty to a node on the communication network.
 0           23.     The method of claim 19 wherein generating at least one communication
    responsive to the processed data comprises generating a message related to a casino promotion.
             24.     The method of claim 23 wherein automatically transmitting the at least one
    communication on a network comprises transmitting the at least one communication to potential
 5  players of the casino gaming machines.
             25.     The method of claim 24 further comprising:
             monitoring the gaming machines for data indicating that one of the potential players
    responded to the at least one communication by playing at least one of the gaming machines; and
 0O          adjusting at least one casino operating parameter responsive to the data indicating that
    one of the potential players responded to the at least one communication by playing at least one
    of the gaming machines.
             26.     The method of claim 19 wherein one of the variables comprises weather.
25
             27.     The method of claim 26 further comprising obtaining data related to weather from
    a communication network connected to the computer.
                                                      30

           28.     The method of claim 19 wherein at least one of the variables is manually entered
   into the computer via a user interface.
           29.     A method of automating at least some aspects of casino management in a casino
 5 having a plurality of gaming machines connected to a communication network, the method
   comprising:
           establishing an initial value for at least one casino operating parameter;
           implementing the initial value using a first command sent over the network;
           monitoring at least one environmental variable that affects casino performance;
 0         providing data related to the monitored variables to a first node on the communication
   network;
           monitoring at least one variable indicative of the performance of the casino;
           providing data related to the monitored variable to a second node on the communication
   network;
 5         processing the data; and
           responsive to the processed data, changing the initial value using a second command sent
   over the network.
           30.     The method of claim 29 wherein establishing an initial value for at least one
 0 casino operating parameter comprises establishing at least one initial value for a plurality of
   casino operating parameters and monitoring at least one variable indicative of the performance of
   the casino comprises monitoring a plurality of variables indicative of the performance of the
   casino, wherein the method further comprises:
           waiting a first time period before changing the initial value of a first operating parameter;
25 and
           waiting a second time period before changing the initial value of a second operating
   parameter.
                                                       31

             31.     The method of claim 29 wherein changing the initial value comprises changing
    the initial value to a second value and wherein the method further comprises responsive to the
    processed data, changing the second value to a third value using a third command sent over the
    network.
 5
             32.     The method of claim 31 further comprising:
             determining which effects enhance casino performance; and
             selecting the third value to increase optimization of the performance variable.
 0           33.     The method of claim 29 wherein the at least one casino parameter comprises an
    operating parameter of at least one of the gaming machines.
             34.     The method of claim 33 wherein the operating parameter of the at least one
    gaming machine comprises payback percentage.
 5
             35.     The method of claim 29 wherein the at least one casino operating parameter
    comprises an operating parameter of a system implemented on the network.
             36.     The method of claim 35 wherein the operating parameter of the system
 '0 implemented on the network comprises an operating parameter related to a bonus award for the
    gaming machines.
             37.     The method of claim 29 wherein the at least one environmental variable
    comprises weather.
25
             38.     The method of claim 37 further comprising obtaining data related to weather from
    a communication network operatively connected to the second node of the network.
                                                       32

          39.     The method of claim 29 wherein the at least one variable is manually entered into
  the computer via a user interface.
          40.     The method of claim 29 wherein records related to play of at least some of the
5 players of the gaming machines are stored in a database, and casino performance comprises
  profitability of game play by at least some of the players stored in the database.
          41.     The method of claim 29 wherein the at least one operating parameter comprises
  advertising the casino's services.
0
          42.     The method of claim 41 wherein the second command initiates communications
  to potential players of the gaming devices.
          43.     The method of claim 41 wherein the second command relates to placement of
5 advertising in at least one of print and broadcast media.
                                                   33

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
