                                      ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a soybean seed extract, method for producing the same and uses
of the extract of soybean seeds in promoting wound healing, promoting neuron cell
proliferation and/or treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative diseases, treating
breast cancer, reducing side effects of interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication
drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceutical effects of interfering with DNA and/or RNA
replication drugs.

    SOYBEAN SEED EXTRACT, METHOD FOR PRODUCING THE SAME AND
                                      USES THEREOF
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 [0001]    The invention relates to a soybean seeds extract, method for producing the
   same and uses of the soybean seed extract in promoting wound healing, promoting
   neuron cell proliferation and/or treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative
   diseases, treating breast cancer, reducing side effects of interfering with DNA and/or
   RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceutical effects of interfering with
 o DNA and/or RNA replication drugs.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]    Glycine max (L.) Merr., including soybean and black soybean, is one of the
   most important sources of oil and proteins in the world.      For instance, soybeans can
   be processed to obtain edible oil that is used as salad oil, or for manufacture of
 5 margarine and shortening.     Soybean oil can be also used in the manufacture of paints,
   linoleum, oilcloth, printing inks, soaps, insecticides, and disinfectants.      Besides,
   lecithin phospholipids obtained from the by-products of the oil industry, can be used as
   wetting and stabilizing agents in food, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, leathers, paints,
   plastics, soaps, and detergents.    Soy meal is a very protein-rich feeding stuff for
20 livestock.   In addition, soybean protein can be used in manufacture of synthetic fibers,
   adhesives, textile sizing, waterproofing, fire-fighting foams and so on.
   [0003]    In medical use, soybeans have been reported to have effects on many
   diseases.
   [0004]    Soybean can be used as a nutritious supplement for regulating the functions
25 of bowels, heart, kidney, liver, and stomach.         Since soybean oil contains a high
   amount of unsaturated fatty acids, it can be used to combat hypercholesteremia.
   Medical lecithin from soybeans functions as a lipotropic agent.              In addition,
                                                  -1-

   stigmasterol known as an antistiffness factor, and sitosterol used as a replacement for
   diosgenin in some antihypertensive drugs, are prepared from soybeans.          Isoflavones
   and phyto-oesterogens found in soybeans have been suggested to have a preventive
   effect against various cancers      comprising breast, prostate,      and colon cancers
 5 (Adlercreutz, H.; Phyto-oestrogens and cancer. The Lancet Oncology, 2002, Vol. 3, p.
   364-373). Other literature indicates that in order to achieve the effect on preventing the
   occurrence of breast cancer of isoflavones, at least 100 mg daily dose should be
   consumed continually for a month, and it represents that only by being consumed
   continually at the high dose, isoflavones exhibit anti-cancer effect (Lu U, Anderson
10 KE, Grady JJ, Nagamani M.; Effects of soya consumption for one month on steroid
   hormones in premenopausal women: implications for breast cancer risk reduction.
   Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 1996 Jan; 5(1):              6370).    Consumption of
   phytosterol-supplemented margarine is also found to lower total plasma cholesterol and
   LDL-cholesterol concentrations in older middle-aged hypercholesterolemic individuals
15 (Matvienko, 0. A., Lewis, D. S., Swanson, M., Aendt, B., Rainwater, D. L., Stewart, J.,
   and Alekel, D. L.; A single daily dose of soybean phytosterols in ground beef decreases
   serum total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol in young, mildly hypercholesterolemic
   men. Am J Clin Nutr., 2002, 76, p. 57 64).
   [0005]      Some extracts from soybean have been also reported to have pharmaceutical
20 effects.   1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity of 70%
   aqueous acetone extract from the seed coat of a brown soybean variety, Akita-Zairai, is
   disclosed (Takahata, Y., O.-Kameyama, M., Furuta, S., Takahashi, M., and Suda, I.;
   Highly polymerized procyanidins in brown soybean seed coat with a high radical
   scavenging activity. J. Agric. Food Chem., 2001, 49, p. 5843 5847). An extract from
25 germ extracts, soybean, rice bran, tear grass, sesame, wheat, citron, green tea, green
   leaf extract, and malted rice, which are slowly roasted under a temperature at less than
   60'C and fermented with Aspergillus oryzae over 3 days to transform each ingredient
   into low molecular weight substances, is found to have antioxidative effects
                                              -2-

   (Minamiyama, Y., Yoshikawa, T., Tanigawa, T., Takahashi, S., Naito, Y., Ichikawa,
   H., and Kondo, M.; Antioxidative effects of a processed grain food. J. Nutr. Sci.
   Vitaminol., 1994, 40, p. 467 477). Water extract of black soybean is also reported to
   effect on acetaminophen-induced liver injury by measuring serum glutamate-oxalate
 5 transaminase (sGOT) and serum glutamate-pyruvate-transaminase (sGPT) activities in
   rats (Wu, S.-J., Wang, J.-S. and Chang, C.-H.; Evaluation of hepatoprotective activity
   of legumes. Phytomedicine, 2001, Vol. 8(3), p. 213 219).
   [0006]       Some specific extracts from soybean have been found to be applied in
   cosmetics or pharmaceuticals in treating some skin diseases.      A soya extract, which
10 contains sphingomyelins and phospholipids in defined ratios is disclosed to be used in
   cosmetics for the treatment of dry skin (U.S. Patent Pub. No. US2002/0009509 Al).
   Such extract is produced by extracting ripe whole soya beans or oil-free soya flour
   using aliphatic alcohols alone or in a mixture with water and followed by the treatment
   with aliphatic hydrocarbons and with aliphatic ketones.       Therefore, the extract is
15 liposoluble.
   [0007]      An acne medicine, comedo production inhibitor or cosmetic composition
   containing one or more plant extracts selected from whey, and a Phellodendron
   amurense Ruprecht extract, and further one or more extracts selected from Scutellaria
   baicalensis Geoegi, Symphytum officinale Linne, and Glycine max (L.) Merrill, is
20 found to be effective on preventing or treating skin diseases such as acne or
   inflammatory chapped skin caused by the acne (JP Patent No. 2001097842).
   [0008]       Products of fermenting soybean by microorganisms are also applied as
   anti-active oxygen action compositions, agents, foods, cosmetics and medicines (such
   as JP Patent No. 4139132).
25 [0009]       Although many uses of soybeans have been reported, different applications
   of soybean extract are yet to be developed.
                                             -3-

                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0010]    The invention relates to a soybean seed extract, method for producing the
   same and uses of the soybean seed extract in promoting wound healing, promoting
 5 neuron cell proliferation and/or treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative
   diseases, treating breast cancer, reducing side effects of interfering with DNA and/or
   RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceutical effects of interfering with
   DNA and/or RNA replication drugs.
   [0011]    The invention is to provide an extract composition comprising a soybean seed
10 extract, which soybean seed extract is prepared by a process comprising steps of:
                (a) providing soybean seeds and an extracting solution, which extracting
         solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration
         lower than about 90 wt%;
                (b) extracting the soybean seeds with the extracting solution at a
15       barometric pressure lower than or equal to about 1 atm and at a temperature lower
         than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract; and
                (c) removing solids from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.
   [0012]     The present invention is also to provide a method for preparing the extract
   composition as mentioned above comprising a process for preparing the soybean seed
20 extract comprising steps of:
                (a) providing soybean seeds and an extracting solution, which extracting
         solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration
         lower than about 90 wt%;
                (b) extracting the soybean seeds with the extracting solution at a
25       barometric pressure lower than or equal to about 1 atm and at a temperature lower
         than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract; and
                                             -4-

           (c) removing solids from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.
   [0013]      The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
   mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of promoting wound healing.
   [0014]      The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
 5 mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of promoting neuron cell
   proliferation and/or treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative diseases.
   [0015]      The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
   mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of treating breast cancer.
   [0016]      The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
10 mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of reducing side effects of
   interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceutical
   effects of interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs.
   [0017]      The present invention is described in detail in the following sections. Other
   characteristics, purposes and advantages of the present invention can be found in the
15 detailed description and claims.
   [001 7a]     Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
   "comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
   [0017b]     A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
20 prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known or
   that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the
   priority date of any of the claims.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0018]      FIGs. 1 to 3 show the ion chromatography spectrograms of the soybean seed
25 extract (GMA 1) according to the invention.
   [0019]      FIGs. 4 to 6 show the ion chromatography spectrograms of the soybean seed
   vapor fraction (GMC 1) according to the invention.
   [0020]      FIG. 7 shows the high performance           liquid chromatography (HPLC)
   spectrogram of the isoflavones standard.
30 [0021]      FIG. 8 shows the HPLC spectrogram of the soybean seed vapor fraction
   (GMC1).
                                               -5-

[0022]    FIG. 9 shows the HPLC spectrogram of the extract composition containing
0.3 part by weight of the soybean seed extract (GMA1) and 1 part by weight of the
soybean seed vapor fraction (GMC 1).
                                       - 5a -

   [0023]    FIG. 10 shows the effects of GMA1 and GMC1 on diabetic wound healing.
   To investigate whether GMC1 and GMA1 have effects on improving wound closure, a
   STZ-induced diabetic rat model was utilized.       For comparison, two groups treated
   with cream base and CGS-21680 were also conducted.          The results show that both
 5 0.3 % GMA1 and GMC1 are effective on would closure, compared to cream base
   alone, and 0.3 % GMA1 treated group slightly exhibits better outcome in wound
   closure than GMC 1.
   [0024]    FIG. 11 shows the effects of different dosages of GMA1 in combination with
   GMC1 on diabetic wound healing.         Experiments were conducted to study the best
 o combination of GMA 1 and GMC 1 in diabetic wound closure.        As shown in FIG. 11,
   the GMA1 was combined with GMC1 at different concentrations: 0.009%, 0.045%
   and 0.09%, respectively.     For comparison, two groups treated with cream base and
   CGS-21680 were also conducted in all experimental studies.       The results show that
   for wound healing, the combination effects of the dose levels, 0.009%, 0.045% and
 5 0.09%, of GMA1 with GMC1 are better than GMC1 alone.               The most effective
   combination treatment is found in the highest dosage of GMA1 (0.09%).
   [0025]    FIG. 12 shows the effects of combinations of the soybean seed extract and
   soybean seed vapor fraction on HaCaT cell migration.
   [0026]    FIG. 13 shows the cell viability rates of IMR-32 cells treated with GMA1.
20 The data are shown as the means ± SEM of seven groups.           The viability rates of
   IMR-32 cells treated with 25 mg/ml GMA1 and positive control are highly
   significantly and significantly increased (GMA1 p=0.0008, positive control p=0.0246).
   The results show that GMA1 promotes cell growth (*** p<0.001).
   [0027]    FIG. 14 shows the cell viability rates of IMR-32 cells treated with GMC1.
25 The data are shown as the means ± SEM of seven groups.           The viability rates of
   IMR-32 treated with 25 mg/ml GMC1 and positive control are highly significantly and
   significantly increased (GMC1 p=0.0255 positive control p=0.0246).         The results
   show that GMC1 promotes cell growth (* p<0.05).
                                                 -6-

   [0028]    FIG. 15 shows the cell viability rates of IMR-32 cells treated with GMA1 and
   GMC1 (GM).         The data are shown as the means ± SEM of seven groups.             The
   viability rate of IMR-32 cells treated with 25 mg/ml GM and positive control are
   highly significantly and significantly increased (GM p=0.0059, positive control
 5 p=0.0246).     The results show that GM promotes cell growth (** p<0.01).
   [0029]    FIG. 16 shows the diagram of the radial arm maze.
   [0030]    FIG. 17 shows the tracking paths of dementia rats in a radial arm maze.     The
   tracking path of rats on Day 4 suggests that the rats in the AlCl 3 + N2 group are able to
   reach locations of baits with their memory after training, and the rats in the AlCl 3
 o group and AlCl 3+cream base group are not.
   [0031]    FIG. 18 shows the diagram of the total number of errors (TME) of dementia
   rats in the radial arm maze test.     The TME values of AlCl 3 group and AlCl 3 +cream
   base group show no significant difference (p>0.05), and the TME values on Day 4
   after the treatment of the extract composition comprising the soybean seed extract and
 5 soybean seed vapor fraction are significantly lower than those of AlCl 3 group
   (AlCl 3+N2 p=0.0l28).      It shows that the extract composition comprising the soybean
   seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has the effect on treating dementia in rats.
   The data are shown as means ± SEM.          The Student t-test and repeated ANOVA are
   used for statistical analysis.    When comparing AlCl 3 group and AlCl 3+cream base
20 group, p<0. 0 5 is marked with *, and p< 0 .0 1 is marked with**, meaning that there is a
   significant difference in statistics.
   [0032]    FIG. 19 shows the diagram of the reference (long-term) memory errors (RME)
   of dementia rats in the radial arm maze test.       The RME values of AlCl 3 group and
   AlCl 3+cream base group show no significant difference (p>0.05), and the RME values
25 on Day 4 after the treatment of the extract composition comprising the soybean seed
   extract and soybean seed vapor fraction are significantly lower than those of AlCl 3
   group (p=0.00 4 6 ).  It shows that the extract composition comprising the soybean seed
   extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has the effect on restoring the long-term
                                                   -7-

   memory of rats.       The data are shown as means ± SEM.             The Student t-test and
   repeated ANOVA are used for statistical analysis.          p< 0 .0 5 is marked with *, and
   p<0.01 is marked with**, meaning that there is a significant difference in statistics.
   [0033]    FIG. 20 shows the diagram of the total number of errors (TME) of vascular
 5 dementia rats treated with cream base (M), GMC1(M1), and GMC1+0.5%GMA1 (M3)
   in the radial arm maze test.      It shows the TME of two-sided carotid arterial ligature
   (2VO) group is significantly higher than Sham group (day 8, p=0.001 3 ), which refers
   to successful induction of vascular dementia in rats by two-sided carotid arterial
   ligature.   The results show that TME values are significantly improved compared
 o with 2VO group after treated by M1 and M3 (day 8, M1 p=0.0019; M3 p=0.0355).
   This suggests that M1 and M3 have efficacy for treating vascular dementia in rats.
   The data are shown as means ± SEM.             The Student t-test and repeated ANOVA are
   used for statistical analysis.   p< 0 .0 5 is marked with *, and p< 0 .0 1 is marked with**,
   meaning that there is a significant difference in statistics.
 5 [0034]    FIG. 21 shows the diagram of the reference (long-term) memory errors (RME)
   of vascular     dementia rats      treated    with cream    base    (M),   GMC1(M1),        and
   GMC1+0.5%GMA1 (M3) in the radial arm maze test.                  It shows that the RME of
   two-sided carotid arterial ligature (2VO) group is significantly higher than Sham group
   (day 8, p=0.0016), which refers to successful induction of vascular dementia in rats by
20 two-sided carotid      arterial ligature.      The results show that RME          values are
   significantly improved compared to 2VO group after treated by M1 and M3 (day8, M1
   p=0.0029; M3 p=0.0171).         This suggests that M1 and M3 have efficacy for treating
   RME of vascular dementia in rats.            The data are shown as means ± SEM.            The
   Student t-test and repeated ANOVA are used for statistical analysis.               p< 0 .0 5 is
25 marked with *, and p< 0 .0 1 is marked with**, meaning that there is a significant
   difference in statistics.
   [0035]    FIG. 22 shows the diagram of the working memory (short-term memory)
   errors (WME) of vascular dementia rats treated with cream base (M), GMC1(M1), and
                                                     -8-

   GMC1+0.5%GMA1 (M3) in the radial arm maze test.              It shows that the WME of
   two-sided carotid arterial ligature (2VO) group is significantly higher than Sham group
   (day 8, p=0.0111), which refers to successful induction of vascular dementia in rats by
   two-sided carotid arterial ligature.        The results show that WME values are
 5 significantly improved compared to 2VO group after treated by M1 and M3 (day8, M1
   p=0.0111; M3 p=0.0139).         This suggests that M1 and M3 have efficacy for treating
   WME vascular dementia in rats.          The data are shown as means ± SEM.            The
   Student t-test and repeated ANOVA are used for statistical analysis.          p< 0 .0 5 is
   marked with *, and p<0.01 is marked with**, meaning that there is a significant
 o difference in statistics.
   [0036]     FIG. 23 shows the tracking path of vascular dementia (VD) rats in a radial
   arm maze.     The tracking path of VD rats on day 8 suggests that sham group, GMC1
   (Ml) and GMC1+0.5%GMA1 (M3) groups are able to reach the locations of baits
   with their memory after training, while 2VO and M groups are not.
 5 [0037]     FIG. 24 shows the statistical diagram of brain injury grades of vascular
   dementia rats.    The extent of brain injury in accordance with CT images of rat brain
   is classified to grade 0-4.      The results suggest that severe brain injuries of 2VO
   (p=0.0000) group is significantly reduced with GMC1 (Ml) and GMC1+0.5%GMA1
   (M3) treatments (M1 p=0.0030; M3 p=0.0238).            The data are shown as means +
20 SEM.      The Student t-test and repeated ANOVA are used for statistical analysis.
   p< 0 .0 5 is marked with *, and p< 0 .0 1 is marked with**, meaning that there is a
   significant difference in statistics.
   [0038]     CT grade of brain injury:
   0: No obvious abnormality on CT scans
25 1: Small area of abnormal density region in brain tissue
   2: Abnormal density regions in over 25% of unilateral brain tissue, or small area of
   abnormal density regions in bilateral brain tissue
   3: Abnormal density regions in over 50% of unilateral brain tissue, midline shift, or
                                                  -9-

   abnormal density regions in over 25% of bilateral brain tissue
   4: Abnormal density regions in over 50% of bilateral brain tissue, or apparent midline
   shift/distortion.
   [0039]     FIG. 25 shows the diagram of the tumor growth rate of the nude mice.     The
 5 tumor was induced in the nude mice and the mice were subjected to grouping and
   administrated with the extract composition on the tumor area and the whole back skin
   with the dosage of 0.1 g / day when the tumor grew to a determined volume.          The
   results show that the extract composition can decrease the tumor growth rate compared
   to the tumor control group.
 o [0040]     FIG. 26 shows the diagram of the tumor growth rate of the nude mice.     The
   tumor was induced in the nude mice and the mice were subjected to grouping and
   administrated with GMC1 and GMA1 on the tumor area and the whole back skin with
   the dosage of 0.1 g / day when the tumor grew to a determined volume.        The results
   show that the extract composition can decrease the tumor growth rate compared to the
 5 tumor control group.
   [0041]     FIG. 27 shows the diagram of the tumor growth rate of the nude mice.     The
   tumor was induced in the nude mice and the mice were subjected to grouping and
   administrated with CTX injection and GMC1 and GMA1 on the tumor area and the
   whole back skin with the dosage of 0.1 g / day when the tumor grew to a determined
20 volume.     The results show that the extract composition can decrease the tumor
   growth rate compared to the CTX control group.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0042]     The invention is to provide an extract composition comprising a soybean seed
   extract, which soybean seed extract is prepared by a process comprising steps of:
25               (a) providing soybean seeds and an extracting solution, which extracting
           solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration
           lower than about 90 wt%;
                                                  - 10 -

                (b) extracting the soybean seeds with the extracting solution at a
         barometric pressure lower than or equal to about 1 atm and at a temperature lower
         than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract; and
                (c) removing solids from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.
 5 [0043]     The present invention can be more readily understood by reference to the
   following detailed description of various embodiments of the invention, the examples,
   and the chemical drawings and tables with their relevant descriptions.         It is to be
   understood that unless otherwise specifically indicated by the claims, the invention is
   not limited to specific preparation methods, carriers or formulations, or to particular
10 modes of formulating the extract of the invention into products or compositions
   intended for topical, oral or parenteral administration, because as one of ordinary skill
   in the relevant arts is well aware, such things can, of course, vary. It is also to be
   understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
   embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.
15 [0044]     As utilized in accordance with the present disclosure, the following terms,
   unless otherwise indicated, shall be understood to have the following meaning:
   [0045]     Often, ranges are expressed herein as from "about" one particular value
   and/or to "about" another particular value.       When such a range is expressed, an
   embodiment includes the range from the one particular value and/or to the other
20 particular value. Similarly, when values are expressed as approximations, by use of the
   word "about," it will be understood that the particular value forms another
   embodiment. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each of the ranges are
   significant both in relation to and independently of the other endpoint.
   [0046]     "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described event or
25 circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where
   said event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not. For example, the
   phrase "optionally comprising an agent" means that the agent may or may not exist.
                                              - 11 -

   [0047]     It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims,
   the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context
   clearly dictates otherwise.    Thus, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms
   shall include the plural and plural terms shall include the singular.
 5 [0048]     The term "subject" as used herein denotes any animal, preferably a mammal,
   and more preferably a human.       The examples of subjects include humans, non-human
   primates, rodents, guinea pigs, rabbits, sheep, pigs, goats, cows, horses, dogs and cats.
   [0049]     The term "effective amount" of an active ingredient as provided herein means
   a sufficient amount of the ingredient to provide the desired regulation of a desired
 o function.     As will be pointed out below, the exact amount required will vary from
   subject to subject, depending on the disease state, physical conditions, age, sex,
   species and weight of the subject, the specific identity and formulation of the
   composition, etc.      Dosage regimens may be adjusted to induce the optimum
   therapeutic response.     For example, several divided doses may be administered daily
 5 or the dose may be proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the
   therapeutic situation.   Thus, it is not possible to specify an exact "effective amount."
   However, an appropriate effective amount can be determined by one of ordinary skill
   in the art using only routine experimentation.
   [0050]     The term "treating" or "treatment" as used herein denotes reversing,
20 alleviating, inhibiting the progress of, or improving the disorder, disease or condition
   to which such term applies, or one or more symptoms of such disorder, disease or
   condition.
   [0051]     The term "carrier" or "excipient" as used herein refers to any substance, not
   itself a therapeutic agent, used as a carrier and/or diluent and/or adjuvant, or vehicle
25 for delivery of a therapeutic agent to a subject or added to a formulation to improve its
   handling or storage properties or to permit or facilitate formation of a dose unit of the
   composition into a discrete article such as a capsule or tablet suitable for oral
   administration.    Suitable carriers or excipients are well known to persons of ordinary
                                                  - 12 -

   skill in the art of manufacturing pharmaceutical formulations or food products.
   Carriers or excipients can include, by way of illustration and not limitation, buffers,
   diluents, disintegrants, binding agents, adhesives, wetting agents, polymers, lubricants,
   glidants, substances added to mask or counteract a disagreeable taste or odor, flavors,
 5 dyes, fragrances, and substances added to improve appearance of the composition.
   Acceptable carriers or excipients include citrate buffer, phosphate buffer, acetate
   buffer, bicarbonate buffer, stearic acid, magnesium stearate, magnesium oxide, sodium
   and calcium salts of phosphoric and sulfuric acids, magnesium carbonate, talc, gelatin,
   acacia gum, sodium alginate, pectin, dextrin, mannitol, sorbitol, lactose, sucrose,
 o starches, gelatin, cellulosic materials (such as cellulose esters of alkanoic acids and
   cellulose alkyl esters), low melting wax cocoa butter, amino acids, urea, alcohols,
   ascorbic acid, phospholipids, proteins (for example, serum albumin), ethylenediamine
   tetraacetic acid (EDTA), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), sodium chloride or other salts,
   liposomes,     mannitol,    sorbitol,  glycerol     or   powder,     polymers    (such    as
 5 polyvinyl-pyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol,        and polyethylene glycols),      and other
   pharmaceutically     acceptable   materials.     The carrier     should not destroy      the
   pharmacological activity of the therapeutic agent and should be non-toxic when
   administered in doses sufficient to deliver a therapeutic amount of the agent.
   [0052]    The extract composition according to the invention comprises the soybean
20 seed extract.   According to the present invention, depending on the testa color of the
   seeds, the soybean may be referred to yellow soybean, vegetable soybean, white
   soybean, peel beans, green bean, black soybean; preferably yellow soybean or black
   soybean.     The soybean according to the invention belongs to Fabaceae family,
   Glycine genus; preferably, the soybean is Glycine max (L.) Merrill, Glycineformosana
25 Hosokawa or Glycine soja auct. non Sieb. & Zucc..
   [0053]    The soybean seed according to the invention preferably refers to the seed
   obtained by removing a shell from a pod.        Generally, a soybean fruit is the pod with
   hair, and the shell of the pod covers the seeds.      The shell of the pod is very hard and
                                                 -  13 -

   waterproof for protecting the seeds inside. The manner of obtaining the soybean seeds
   from the soybean fruit, i.e. removing the shell of the pod, is known by artisans skilled
   in this field. Preferably, the soybean seed according to the invention comprises seed
   coat, cotyledon and hypocotyl.
 5 [0054]     The soybean seed extract according to the invention is prepared by a process
   comprising steps of:
                 (a) providing soybean seeds and an extracting solution, which extracting
         solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration
         lower than about 90 wt%;
10               (b) extracting the soybean seeds with the extracting solution at a
         barometric pressure lower than or equal to about 1 atm and at a temperature lower
         than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract; and
                 (c) removing solids from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.
   [0055]     The extracting solution for extracting the soybean seeds according to the
15 invention is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration lower
   than about 90 wt%. Preferably, the alcohol is C1 to C7 alcohol. The term "C1 to C7
   alcohol" as used herein refers to linear or branched, substituted or unsubstituted, mono
   or poly- functional, and saturated or unsaturated alcohol; preferably unsubstituted,
   mono-functional and saturated alcohol. In one preferred embodiment of the invention,
20 the Ci to C7 alcohol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, n
   propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, iso-butanol, sec-butanol, tert-butanol, 1-pentanol, 2
   pentanol, 3-pentanol, 2-methyl-1-butanol, 2-methyl-2-butanol, 3-methyl-2-butanol, 3
   methyl-1-butanol, 2,2-dimethyl-1-propanol, 1-hexanol, 2,4-hexadiene-1-ol, 2-methyl
   cyclopentanol, cyclohexanol, 1-heptanol, 2-heptanol, or cycloheptyl alcohol.         More
25 preferably, the CI to C7 alcohol is methanol or ethanol; most preferably, the CI to C7
   alcohol is ethanol. The CI to C7 alcohol can be used solely or in combinations.
                                              - 14-

   [0056]     The alcohol as used herein is preferably an alcohol solution with a
   concentration lower than about 90% (v/v); preferably from about 5% (v/v) to about
   90% (v/v); more preferably from about 30% (v/v) to about 85% (v/v); still more
   preferably from about 50% (v/v) to about 75% (v/v).
 5 [0057]     The process according to the invention comprises (b) extracting the soybean
   seeds with the extracting solution at a barometric pressure lower than or equal to about
   1 atm and at a temperature lower than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract. The
   manner of extracting a part of a seed with a solution is well-known to artisans skilled in
   this field. For example, the crude extract can be obtained by dividing the soybean
10 seeds into pieces in any manner such as grinding, stirring, disturbing, cutting or
   shredding, and soaking the pieces in the extracting solution for extraction.           The
   manners for dividing the seeds in the field are able to be applied in the invention. In
   one preferred embodiment of the invention, the soybean seeds are grinded into powder.
   In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the soybean seeds are soaked in the
15 extracting solution for extraction; more preferably, the soybean seeds are soaked in the
   extracting solution and subjected to ultrasonic vibration extraction.
   [0058]     According to the process of the invention, prior to step (b), the soybean seeds
   are preferably dried.
   [0059]     According to the invention, the ratio (w/v) of the soybean seeds and the
20 extracting solution is not specifically restricted. In one preferred embodiment of the
   invention, the ratio (w/v) of the soybean seeds and the extracting solution is about 1:1
   to about 1:30; more preferably about 1:5 to about 1:20; and most preferably about 1:10.
   [0060]     The temperature of extraction in the step (b) according to the invention is
   lower than about 60'C; preferably from about 25'C to about 55'C; more preferably
25 from about 30'C to about 50'C; still more preferably about 45'C.
   [0061] In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the extraction step (b) can be
   repeated, and the extract is collected by merging.
                                              -15-

   [0062]    The process according to the invention comprises the step (c) removing solids
   from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.    The manner of removing the solids
   to obtain the liquid fraction is well-known to artisans skilled in this field, and
   examples include but not limited to filtration, centrifugation, or precipitation.
 5 [0063]    Preferably, the process according to the invention further comprises a step (d)
   of concentrating the liquid portion obtained in the step (c) to obtain a concentrated
   solid portion.   The manner of concentrating is well-known to artisans skilled in this
   field, such as by a reduced-pressure condenser.
   [0064]    Preferably, the process for according to the invention further comprises a step
 o (e) of drying the concentrated solid portion obtained in the step (d).      The manner of
   drying is well-known to artisans skilled in this field, such as air-drying or by a freeze
   drier.
   [0065]    In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the soybean seed extract is
   subjected to an ion chromatography assay with CarboPac PA1 Analytical (4 x 250mm)
 5 column.     The mobile phase is 87% water and 13% 500 mM NaOH; the internal
   standard is maltose monohydrate.      The isocratic elution is applied with the low rate of
   1.0 ml/min and the cycle of 0.5 second.      In every cycle, the assay is conducted with
   the relative potential of 0.1 V at 0.00 second to 0.2 second; 0.1 V at 0.2 second to 0.4
   second; -2.0 V at 0.41 second to 0.42 second; 0.6 V at 0.43 second; -0.1 V at 0.44
20 second to 0.5 second, and the total assay duration is 55 minutes.
   [0066]    The spectrograms obtained are shown in FIGs. 1 to 3.           The peak time is
   shown in Table 1.
         Table 1:
                                               Peak time (minutes)
                      Peak 1     Peak 2    Peak 3     Peak 4      Peak 5   Internal standard
            FIG. 1     5.913     6.660     10.120     18.010      20.510         28.390
            FIG. 2     5.660     6.420     10.244     18.600      20.784         28.597
            FIG. 3     5.857     6.590     10.100     18.167      20.847         28.304
   [0067]    Preferably, the extract composition according to the invention further
                                                 -16-

   comprises a soybean seed vapor fraction, which soybean seed vapor fraction is
   prepared by a process comprising steps of:
               (i) providing soybean seeds in a second extracting solution, which second
         extracting solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the
 5       concentration lower than about 15 wt%; and
               (ii) extracting the soybean seeds with the second extracting solution at a
         barometric pressure lower than about 1 atm and at a temperature lower than
         about 110 C and collecting the vapor fraction.
   [0068]    The second extracting solution for preparing the soybean seed vapor fraction
 o according to the invention is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the
   concentration lower than about 15 wt%; preferably water.       The kind of the alcohol
   can be the same to that of the extracting solution for preparing the soybean seed
   extract and is not repeated herein.
   [0069]    The alcohol of the second extracting solution is the alcohol solution with a
 5 concentration lower than about 15% (v/v); preferably lower than about 10% (v/v);
   more preferably lower than about 5% (v/v).
   [0070]    The process for preparing the soybean seed vapor fraction according to the
   invention comprises the step (ii) extracting the soybean seeds with the second
   extracting solution at a barometric pressure lower than about 1 atm and at a
20 temperature lower than about 110 C and collecting the vapor fraction.      The manner
   of extracting can be the same to that of preparing the soybean seed extract, provided
   that the soybean seed vapor fraction is vaporized at a barometric pressure lower than
   about 1 atm and at a temperature lower than about 110 C.     The vapor fraction can be
   collected in a liquid form by chilling the vapor.
25 [0071]    In a preferred embodiment of the invention, a process of vaporizing the
   soybean seeds at a given barometric pressure and temperature, and collecting said
   vapor fraction by chilling the vapor can be performed in a rotary evaporator where the
   vapor is evaporated to the condensing tube supplied with cold water, and then the
                                                 - 17 -

   vapor is chilled by passing through the condensing tube to collect the vapor fraction in
   a liquid form.   The manipulation is simple and the cost is low.
   [0072]    According to the invention, the ratio (w/v) of the soybean seeds and the
   second extracting solution is not specifically restricted.  In one preferred embodiment
 5 of the invention, the ratio (w/v) of the soybean seeds and the second extracting
   solution is about 1:1 to about 1:30; more preferably about 1:5 to about 1:20; and most
   preferably about 1:10.
   [0073]    The temperature of extraction in the step (ii) according to the invention is
   lower than about 110 C; preferably from about 60'C to about 110 C.
 o [0074]    In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the extraction step (ii) can be
   repeated, and the soybean seed vapor fraction is collected by merging.
   [0075]    In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the soybean seed vapor
   fraction is subjected to an ion chromatography assay with CarboPac PA1 Analytical (4
   x 250mm) column.        The mobile phase is 87% water and 13% 500 mM NaOH; the
 5 internal standard is maltose monohydrate.       The isocratic elution is applied with the
   low rate of 1.0 ml/min and the cycle of 0.5 second.         In every cycle, the assay is
   conducted with the relative potential of 0.1 V at 0.00 second to 0.2 second; 0.1 V at
   0.2 second to 0.4 second; -2.0 V at 0.41 second to 0.42 second; 0.6 V at 0.43 second;
   -0.1 V at 0.44 second to 0.5 second, and the total assay duration is 55 minutes.
20 [0076]    The spectrograms obtained are shown in FIGs. 4 to 6.          The peak time is
   shown in Table 2.
         Table 2:
                                        Peak time
                FIG. 4                     2.690
                FIG. 5                     2.587
                FIG. 6                     2.664
   [0077]    In one embodiment of the invention, the content of the soybean seed
   extraction based on the extract composition is from about 0.001% wt to about 10% wt;
25 preferably from about 0.01% wt to about 5% wt; more preferably from about 0.001%
                                                 - 18 -

   wt to about 1.5% wt.       In another aspect, the content of the soybean seed vapor
   fraction based on the extract composition is from about 0.04% wt to about 99.999% wt;
   preferably from about 10% wt to about 99.9% wt; more preferably from about 30% wt
   to about 99% wt.
 5 [0078]     The extraction composition according to the invention is preferably a
   pharmaceutical composition, food composition or a cosmetic composition.
   [0079]     The pharmaceutical composition according to the invention is preferably
   administered topically or systemically by any method known in the art, including, but
   not limited to, intramuscular, intradermal, intravenous, subcutaneous, intraperitoneal,
 o intranasal, oral, mucosal or external routes.    The appropriate route, formulation and
   administration schedule can be determined by those skilled in the art.      In the present
   invention, the pharmaceutical composition can be formulated in various ways,
   according to the corresponding route of administration, such as a liquid solution, a
   suspension, an emulsion, a syrup, a tablet, a pill, a capsule, a sustained release
 5 formulation, a powder, a granule, an ampoule, an injection, an infusion, a kit, an
   ointment, a lotion, a liniment, a cream or a combination thereof.     If necessary, it may
   be sterilized or mixed with any pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient, many
   of which are known to one of ordinary skill in the art.
   [0080]     The external route as used herein is also known as local administration,
20 includes but is not limited to administration by insufflation and inhalation.    Examples
   of various types of preparation for local administration include ointments, lotions,
   creams, gels, foams, preparations for delivery by transdermal patches, powders, sprays,
   aerosols, capsules or cartridges for use in an inhaler or insufflator or drops (e.g. eye or
   nose drops), solutions/suspensions for nebulisation, suppositories, pessaries, retention
25 enemas and chewable or suckable tablets or pellets or liposome or microencapsulation
   preparations.
   [0081]     Ointments, creams and gels, may, for example, be formulated with an
   aqueous or oily base with the addition of suitable thickening and/or gelling agent
                                                 - 19 -

   and/or solvents.    Such bases may thus, for example, include water and/or an oil such
   as liquid paraffin or a vegetable oil such as arachis oil or castor oil, or a solvent such
   as polyethylene glycol.     Thickening agents and gelling agents which may be used
   according to the nature of the base include soft paraffin, aluminium stearate,
 5 cetostearyl alcohol, polyethylene glycols, woolfat, beeswax, carboxypolymethylene
   and cellulose derivatives, and/or glyceryl monostearate and/or non-ionic emulsifying
   agents.
   [0082]    Lotions may be formulated with an aqueous or oily base and will in general
   also contain one or more emulsifying agents, stabilising agents, dispersing agents,
 o suspending agents or thickening agents.
   [0083]    Powders for external application may be formed with the aid of any suitable
   powder base, for example, talc, lactose or starch.      Drops may be formulated with an
   aqueous or non-aqueous base also comprising one or more dispersing agents,
   solubilising agents, suspending agents or preservatives.
 5 [0084]    Spray compositions may for example be formulated as aqueous solutions or
   suspensions or as aerosols delivered from pressurised packs, such as a metered dose
   inhaler, with the use of a suitable liquefied propellant.   Aerosol compositions suitable
   for inhalation can be either a suspension or a solution.     The aerosol composition may
   optionally contain additional formulation excipients well known in the art such as
20 surfactants e.g. oleic acid or lecithin and cosolvents e.g. ethanol.
   [0085]    Topical preparations may be administered by one or more applications per
   day to the affected area; over the skin areas occlusive dressings may advantageously
   be used.    Continuous or prolonged delivery may be achieved by an adhesive reservoir
   system.
25 [0086]    The cosmetic composition according to the invention may be an aqueous
   phase formulation consisting essentially of water; it may also comprise a mixture of
   water and of water-miscible solvent (miscibility in water of greater than 50% by
   weight at 25'C), for instance lower monoalcohols containing from 1 to 5 carbon atoms
                                                  - 20 -

   such as ethanol or isopropanol, glycols containing from 2 to 8 carbon atoms, such as
   propylene glycol, ethylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol or dipropylene glycol, C3-C4
   ketones and C2-C4 aldehydes, and glycerin.        Such an aqueous formulation preferably
   is in a form of aqueous gel or hydrogel formulation.           The hydrogel formulation
 5 comprises a thickening agent to thicken the liquid solution.            Examples of the
   thickening agents include, but are not limited to, carbomers, cellulose base materials,
   gums, algin, agar, pectins, carrageenan, gelatin, mineral or modified mineral
   thickeners, polyethylene glycol and polyalcohols, polyacrylamide and other polymeric
   thickeners.     The thickening agents which give the stability and optimal flow
 o characteristics of the composition are preferably used.
   [0087]    The cosmetic composition according to the present invention may be in a
   form of emulsion or cream formulation.           It can contain emulsifying surfactants.
   These surfactants may be chosen from anionic and nonionic surfactants.         Reference
   may be made to the document "Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Kirk-Othmer",
 5 volume 22, pp. 333-432, 3rd edition, 1979, Wiley, for the definition of the properties
   and functions (emulsifying) of surfactants, in particular pp. 347-377 of said reference,
   for the anionic and nonionic surfactants.
   [0088]    The surfactants preferably used in the cosmetic composition according to the
   invention    are chosen   from:   nonionic surfactants:     fatty acids,  fatty alcohols,
20 polyethoxylated or polyglycerolated fatty alcohols such as polyethoxylated stearyl or
   cetylstearyl alcohol, fatty acid esters of sucrose, alkylglucose esters, in particular
   polyoxyethylenated fatty esters of C1-C6 alkyl glucose, and mixtures thereof; anionic
   surfactants: C16-C30 fatty acids neutralized with amines, aqueous ammonia or
   alkaline salts, and mixtures thereof.   Surfactants which make it possible to obtain an
25 oil-in-water or wax-in-water emulsion are preferably used.
   [0089]    The cosmetic composition according to the invention may further comprise
   an effective amount of a physiologically acceptable antioxidant selected from the
   group consisting of butylated p-cresol, butylated hydroquinone monomethyl ether, and
                                                 - 21  -

   a tocopherol.
   [0090]    The cosmetic composition according to the invention may further comprise
   natural or modified amino acid, natural or modified sterol compound, natural or
   modified collagen, silk protein or soy protein.
 5 [0091]    The cosmetic composition according to the invention is preferably formulated
   for topical application to keratin materials such as the skin, the hair, the eyelashes or
   the nails.   They may be in any presentation form normally used for this type of
   application, especially in the form of an aqueous or oily solution, an oil-in-water or
   water-in-oil emulsion, a silicone emulsion, a microemulsion or nanoemulsion, an
 o aqueous or oily gel or a liquid, pasty or solid anhydrous product.
   [0092]    The cosmetic composition according to the invention may be more or less
   fluid and may have the appearance of a white or colored cream, an ointment, a milk, a
   lotion, a serum, a paste, a mousse or a gel.         It may optionally be topically applied
   onto the skin in the form of an aerosol, a patch or a powder.        It may also be in solid
 5 form, for example, in the form of a stick.       It may be used as care products and/or as
   makeup products for the skin.       Alternatively, it may be formulated as shampoos or
   conditioners.
   [0093]    In known fashion, the cosmetic composition according to the invention may
   also contain additives and adjuvants that are common in cosmetics, such as
20 hydrophilic    or lipophilic   gelling   agents,    preservatives,  antioxidants,  solvents,
   fragrances, fillers, pigments, odor absorbers and dyestuffs.
   [0094]    The extract composition can be added to a conventional food composition (i.e.
   the edible food or drink or precursors thereof) in the manufacturing process of the food
   composition.     Almost all food compositions can be supplemented with the extract
25 composition of the invention.     The food compositions that can be supplemented with
   the extract composition of the invention include, but are not limited to, candies, baked
   goods, ice creams, dairy products, sweet and flavor snacks, snack bars, meal
   replacement products, fast foods, soups, pastas, noodles, canned foods, frozen foods,
                                                  -  22  -

   dried foods, refrigerated foods, oils and fats, baby foods, or soft foods painted on
   breads, or mixtures thereof.
   [0095]    The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
   mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of promoting wound healing.
 5 [0096]    The invention also provides a method for promoting wound healing in a
   subject in need of such promotion comprising administering to said subject an
   effective amount of the extract composition as mentioned above and optionally a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
   [0097]    Preferably, the extract composition according to the invention is promoting
 o wound healing by promoting skin cell migration.      In one preferred embodiment of the
   invention, the extract composition is able to promoting keratinocyte migration, and the
   skin cell is preferably a keratinocyte.       In another aspect, in an animal model
   according to the incention, the extract composition is able to promoting wound healing
   in a diabetic patient, and the wound is preferably a diabetic wound.
 5 [0098]    In one embodiment of the invention, the composition comprising the soybean
   seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has significant effect (p<0. 5 ) in would
   closure, compared to cream base, and the soybean seed extract slightly exhibits better
   outcome in wound closure than the soybean seed vapor fraction.
   [0099]    In one another embodiment of the invention, different dose levels of the
20 soybean seed extract are used in combined with the soybean seed vapor fraction for
   investigating the effect on diabetic wound healing.     The results show that for wound
   healing, the combination effects of the soybean seed extract and the soybean seed
   vapor fraction are better than the soybean seed vapor fraction alone.          The most
   effective combination treatment is found in the highest dosage of the soybean seed
25 extract.
   [0100]    In one embodiment of the invention, the soybean seed extract and soybean
   seed vapor fraction are used alone or in comination for assaying the effects on
   promoting skin keratinocyte migration.       The results show that for promoting skin
                                                 -23 -

   keratinocyte migration, the combination effects of the soybean seed extract and the
   soybean seed vapor fraction are better than the soybean seed extract or the soybean
   seed vapor fraction alone.
   [0101]    The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
 5 mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of promoting neuron cell
   proliferation and/or treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative diseases.
   [0102]    The invention also provides a method for promoting neuron cell proliferation
   and/or treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative diseases in a subject in need of
   such promotion and/or treatment comprising administering to said subject an effective
 o amount     of the extract     composition     as   mentioned    above    and  optionally   a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
   [0103]    Preferably, the neuron cell is a central nervous system cell; more preferably is
   a brain neuron cell; still more preferably is a neuroblastoma cell.
   [0104]    The brain diseases and/or neurodegenerative diseases according to the
 5 invention are preferably selected from the group consisting of vascular dementia,
   Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, cerebral vascular disease, inflammatory brain
   injury, brain damage surrounding inflammatory response, brain lesions, cerebral
   hematoma, swelling ventricle and ventricular dilatation.
   [0105]    In one embodiment of the invention, the soybean seed extract, soybean seed
20 vapor fraction and extraction composition comprising the soybean seed extract and
   soybean seed vapor fraction are used to treat human neuroblastoma cell.          The results
   show that the cell viability rate is significantly increased after treated with the soybean
   seed extract, soybean seed vapor fraction and extraction composition comprising the
   soybean seed extract, soybean seed vapor fraction.           Therefore, the soybean seed
25 extract and soybean seed vapor fraction and extraction composition comprising the
   soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction have effects on promoting
   neuron cell proliferation.
   [0106]    In one another embodiment of the invention, in a radial arm maze test of a
                                                   - 24 -

   dementia rat animal model, after the treatment of the extract composition comprising
   the soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction, total memory errors and
   reference memory errors are significantly lower than those of an untreated group.       It
   shows that the extract composition comprising the soybean seed extract and soybean
 5 seed vapor fraction has the effect on treating dementia rats.
   [0107]    In one another embodiment of the invention, in a radial arm maze test of a
   dementia rat animal model, after the treatment of the extract composition comprising
   the soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction, total memory errors and
   reference memory errors are significantly lower than those of an untreated group.       It
 o shows that the extract composition comprising the soybean seed extract and soybean
   seed vapor fraction has the effect on treating dementia rats.
   [0108]    In a vascular dementia model, the results show that the memory impairment
   caused by vascular dementia is significantly improved after the extract composition
   treatments according to the invention.       The soybean seed vapor fraction and the
 5 extract composition comprising the soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor
   fraction both improve the working memory errors, reference memory errors and total
   memory errors.      Compared to the soybean seed vapor fraction alone, the extract
   composition comprising the soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has
   better effect on treating memory impairment caused by vascular dementia.
20 [0109]    The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
   mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of treating breast cancer.
   [0110]    The invention also provides a method for treating breast cancer in a subject in
   need of such treatment comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of
   the extract composition as mentioned above and optionally a pharmaceutically
25 acceptable carrier or excipient.
   [0111]    Preferably, the breast cancer is the breast cancer with p53 mutant type.
   [0112]    In one preferred embodiment of the invention, a p53 mutant type of human
   breast cancer cell line is used to establish an animal model to simulate the situation in
                                                  - 25 -

   the primary site for observing the tumor growth in mice.    In the case of simulating the
   administration in human, different concentrations of the extract composition according
   to the present invention is administrated.      It shows that the extract composition
   according to the invention has effect on inhibiting tumor growth rate in the
 5 tumor-bearing mice.
   [0113]    The present invention is also to provide use of the extract composition as
   mentioned above in the manufacture of a medicament of reducing side effects of
   interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceutical
   effects of interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs.
 o [0114]    The invention also provides a method for reducing side effects of interfering
   with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceutical effects of
   interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs in a subject in need of such
   reduction and enhancement comprising administering to said subject an effective
   amount     of the extract    composition    as   mentioned   above    and   optionally  a
 5 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
   [0115]    The term "interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs" as used
   herein refers to drugs which kill a tumor cell by preventing the process of DNA and/or
   RNA replication essential in mitosis.     Preferably, the interfering with DNA and/or
   RNA replication drugs are cyclophosphamide, temozolomide, hexamethylmelamine,
20 platinum complexes, bleomycin, vinblastine, vincristine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, folic
   acid antagonists, purine antagonists, or pyrimidine antagonists.
   [0116]    In one preferred embodiment of the invention, a human breast cancer cell line
   is used to establish an animal model to simulate the situation in the primary site.
   Compared to the tumor-bearing mice administrated with cyclophosphamide, the
25 extract composition     according   to the invention has enhancing effect of the
   chemotherapy drug on inhibiting tumor growth rate in the tumor-bearing mice.          The
   extract composition according to the invention inhibits tumor growth, has enhancing
   effect of the chemotherapy drug on eliminating tumor size, and relieves pain by
                                                -26  -

   reducing tumor compression, thus the patient can have better life quality.
   [0117]    The following examples are provided to aid those skilled in the art in
   practicing the present invention.
                                         EXAMPLES
 5 Soybean seed extract (GMA1)
   [0118]    Seeds of soybean (Glycine max (L.)Merr.) were grinded into power, and 70%
   by weight of ethanol or distilled water was applied as an extracting solution; the ratio
   (w/v) of the soybean seeds and the extracting solution was about 1:10.     The soybean
   seeds were extracted at a barometric pressure about 1 atm and at a temperature of
 o about 45 C to obtain an crude extract.      The solids were removed from the crude
   extract to obtain a liquid portion.   The liquid portion was further concentrated by a
   reduced-pressure condenser to obtain a concentrated solid portion.    The concentrated
   solid portion was further dried at 70 C.
   Soybean seed vaporfraction (GMC1)
 5 [0119]    Seeds of soybean (Glycine max (L.)Merr.) were grinded into power, and 2%
   by weight of ethanol or distilled water was applied as a second extracting solution; the
   ratio (w/v) of the soybean seeds and the second extracting solution was about 1:10.
   The vapor fraction was obtained by vaporizing the soybean seeds in a rotary
   evaporator (EYELA N-1000S, 1000S-W) at a pressure of lower than 1 atm and a
20 temperature of 90'C, and passing through a condensing tube supplied with cold water.
   Analysis of the soybean seed extract (GMA])         and soybean seed vapor fraction
   (GMC])
   [0120]    The obtained soybean seed extract (GMA1) and soybean seed vapor fraction
   (GMC1) were subjected to an ion chromatography assay with CarboPac PAl
25 Analytical (4 x 250mm) column.        The mobile phase was 87% water and 13% 500
   mM NaOH; the internal standard is maltose monohydrate.        The isocratic elution was
   applied with the low rate of 1.0 ml/min and the cycle of 0.5 second.     In every cycle,
                                                - 27 -

   the assay was conducted with the relative potential of 0.1 V at 0.00 second to 0.2
   second; 0.1 V at 0.2 second to 0.4 second; -2.0 V at 0.41 second to 0.42 second; 0.6 V
   at 0.43 second; -0.1 V at 0.44 second to 0.5 second, and the total assay duration was 55
   minutes.
 5 [0121]    The spectrograms of the soybean seed extract (GMA1) are shown in FIGs. 1
   to 3.  The peak time is shown in Table 1.
   [0122]    The spectrograms of the soybean seed vapor fraction (GMC1) are shown in
   FIGs. 4 to 6.    The peak time is shown in Table 2.
   The soybean seed extract (GMA]) contains very small amount of isoflavones and the
 o soybean seed vaporfraction (GMC]) contains no isoflavones
   [0123]    A high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was applied to assay if
   the soybean seed extract (GMA1) and soybean seed vapor fraction (GMC1) contained
   isoflavones.
   [0124]    The condition of HPLC was listed as follows:
 5 Apparatus: Hitachi HPLC CM5000 Series; pump: CM5 110; detector: CM5430 (DAD);
   automatic feeding system: CM5210; column oven: CM5310; software: OpenLab.
   Column: RP C18 , 4.6x250 mm 5ptm; detection wavelength: UV 254nm; flow rate: 0.8
   min/ml; column oven temperature: 30 C; gradient: as shown in Table 3.
         Table 3:
20         Time (minute)           Elution    Solvent    Elution 2
                   0                   95                     5
                  10                   85                    15
                  25                   77                    23
                  35                   72                    28
                  40                   20                    80
                  45                   20                    80
                  46                   95                     5
25                55                   95                     5
   Elution 1: 1% formic acid+0.01% trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) in water
                                                - 28 -

   Elution 2: 1% formic acid +0.01% trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile
   [0125]    The HPLC spectrogram of the isoflavones standard is shown in FIG. 7, and
   peaks occurred at retention time of 18.853 minutes and 24.693 minutes.
   [0126]    The HPLC spectrogram of the soybean seed vapor fraction (GMC1) is shown
 5 in FIG. 8, and no peaks occurred.
   [0127]    The HPLC spectrogram of an ointment containing 0.3 part by weight of the
   soybean seed extract (GMA1) and 1 part by weight of the soybean seed vapor fraction
   (GMC1) is shown in FIG. 9, and peaks occurred at retention time of 17.307 minutes,
   19.313 minutes, 20.267 minutes, 20.853 minutes, 24.307 minutes and 25.247 minutes.
 o [0128]    By comparing FIGs 7 to 9, it shows that no peaks occur in the HPLC
   spectrogram of the soybean seed vapor fraction (GMC1) in FIG. 8, and thus the
   soybean seed vapor fraction (GMC1) contains no isoflavones; the peaks corresponding
   to the isoflavones fingerprint absorption peaks occur at a very small amount in the
   HPLC spectrogram of the extract composition containing 0.3 part by weight of the
 5 soybean seed extract (GMA1) and 1 part by weight of the soybean seed vapor fraction
   (GMC1) in FIG. 9.      After conversion, the content of daidzin is 4.8 pig/ml and the
   content   of genistin is   8.23   pig/ml,  which contents are far      away from the
   pharmaceutically effective amount of isoflavones.         Therefore, the soybean seed
   extract (GMA1)     only contains a very small amount of isoflavones, and the
20 pharmaceutical effect thereof is not exhibited by the very small amount of isoflavones.
   Extract compositionfor promoting wound healing
   Material and method:
   [0129]    Approximately 8 weeks old, with body weight rages of 250 g to 300 g SD
   male rats were obtained from National Laboratory Animal Center, Taiwan.          After 7
25 days of quarantine, the rats were moved until the body weight over 350 g.       The rats
   were identified by ear notch of the animals.    Each cage tag was labeled with the cage
   number, study number, sex and group name.           The rats were housed 2 per cage in
   polycarbonate cage in the AAALAC accredited animal facility.
                                                - 29 -

   [0130]    The environment conditions were: temperature: 21 ± 2 C; humidity: 50 ±
   20%; light cycle: in light for 12 hours and in dark for 12 hours.      Laboratory Rodent
   Diet 5001 (PMIR Nutrition International, Inc., MO, USA) were supplied ad libitum
   throughout the study period.     Tap water was supplied ad libitum via bottles attached
 5 to the cages.
   Experimental methods:
   [0131]    Samples (test articles) were prepared according to Table 4.
         Table 4:
             Experimental 1
             group animal/number/sex     Test article and dose
             1     Diabetic rats/5/male  Cream base
             2     Diabetic rats/5/male  CGS-21680 10ptg/wound
             3     Diabetic rats/5/male  GMC 1
             4     Diabetic rats/5/male  0.3% GMA1
             Experimental 2
             group animal/number/sex     Test article and dose
             1     Diabetic rats/5/male  Cream base
             2     Diabetic rats/5/male  CGS-21680 6.7pjg/wound
             3     Diabetic rats/5/male  GMC 1
             4     Diabetic rats/5/male  GMC1+0.009% GMA1
             5     Diabetic rats/5/male  GMC1+0.045% GMA1
             6     Diabetic rats/5/male  GMC1+0.09% GMA1
   [0132]    CGS-21680: Specific adenosine      A2A    subtype receptor agonist, prepared by
10 adding 1.67 mg of CGS-21680 in 248.4 g of cream base.
   [0133]    Diabetic rats:  The rats with body weight over 300g were administrated with
   one dose of Streptozotocin        (STZ, 65mg/kg)        by intravenous   injection.   The
   STZ-induced rats with high blood sugar (over 300mg/dL) for 2 months were selected
   to conduct the wound closure test.
15 [0134]    Trauma surgeries for diabetic rats:    The diabetic rats with weight lower than
   300 g were eliminated and the rest were randomized into 6 groups.           The rats were
   then anesthetized with pentobarbital and hairs on surgical area (dorsal area) were
   removed.     Three skins on the dorsal medium areas (4, 6 and 8 cm from the midpoint
                                                  -30-

   of two scapulas) in each rat were excised (full thickness) using round cutting blades.
   [0135]    Medication and wound closure measurement:           The animals were weighed
   and the area of wounds was measured every other day for evaluation of wound closure.
   Medications were applied to each wound twice a day and the wounds were covered
 5 with cheesecloth.    The hoods were worn on the necks of the rats to prevent the
   wounds from receiving animal scratches.          For wound closure measurement, the
   wound pictures were taken at day 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14.         When taking pictures, a
   standard ruler was placed beside the wounds.         Before analyzing the wounds with
   Image pro (Media cybernetics), length was standardized with the standard ruler in the
 o picture to avoid the errors caused by different picturing distances.
   [0136]    Data analysis and statistics:   Three wound areas on the rats' backs were
   analyzed by Image pro.      The original wound areas were the areas of day zero.      The
   original wound areas minus the wound areas at different time points and then divided
   by the original wound areas to get the wound closure percentages.      The mean of three
 5 wound closure percentages of each rat represents the wound closure of each rat.       The
   data was shown as mean ± standard error (SEM).         The p-values of the testing results
   were calculated by t-test in statistics software (SYSTAT, Systat software Inc).
   P<0.05 means there is a significant difference, and it is marked with *.          P<0.01
   means there is a very significant difference, and it is marked with **.          P<0.001
20 means there is an extremely significant difference, and it is marked with
   Result:
   [0137]    After medication, wound areas were measured at different time points and
   wound closure percentages were analyzed with statistic software and shown in Table 5
   and FIG. 10.     On day 4, the wound closure percentages for groups cream base,
25 CGS-21680, GMC1, and 0.3% GMA1 are -83.33 ± 6.60 (%), 21.87 ± 5.61 (%), -11.44
   ± 4.34 (%) and -7.09 ± 3.65 (%), respectively.      All treatment groups are significantly
   different from the cream base group during the whole experimental period.        On day 8
   to day 10, the wound closure percentages are mostly enhanced with GMC1 and 3%
                                                -31  -

   GMA1 treated groups, changed from -4.10 ± 3.04 (%) to 40.15 ±6.47 (%) and 21.21 ±
   5.52 (%) to 62.19 ± 3.85 (%), respectively.              On day 14, the wound closure
   percentages of GMC1 and 3% GMA1 are significantly enhanced, 86.20 ± 1.88 (%)
   and 91.21 ± 2.23(%), respectively, and compared to cream base, 58.92 ± 13.14 (%).
 5      Table 5:    Comparison of wound closure percentages of diabetic rats treated with
   GMC1 and 0.3% GMA1
           Cream base            CGS-21680             GMC1               0.3% GMA1
   Day     Mean±SEM              Mean±SEM              Mean±SEM           Mean±SEM
   4       -83.33±6.60           21.87±5.61            -11.44±4.34        -7.09±3.65
   6       -65.84±11.19          25.45±4.46            6.74±4.86          4.15±3.19
   8       -63.32±23.22          45.88±4.28            4.10±3.04          21.21±5.52  **
   10      -10.08±16.87          93.80±2.79            40.15±6.47         62.19±3.85
   12      30.85±20.08           91.15±2.72            74.36±2.04         82.71±2.82
   14      58.92±13.14           98.74±0.60            86.20±1.88*        91.21±2.23  *
   Remark:     Each value represents the mean±SEM.           The comparison values between
   two groups are significantly different at **p<0.01 and ***p<0.001 by Student's t test.
 o [0138]    The results showed that both 0.3% GMA1 and GMC1 are effective in would
   closure, compared to cream base alone, and 0.3% GMA1 treated group slightly
   exhibits better outcome in wound closure than GMC 1.
   [0139]    The optimal combination of GMA1 and GMC1 in promoting diabetic wound
   closure was investigated.      Different dose levels of GMA1, 0.009%, 0.045% and
15 0.09% were used in combined with GMC1.                 For comparison, cream base and
   CGS-21680 groups were also incorporated.
   [0140]    After medication, wound areas were measured at different time points and
   wound closure percentages were analyzed with statistic software and shown in Table 6
   and FIG. 11.    As shown in Table 6 and FIG. 11, by comparing to cream base groups,
20 an increase in statistical significance is observed with increasing GMA1 dose levels in
   combination drug groups, 0.009%, 0.045% and 0.09% of GMA1.              The results show
                                                  - 32 -

   that for wound healing, the combination effects of the dose levels, 0.009%, 0.045%
   and 0.09%, of GMA1 with GMC1 are better than GMC1 alone.                                The most effective
   combination treatment is found in the highest dosage of GMA1 (0.09%).
         Table 6:      Comparison of wound closure percentages of diabetic rats treated with
 5 0.009% ~ 0.09% of GMA1 in combined with GMC1
              Cream          CGS-21680         GMCI   GMC1+10.09%GMAI           GMC1+01045%GMA1  GMC1+0,09%GMA1
               Mean'SEM     MaSEM            MeanSEM       MeaniaEM                 MeEniSEM MNISEM
          4    -4.45i7,92
                  45 7,    0,015,03 **      4    8       1     79                 9,1111711
                -431442                                   1-297t4,69   *-2,34.0
                                 7.44
                              7 2,            f6 7                                     t
              11 4,53     309342,0VI**     5L5i,8        73 -57""t4.18                  16 *S      86,809 ***
          12   76,52       6                                                              1S
                                                                                   4,2'1 235         ,4911.27*
          14   91391.23   9916        *    82,52i3.       3                        8       4       9
   Remark: Each value represents the means ± SEM. The comparison values between
   two groups are significantly different at ** p<0.01 and *** p<0.001 by student's t test.
   Extract compositionfor promoting skin cell migration
 o [0141]    HaCaT cells (human skin keratinocytes) were used for assaying the effect of
   the extract composition on promoting skin cell migration.
   [0142]    Samples of the cell migration assay were:
   Al-0.3: containing 0.3 pg/mL of GMA1
   Al-0.3-CSTC-2500X: containing 2500-fold diluted GMC1 and 0.3 pg/mL of GMA1
15 Cell line: HaCaT
   Medium: DMEM containing 10% fetal bovine serum
   Positive control: CGS-21680
   Cell culture: HaCaT cells were cultured in DMEM containing 10% fetal bovine serum
   at 37 C and 5% C0 2 , and subcultured twice weekly.
20 [0143]    Wound healing assay:            Oris Cell Migration Assay kit was applied.                     The
   cells were planted into a 96-well plate (4x 104 cells/well) with a stopper and cultured in
   a carbon dioxide incubator.          After cultured overnight, the stopper was pulled out to
   produce wounds and new medium or medium containing test articles or CGS-21680
   (positive control) were added.        After treatment for 0, 16 and 24 hours, the cells were
                                                      - 33 -

   observed under an optical microscope at 100 times magnification observation and
   photographs were taken for monitoring wound healing.
   [0144]    Analysis:    Software of image   j was applied to quantify the wound healing
   area.   Area at 0 hour was taken as the original size of the wound.        After a period of
 5 time, the wound area was gradually reduced, and the extent of wound healing was
   quantified by calculating the wound area relative to the original area at 0 hour (healing
   rate = difference between the area at T16 or T24 time point and that at TO / TO area), to
   assess the effect of the drugs on HaCaT cell migration activity.
   [0145]    Statistics:  Each group was repeated at least four times.           The data was
 o shown as mean ± standard error (SEM).         The significance of the testing results was
   calculated by t-test.
   Result:
   [0146]    HaCaT cell migration assay is used for comparing the effects of GMC1 and
   GMA1 on promoting wound healing.          The combination effects of 2500-fold diluted
 5 GMC1 and 0.3 pg/mL of GMA1 (Al-0.3-CSTC-2500X) are better than Al-0.3 alone
   on promoting HaCaT cell migration (FIG. 12).
   Extract compositionfor promoting neuron cell proliferation
   Material and method:
   [0147]    Cell line: Human neuroblastoma cell IMR-32 (purchased from Food Industry
20 Research and Development Institute, Taiwan)
   [0148]    Reagents: HyClone" DMEM/High Glucose Media (Thermo Scientific), Fetal
   Bovine Serum (FBS, Gibco@), HyClone@ Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS, Thermo
   Scientific), Antibiotic Antimycotic Solution (Pen/Strep/Fungizone            100x; Thermo
   Scientific),   Trypan    blue,   3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol- 2 -yl)- 2 ,5-diphenyl   tetrazolium
25 bromide (MTT), and Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, Sigma).
   [0149]    Equipment: Laminar Flow (VERTICAL HF-4BH).
   [0150]    Cell Culture: IMR-32 cells were cultured in DMEM/High Glucose Media
   (HyCloneTM) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum in 37 C, humidified air with
                                                 - 34 -

   5% CO2.
   [0151]    IMR-32 cells were seeded to 96-well plate at the density of 5 x 104 with 100
   ptL culture medium supplemented with 10% FBS for 24 hours.              Upon dosing, the
   culture medium was changed to 100 ptL medium supplemented with 5%FBS then, for
 5 each group, formulated to 25 mg/mL GMC1, 25 mg/mL GMA1, GMC1+0.3% GMA1
   (GM) or PBS (control group) and 100 ptL medium supplemented with 10% FBS
   (positive control group).     Each group was repeated at least seven times in a 96-well
   plate and incubated for 72 hours for the MTT assay.
   [0152]    MTT assay:      Removed culture dishes from incubator and transferred into
 o laminar flow hood.      Replaced the medium with 100 ptL serum free medium with 0.5
   mg/ml MTT reagent for each well and incubated for 30-60 minutes.                Add equal
   volume of DMSO to each well and shake for 5 minutes.          Measured the absorbance at
   570 nm in an ELISA reader.
   [0153]    Data analysis and statistics:     The results were analyzed with GraphPad
 5 Prism 6 and T-test was used for statistical analysis.          The data shown was the
   percentage rate of cell viability±SEM.
   Results:
   [0154]    The cell viability rate is shown in Tables 7 to 9 and FIGs. 13 to 15.   The cell
   viability rate is significantly increased after treated with 25 mg/mL GMA1 (Table 7
20 and FIG. 13), 25 mg/mL GMC1 (Table 8 and FIG. 14) or GMC1+0.3% GMA1(GM,
   Table 9 and FIG. 15) compared to the PBS control group.
         Table 7:
                                     Control      25 mg/mL     Positive Control
                  GMA1 Group
                                  Mean ± SEM Mean ± SEM         Mean ± SEM
                         1          99.2±17.2      106.7±8.3      137.9±9.8
                         2          110.1±6.9      119.7±6.7     128.7±13.8
                         3          86.3±5.6     123.2±6.3         94.5±2.8
                         4          98.3±1.8     130.2±7.8       119.0±7.7 *
                         5          88.6±2.6     114.2±5.8         90.7±1.6
                                                  - 35 -

                       6           94.8±1.9     111.4±6.1 *       105.7±3.1 *
                       7           92.1±5.7      105.7±10.2     128.2±2.9***
                   Average         95.6±3.0    115.9±3.4***       115.0±6.9*
        Table 8:
                                   Control       25 mg/mL      Positive Control
                                Mean ± SEM Mean ± SEM           Mean ± SEM
                       1          99.2±17.2        94.1±3.3        137.9±9.8
                       2          110.1±6.9     144.1±8.2*        128.7±13.8
                       3           86.3±5.6    120.0±11.0   *      94.5±2.8
                       4           98.3±1.8    149.2±6.4 ***      119.0±7.7 *
                       5           88.6±2.6       106.4±7.2        90.7±1.6
                       6           94.8±1.9       101.5±3.1       105.7±3.1 *
                       7           92.1±5.7       107.8±6.3     128.2±2.9 ***
                   Average         95.6±3.0     117.6±8.1 *       115.0±6.9 *
        Table 9:
                   GM Group Control          25 mg/mL       Positive Control
                               Mean ± SEM Mean ± SEM Mean ± SEM
                        1        99.2±17.2     117.2±11.6       137.9±9.8
                        2        110.1±6.9     115.1±12.5      128.7±13.8
                        3         86.3±5.6     103.0±6.0         94.5±2.8
                        4         98.3±1.8     118.2±10.1      119.0±7.7 *
                        5         88.6±2.6    106.1±5.5 *        90.7±1.6
                        6         94.8±1.9      99.9±2.0       105.7±3.1 *
                        7         92.1±5.7    105.7±1.6 *     128.2±2.9 ***
                    Average       95.6±3.0    109.3±2.8 **     115.0±6.9 *
  Remark of Tables 7 to 9:       Each value represents the means±SEM. The comparison
  between different dosages of two groups was statistically analyzed using T-test.
5 p<0.05 means there is a significant difference, and it is marked with *. p< 0 .0 1 means
  there is a highly significant difference, and it is marked with *.    p<0.001 means there
  is a very highly significant difference, and it is marked with ***.
  Extract compositionfor treating brain diseases and/or neurodegenerativediseases
  (I)     Induced dementia:
                                                 - 36 -

   Material and method:
   [0155]     Approximately 6 weeks old, with body weight ranges of 250 g to 300 g male
   rats were obtained from BioLASCO, Taiwan. After 7 days of quarantine, rats were
   moved until the body weight over 300 g. The rats were identified by tail tattoos. Each
 5 cage tag was labeled with the cage number, study number, sex and group name. The
   rats were housed 2 per cage in polycarbonate cage in the animal facility.
   [0156]     The environment conditions were: temperature: 25      + PC; humidity: 60
   5%; light cycle: in light for 12 hours and in dark for 12 hours. Altromin 1324 FORTI
   (Germany) was supplied ad libitum throughout the study period.           Tap water was
10 supplied ad libitum via bottles attached to the cages.
   [0157]     The groups were shown in Table 10.
         Table 10
        Groups               Dementia induction      Test article
        Normal               None                    None
        AlCl 3               AlCl 3                  AlCl 3 control
        AlCl 3+cream base AlCl 3                     Cream base
        AlCl 3+N2            AlCl 3                  0.5% GMA1+GMC1
   [0158]     Dementia induction:
   [0159]     Eight weeks old rats were fed with daily oral administration of 15 mg/mL
15 AlCl 3 solution at a dose of 100 mg/kg for 11 weeks to induce the mimic symptoms of
   dementia. The rats were divided into groups as shown in Table 10 and the test articles
   were topically applied to head and neck area with massaging for 30 seconds, and to
   nasal mucosa on week 5 to week 11. The training started on week 11 and the memory
   ability was then evaluated by a radial arm maze on week 11.               The rats were
20 continuously fed with AlCl 3 during the treatment.
   [0160]     Radial arm maze: Radial arm maze is one of the most common methods to
   measure spatial learning and memory in rats. The radial arm maze was designed by
   Olton in 70s. It is based on forcing hungry rats to check food at the end of each arm,
   training them to remember locations of food in the maze in a period of time. This can
                                              - 37 -

   measure the working memory (referring to short-term memory) and reference memory
   (referring to long-term memory) of rats at the same time.          The radial arm maze is
   shown in FIG. 16.      Size: (A) 122 cm; (B) 47 cm; (C) 30 cm; (D) 10 cm; (E) 20 cm.
   [0161]    The rats were habituated to the environment for 1 week.         Weighed each rat
 5 and let rats fast for 24 hours.   Prior to the experiment, kept the rats' body weight to be
   80-85% of the original body weight; 60% of the normal diet was given after daily
   training (twice a day).    On day 1 and day 2, the baits were scattered on the arms and
   central platform.     Four rats were placed on the central platform at the same time and
   allowed to explore the maze for 10 minutes.        On day 3 and 4, baits were placed on the
 o end of each arm.      Placed each rat separately on central platform and allow the rat to
   explore the maze until food finished.         If the rat didn't finish all food within 10
   minutes, training stopped.      On day 5-14, baits were placed on the end of four fixed
   arms.    Placed each rat on central platform and allowed to explore the maze until baits
   on four arms were finished.        If the rat didn't finish all food within 10 minutes,
 5 training stopped.     The arm entries were recorded and analyzed automatically.       Each
   rat was trained twice each day, and there was one hour apart between two trainings.
   [0162]    The following three indicators were analyzed:
   a. Working memory (short-term memory) errors (WME): number of reentries into
   baited arms.
20 b. Reference memory (long-term memory) errors (RME): number of reentries into
   unbaited arms.
   c. Total memory errors (TME): WME+RME
   [0163]    These three indicators stand for the abilities of learning and memory of rats,
   which would significantly increase along with the level of brain injuries.
25 [0164]    Data analysis and statistics:     The Student t-test and repeated ANOVA were
   used for statistical analysis.    Data shown was mean results ± SEM of each group.
   Data of AlCl 3 group was compared with normal group to calculate the statistical
   significance.    Data of AlCl 3 group was also compared with AlCl 3+N2 group to
                                                   -38 -

   calculate the statistical significance.   If p<0.0 5 , it is marked with *.  If p<0.01, it is
   marked with   *
   Results:
   [0165]    It has been reported that heavy metal-induced dementia is similar to
 5 Alzheimer's disease.       Both of them induce the formation of amyloid precursor
   proteins, and theresults in the formation of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles.
   Therefore, we employed the heavy metal-induced dementia rat as the animal model to
   understand the effect of the extract composition containing the soybean seed extract
   and soybean seed vapor fraction on Alzheimer's - like diseases.             The results are
 o shown in FIGs. 17 to 19.       Referring to FIG. 17, the tracking path of rats on Day 4
   suggests that the rats of the AlCl 3 + N2 group are able to reach the locations of baits
   with their memory after training, and the rats of the AlCl 3 group and AlCl 3+cream
   base group are not.       Referring to FIG. 18, the TME values of AlCl 3 group and
   AlCl 3+cream base group show no significant difference (p>0.0 5 ), and the TME values
 5 on Day 4 after the treatment of the extract composition comprising the soybean seed
   extract and soybean seed vapor fraction are significantly lower than those of AlCl 3
   group (AlCl 3 +N2 p=0.0128).       It shows that the extract composition comprising the
   soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has the effect on treating
   dementia rats.      Referring to FIG. 19, the RME values of AlCl 3 group and
20 AlCl 3+cream base group show no significant difference (p>0.05), and the RME values
   on Day 4 after the treatment of the extract composition comprising the soybean seed
   extract and soybean seed vapor fraction are significantly lower than those of AlCl 3
   group (p=0.0046).      It shows that the extract composition comprising the soybean seed
   extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has the effect on restoring the long-term
25 memory of rats.      The results show that the errors of AlCl 3 group are significantly
   higher than the control group in the radial arm maze test, which refers to successful
   induction of dementia by AlCl 3 in rat.     The memory impairment of reference memory
   is also significantly improved after treated by the extract composition comprising the
                                                   - 39 -

   soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction.          This indicates that the extract
   composition comprising the soybean seed extract and soybean seed vapor fraction has
   the efficacy in treating dementia.
   (II)    Vascular dementia:
 5 Material and method:
   [0166]     The groups were shown in Table 11.
          Table 11:
   Groups Dementia induction                         Test article
   Sham       none                                   sham
   2VO        two-sided carotid arterial ligature    two-sided carotid arterial ligature control
                                                     group
   M          two-sided carotid arterial ligature    Cream base
   M1         two-sided carotid arterial ligature    GMC1
   M3         two-sided carotid arterial ligature    GMC1+0.5% GMA1
   [0167]     Rats and animal facility are as described in (I) induced dementia.
   [0168]     Rats were anesthetized with 1:1.5 ketamine-Rompun mixtures (0.1 mL/I00g,
 o i.p.) and were fixed on the surgery plate.     Both common carotid arteries were exposed
   via a midline cervical incision in the dorsal neck region and were double-ligated with
   silk sutures.    The wounds were sutured and the rats were placed under warm light
   until they recovered.
   [0169]     The cream base (M), GMC1(M1), and GMC1+0.5%GMA1                        (M3) were
15 topically applied (2 g / rat) to head and neck area with massaging for 30 seconds, and
   to nasal mucosa.      Treatment continued for four weeks, and memory of rats was
   measured by radial arm maze in the last two weeks.           The radial arm maze test is as
   described in (I) induced dementia.
   [0170]     Data analysis and statistics:      The unpaired Student t-test and two-way
20 ANOVA were used for statistical analysis.         Data shown was mean results ± SEM of
   each group.      Data of Sham group was compared with 2VO group to calculate the
   statistical significance.   Drug treated groups was compared with 2VO group to
                                                   -40-

   calculate the statistical significance.    p< 0 .0 5 means there is a significant difference,
   and it is marked with *.     p< 0 .0 1 means there is a very significant difference, and it is
   marked with **
   Results:
 5 [0171]    The number of errors of 2VO group is significantly higher than Sham group
   (FIGs. 20 to 23), which refers to successful induction of vascular dementia in rats by
   two-sided carotid arterial ligature, and the memory impairment caused by vascular
   dementia is significantly improved after two weeks of M1 and M3 treatments.
   According to the results of Computed Tomography scan of the VD rat brains, bilateral
 o occlusion of both common carotids arteries (2VO) caused swelling, softening,
   histolysis of brain tissues, or even blood clot formation, and thus induced the dementia.
   The brain injuries are significantly decreased after M1 and M3 treatments.
   Extract compositionfor treating breast cancer and reducing side effects of interfering
   with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing pharmaceuticaleffects of
 5 interfering with DNA and/orRNA replicationdrugs
   Material:
   [0172]    Cell line and reagent: MDA-MB-231              (purchased from Food Industry
   Research and Development Institute, Taiwan); Penicillin-Streptomycin-Neomycin
   Mixture (100x), fetal bovine serum (FBS) and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium
20 (DMEM) were purchased from Gibco@; cyclophosphamide (CTX, Endoxan@).
   [0173]    Animal        facility:       Approximately        6       to      8      week-old
   BALB/cAnN.Cg-Foxn"/CrlNarl              female      mice  were   obtained    from   National
   Laboratory Animal Center, Taiwan.          The environment conditions were: temperature:
   25 ± 1 C; humidity: 60 ± 5%; independent air condition; controlled light cycle.
25 Water and food was supplied ad libitum throughout the study period.            The mice were
   housed according to the standard procedure of the laboratory animal committee.
   [0174]    Tumor-bearing mice induction:          MDA-MB-231 cells (human breast cancer
   cells) were cultured until 5x106 cells, the cells required in injection of female nude
                                                    - 41 -

   mice were collected with trypsin, and resuspended in PBS solution for tumor induction.
   The tumor of nude mice was induced by subcutaneous injected with 100 piL of cell
   solution and released back into the cages to be a normal diet.    When the tumor was
   about 300 mm 3 , the mice were subjected to topical administration of different doses of
 5 the extract composition and grouping into CTX group and non-CTX group.              The
   weight, appetite, blood sugar and tumor size growth were observed every week to
   assess the appearance of the normal physiological state of nude mice to understand the
   efficacy of the extract composition.
   [0175]    Grouping the tumor-bearing mice and treatment:         When the tumor was
 o about 300 mm 3 , the mice were subjected to grouping as shown in Table 12.          The
   chemotherapy drug (an injection a week) was administrated with the extract
   composition.    The treating group was topically applied to the tumor area, skin around
   the tumor, and the whole back skin with the dosage of 0.1 g / day.      After treatment
   for 5 weeks, the weight, appetite, blood sugar and tumor size growth of the nude mice
 5 were observed.
         Table 12:
   Group            Tumor induction           Chemotherapy drug Test article
   Normal           None                      None                   None
   Tumor            MDA-MB-231 induction      None                   None
   JI               MDA-MB-231 induction      None                   GMC1
   J2               MDA-MB-231 induction      None                   0.3%GMA1
   NO CTX+ L5 MDA-MB-231 induction            None                   GMC1+0.5%GMA1
   CTX              MDA-MB-231 induction      CTX/4 injections       None
   CTX+ LI          MDA-MB-231 induction      CTX/4 injections       Cream base
   CTX+ L5          MDA-MB-231 induction      CTX/4 injections       GMC1+0.5%GMA1
   [0176]    Clinical assessment of tumor-bearing mice:      The physiological state and
   tumor size of the tumor-bearing mice were assessed including weight, appetite, blood
   sugar and tumor size.     The tumor size was calculated according to: tumor volume
20 (mm) =ab 2/2, to assess the tumor growth rate.
   Results:
                                               - 42 -

   [0177]   In the model of tumor-bearing nude mice induced by human breast cancer
   cell MDA-MB-231, after the treatment, the extract compositions J1 and J2 show effect
   on inhibiting tumor growth in nude mice (Table 13 and FIG. 25).                              In the
   physiological state assessment, the extract composition groups show better appetite
 5 and blood sugar value.
         Table 13:
                      Tumor size (mm 3)
                      Week 0             Week 1                  Week 2              Week 3
   J1                 0.0                63.40                   126.23              369.51
   J2                 0.0                -2.02                   26.83               182.19
   Tumor              0.00               72.69                   380.71              696.90
   [0178]   In GMC1+0.5%GMA1 (NO CTX+ L5) group, it shows that the extract
   composition inhibits the tumor growth in nude mice (FIG. 26).
   [0179]   Compared to the normal group, the physiological state and tumor growth of
 0 the tumor + chemotherapy drug group (CTX group), extract composition +
   chemotherapy drug group (CTX+L1 and CTX+L5 groups) was assessed.                           Referring
   to Table 14 and FIGs. 26 and 27, the results of CTX+L1 and CTX+L5 groups show
   enhancing effect of the chemotherapy drug on eliminating tumor in the tumor-bearing
   mice administrated with the chemotherapy drug without affecting the body weight, the
.5 average food intake and the average blood sugar (Tables 15 to 17).
         Table 14: tumor size elimination (mm 3 )
             4/28      5/2     5/5     5/9      5/12        5/16       5/19    5/23      5/26      5/30
    Normal   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00
    Tumor    0.00    108.05  364.31  428.36    627.45      874.62    1295.63 1961.51   2727.56   2938.30
      CTX    0.00    99.61    78.95  -19.52    -45.11     -157.57    -176.41 -264.85   -293.68   -391.42
   CTX+L1    0.00    89.22   113.36   21.27    -46.75     -138.97    -179.55 -224.38   -294.03   -384.43
   CTX+L5    0.00    149.85  173.28  48.54     -56.91     -170.01    -220.34 -274.15   -338.79   -510.04
         Table 15: average body weight (g)
              4/28      5/2     5/5     5/9       5/12        5/16      5/19    5/23     5/26     5/30
    Normal   20.61    21.34    20.91   21.16     20.31       21.13     20.41   21.90    21.63     21.96
    Tumor    19.64     19.11   20.03   18.75     18.57       20.22     20.48   21.36    21.74     22.67
                                                     -43-

     CTX      19.64     20.04    18.46    19.00     19.51      20.99     20.42     21.16    20.21      22.18
   CTX+L1     20.05     20.59    18.72    19.34     18.79      19.23     19.98     20.08    19.94      21.31
   CTX+L5     19.12     19.51    18.45    19.09     19.23      19.61     19.93     19.69    19.03      20.52
         Table 16: average food intake (g)
                5/5~5/9     5/9-5/12   5/12-5/16      5/16-5/19      5/19-5/23      5/23-5/26     5/26-5/30
    Normal        4.95        4.75        5.18            4.69          4.52           4.37          4.50
     Tumor        4.94        4.48        4.56            4.75          4.25           4.65          4.20
      CTX         4.89        5.61        5.38            5.21          4.70           4.76          5.22
   CTX+L1         4.45        4.58        4.88            4.64          4.08           4.01          4.46
   CTX+L5         4.60        5.12        4.47            5.09          4.36           4.21          4.62
         Table 17: average blood sugar (dL)
                    5/2           5/9           5/16            5/23           5/30
    Normal          110            84            99              97             98
    Tumor           60             66            82              89             74
     CTX            113            93           109             122             108
   CTX+L1           110            93            92              99             101
   CTX+L5           110           109           104             106             102
   [0180]    Clinically, one of the main reasons for abandonment of cancer treatment is
   cancer pain caused by cancer.         It is found that cancer pain is caused in part by the
 5 tumor, mainly due to the inflammation and nerve compression caused by tumor
   invasion to the internal organs,            peripheral nerves,         and bones.         The extract
   composition can effectively inhibit tumor growth, and also suppress cancer pain
   caused by cancer in part, and is helpful in the treatment.
   [0181]    While the present invention has been described in conjunction with the
10 specific embodiments set forth above, many alternatives thereto and modifications and
   variations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.                     All such
   alternatives, modifications and variations are regarded as falling within the scope of
   the present invention.
                                                       - 44  -

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
          1.       An extract composition comprising a soybean seed extract, which
   soybean seed extract is prepared by a process comprising steps of:
                    (a) providing soybean seeds and an extracting solution, which extracting
 5       solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration
         lower than about 90 wt%;
                    (b) extracting the soybean seeds with the extracting solution at a
         barometric pressure lower than or equal to about 1 atm and at a temperature lower
         than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract; and
10                  (c) removing solids from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.
         2.        The extract composition according to claim 1, wherein the process for
   preparing the soybean seed extract further comprises a step (d) of concentrating the
   liquid portion obtained in the step (c) to obtain a concentrated solid portion.
         3.        The extract composition according to claim 2, wherein the process for
15 preparing the soybean seed extract further comprises a step (e) of drying the
   concentrated solid portion obtained in the step (d).
         4.        The extract composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3 further
   comprising a soybean seed vapor fraction, which soybean seed vapor fraction is
   prepared by a process comprising steps of:
20                  (i) providing soybean seeds in a second extracting solution, which
         second extracting solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at
         the concentration lower than about 15 wt%; and
                    (ii) extracting the soybean seeds with the second extracting solution at a
         barometric pressure lower than about 1 atm and at a temperature lower than about
25        11 00 C and collecting the vapor fraction.
                                               - 45  -

         5.       The extract composition according to claim 4, wherein the alcohol
   solution in step (i) contains alcohol at the concentration lower than about 5 wt%.
         6.       The extract composition according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the content of
   the soybean seed extract is from about 0.001 wt% to about 5 wt%; and the content of
 5 the soybean seed vapor fraction is from about 95 wt% to about 99.999 wt%.
         7.       A method for preparing the extract composition according to any of
   claims 1 to 6 comprising a process for preparing the soybean seed extract comprising
   steps of:
                   (a) providing soybean seeds and an extracting solution, which extracting
10       solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at the concentration
         lower than about 90 wt%;
                   (b) extracting the soybean seeds with the extracting solution at a
         barometric pressure lower than or equal to about 1 atm and at a temperature lower
         than about 60'C to obtain an crude extract; and
15                 (c) removing solids from the crude extract to obtain a liquid portion.
         8.       The method according to claim 7, wherein the process for preparing the
   soybean seed extract further comprises a step (d) of concentrating the liquid portion
   obtained in the step (c) to obtain a concentrated solid portion.
         9.       The method according to claim 7, wherein the process for preparing the
20 soybean seed extract further comprises a step (e) of drying the concentrated solid
   portion obtained in the step (d).
          10.     Use of the extract composition according to any of claims 1 to 6 in the
   manufacture of a medicament for promoting wound healing.
          11.     Use according to claim 10, which is in the manufacture of a medicament
25 for promoting skin cell migration.
                                               - 46 -

          12.    Use according to claim 11, wherein the skin cell is a keratinocyte.
          13.    Use according to claim 10, wherein the wound is a diabetic wound.
          14.    Use of the extract composition according to any of claims 1 to 6 in the
   manufacture    of a medicament        for promoting neuron cell proliferation and/or
 5 neurodegenerative diseases.
          15.    Use according to claim 14, wherein the neuron cell is a neuroblastoma
   cell.
          16.    Use according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the neurodegenerative diseases
   are selected from the group consisting of vascular dementia, Alzheimer's disease,
10 Parkinson's disease, cerebral vascular disease, inflammatory brain injury, brain damage
   surrounding inflammatory response, brain lesions, cerebral hematoma, swelling
   ventricle and ventricular dilatation.
          17.    Use of the extract composition according to any of claims 1 to 6 in the
   manufacture of a medicament for treating breast cancer.
15        18.    Use according to claim 17, wherein the breast cancer is the breast cancer
   with p53 mutant type.
          19.    Use of the extract composition according to any of claims 1 to 6 and a
   soybean seed vapor fraction in the manufacture of a medicament of reducing side
   effects of interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs, and/or enhancing
20 pharmaceutical effects of interfering with DNA and/or RNA replication drugs which
   soybean seed vapor fraction is prepared by a process of comprising steps of:
                  (i) providing soybean seeds in a second extracting solution, which
         second extracting solution is water or an alcohol solution containing alcohol at
         the concentration lower than about 15 wt%, and
                                              - 47 -

                 (ii) extracting the soybean seeds with the second extracting solution at a
        barometric pressure lower than about 1 atm and at a temperature lower than about
        1000 C and collecting the vapor fraction.
        20.     Use according to claim 19, wherein the interfering with DNA and/or
5 RNA replication drugs are selected from the group consisting of cyclophosphamide,
  temozolomide, hexamethylmelamine, platinum complexes, bleomycin, vinblastine,
  vincristine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, folic acid antagonists, purine antagonists, and
  pyrimidine antagonists.
                                            -48-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
