                                ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        The sex of embryos in eggs is influenced or controlled through the application of light
having selected wavelengths in order to promote the development of embryos of a selected sex.
An incubating device is provided having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside,
and having a plurality of lighting elements disposed on each of a plurality of trays disposed in
the interior cavity. Eggs are disposed on the trays, and pre-determined environmental conditions
are applied to the interior cavity to promote hatching of the eggs. Concurrently with the
application of the environmental conditions, the eggs are irradiated according to pre-determined
lighting conditions. The lighting conditions include applying light having wavelengths
substantially concentrated in selected ranges, such as light wavelengths within the 390-419 nm,
410-450 nm, 420-450 nm, 450-495 nm, or other narrow range.

                                                  1
              CONTROLLING SEX OF OVIPAROUS EMBRYOS USING LIGHT
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]         This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/735,786, filed on December 11, 2012; U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/746,475, filed on December 27, 2012; U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/759,536
filed on Feb. 01, 2013, U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/802,826 filed on Mar. 18,
2013; U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/813,905 filed on Apr. 19, 2013; and U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/845,466 filed on July 12, 2013, all to Grajcar, the
disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entireties.
Technical Field
[0002]         This disclosure relates to controlling the sex of avians, fish, or other oviparous
animals at the embryonic stage.       More specifically, this disclosure is directed to applying
selected wavelengths of light and/or electromagnetic radiation to eggs in order to influence the
sex of embryos within the eggs.
Background
[0003]         Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
knowledge in the field.
[0003a]        While sex (or gender) in higher vertebrates is determined at fertilization, sex
determining genes in chicken become active at a later stage during embryogenesis to induce the
formation of testes or ovaries.     This has led to the long-standing belief that much of the
underlying genetic pathway is conserved through the later stage of embryogenesis. However,
comparative studies on sex determination in the chicken embryo have revealed both conserved
and divergent elements in the pathway.        For example, the gonads of chicken embryos are
morphologically indistinguishable between the sexes, and thus "indifferent" or "bipotential," at
days 3.5-4.5.

                                                   2
[0004]          In the poultry and other animal-production markets, including but not limited to
chickens, turkeys, and the like, the ability to control or affect the sex of the animals would
greatly enhance the production and efficiency of production.         For example, in egg laying
operations only hens or females are desired. Thus, when a flock of avian is born, only female
avians are retained and often male avians are euthanized or otherwise disposed of. Because
males and females are born at an approximate 50/50 sex ratio, approximately half of all avian
born at such operations are thus lost and unproductive or provide diminished production.
[0005]          A need thus exists for controlling, promoting, or otherwise influencing the sex of
the avians before hatching in order to selectively produce more male or female avians, and
thereby increase production and decrease waste and costs.       A need also exist for robust cost
effective lighting fixtures that can achieve such results.
Summary
[0006]          The teachings herein alleviate one or more of the above noted problems with
established incubation methods, by enabling the sex of embryos in eggs to be influenced or
controlled through the application of light having selected wavelengths.
[0007]          According to one aspect of the disclosure, a method of promoting production of
embryos of a selected sex in eggs is provided. The method includes incubating a plurality of
fertilized eggs to promote hatching of the eggs, and irradiating the plurality of fertilized eggs
with light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a narrow range of wavelengths
while the plurality of fertilized eggs are incubated.
[0008]          The narrow range of wavelengths may be one of a 410-450 nm wavelength range
and a 450-495 nm wavelength range.
[0009]          The method may further include selecting the narrow range of wavelengths for
the spectrum of light irradiating the eggs based on the selected sex of embryos being promoted
in the eggs. In one example, the narrow range of wavelengths may be selected to be the 410-450
nm wavelength range when production of female embryos is promoted. In another example, the
narrow range of wavelengths may be selected to be the 450-495 nm wavelength range when
production of male embryos is promoted.

                                                  3
[0010]          The plurality of fertilized eggs may be irradiated with light having the spectrum
substantially concentrated within the narrow range of wavelengths during the first 6 days of
incubation.
[0011]          The plurality of fertilized eggs may only be irradiated with light having the
spectrum substantially concentrated within the narrow range of wavelengths while the plurality
of fertilized eggs are incubated. Optionally, the method may thus include shielding the plurality
of fertilized eggs from light having a spectrum substantially concentrated outside of the narrow
range of wavelengths while the plurality of fertilized eggs are incubated.
[0012]          The irradiating of the eggs may include irradiating the plurality of fertilized eggs
with light having an intensity of 3 lumens or less while the plurality of fertilized eggs are
incubated.
[0013]          According to another aspect of the disclosure, an incubating device is provided
that includes a body having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside of the body, a
plurality of trays disposed in the interior cavity and configured to receive eggs for incubation, a
plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and configured to
emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a pre-detennined narrow
wavelength range for irradiating the eggs, and a lighting controller electrically connected to the
plurality of lighting elements and configured to activate the lighting elements at a pre-determined
lighting intensity and according to a pre-determined schedule to irradiate the eggs with light
having a spectrum substantially concentrated within the pre-determined wavelength range and
having the pre-determined lighting intensity according to the pre-determined schedule.
[0014]          The plurality of lighting elements can include a first plurality of lighting elements
disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and configured to emit light having a spectrum
substantially concentrated within a first pre-determined wavelength range, and a second plurality
of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and configured to emit light
having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a second pre-determined wavelength range
different from the first pre-determined wavelength range.          The lighting controller can be
electrically connected to the first and second pluralities of lighting elements and configured to
separately activate the lighting elements of the first and second pluralities of lighting elements
with respective lighting intensities and according to respective schedules for irradiating the eggs.
[0015]          Each tray of the plurality of trays can have an upper surface configured to have

                                                  4
the eggs disposed thereon and a lower surface opposite to the upper surface, and the plurality of
lighting elements can include lighting elements disposed on the lower surface of at least one tray.
The plurality of lighting elements can further include lighting elements disposed on the upper
and lower surfaces of at least one tray.
[0016]          The lighting elements may be configured to emit light with wavelengths
substantially concentrated within narrow bands of wavelengths including but not limited to the
range of 410-450 nm and/or 450-495 nm.
[0017]          The lighting elements can be light emitting diodes (LEDs).
[00 18]         The incubating device can include at least one tray actuator mechanically coupled
to each of the plurality of trays, and operative to move the trays having the eggs for incubation.
Each tray of the plurality of trays may be rotatable about an axis, and the at least one tray
actuator may be configured to rotate the trays to cause the trays to tilt in response to a control
signal received by the actuator.       The device may further include a controller electrically
connected to the at least one tray actuator and including the lighting controller, and the controller
may be configured to control the operation of the at least one tray actuator and the plurality of
lighting elements according to the pre-determined schedule.
[0019]          The incubating device can further include a magnetic field source disposed in the
interior cavity and configured to produce a magnetic flux in the interior cavity for application to
the eggs.
[0020]          According to another aspect of the disclosure, a method includes disposing, in an
incubating device having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside, a plurality of
lighting elements on each of a plurality of trays disposed in the interior cavity and configured to
receive eggs for incubation, wherein each lighting element of the plurality of lighting elements is
configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a pre-determnined
narrow range of wavelengths. A plurality of eggs is disposed on each of the plurality of trays
having lighting elements disposed thereon, and pre-determined environmental conditions are
applied to the interior cavity of the incubating device, wherein the environmental conditions are
selected to promote hatching of the plurality of eggs.         Pre-determined lighting conditions
including lighting having a spectrum substantially concentrated within the pre-determined
narrow range of wavelengths are further applied to the interior cavity of the incubating device,

                                                    5
wherein the lighting conditions are applied during the application of the environmental
conditions selected to promote hatching of the plurality of eggs.
[0021]          The pre-determined lighting conditions can be selected to promote production of
embryos of a selected sex in the eggs, and the narrow range of wavelengths is selected based on
the selected sex.
[0022]          The environmental conditions can be applied according to a pre-determined
schedule, and the lighting conditions can be applied according to the same pre-determined
schedule.
[0023]          The lighting elements may be configured to emit light with wavelengths
substantially concentrated within ranges 410-450 nr and/or 450-495 nm.
[0024]          The disposing the plurality of lighting elements on each of the plurality of trays
can include disposing, on each tray of the plurality of trays, a first plurality of lighting elements
configured to emit light having wavelengths substantially concentrated within a first pre
determined wavelength range, and a second plurality of lighting elements configured to emit
light having wavelengths substantially concentrated within a second pre-determined wavelength
range different from the first pre-determined wavelength range.        The applying pre-determined
lighting conditions to the interior cavity of the incubating device can include separately
activating the lighting elements of the first and second pluralities of lighting elements with
respective lighting intensities and according to respective schedules for irradiating the eggs.
[0025]          Each tray can have an upper surface configured to have the eggs disposed thereon
and a lower surface opposite to the upper surface, and the disposing the plurality of lighting
elements on each of the trays can include disposing lighting elements on the lower surface of at
least one tray.
[0026]          The applying pre-determined lighting conditions to the interior cavity of the
incubating device can include causing the lighting elements to emit light having an intensity of 3
lumens or less.
[0026a]         According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
promoting production of embryos of a selected sex in eggs, the method comprising:
                incubating a plurality of fertilized eggs to promote hatching of the eggs;

                                                    6
                irradiating the    plurality  of fertilized  eggs with light having        a spectrum
substantially concentrated within a narrow range of wavelengths while the plurality of fertilized
eggs are incubated; and
                selecting the narrow range of wavelengths for the spectrum of light irradiating the
eggs on the selected sex of embryos being promoted in the eggs.
[0026b]         According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided an
incubating device comprising:
                a body having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside of the body;
                a plurality of trays disposed in the interior cavity and configured to receive eggs
for incubation;
                a plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and
configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a pre-determined
narrow wavelength range for irradiating the eggs; and
                a lighting controller electrically connected to the plurality of lighting elements and
configured to activate the lighting elements at a pre-determined lighting intensity and according
to a pre-determined schedule to irradiate the eggs with light having a spectrum substantially
concentrated within the pre-determined wavelength range and having the pre-determined lighting
intensity according to the pre-determined schedule wherein the light in the narrow wavelength
range is selected to promote the production of non-human embryos of a selected sex.
[0026c]         According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
comprising:
                disposing, in an incubating device having an interior cavity that can be sealed
from an outside, a plurality of lighting elements on each of a plurality of trays disposed in the
interior cavity and configured to receive eggs for incubation, wherein each lighting element of
the plurality of lighting elements is configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially
concentrated within a pre-determined narrow range of wavelengths;
                disposing a plurality of eggs on each of the plurality of trays having lighting
elements disposed thereon;
                applying pre-determined environmental conditions to the interior cavity of the
incubating device, wherein the environmental conditions are selected to promote hatching of the
plurality of eggs; and

                                                   7
                applying pre-determined lighting conditions including lighting having a spectrum
substantially concentrated within the pre-determined narrow range of wavelengths to the interior
cavity of the incubating device,
                wherein the lighting conditions are applied during the application of the
environmental conditions selected to promote hatching of the plurality of eggs.
[0026d]         According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided an
incubating device comprising:
                a body having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside of the body;
                a plurality of trays disposed in the interior cavity and configured to receive eggs
for incubation; and
                a plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and
configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a pre-detennined
narrow wavelength range for irradiating the eggs;
                wherein the narrow wavelength of light is selected to promote the production of
non-human embryos of a selected sex.
[0026e]         It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
0026f]          Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including,
but not limited to".
[0027]          Additional advantages and novel features will be set forth in part in the
description which follows, and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon
examination of the following and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production
or operation of the examples.        The advantages of the present teachings may be realized and
attained by practice or use of various aspects of the methodologies, instrumentalities and
combinations set forth in the detailed examples discussed below.

                                                 8
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0028]         The drawing figures depict one or more implementations in accord with the
present teachings, by way of example only, not by way of limitation.         In the figures, like
reference numerals refer to the same or similar elements.
[0029]         FIGS. 1A, 1B, IC, and ID are schematic diagrams of an incubating device in
accordance with the inventive concepts described herein.
[0030]         FIG. 2 is a flow diagram showing steps of a method for controlling the sex of
oviparous embryos using light sources.
Detailed Description
[0031]         In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth by
way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings.
However, it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be
practiced without such details.       In other instances,    well known methods, procedures,
components, and/or circuitry have been described at a relatively high-level, without detail, in
order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.
[0032]         The various systems and methods disclosed herein relate to controlling or
influencing the sex of embryos in eggs in order to promote the development of embryos of a
selected sex.
[0033]         The systems and methods rely on the application of light having selected
wavelengths to incubated eggs in order to influence the sex ratios of embryos in development
within the eggs.   The systems include an incubating device having an interior cavity in which
lighting elements emitting light having the selected wavelengths are mounted.       The lighting
elements are mounted on trays designed to hold the eggs, such that light emitted by the lighting
elements irradiates the eggs.     The lighting elements illuminate the eggs during an early
incubation period, and thereby promote the production of eggs of a selected sex.
[0034]         Various studies have been performed on sex-determination in avians.        In one
study, the localization of P450 (17-alpha) and P450 aromatase (P450arom) mRNA expression
was studied in the gonads of chicken embryos at days 4-9. The first detection of P450 (17 alpha)
mRNA was at days 5-6 of incubation in the genetic male and female gonads, and the first

                                                 9
detection of P450arom at day 6.5 in the female gonad with none in the male gonad. Thus sex
determination in chickens appears not to occur until several days after incubation.
[0035]         Further, estrogen synthesis plays a critical role in avian sex determination. The
two terminal enzymes necessary for estrogen synthesis, P-450 aromatase and 17fHSD are
expressed only in ZW (female) gonads at the onset of morphological differentiation (day 6-6.5).
Aromatase and 17pHSD are therefore the key sexually dimorphic components.
[0036]         Enzyme synthesis is very sensitive to environmental stimuli.            One known
environmental stimuli is temperature, as observed in temperature-dependent sex determination
(TSD). TSD is a type of environmental sex determination in which the temperatures experienced
during embryonic development determine the sex of the offspring.          It is most prevalent and
common among amniote vertebrates that are classified under the reptile class. For that matter,
studies have shown that increased incubation temperature in very specific H&H stages (a series
of normal stages in the development of the chick embryo as provided by Hamburger V, Hamilton
HL Dev. Dyn. 1992 Dec., 195(4): 231-272) changes the gender of poultry; however, such
increase in temperature causes a decrease in hatchability to the point where such a gender change
is not economically beneficial.
[0037]         Specific wavelengths of light are known to cause photoisomerization such that
enzymatic activity can be effectively controlled by wavelength of light. In particular a recent
study showed that restriction endonucleases could be used as a molecular scissors to cut the
phosphodiester bond to generate a double stranded break. In this manner the catalytic activity of
the orthodox restriction endonuclease PvuII by light was provided.
[0038]         Additionally, research has shown that by using RNA interference to reduce
DMRTI      (doublesex-mab-3-related    transcription  factor   1)  protein    expression leads  to
feminization of the embryonic gonads in genetically male embryos causing partial sex reversal.
DMRTI has a zinc finger core which may absorb near UV light (e.g., light having a wavelength
of approximately 43 Onm, such as light having wavelengths in the 41 Onm-43 Onm range), and may
thereby similarly reduce DMRTi protein expression.           Thus, the resulting lower levels of
DMRTl lead to fewer male offspring and more female offspring.
[0039]         Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying
drawings and discussed below.

                                                 10
 [0040]        FIG. 1A show an incubating device 10 that has a body 12.           In the illustrative
embodiment of FIG. 1A, the body 12 has a generally rectangular cuboid shape having first and
second sidewalls 14 and 16 parallel to each other. The first and second sidewalls 14 and 16 are
connected to and orthogonal to top and bottom walls 18 and 20 that are themselves in parallel to
each other. A back wall 22 defines a hollow interior cavity 24 of the body 12. A front wall or
door 26 is hingedly connected to one of the sidewalls 14 and 16 to allow access to the interior
cavity 24 of the body 12, while also enabling the interior cavity 24 to be isolated from the
outside environment when the door 26 is closed. In some examples, the door 26 is made of a
transparent material and/or includes a window to allow a user to view the interior cavity 24 while
the door 26 is closed. In other examples, the door 26 completely encloses the interior cavity 24.
The door 26 may further be formed of one-way window such that a user can view the interior
cavity 24 from outside, while light from outside of the cavity 24 does not enter the cavity 24
through the window. The body 12 generally shields the inside of the incubating device 10 and
eggs located in the incubating device 10 from radiation, including light, that is present outside of
the incubating device 10.
[0041]         A plurality of holding members or trays 28 are disposed within the interior cavity
24. The trays 28 are configured to receive and stably hold a plurality of eggs 30. As shown,
each tray 28 can include a plurality of slots, holes 35, or other cups each configured to stably
hold one egg. The trays 28 are mounted to the interior of the body 12. In some examples, the
trays 28 are mounted on one or more actuators that enable the trays 28 to move with respect to
the body 12. In one example, each tray 28 is mounted on a rotatable axle 37 mounted to and
controlled by a rotational actuator 39 (see FIG. 1B). The actuator 39 is itself mounted to the
body 12, and is operative to move the trays 28 with respect to the body 12. The actuator may
continuously or periodically move the trays 28 having the eggs 30 disposed thereon. In the one
example, the actuator 39 is operative to rotate the tray between a horizontal position (as shown)
and angled positions in the clockwise and counter-clockwise directions. The angled positions
may correspond to angles measured from the horizontal, and may range between 0' and a
maximum angle (e.g., 150 or 300). The maximum angle is generally selected such that even
when the tray is rotated to the maximum angle, any eggs 30 disposed on the tray 28 are not
dislodged from their slots, holes 35, or cups.

                                                   11
 [0042]          The eggs 30 can be of any avian species, including, but not limited to chicken
eggs, turkey eggs, and the like. Reptilian and other species' eggs may also be used. The trays 28
rotate or tilt to various angles in response to actuators 39 to simulate the movement the egg
would encounter in nature, for example as the egg is laid upon by a hen or subject to other
environmental conditions.
[0043]           FIG. IC provides a detailed top view of a tray 28, while FIG. ID provides a cross
sectional view through multiple trays 28. Note that in some embodiments, the top and bottom
views of a tray 28 are substantially identical, and in such embodiments a bottom view of a tray
28 may thus be substantially identical to the view shown in FIG. IC.
[0044]           As shown in FIGS. IC and ID, a plurality of lighting elements 32 are disposed on
one or both surfaces of each tray 28. In one example, the lighting elements 32 are disposed only
on an underside of each tray 28. In another example, the lighting elements 32 are disposed only
on an upper surface of each tray 28 (corresponding to a surface on which the eggs 30 are
disposed). In other examples, the lighting elements 32 are disposed on both the underside and
the upper surface of each tray 28, as shown in FIG. ID. Lighting elements 32 can additionally or
alternatively be disposed on surfaces of the body 12 (e.g., surfaces of the interior cavity 24), or
other locations from which light and/or radiation emitted by the lighting elements 32 reaches the
eggs 30.
[0045]           In general, the lighting elements 32 are disposed such that they can provide a high
lighting intensity to each egg 30 disposed in the incubating device 10. The lighting elements 32
may thus be disposed in close proximity to the slots, holes 35, or cups holding the eggs 30, as
shown in FIGS. IC and ID.           Further, the lighting elements 32 are disposed such that light
emitted by the elements 32 can reach all or substantially all surfaces of each egg 30. Hence, as
shown in FIG. ID, an egg 30 can receive light emitted by the elements 32 from all sides. The
trays 28 and of the slits, holes 35, or cups for holding the eggs 30 can also be designed so as to
enable substantially all surfaces of each egg 30 to receive light.
[0046]           The lighting elements 32 are electrically connected to one another and to an
electrical power source 33 (shown in FIG. 1B).          In a preferred embodiment the plurality of
lighting elements 32 are light emitting diode (LED) elements that receive an AC voltage and/or
AC current waveform at their terminals for activation. In particular, the assembly formed of the
lighting elements 32 and power source 33 can incorporate AC driven LED technology from any

                                                 12
one of the following patent applications: U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2011/0101883 to Grajcar; U.S. Pat.
Pub. No. 2011/0109244 to Grajcar; U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2011/0210678 to Grajcar; U.S. Pat. Pub.
No. 2011/0228515 to Grajcar; U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2011/0241559 to Grajcar; U.S. Pat. Pub. No.
2011/0273098 to Grajcar; U.S. Pat. Apple. No. 13/452332 to Grajcar; and/or U.S. Pat. Prov. Appl.
No. 61/570,552 to Grajcar, which are all incorporated in their entirety herein.
[0047]         The incubating device 10 can include various systems for controlling conditions
within the interior cavity 24 of the device 10. FIG. 1B is a block diagram of some systems
operative to control environmental and other conditions within the interior cavity 24. As shown
in FIG. 1B, the incubating device 10 can thus include a heater 38 and/or cooler for controlling a
temperature in the interior cavity 24, and/or a humidifier 36 and/or de-humidifier for controlling
a level of moisture in the interior cavity 24. An optional magnetic field source 40 can further be
used to apply a constant and/or time-varying magnetic field or flux within the interior cavity 24
in response to an excitation current applied to the source 40.       In embodiments including a
magnetic field source 40, the walls of the body 12 and/or the interior walls of the cavity 24 may
provide magnetic shielding and provide a return path for the magnetic field or flux applied to the
cavity 24. Tray actuators 39 may further be mounted to the trays 28 so as to be operative to
continually or periodically move, rotate, or shake the trays 28.         As noted previously, the
incubating device further includes lighting elements 32 configured to emit light and/or other
radiation for application to eggs 30 disposed in the interior cavity 24. Each of the systems
receives power for operation from power source 33.
[0048]         A controller 31 is operative to operate the systems operative to control
environmental and other conditions within the interior cavity 24. The controller 31 can activate
and de-activate each system, and can further regulate the operation of the systems to reach a pre
determined temperature, humidity, magnetic field or flux, or the like.      The controller 31 may
include or be electrically coupled to sensors (not shown) located in the interior cavity 24 and
providing the controller 31 with information on current environmental conditions including
temperature, humidity, and the like. In some embodiments, the controller 31 includes a clock
and is operative to control the systems according to a pre-determined schedule. The controller
31 may thus operate the systems on a periodic basis (e.g., by repeating an activation pattern each
day), or on another time-varying basis (e.g., by activating the systems according to different
patterns on each day of incubation).

                                                   13
[0049]           A lighting controller 34 is operative to control operation of the lighting elements
32. The lighting controller 34 can be separate from the controller 31 (as shown), or the lighting
controller 34 can be integrated within the controller 31. The lighting controller 34 is operative to
control the intensity and wavelength of light emitted by each lighting element 32. The lighting
controller 34 can further activate and/or dim the lighting elements 32 on a continuous or on a
time-varying basis (e.g., a periodic or an aperiodic basis), as described in further detail below.
[0050]           The lighting controller 34 can operate the lighting elements 32 in unison, such
that all lighting elements are synchronously activated and de-activated, and/or such that all
lighting elements are activated with a same lighting intensity or dimming.           Alternatively, the
lighting controller 34 can operate different sets of lighting elements 32 differently, for example
to cause a first set of lighting elements 32 to be activated for a particular period of time (and/or at
a particular intensity level) and cause a second set of lighting elements 32 to be activated for a
different period of time (and/or a different intensity level).
[0051]           In some embodiments, the lighting controller 34 is operative to control a
wavelength of light emitted by the lighting elements 32. In particular, the plurality of lighting
elements 32 may include multiple sets of lighting elements 32 each operative to produce light
having a different wavelength. For example, the plurality of lighting elements 32 can include a
first set of lighting elements operative to produce light having a wavelength within a first range
of wavelengths (e.g., 410-450nm, 450-495 nm, or other narrow wavelength range), and a second
set of lighting elements operative to produce light having a wavelength within a second range of
wavelengths (e.g., 410-450nm, 450-495nm, or other narrow wavelength range) different from
and non-overlapping with the first range. Note that a light sources is operative to produce light
having a spectrum substantially concentrated within the specified range of wavelength (e.g., 410
450nm, 450-495 nm, or other narrow wavelength range) when over 90% or over 95% of the
lighting energy emitted by the light source is within the specified narrow range of wavelengths.
In some examples, the light source may thus also emit a small amount of light (e.g., less than
 10%, or less than 5% of lighting energy) outside of the specified range. The plurality of lighting
elements 32 can further include additional sets of lighting elements operative to produce light
having other wavelengths. The lighting controller 34 is operative to control each set of lighting
elements 23 separately, and can thereby adjust the range of wavelengths of light that is emitted

                                                 14
by the plurality of lighting elements 23 by selectively activating the different sets of lighting
elements 23 at respective lighting intensities.
[0052]          In general, the eggs disposed inside of the incubating device 10 are shielded from
light and other radiation that is present outside of the incubating device 10. As a result of the
shielding, including the shielding provided by the incubating device 10, the eggs 30 may
therefore be only exposed (or substantially only exposed) to the range of wavelengths of light
emitted by the lighting elements 23 in the incubating device 10 that are activated during the
incubating period. Furthermore, the lighting controller 34 may be operative to ensure that no
lighting elements 23 producing light with wavelengths substantially concentrated outside of the
specified range are activated during the incubation period, or during the period in which the
specified range of wavelengths are applied to the eggs.
[0053]          For example, in region 'r' of tray 28 shown in FIG. IC, two different sets of
lighting elements 32 are provided: a first set of lighting elements 32a is operative to emit light
within one range of wavelengths, while a second set of light elements 32b is operative to emit
light within another range of wavelengths. The lighting controller 34 is operative to separately
control the sets of lighting elements 32a and 32b such that each set can be activated at a different
time and with a different intensity than other sets of lighting elements. Different sets of lighting
elements can similarly be provided on the rest of the tray 28 outside of region 'r', including on
another surface of tray 28.
[0054]          In one embodiment, the plurality of lighting element 32 includes lighting elements
32 emitting blue wavelength (450-495 nm) light, ultraviolet light, or electromagnetic radiation.
The lighting elements 32 are controlled by lighting controller 34 that is operative to dim the
intensity of the light so as to reduce the intensity to less than 3 lumens. Thus, a constant low
intensity wavelength light is emitted throughout the interior cavity 24. The light can be of a
narrow frequency or monochromatic to direct the exact wavelength of light desired. In addition,
while described as low intensity, a higher intensity wavelength of light can be provided if needed
by the controller 34. Further, in the embodiment where LED elements are utilized as lighting
elements 32 because of the properties of LED lighting elements, the lights can be left on for long
durations of time.
[0055]          In the same or another embodiment, the plurality of lighting elements 32 includes
lighting elements 32 emitting light have wavelengths ranging from 410-450nm.           The lighting

                                                   15
elements 32 further are controlled by the lighting controller 34 that is operative to dim the
intensity of the light so as to reduce the intensity to less than 3 lumens. Thus, a constant low
intensity wavelength light is emitted through the interior cavity 24. In addition, while described
as low intensity, a higher intensity wavelength of light can be provided if needed by the
controller 34.
[0056]           While the intensity of the light can be reduced to less than 3 lumens, the intensity
of the light similarly can be increased to outputs of 800 lumens, 1000 lumens, or more.
Similarly, while light duration can be for long periods of time such as days, weeks, or months,
the duration between light and dark periods can also be controlled to a precision of hours,
minutes, seconds, and even milliseconds by the lighting controller 34.
[0057]          In other embodiments, the plurality of lighting elements 32 includes on a same
tray 28 lighting elements emitting electromagnetic radiation and light in the ultraviolet/blue
wavelength range, as well as lighting elements emitting light in the red wavelength range.
[0058]          The humidifier 36 is also associated with the interior cavity 24 and is preferably
attached to the top wall 18.      The humidifier 36 has a tubing element that can increase the
humidity level within the interior cavity 24 when the door 26 is closed. The humidifier 36 can
include a water input port for receiving water. In this manner, the humidity within the interior
cavity 24 can be controlled to provide any relative humidity from 0% humidity to 100%
humidity, such that the humidity with the interior cavity 24 is pre-determined.      Preferably the
humidity is maintained within a range of 50%-80% humidity. In some examples, a dehumidifier
can also be used to maintain humidity within the pre-determined range.
[0059]          The heater 38 is also electrically connected to the power source 33, and is
disposed within the interior cavity 24 to provide a predetermined amount of heat within the
interior cavity.   Preferably, the interior cavity 24 of the incubation device 10 is kept at a
temperature of between 90 and 110 degrees Fahrenheit during incubation.
[0060]          In one embodiment, the magnetic field source 40 is associated with the incubating
device 10, and is mounted within the interior cavity 24 to form a predetermined magnetic flux
through or affecting eggs 30 disposed in the cavity 24.
[0061]          FIG. 2 is a flow diagram showing steps of a method 200 for controlling the sex of
oviparous embryos using light sources.         The method can be performed using an incubating
device such as incubating device 10, or using any other appropriate device.

                                                  16
[0062]          Method 200 begins with step 201 in which lighting elements (e.g., lighting
elements 23, such as LEDs) are disposed along egg support trays.         In embodiments in which
incubating device 10 is used, the egg support trays are trays 28.       Lighting elements can be
mounted on the egg support trays as shown in FIGS. IC and ID, including on upper and/or lower
surfaces of the egg support trays.       Alternatively or additionally, lighting elements can be
mounted on side surfaces of the interior cavity 24 so as to be disposed along the egg support
trays and to illuminate upper and/or lower surfaces of the egg support trays. Lighting elements
may emit light within a pre-determined wavelength range, and different sets of lighting elements
emitting light in different wavelength ranges may be disposed along the support trays.
[0063]          In step 203, eggs are disposed on the egg support trays alongside of which the
lighting elements have been disposed. In embodiments in which incubating device 10 is used,
the eggs 30 are disposed within slits, holes 35, or cups located on or in the trays 28 and
configured to hold the eggs 30 in place.      The eggs are disposed so as to be spaced apart and
evenly distributed on the egg support trays to ensure that light emitted by the lighting elements
can reach substantially the entire outer surface of each egg 30.
[0064]          Once the eggs are in place on the support trays, pre-determined environmental
conditions are applied to the eggs in step 205. The environmental conditions can include pre
determined levels of humidity and temperature.         The environmental conditions can further
include application of a magnetic field. The environmental conditions can additionally include
movement or actuation, for example provided by tray actuators 39 operative to rotate trays 28 on
rotational axles 37.    In general, the environmental conditions are applied according to a pre
determined multi-day schedule, such that different environmental conditions can be applied on
different days and/or at different times during each day.        The environmental conditions are
generally selected to promote hatching of the plurality of eggs.
[0065]          In addition to environmental conditions, pre-determined lighting conditions are
applied to the eggs in step 207 during the application of the environmental conditions.        The
lighting conditions are selected to promote production of embryos of a selected sex in the eggs.
The lighting conditions can include pre-determined wavelengths of light being provided to the
eggs 30 by the lighting elements, and pre-determined lighting intensities being provided for each
wavelength.    The lighting conditions are generally applied according to a multi-day schedule,
such that different lighting conditions can be applied on different days and/or at different times

                                                 17
during each day in accordance with environmental conditions applied over the multi-day
schedule.    The lighting conditions can include irradiating the eggs 30 with light having a
spectrum substantially concentrated within a specified range of wavelength (e.g., 410-450nm,
450-495 nm, or other narrow wavelength range), such that over 90% or over 95% of the lighting
energy irradiating the eggs is within the specified narrow range of wavelengths. Note that the
eggs may also receive a small amount of light (e.g., less than 10%, or less than 5% of lighting
energy) outside of the specified range.
[0066]           Steps 205 and 207 may be repeatedly performed as adjustments to the
environmental conditions and/or lighting conditions are determined and applied to the eggs 30.
When the incubation period of the eggs disposed on the support trays has expired, the eggs 30
and/or hatchlings from the eggs 30 are removed from the environment in step 209.
[0067]          In operation, the pre-determining lighting conditions applied to the eggs in step
207 can be selected to control the sex of embryos contained in the eggs 30. For example, when
an increase in the percentage of female avian offspring, such as turkeys, is desired from a
plurality of eggs 30 or embryos, the eggs or embryos are illuminated by a predetermined
electromagnetic radiation, UV, or blue light. Further, a predetermined humidity and magnetic
field are also provided within the incubation device 10. As a result, enzymatic activity in the
eggs is controlled in a reversible manner.
[0068]           Specifically, the "P450" of P450 aromatase was derived from its spectral
absorption characteristics (Photonic 450 nm). If this molecule absorbs light it has to convert it to
another form of energy.      The absorbed energy is not used to power a chemical reaction, nor
converted to radiation. Thus heat, or possibly electron low to high spin transition must be the
byproduct. This causes an enhancement or control of the enzyme converting potential male
avian into female avian.
[0069]          In another embodiment DMRT1 protein expression is reduced to cause sex
reversal.   Specifically, the eggs 30 are irradiated with near-UV light or blue light (e.g., light
having a wavelength of approximately 430nm, such as light having wavelengths substantially
concentrated in the 410nm-450nm range) during the first days of incubation (e.g., during days 0
6 of incubation) to thereby reduce DMRTI protein expression.          Thus, the lower levels of
DMRT1 in the eggs 30 resulting from the eggs 30 being exposed to the near-UV light or the blue
light leads to fewer male offspring and more female offspring developing in the eggs.

                                                  18
 [0070]        In this manner, wavelength of light can be used to control the synthesis of P-450
Aromatase or reduce DMRTI protein expression and thus control or divert the sex of avian
during the fertilization period so that either a larger percentage of female animals or a larger
percentage of male animals result from incubation, as compared to a control group of a plurality
of eggs that are not illuminated with the electromagnetic radiation, UV, or blue light. In one
embodiment, an increase of at least 5% in the ratio of females to males is obtained relative to the
ratio found in a control group in which illumination in the specified wavelength range is not
applied. In another embodiment, the increase is of at least 10% in the ratio of females to males
among the illuminated eggs relative to the ratio observed in control group eggs.
[0071]         In particular, an experimental test was conducted using both fertilized turkey eggs
and fertilized chicken eggs.    The eggs were placed in an incubating device such as incubating
device 10 having lighting elements 32 disposed on trays 28 surrounding the eggs during the
incubation period.    Specifically, LED lighting elements producing monochromatic blue light at
approximately 450nm were mounted on the trays and used to illuminate the eggs during the
incubation period for approximately the first 84 hours (3.5 days) of incubation. The incubation
device 10 was placed in an environment such that only light from the lighting elements 32 of
trays 28 reached the eggs, and the eggs were placed in close proximity to the lighting elements
32 within the incubation device. Prior to placement within the incubation device 10, the turkey
eggs were stored at temperatures of approximately 40-50'F for several hours and then brought to
room temperature before being placed into the incubating device 10.
[0072]         In the experimental test, the turkey eggs were first loaded into the incubating
device 10 on the first day of incubation and the chicken eggs were added on the second day of
incubation.    The humidity, incubation temperature        in the device  10, and ambient room
temperature outside of the device 10 were recorded during each day of incubation. The humidity
was kept at approximately 56%, and the incubation temperature at between 98-100F. The room
temperature typically varied between 67' and 73'F, though the room did reach temperatures in
the 80'-90'F range on a few occasions. After approximately three weeks of incubation, the eggs
were removed from the incubating device, and the sex of the embryos in the eggs was
determined.
[0073]         During initial testing, the ratio of female turkey embryos to male turkey embryos
was determined to be approximately 2:1.           In addition, during the initial test, numerous

                                                   19
hermaphroditic turkey embryos were discovered.           Upon further analysis, the hermaphroditic
turkeys were determined to be female, and a ratio of female turkey embryos to male turkey
embryos of 3:1 was obtained.       This ratio is in sharp contrast to an approximately 1:1 ratio of
females to males obtained         for   incubated turkey   eggs according     to typical incubation
methodologies in which the pre-determined lighting conditions described herein are not applied.
In addition, the turkey eggs in the experiment had 100% hatchability, as compared to hatchability
levels of around 85% in the industry using typical incubation methodologies, thus showing that
application of the blue wavelength light improves hatchability in avians such as turkeys.
[0074]           For the chicken eggs, a number of the eggs sexed were determined to be
hermaphrodites. As evidenced by the 3:1 sex ratio observed among the turkey embryos and by
the hermaphroditic chicken embryos, light can be used to control or influence the sex of embryos
in eggs notably in avian species. While the experimental test used only blue light, application of
other wavelengths of light including but not limited to ultraviolet, green, yellow, orange, red, and
infrared light, can also be used to control the sex of embryos in eggs to varying degrees.
[0075]           According to preferred protocols, the eggs or embryos are illuminated in step 207
with light having a selected wavelength range (e.g., 390-419 nm, 410-450 nn, 420-450 nm, 450
495 nm, or another appropriate range) at least for a period of one hour per day during the first
six-and-a-half (6.5) days of incubation. In one embodiment, the embryos are illuminated for at
least one hour per day using light having the selected wavelengths during the first three-and-a
half (3.5) or four-and-a-half (4.5) days of the incubation period. Alternatively, the embryos are
illuminated with light having the selected wavelength range for twenty-four (24) hours per day
on days zero (0) through six-and-a-half (6.5) of incubation.         Alternatively, other periods of
illumination applied each day (or on another appropriate periodic basis) during the first six-and
a-half day period (6.5) of incubation is contemplated.
[0076]           While different wavelengths of light can be used to increase the ratio of male-to
female or to increase the ratio of female-to-male avian embryos (as compared to control group
ratios), similarly the intensity of light or lumen output applied to eggs can have an effect. Thus,
depending on the avian species, whether turkey, chicken, duck, or the like, the exact wavelength
and intensity (e.g., amount or number of lumens) can be determined to optimize the increase in
the percentage of males or females born from a plurality of eggs when using lighting as

                                                  20
compared to the percentage provided in a similar control situation (in which light of the selected
wavelengths and intensity is not applied).
[0077]          Similarly, the systems and methods described herein can be applied to eggs of
other oviparous species, including fish, amphibians, reptiles, mammals, and the like. In one
embodiment, lighting elements 32 are a plurality of underwater lighting apparatuses similar to
those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Apple. No. 13/715,904 to Grajcar et al. which is incorporated in full
herein. The lighting elements 32 provide different wavelength of light to fish eggs located in
their vicinity. The light is received by eggs of underwater life such as salmon, and is used to
control the sex of the salmon or other species.           In one embodiment, light having a blue
wavelength of approximately 450 nm is applied to the eggs and causes an increase in the ratio of
females to males as compared to a control group to which such wavelengths of light are not
applied. Similarly, in another embodiment, light with wavelengths in the Soret band of visible
absorption (from about 390nm-419nn) causes an increase in the ratio of males to females, as
compared to a control group to which such wavelengths of light are not applied.                 Other
wavelengths of light may similarly be utilized and emitted to optimize effects and to take into
account the effect of the light traveling through water.
[0078]          Thus provided is a method and apparatus of accomplishing the same for
controlling the sex of embryos including avian embryos.            In particular, through the use of
lighting assemblies that preferably are AC driven LED lighting assemblies, different wavelength
and intensity light is provided to a plurality of avian embryos. Other influencers can include the
exposure of the eggs to predetermined humidity and magnetic properties.              As a result, the
percentage of either males or females from the plurality of embryos is increased at least 5% as
compared to embryos not receiving such wavelength and intensity of light. Thus, for egg laying
operations, the ratio of female animals obtained from a plurality of eggs can be increased,
maximizing the amount of egg layers obtained from the plurality of eggs. This thereby decreases
the number of avians that must be euthanized or lost, increasing efficiencies and maximizing
profits.
[0079]          Unless otherwise stated, all measurements, values, ratings, positions, magnitudes,
sizes, and other specifications that are set forth in this specification, including in the claims that
follow, are approximate, not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is

                                                   21
consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which
they pertain.
[0080]           The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That
scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary
meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification
and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional
equivalents. Notwithstanding, none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that
fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101, 102, or 103 of the Patent Act, nor should they be
interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby
disclaimed.
[0081]           Except as stated immediately above, nothing that has been stated or illustrated is
intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component, step, feature, object,
benefit, advantage, or equivalent to the public, regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the
claims.
[0082]           It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary
meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding
respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set
forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to
distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any
actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms "comprises,"
"comprising," or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion,
such that a process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not
include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to
such process, method, article, or apparatus. An element proceeded by "a" or "an" does not,
without further constraints, preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process,
method, article, or apparatus that comprises the element.
[0083]           The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain
the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be
used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition, in the foregoing
Detailed Description, it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various
embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to

                                                   22
be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than
are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject
matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims
are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a
separately claimed subject matter.
[0084]          While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and/or
other examples, it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the
subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples, and that the
teachings may be applied in numerous applications, only some of which have been described
herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications, modifications
and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

                                                   23
What is claimed is:
         1.     An incubating device comprising:
        a body having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside of the body;
        a plurality of trays disposed in the interior cavity and configured to receive eggs for
incubation;
        a plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and
configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a pre-determined
narrow wavelength range for irradiating the eggs; and
        a lighting controller electrically connected to the plurality of lighting elements and
configured to activate the lighting elements at a pre-determined lighting intensity and according
to a pre-determined schedule to irradiate the eggs with light having a spectrum substantially
concentrated within the pre-determined wavelength range and having the pre-determined lighting
intensity according to the pre-determined schedule, wherein the light in the narrow wavelength
range is selected to promote the production of non-human embryos of a selected sex.
        2.      The device of claim 1, wherein:
        the plurality of lighting elements comprises:
                a first plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays
        and configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a first
        pre-determined wavelength range; and
                a second plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of
        trays and configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a
        second pre-determined wavelength range different from the first pre-determined
        wavelength range, and
        the lighting controller is electrically connected to the first and second pluralities of
lighting elements and is configured to separately activate the lighting elements of the first and
second pluralities of lighting elements with respective lighting intensities and according to
respective schedules for irradiating the eggs.
        3.      The device of claim 1, wherein each tray of the plurality of trays has an upper
surface configured to have the eggs disposed thereon and a lower surface opposite to the upper

                                                 24
surface, and the plurality of lighting elements comprises lighting elements disposed on the lower
surface of at least one tray.
        4.      The device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of lighting elements comprises
lighting elements disposed on the upper and lower surfaces of at least one tray.
        5.      The device as described in any one of the preceding claims , wherein the lighting
elements are configured to emit light with wavelengths substantially concentrated within the
range of 410-450 nm.
        6.      The device as described in any one of the preceding claims 1 to 4, wherein the
lighting elements are configured to emit light with wavelengths substantially concentrated within
the range of 450-495 nm.
        7.      The device as described in any one of the preceding claims 1 to 4, wherein the
lighting elements are light emitting diodes
(LEDs).
        8.      The device of claim 1, further comprising:
        at least one tray actuator mechanically coupled to each of the plurality of trays, and
operative to move the trays having the eggs for incubation; and
        a controller electrically connected to the at least one tray actuator and comprising the
lighting controller,
        wherein each tray of the plurality of trays is rotatable about an axis, and the at least one
tray actuator is configured to rotate the trays to cause the trays to tilt in response to a control
signal received by the actuator, and
        wherein the controller is configured to control the operation of the at least one tray
actuator and the plurality of lighting elements according to the pre-determined schedule.
        9.      The device of as described in any one of the preceding claims , further
comprising:

                                                   25
        a magnetic field source disposed in the interior cavity and configured to produce a
magnetic flux in the interior cavity for application to the eggs.
        10.     An incubating device comprising:
        a body having an interior cavity that can be sealed from an outside of the body;
        a plurality of trays disposed in the interior cavity and configured to receive eggs for
incubation; and
        a plurality of lighting elements disposed on each tray of the plurality of trays and
configured to emit light having a spectrum substantially concentrated within a pre-determined
narrow wavelength range for irradiating the eggs;
        wherein the narrow wavelength of light is selected to promote the production of non
human embryos of a selected sex.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
