Abstract
Systems and methods for providing Channel State Information (CSI) feedback in
a cellular communications network are disclosed. In some embodiments, a base
station of a cellular communications network disables inter-subframe channel
interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes at the
wireless device and receives one or more CSI reports from the wireless device
that are generated by the wireless device with inter-subframe channel
interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes disabled in
response to the base station disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation
and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes at the wireless device. In
this manner, CSI feedback is improved particularly in embodiments in which the
base station transmits a beamformed CSI-RS resource(s) and reuses the same
CSI-RS resource(s) for different beams over time.

                               7/16
                                 0~ CD
                             N      2
                       Q~ 0             -1o
                           UJU
                                    >cJ
                         -J)           co
                   CJ)>Zj
                     U):
        0                        _
   -J         I     uLJ<<            u
              CLaU)C
                   W LLIO
   0.0
                             WII
   LU
   00
   LU     C/)
          ~L
                      oF
    N-'    >1                             0
2f z       <1                             a_
  a0                                      r
<C(D       <I                               '
CO2-      Cf)1                            C
          CN-~I                               IN

                                                1
                         METHOD FOR DYNAMIC CSI FEEDBACK
   Technical Field
   [0001]      The present disclosure relates to Channel State Information (CSI)
 5 feedback in a cellular communications network.
   Background
   [0002]      Long-Term Evolution (LTE) uses Orthogonal Frequency Division
   Multiplexing (OFDM) in the downlink and Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT)
10 spread OFDM in the uplink. The basic LTE downlink physical resource can thus
   be seen as a time-frequency grid as illustrated in Figure 1, where each resource
   element corresponds to one OFDM subcarrier during one OFDM symbol interval.
   [0003]      As illustrated in Figure 2, in the time domain, LTE downlink
   transmissions are organized into radio frames of 10 milliseconds (ms), each radio
15 frame consisting of ten equally-sized subframes of length     TSUBFRAME = 1 ms. For
   normal cyclic prefix, one subframe consists of 14 OFDM symbols. The duration
   of each OFDM symbol is approximately 71.4 microseconds (ps).
   [0004]      Furthermore, the resource allocation in LTE is typically described in
   terms of Resource Blocks (RBs), where a RB corresponds to one slot (0.5 ms) in
20 the time domain and 12 contiguous subcarriers in the frequency domain. A pair
   of two adjacent RBs in the time direction (1.0 ms) is known as a RB pair. RBs
   are numbered in the frequency domain starting with 0 from one end of the
   system bandwidth.
   [0005]      Downlink transmissions are dynamically scheduled. In particular, in
25 each subframe, the base station transmits control information about the terminals
   (i.e., User Equipment devices (UEs)) to which data is transmitted in the current
   downlink subframe. This control signaling, which is carried over the Physical
   Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH), is typically transmitted in the first 1, 2, 3, or
   4 OFDM symbols in each subframe, where the number n = 1, 2, 3, or 4 is known
30 as the Control Format Indicator (CFI). The downlink subframe also contains
   common reference symbols, which are known to the receiver and used for

                                             2
   coherent demodulation of, e.g., the control information. A downlink system with
   CFI = 3 OFDM symbols as control is illustrated in Figure 3.
   [0006]     From LTE Release 11 onwards, the above-described resource
   assignments can also be scheduled on the Enhanced Physical Downlink Control
 5 Channel (EPDCCH).        For Release 8 to Release 10 only the PDCCH is available.
   [0007]     The reference symbols shown in Figure 3 are the Cell-Specific
   Reference Symbols (CRSs). The CRSs are used to support multiple functions
   including fine time- and frequency-synchronization and channel estimation for
   certain transmission modes.
10 [0008]     In a cellular communications system, there is a need to measure the
   channel conditions in order to know what transmission parameters to use. These
   parameters include, e.g., modulation type, coding rate, transmission rank, and
   frequency allocation. This applies to Uplink (UL) as well as Downlink (DL)
   transmissions.
15 [0009]     The scheduler that makes the decisions on the transmission
   parameters is typically located in the base station (i.e., the enhanced or evolved
   Node B (eNB)). Hence, the scheduler can measure channel properties of the UL
   directly using known reference signals that the terminals (i.e., UEs) transmit.
   These measurements then form a basis for the UL scheduling decisions that the
20 eNB makes, which are then sent to the UEs via a DL control channel.
   Conversely, for the DL, the scheduler receives Channel State Information (CSI)
   feedback from the terminals, which is taken into consideration by the scheduler
   when selecting the transmission parameters for the DL transmissions to those
   terminals.
25 [0010]     In LTE Release 8, CRSs are used in the DL for CSI estimation and
   feedback, and for channel estimation for demodulation. CRSs are transmitted in
   every subframe and are defined to support up to four Antenna Ports (APs). In
   LTE Release 10, to support up to eight APs, CSI Reference Signals (CSI-RSs)
   are defined for the UE to measure and feed back CSI relating to the multiple
30 APs. Each CSI-RS resource consists of two Resource Elements (REs) over two
   consecutive OFDM symbols, and two different CSI-RSs (for two different APs)

                                                 3
   can share the same CSI-RS resource (two REs) by Code-Division Multiplexing
   (CDM). Also, a CSI-RS can be transmitted once per 5, 10, 20, 40, or 80 ms,
   where this timing is referred to as the CSI-RS periodicity. Therefore, CSI-RS has
   lower overhead and lower duty-cycle as compared to CRS. On the other hand,
 5 unlike CRS, CSI-RS is not used as a demodulation reference. Different CSI-RSs
   can also be transmitted with different offsets in the subframe, where the offset of
   the CSI-RS within the subframe is referred to as the CSI-RS subframe offset.
   When a CSI-RS is configured, the UE measures the channel for a given AP at
   each time instant and may interpolate the channel in between CSI-RS occasions
10 to estimate the dynamically varying channel, e.g., by one interpolated sample per
   1 ms instead of, e.g., one measured sample each 5 ms.
   [0011]       Figures 4A and 4B show examples of mappings from different CSI-RS
   configurations to REs in a RB pair. Figure 4A illustrates the mapping for one or
   two APs, where 20 configurations are possible. The two CSI-RSs of the two APs
15 of a particular cell can be transmitted by, for instance, configuration 0 by CDM,
   while CSI-RSs of APs of other neighboring cells can be transmitted by
   configuration   j, with 1 < = j < = 19, to avoid reference signal collisions with the
   CSI-RS in the cell. Figure 4B shows the mapping for four APs, where 10
   configurations are possible. The four CSI-RSs of the four APs of a particular cell
20 can be transmitted by, for instance, configuration 0 by CDM, while CSI-RSs of
   APs of other neighboring cells can be transmitted by configuration        j, with 1 <= j<
   = 9.
   [0012]      The OFDM symbols used by the two consecutive REs for one CSI-RS
   are Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (QPSK) symbols, which are derived from a
25 specified pseudo-random sequence. To randomize the interference, the initial
   state of the pseudo-random sequence generator is determined by the detected
   cell Identifier (ID) or a virtual cell ID configured to the UE by Radio Resource
   Control (RRC) signaling. CSI-RS with such non-zero-power OFDM symbols are
   called Non-Zero-Power (NZP) CSI-RS.
30 [0013]      On the other hand, Zero-Power (ZP) CSI-RS can also be RRC
   configured to the UE for the purpose of Interference Measurement (IM) (in

                                              4
   Transmission Mode 10 (TM1 0) only), or for the purpose of improving the CSI
   estimation in other cells (in Transmission Mode 9 (TM9) or TM10). However, the
   CSI-RS mapping with four APs will always be used by the ZP CSI-RS. For
   example, in Figure 4B, if configuration 0 with NZP CSI-RS is used by cell A to
 5 estimate the CSI of the two APs in cell A, configuration 0 with ZP CSI-RS (a total
   of four REs per RB pair) can be used by the neighboring cell B to minimize the
   DL interference to cell A over the four REs in configuration 0, such that the CSI
   estimation of the two APs in cell A can be improved.
   [0014]     In LTE TM10, up to four CSI processes and three NZP CSI-RS can be
10 configured for a UE by RRC signaling. These four CSI processes can, for
   instance, be used to acquire CSI for APs in up to three different cells (or
   Transmission Points (TPs) within the same cell) in a Coordinated Multipoint
   (CoMP) framework. The four CSI processes can also be assigned to multiple
   different beams transmitted from the same eNB using an array antenna that is
15 capable of beamforming in azimuth, elevation, or both (i.e., Two-Dimensional
   (2D) beamforming). See      3 rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Technical
   Specification (TS) 36.213 V1 2.3.0, 3GPP TS 36.331 V12.3.0, and 3GPP TS
   36.211 V1 2.3.0 for complete LTE specifications on how CSI processes and CSI
   RS configurations are set up. A beam of a transmitted signal, such as a CSI-RS,
20 is obtained by transmitting the same signal from multiple antenna elements in an
   array, but with individually controlled phase shifts (and potentially amplitude
   tapering) for each antenna element. The resulting radiation pattern of the
   transmitted signal thus has a different beam width and main pointing direction
   compared to the antenna element radiation pattern. Hence, a beamformed
25 signal, such as beamformed CSI-RS, is obtained. Typically, the antenna
   elements at the transmitter are closely spaced, as to achieve correlated
   channels, which makes the beamforming more effective. The benefits of
   beamforming is reduced interference (due to the typically narrow beam width of
   the transmitted signal) and increased effective channel gain (due to the applied
30 beamforming phase shifts at the transmitter which ensure a coherent addition of
   the signals from each transmit antenna at the receiver).

                                               5
   [0015]      In order for the UE to derive the correct CSI, each CSI process in
   TM1 0 is associated (and configured by RRC signaling) with a signal hypothesis
   and an interference hypothesis. The signal hypothesis describes which NZP
   CSI-RS reflects the desired signal. The interference is measured in a configured
 5 CSI-IM resource, which is similar to a CSI-RS with four REs per Physical
   Resource Block (PRB) pair, which the UE uses for interference measurements.
   To better support the IM in CoMP, CSI-IM is standardized and is based on the
   ZP CSI-RS. Therefore, each of the up to four CSI processes consists of one
   NZP CSI-RS and one CSI-IM.
10 [0016]      For a TM9 UE, only a single CSI process can be configured, and no
   CSI-IM is defined. The IM is thus unspecified in TM9. There is however still a
   possibility to get CSI feedback from two different Subframe (SF) sets: SF set 1
   and SF set 2. For instance, based on, e.g., the Almost Blank Subframe (ABS)
   information signaled over X2, a pico eNB can configure a UE to feed back CSI
15 for both protected (i.e., Reduced Power Subframes (RPSF)) subframes (where a
   corresponding macro eNB has reduced activity) and CSI for unprotected
   subframes in two different CSI reports. This gives the pico eNB information to
   perform link adaptation in the two types of subframes differently, depending on
   whether it is a protected subframe or not. It is also possible for a UE configured
20 in TM10 to use both subframe sets and multiple CSI processes.
   [0017]      In LTE, the format of the CSI reports are specified in detail and may
   contain Channel Quality Information (CQ), Rank Indicator (RI), and Precoding
   Matrix Indicator (PMI). See 3GPP TS 36.213 V1 2.3.0. The reports can be
   wideband or applicable to subbands. They can be configured by a RRC
25 message to be sent periodically or in an aperiodic manner or triggered by a
   control message from the eNB to a UE. The quality and reliability of the CSI are
   crucial for the eNB in order to make the best possible scheduling decisions for
   the upcoming DL transmissions.
   [0018]      The LTE standard does not specify how the UE should obtain and
30 average the CSI-RS and CSI-IM measurements from multiple time instants, i.e.,
   subframes. For example, the UE may measure over a time frame of multiple

                                              6
   subframes, unknown to the eNB and combine several measurements in a UE
   proprietary way to create the CSI values that are reported, either periodically or
   triggered.
   [0019]      In the context of LTE, the resources (i.e., the REs) available for
 5 transmission of CSI-RS are referred to as "CSI-RS resources." In addition, there
   are also "CSI-IM resources." The latter are defined from the same set of possible
   physical locations in the time/frequency grid as the CSI-RS, but with zero power,
   hence ZP CSI-RS. In other words, they are "silent" CSI-RSs and when the eNB
   is transmitting the shared data channel, it avoids mapping data to those REs
10 used for CSI-IM. These are intended to give a UE the possibility to measure the
   power of any interference from another transmitter other than the serving node of
   the UE.
   [0020]      Each UE can be configured with one, three, or four different CSI
   processes. Each CSI process is associated with one CSI-RS and one CSI-IM
15 resource where these CSI-RS resources have been configured to the UE by
   RRC signaling and are thus periodically transmitted/occurring with a periodicity of
   T and with a given subframe offset relative to the frame start.
   [0021]      If only one CSI process is used, then it is common to let the CSI-IM
   reflect the interference from all other eNBs, i.e., the serving cell uses a ZP CSI
20 RS that overlaps with the CSI-IM, but in other adjacent eNBs there is no ZP CSI
   RS on these resources. In this way the UE will measure the interference from
   adjacent cells using the CSI-IM.
   [0022]      If additional CSI processes are configured to the UE, then there is
   possibility for the network to also configure a ZP CSI-RS resource in the adjacent
25 eNB that overlaps with a CSI-IM resource for this CSI process for the UE in the
   serving eNB. In this way the UE will feed back accurate CSI also for the case
   when this adjacent cell is not transmitting. Hence, coordinated scheduling
   between eNBs is enabled with the use of multiple CSI processes and one CSI
   process feeds back CSI for the full interference case and the other CSI process
30 feeds back CSI for the case when a (strongly interfering) adjacent cell is muted.

                                               7
   As mentioned above, up to four CSI processes can be configured to the UE,
   thereby enabling feedback of four different transmission hypotheses.
   [0023]     The PDCCH/EPDCCH is used to carry Downlink Control Information
   (DCI) such as scheduling decisions and power control commands. More
 5 specifically, the DCI includes:
              "    DL scheduling assignments, including Physical Downlink Shared
                   Channel (PDSCH) resource indication, transport format, hybrid
                   Automatic Repeat Request (ARQ) information, and control
                   information related to spatial multiplexing (if applicable). A DL
10                 scheduling assignment also includes a command for power control
                   of the Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH) used for
                   transmission of hybrid ARQ acknowledgements in response to DL
                   scheduling assignments.
              *    UL scheduling grants, including Physical Uplink Shared Channel
15                 (PUSCH) resource indication, transport format, and hybrid ARQ
                   related information. A UL scheduling grant also includes a
                   command for power control of the PUSCH.
              *    Power control commands for a set of terminals as a complement to
                   the commands included in the scheduling assignments/grants.
20 [0024]     The PDCCH/EPDCCH region carries one or more DCI messages,
   each with one of the formats above. As multiple terminals can be scheduled
   simultaneously, on both DL and UL, there must be a possibility to transmit
   multiple scheduling messages within each subframe. Each scheduling message
   is transmitted on separate PDCCH/EPDCCH physical resources. Furthermore,
25 to support different radio channel conditions, link adaptation can be used, where
   the code rate of the PDCCH/EPDCCH is selected by adapting the resource
   usage for the PDCCH/EPDCCH, to match the radio channel conditions.
   [0025]     Against this backdrop, future cellular communications networks are
   expected to utilize beamforming where the number of beams may exceed the
30 number of CSI-RS resources. In addition, existing and future cellular
   communications networks sometimes use a multi-layer radio access network

                                              8
   including a number of coverage cells (e.g., macro cells controlled by eNBs) and a
   number of capacity cells (e.g., pico cells controlled by pico eNBs). As such,
   there is a need for systems and methods that enable improved CSI-RS
   configuration, particularly for cellular communications networks that utilize
 5 beamforming and/or multi-layer radio access networks.
   Summary
   [0026]       Systems and methods relating to Channel State Information (CSI)
   feedback in a cellular communications network are disclosed. While not being
10 limited thereto, embodiments disclosed here are particularly well-suited to
   improve CSI feedback in a cellular communications network that utilizes
   beamformed CSI Reference Signals (CSI-RSs) such that the same CSI-RS
   resource may be reused over time in different beams.
   [0027]       Embodiments of a method of operation of a base station of a cellular
15 communications network to control CSI-RS based channel estimation at a
   wireless device are disclosed. In some embodiments, the method of operation of
   the base station comprises disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or
   filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes at the wireless device and
   receiving one or more CSI reports from the wireless device that are generated by
20 the wireless device with inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of
   CSI-RS estimates across subframes disabled in response to the base station
   disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS
   estimates across subframes at the wireless device. In this manner, CSI
   feedback is improved particularly in embodiments in which the base station
25 transmits a beamformed CSI-RS resource(s) and reuses the same CSI-RS
   resource(s) for different beams over time. In this case, without disabling inter
   subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across
   subframes, the wireless device may perform inter-subframe channel interpolation
   and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates on a particular CSI-RS resource that is
30 transmitted on different beams in different subframes, which in turn would result
   in less than optimal CSI feedback.

                                              9
   [0028]       In some embodiments, the wireless device utilizes two or more CSI
   processes for CSI reporting, and disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation
   and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes comprises disabling inter
   subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across
 5 subframes on a per CSI process basis. In other embodiments, the wireless
   device utilizes two or more CSI processes for CSI reporting, and disabling inter
   subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across
   subframes comprises disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or
   filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes for all of the two or more CSI
10 processes.
   [0029]       In some embodiments, disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation
   and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes comprises disabling inter
   subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across
   subframes via Radio Resource Control (RRC) signaling. Further, in some
15 embodiments, disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of
   CSI-RS estimates across subframes via RRC signaling comprises sending, in an
   RRC information element that configures a CSI process of the wireless device,
   an indication that inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS
   estimates across subframes is not allowed for the CSI process of the wireless
20 device.
   [0030]       In some embodiments, the method of operation of the base station
   further comprises disabling combining of CSI Interference Measurement (CSI-IM)
   estimates across subframes at the wireless device.
   [0031]       In some embodiments, disabling inter-subframe channel interpolation
25 and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes comprises signaling, to the
   wireless device, an indication that inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or
   filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes is not allowed.
   [0032]       In some embodiments, the method of operation of the base station
   further comprises configuring the wireless device with a set of CSI-RS resources.
30 Further, in some embodiments, receiving the one or more CSI reports from the
   wireless device comprises receiving CSI reports for a subset of the set of CSI-RS

                                            10
   resources configured for the wireless device. In some embodiments, configuring
   the wireless device with the set of CSI-RS resources comprises configuring the
   wireless device with the set of CSI-RS resources via RRC signaling. In other
   embodiments, configuring the wireless device with the set of CSI-RS resources
 5 comprises semi-statically configuring the wireless device with the set of CSI-RS
   resources. In some embodiments, the set of CSI-RS resources is specific to a
   CSI process of the wireless device.
   [0033]     In some embodiments, the base station transmits beamformed CSI
   RS, and the method of operation of the base station further comprises
10 dynamically changing beams used on the set of CSI-RS resources configured for
   the wireless device.
   [0034]     Embodiments of a base station enabled to control CSI-RS based
   channel estimation at a wireless device are also disclosed. In some
   embodiments, the base station operates according to any of the embodiments of
15 the method of operation of a base station described herein.
   [0035]     Embodiments of a method of operation of a wireless device in a
   cellular communications network to provide CSI reporting are disclosed. In some
   embodiments, the method of operation of the wireless device comprises
   receiving an indication from a base station of the cellular communications
20 network to disable inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS
   estimates across subframes and, in response, performing one or more CSI-RS
   measurements with inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI
   RS estimates across subframes disabled. The method further comprises
   transmitting a CSI report to the base station based on the one or more CSI-RS
25 measurements.
   [0036]     In some embodiments, the base station transmits a beamformed CSI
   RS resource and reuses the same CSI-RS resource for different beams over
   time.
   [0037]     In some embodiments, the wireless device utilizes two or more CSI
30 processes for CSI reporting, and the indication received from the base station is
   an indication to disable inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of

                                             11
   CSI-RS estimates across subframes for a particular CSI process. In other
   embodiments, the wireless device utilizes two or more CSI processes for CSI
   reporting, and the indication received from the base station is an indication to
   disable inter-subframe channel interpolation and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates
 5 across subframes for all of the two or more CSI processes.
   [0038]      In some embodiments, receiving the indication comprises receiving the
   indication via RRC signaling. In some embodiments, the wireless device utilizes
   two or more CSI processes for CSI reporting, the indication received from the
   base station is an indication to disable inter-subframe channel interpolation
10 and/or filtering of CSI-RS estimates across subframes for a particular CSI
   process of the wireless device, and receiving the indication comprises receiving
   the indication comprised in an RRC information element that configures the
   particular CSI process of the wireless device.
   [0039]      In some embodiments, the method of operation of the wireless device
15 further comprises receiving, from the base station, an indication to disable
   combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes and, in response, performing
   one or more CSI-IM measurements with combining of CSI-IM estimates across
   subframes disabled.
   [0040]      In some embodiments, the method of operation of the wireless device
20 further comprises receiving a configuration of a set of CSI-RS resources for the
   wireless device. In some embodiments, the CSI report is for a subset of the set
   of CSI-RS resources configured for the wireless device. In some embodiments,
   receiving the configuration of the set of CSI-RS resources comprises receiving
   the configuration of the set of CSI-RS resources from the base station via semi
25 static signaling (e.g., RRC signaling). In some embodiments, the set of CSI-RS
   resources is specific to a CSI process of the wireless device.
   [0041]      In some embodiments, the base station transmits beamformed CSI
   RS, and beams used on the set of CSI-RS resources configured for the wireless
   device are dynamically changed.
30 [0041a]     In some embodiments, there is disclosed a method of operation of a
   base station of a cellular communications network to control Channel State

                                              12
   Information Reference Symbol, CSI-RS, based channel estimation at a wireless
   device, comprising:
          disabling, at the wireless device, combining of CSI Interference
   Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes; and
 5        receiving one or more Channel State Information, CSI, reports from the
   wireless device that are generated by the wireless device with disabled
   combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes.
   [0041b]    In some embodiments, there is disclosed a base station of a cellular
   communications network enabled to control Channel State Information
10 Reference Symbol, CSI-RS, based channel estimation at a wireless device,
   comprising:
          at least one transmitter;
          at least one receiver;
          at least one processor; and
15        memory storing software instructions executable by the at least one
   processor whereby the base station is operative to:
                  disable, via the at least one transmitter, combining of CSI
          Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes at a
          wireless device; and
20 receive, via the at least one receiver, a Channel State Information, CSI, report
   from the wireless device that is generated by the wireless device with disabled
   combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes in response to disabling
   combining of CSI Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across
   subframes at the wireless device.
25 [0041c]    In some embodiments, there is disclosed a method of operation of a
   wireless device in a cellular communications network to provide Channel State
   Information, CSI, reporting, comprising:
          receiving an indication from a base station of the cellular communications
   network to disable combining of CSI Interference Measurement, CSI-IM,
30 estimates across subframes; and

                                              13
          in response, performing one or more CSI-IM measurements with
   combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes disabled; and
   transmitting a CSI report to the base station determined from the one or more
   CSI-IM measurements.
 5 [0041d]    In some embodiments, there is disclosed a wireless device in a cellular
   communications network to provide Channel State Information, CSI, reporting,
   comprising:
          at least one transmitter;
          at least one receiver;
10        at least one processor; and
          memory storing software instructions executable by the at least one
   processor whereby the wireless device is operative to:
                  receive, via the at least one receiver, an indication from a base
          station of the cellular communications network to disable combining of CSI
15        Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes; and
                  in response, perform one or more CSI-IM measurements with
          combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes disabled; and
   transmitting a CSI report to the base station determined from the one or more
   CSI-IM measurements.
20 [0042]     Embodiments of a wireless device in a cellular communications
   network to provide CSI reporting are disclosed. In some embodiments, the
   wireless device operates according to any of the embodiments of the method of
   operation of a wireless device described herein.
   [0043]     Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present
25 disclosure and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following
   detailed description of the embodiments in association with the accompanying
   drawing figures.

                                              14
   Brief Description of the Drawinqs
   [0044]     The accompanying drawing figures incorporated in and forming a part
   of this specification illustrate several aspects of the disclosure, and together with
   the description serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.
 5 [0045]     Figure 1 illustrates the LTE downlink physical resource;
   [0046]     Figure 2 illustrates the LTE time-domain structure;
   [0047]     Figure 3 illustrates a downlink subframe;
   [0048]     Figures 4A and 4B illustrate configurations of Channel State
   Information Reference Signal (CSI-RS) for different numbers of antenna ports;
10 [0049]     Figure 5 illustrates one example of a cellular communications network
   implementing flexible Channel State Information (CSI) feedback according to
   some embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0050]     Figure 6 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 according to some embodiments of the present disclosure;
15 [0051]     Figure 7 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 to provide disabling of inter-subframe interpolation/filtering of
   CSI-RS estimates according to some embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0052]     Figure 8 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 to provide dynamic CSI feedback according to some
20 embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0053]     Figure 9 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 to provide dynamic CSI feedback via dynamic CSI-RS
   resource configuration according to some embodiments of the present
   disclosure;
25 [0054]     Figure 10 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 to provide dynamic CSI feedback via dynamic CSI-RS
   resource configuration according to some other embodiments of the present
   disclosure;
   [0055]     Figure 11 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
30 device of Figure 5 to provide dynamic CSI feedback via dynamic CSI-RS

                                              15
   resource configuration using Downlink Control Information (DCI) messages
   according to some other embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0056]      Figure 12 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 to provide dynamic CSI feedback via dynamic CSI-RS
 5 resource configuration using Long Term Evolution (LTE) Medium Access Control
   (MAC) Control Elements (CEs) according to some other embodiments of the
   present disclosure;
   [0057]      Figure 13 illustrates the operation of the base station and the wireless
   device of Figure 5 to provide dynamic CSI feedback via dynamic Non-Zero
10 Power (NZP) CSI-RS and CSI Interference Measurement (CSI-IM) resource
   configuration according to some embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0058]      Figure 14 illustrates the operation of the base station of Figure 5 to
   dynamically configure CSI-RS resources for the wireless device from a set of K
   CSI-RS resources transmitted on adjacent beams from the perspective of the
15 base station according to some embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0059]      Figure 15 is a block diagram of the base station according to some
   embodiments of the present disclosure;
   [0060]      Figure 16 is a block diagram of the base station according to other
   embodiments of the present disclosure;
20 [0061]      Figure 17 is a block diagram of the wireless device according to some
   embodiments of the present disclosure; and
   [0062]      Figure 18 is a block diagram of the wireless device according to other
   embodiments of the present disclosure.
25 Detailed Description
   [0063]      The embodiments set forth below represent information to enable
   those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments and illustrate the best mode
   of practicing the embodiments. Upon reading the following description in light of
   the accompanying drawing figures, those skilled in the art will understand the
30 concepts of the disclosure and will recognize applications of these concepts not

                                             16
   particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and
   applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.
   [0064]      Note that although terminology from   3 rd Generation Partnership
   Program (3GPP) Long-Term Evolution (LTE) has been used in this disclosure to
 5 exemplify the embodiments of the present disclosure, this should not be seen as
   limiting the scope of the concepts disclosed herein to only the aforementioned
   system. Other wireless systems, including Wideband Code Division Multiple
   Access (WCDMA), WiFi, WiMax, LTE for unlicensed band, Ultra Mobile
   Broadband (UMB), and Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), may
10 also benefit from exploiting the ideas covered within this disclosure.
   [0065]      Also note that terminology such as enhanced or evolved Node B (eNB)
   and User Equipment (UE) should be considered as non-limiting and, in particular,
   does not imply a certain hierarchical relationship between the eNB and the UE.
   In general, "eNB" or "Transmission Point (TP)" could be considered as device 1
15 and "UE" as device 2, and these two devices communicate with each other over
   some radio channel. The disclosure also focuses on wireless transmissions in
   the downlink, but the disclosure is equally applicable in the uplink.
   [0066]      Before describing embodiments of the present disclosure, a discussion
   of some problems associated with conventional Channel State Information
20 Reference Signal (CSI-RS) is beneficial. Some problems addressed in this
   disclosure relate to an eNB that transmits beamformed CSI-RSs, where each
   CSI-RS is associated with a certain, potentially narrow, beam transmitted from,
   e.g., an array antenna. In other words, each CSI-RS is transmitted using a
   different precoder or different beamforming weights.
25 [0067]      Existing Channel State Information (CSI) feedback solutions have
   several problems that are addressed in the present disclosure. Reconfiguration
   of the CSI-RS to measure on requires Radio Resource Control (RRC) signaling,
   which has two problems. First, there is a delay to establish the reconfiguration,
   which may be up to 10 milliseconds (ms). Second, it is uncertain when the UE
30 has adopted the reconfiguration, hence there is a period of uncertainty in system
   operation. Another problem with existing CSI feedback solutions is that using

                                              17
   multiple CSI processes requires significant UE complexity, uplink signaling
   overhead, and power consumption, all of which are undesirable for network and
   UE implementation.
   [0068]      Another problem is that, if beamformed CSI-RSs are used and the UE
 5 moves in a tangential direction as seen from the eNB, the CSI-RS on which the
   UE measures needs to be reconfigured often as the UE moves from the main
   lobe of one beam to the main lobe of another beam. This problem is particularly
   severe in case of high tangential UE velocity or narrow beams from the eNB (i.e.,
   a large number of horizontal array antennas).
10 [0069]      The Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH) and the Enhanced
   PDCCH (EPDCCH) can have relatively high block error rates, which means that
   the network may not know if a given Downlink Control Information (DCI)
   message is correctly received. Therefore, in case a DCI message changes a
   parameter used for periodic CSI reporting, the network may not know if the
15 parameter contained in the DCI is used in subsequent periodic CSI reports since
   the UE may transmit periodic CSI reports using the same format and timing both
   before and after receiving (or not receiving) the DCI message.
   [0070]      Systems and methods relating to improved CSI feedback solutions
   that, at least in some embodiments, address the problems described above are
20 disclosed. In some embodiments, an eNB indicates to a UE by higher layer
   signaling (e.g., RRC signaling) or in a DCI message that the UE is not allowed to
   perform channel interpolation of CSI-RS estimates across subframes. In some
   embodiments, the eNB also indicates that averaging of CSI-IM estimates is not
   allowed across subframes. In other words, the indication that the UE is not
25 allowed to perform channel interpolation of CSI-RS estimates across subframes
   would ensure that no inter subframe filtering of Non-Zero-Power (NZP) CSI-RS
   based channel estimates is performed for the purpose of CSI feedback on a CSI
   process. The signaling may further indicate the CSI processes for which inter
   subframe interpolation/filtering is disabled (e.g., predetermined to be all or a
30 subset of the possible CSI processes). In some embodiments, the RRC

                                             18
   information element for configuring a CSI process may be extended with a bit
   controlling whether inter-subframe NZP CSI-RS filtering is enabled or disabled.
   [0071]     Disabling of inter-subframe interpolation/filtering of CSI-RS estimates
   may be particularly beneficial when CSI-RS resources are reused over time
 5 between different beams transmitted by the eNB. In particular, when the eNB
   transmits beamformed CSI-RS and the number of beams is large (e.g., exceeds
   the number of CSI-RS resources available), then it may be beneficial for the eNB
   to re-use the same CSI-RS resources on different beams over time. In other
   words, a particular CSI-RS resource may be used for a first beam during one
10 subframe, and the same CSI-RS resource may be used for a second beam
   during another subframe. When re-using CSI-RS resources over time between
   different beams, the performance of conventional inter-subframe
   interpolation/filtering schemes utilized by the UE generates CSI-RS
   measurements will result in poor CSI-RS estimates since measurements of
15 different beams will be combined. Therefore, by disabling inter-subframe
   interpolation/filtering of CSI-RS estimates by the UE, the eNB improves the
   resulting CSI feedback as the eNB will know exactly which subframe and CSI
   RS, and thus which beam, a particular CSI feedback report is associated with.
   [0072]     In a further embodiment of disabled inter-subframe filtering, the UE is
20 monitoring a set of NZP CSI-RS configurations and selects a subset of those
   NZP CSI-RS configurations for reporting CSI. The selection could, for example,
   be based on estimates of channel strengths for the monitored NZP CSI-RS
   configurations (e.g., the subset could be selected to correspond to the N
   strongest channels). The UE could be configured (via, e.g., a higher layer
25 message) with such a monitoring set for each of its CSI processes. The
   monitoring sets could be CSI process specific. With this embodiment, the
   network can now dynamically change the beams used on a set of (periodically
   reoccurring) NZP CSI-RS resources significantly larger than the current
   maximum number of NZP CSI-RS configurations currently handled by a single
30 UE (which is three) without forcing the UE to handle the extra complexity of

                                           19
   computing CSI for the entire monitoring set (computing channel strength is
   significantly simpler than computing CSI).
   [0073]      In some embodiments, an eNB configures a UE with a set of K CSI-RS
   resources (also known as CSI-RS configurations) by higher layer signaling, e.g.
 5 by using an RRC message. The CSI-RSs are periodically transmitted, potentially
   with different periodicity.
   [0074]      In some embodiments, the K resources correspond to K different beam
   directions as seen from the eNB. A typical number is K = 20 since 20 two-port
   CSI-RS can be transmitted in a single subframe according to LTE specifications
10 (3GPP TS 36.211 V12.3.0).
   [0075]     The eNB indicates to the UE, possibly in an uplink scheduling grant
   message or some other form of message (e.g., downlink assignment or a
   dedicated message on a downlink control channel), a CSI-RS resource
   (/configuration) of the K CSI-RS resources (/configurations). This CSI resource
15 is the RS for which the UE should perform channel measurements (hence the
   CSI-RS may be referred to as NZP CSI-RS) and use for at least one subsequent
   CSI report. A CSI report transmitted on the uplink from the UE is then computed
   using measurements on the single CSI-RS out of the set of K possible CSI-RSs.
   Since a single CSI report and a single CSI process is used, the UE complexity is
20 reduced compared to using multiple CSI processes. In some embodiments, the
   signaling may take the form of associating the indicated CSI-RS resource
   (/configuration) with a CSI process, implying that CSI feedback for the
   corresponding CSI process would use the so associated NZP CSI-RS. In other
   embodiments, the indicated CSI-RS resource (/configuration) may be associated
25 with multiple CSI processes. In some embodiments, the same signaling
   message may contain multiple indications of associations between CSI-RS
   resources (/configurations) and CSI processes. In some embodiments, the
   association may hold for a single CSI reporting instance (e.g., one associated
   with the signaling message). If an additional CSI report is thereafter sent, the
30 corresponding CSI process may revert back to using a default CSI-RS resource
   (/configuration). Such a default CSI-RS resource may, for example, be

                                             20
   represented by the semi-statically configured CSI configuration that is associated
   with the CSI process according to an LTE Release 11 RRC mechanism (for more
   information, see 3GPP 36.331 V1 2.3.0). This may be the case for CSI on
   Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH) (aperiodic) and/or Physical Uplink
 5 Control Channel (PUCCH) (periodic). Alternatively, the dynamically signaled
   association between the CSI resource (/configuration) and the CSI process may
   hold until another association for that CSI process is signaled.
   [0076]     In some further embodiments, the eNB also indicates which one of the
   K CSI-RS resources that should be used as a CSI Interference Measurement
10 (CSI-IM) resource.
   [0077]     In some embodiments, the UE assumes a Physical Downlink Shared
   Channel (PDSCH) rate matching around all K CSI-RS resources indicated in the
   higher layer configuration.
   [0078]     In some further embodiments, periodic CSI reports using PUCCH are
15 computed based on the CSI-RS resource indicated in a downlink DCI message.
   The UE will use the selected CSI-RS resource for CSI feedback until an
   indication of a new CSI-RS is received by the UE in a DCI message.
   Additionally, the UE may provide an indication confirming which CSI-RS resource
   is measured, the indication comprising an index of the measured CSI-RS
20 resource, or alternatively a bit confirming that the downlink DCI message was
   successfully received and that the CSI-RS resource in the DCI message is used
   in the measurement.
   [0079]     In a further embodiment, periodic CSI reports using PUCCH are
   computed based on the CSI-RS resource indicated in an LTE Medium Access
25 Control (MAC) control element. The UE can be expected to use the CSI-RS
   resource indicated in the MAC control element no later than a predetermined
   number of subframes after transmitting a Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
   Acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) on PUCCH to the transport block containing the
   MAC control element. In this way, the maximum length of the ambiguity period in
30 which the prior CSI-RS would be measured can be determined, and so
   subframes in which the CSI-RS resource indicated by the MAC control element

                                                21
   should be used for CSI reports can be identified. Additionally or alternatively, the
   UE may provide an indication confirming which CSI-RS resource is measured,
   the indication comprising an index of the measured CSI-RS resource or
   alternatively a bit confirming that the MAC control element was successfully
 5 received and that the CSI-RS resource is used in the measurement.
   [0080]      In some further embodiments of the eNB, the CSI resources
   configured to the UE are transmitted in adjacent beams. Hence, the eNB can
   dynamically change the CSI measurement reports from the UE for the current
   beam serving the UE and for the neighboring beams of this serving beam.
10 [0081]      As discussed above, embodiments of the present disclosure are
   implemented in a cellular communications network 10, such as that illustrated in
   Figure 5. As illustrated, the cellular communications network 10 includes a base
   station 12 (e.g., an eNB) and a wireless device 14 (e.g., a UE). Note that while
   the base station 12 is described as performing some of the functionality disclosed
15 herein, the concepts are equally applicable to any type of radio access node that
   desires to configure CSI measurements by the wireless device 14. The base
   station 12 is connected to a core network (not shown).
   [0082]      Figure 6 illustrates the operation of the base station 12 and the
   wireless device 14 according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
20 As discussed above, in some embodiments, the base station 12 disables the
   inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering of the NZP CSI-RS and/or averaging
   of CSI-IM belonging to a CSI process of the wireless device 14 (step 100). Note
   that, in Figure 6, step 100 is optional as indicated by the dashed line. Notably, as
   will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure,
25 inter-subframe interpolation and inter-subframe filtering are two different
   techniques used for inter-subframe CSI-RS based channel estimation. Inter
   subframe interpolation uses CSI-RS estimates across subframes to interpolate
   additional CSI-RS estimates. Conversely, inter-subframe filtering filters, or
   averages, CSI-RS estimates across subframes. As such, "inter-subframe
30 interpolation/filtering" refers to inter-subframe interpolation and/or inter-subframe
   filtering. In some embodiments, the base station 12 disables inter-subframe

                                              22
   interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS and/or averaging of CSI-IM in an uplink
   grant to the wireless device 14. In some embodiments, the base station 12
   accomplishes this in an RRC message to the wireless device 14. In some
   embodiments, whether or not channel interpolation is done is encoded in an
 5 information element sent to the wireless device 14.
   [0083]      In some embodiments, the base station 12 configures the wireless
   device 14 with a set of K CSI-RS resources by higher layer signaling, e.g. by
   using an RRC message (step 102). Note that, in Figure 6, step 102 is optional
   as indicated by the dashed line. The base station 12 then dynamically configures
10 one (or more) of the CSI-RS resources in the set of K CSI-RS resources to use
   for subsequent CSI feedback (step 104). As used herein, a dynamic
   configuration is one that changes on a subframe or at least frame level (e.g.,
   from one subframe to another). In step 202, the base station 12 dynamically
   indicates which CSI-RS resource(s) that the wireless device 14 is to perform
15 measurements on for subsequent CSI feedback. In some embodiments, the
   indication includes an indication of at least one CSI-RS resource of the K CSI-RS
   resources to be used by the wireless device 14. In some embodiments, this is
   accomplished with an uplink grant to wireless device 14.
   [0084]     The wireless device 14 then measures the indicated CSI-RS (step
20 106). In other words, the wireless device 14 performs one or more
   measurements on the one or more CSI-RS resources dynamically configured in
   step 104. The wireless device 14 then reports the selected CSI-RS to the base
   station 12 via a CSI report (step 110). In some embodiments, this is a
   periodically scheduled CSI feedback. In some embodiments, this is an aperiodic
25 CSI feedback.
   [0085]      Figures 7 through 13 illustrate various embodiments described above.
   In particular, Figure 7 illustrates the operation of the base station 12 and the
   wireless device 14 to enable disablement of inter-subframe interpolation/filtering
   of NZP CSI-RS measurements according to some embodiments of the present
30 disclosure. As illustrated, the base station 12 disables inter-subframe channel
   interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS at the wireless device 14 (step 200)

                                             23
   Notably, in this embodiment, disabling of inter-subframe channel
   interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS is performed on a per wireless device basis.
   The base station 12 may disable inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering of
   NZP CSI-RS at the wireless device 14 in response to some triggering event, e.g.,
 5 an increase in cell load, an increase in the number of beams transmitted by the
   base station 12, etc. However, the triggering event can be any suitable triggering
   event. The base station 12 disables inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering
   of NZP CSI-RS at the wireless device 12 by, in some embodiments, transmitting
   an indication to the wireless device 14 that the wireless device 14 is not allowed
10 to perform inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS. This
   indication may be transmitted using any suitable signaling such as, for example,
   higher layer signaling (e.g., RRC signaling).
   [0086]       In some embodiments, the base station 12 disables inter-subframe
   channel interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS at the wireless device 14 for one or
15 more particular CSI processes of the wireless device 12. For instance, the base
   station 12 includes an indication that inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering
   of NZP CSI-RS at the wireless device 14 is to be disabled (i.e., not allowed) for a
   particular CSI process within an RRC information element used to configure that
   CSI process. In this manner, the base station 12 can separately disable or
20 enable inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS for multiple
   CSI processes configured for the wireless device 14. In other embodiments, the
   base station 12 disables inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering of NZP
   CSI-RS at the wireless device 14 for multiple CSI processes (e.g., two or more or
   even all CSI processes) using a single indicator.
25 [0087]       Optionally, in some embodiments, the base station 12 may also
   disable averaging of CSI-IM estimates at the wireless device (step 202).
   Notably, while averaging of CSI-IM estimates is described as being disabled in
   some of the embodiments disclosed herein, the present disclosure is not limited
   to averaging. Averaging is just one example of how CSI-IM estimates can be
30 combined across subframes. As such, in this regard, any combining (e.g.,
   filtering or averaging) of multiple CSI-IM estimates across subframes may be

                                              24
   disabled. In other words, the base station 12 may also transmit an indication to
   the wireless device 14 that indicates that the wireless device 14 is not to perform
   averaging of CSI-IM estimates. This indication may be provided via higher layer
   signaling, e.g., RRC signaling. As discussed above with respect to step 200, the
 5 indication to disable averaging of CSI-IM estimates may be provided separately
   for each of multiple CSI processes at the wireless device 14 or a single indication
   may be used for multiple or even all CSI processes.
   [0088]      In response to receiving the indication from the base station 12 in step
   200, the wireless device 14 performs CSI-RS measurement(s) with inter
10 subframe channel interpolation/filtering of NZP CSI-RS disabled (step 204).
   Similarly, if averaging of CSI-IM estimates has been disabled, the wireless device
   14 performs CSI-IM measurement(s) with averaging of CSI-IM estimates
   disabled (step 206). The wireless device 14 then provides CSI feedback to the
   base station 12 via a CSI report(s) determined from the measurements (step
15 208). Notably, if there are multiple CSI processes at the wireless device 14, then
   a separate CSI report for each CSI process may be used to report the CSI
   feedback to the base station 12. Also, if triggered (aperiodic) CSI reporting is
   used (e.g., using PUSCH in LTE), the wireless device 14 can send multiple CSI
   reports together (stacked) in a single message (e.g., a single PUSCH message
20 in LTE).
   [0089]      Figure 8 illustrates the operation of the base station 12 and the
   wireless device 14 according to some embodiments of the present disclosure in
   which the base station 12 configures the wireless device 14 with a set of K CSI
   RS resources and the wireless device 14 selects a subset of the configured set
25 of CSI-RS resources on which to measure for CSI feedback. In some
   embodiments, the process of Figure 8 is utilized together with the process of
   Figure 7 (i.e., inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering can be disabled for
   one or more or even all CSI processes).
   [0090]     As illustrated, the base station 12 configures the wireless device 14
30 with one or more sets of K CSI-RS resources (step 300). This configuration is a
   static or semi-static configuration. For instance, this configuration may be made

                                              25
   semi-statically via higher layer signaling such as, for example, RRC signaling.
   Further, a single set of K CSI-RS resources may be configured for all CSI
   processes of the wireless device 14 (i.e., the same set of K CSI-RS resources is
   used for all CSI processes). However, in other embodiments, a separate set of
 5 CSI-RS resources may be configured for each CSI process. In some particular
   embodiments, the base station 12 transmits beamformed CSI-RS, and the set of
   K CSI-RS resources configured for a CSI process or all CSI processes
   corresponds to K different beam directions or beams as seen by the base station
   12. In this case, K may be, for example, 20 since 20 two-port CSI-RSs can be
10 transmitted in a single subframe (3GPP TS 36.211 V1 2.3.0). Further, the K
   beams may include a serving beam of the wireless device 14 and a number of
   neighboring beams of the serving beam of the wireless device 14.
   [0091]     The wireless device 14 then dynamically selects a subset of the
   configured set(s) of CSI-RS resources for CSI reporting (step 302). In
15 embodiments where a different set of CSI-RS resources is configured for each
   CSI-RS process, for each CSI process, the wireless device 14 dynamically
   selects a subset of the configured set of CSI-RS resources for CSI reporting for
   that CSI process. This selection could, for example, be based on estimates of
   channel strengths for the configured CSI-RS resources (e.g., the subset could be
20 selected to correspond to the N strongest channels, where 0 < N : K). The
   wireless device 14 performs measurement(s) on the selected subset of the
   configured set(s) of CSI-RS resources (step 304) and provides CSI feedback
   based on the measurements via a CSI report(s) (step 306). Notably, the wireless
   device 14 may include an indication of the selected CSI-RS resource(s) in the
25 CSI report(s) or provide such an indication to the base station 12 via a separate
   message(s). Steps 302-306 may be repeated periodically (e.g., for periodic CSI
   reporting) or aperiodically (for aperiodic CSI reporting). Conversely, the
   configuration of step 300 may be performed infrequently or only once.
   [0092]     Figure 9 illustrates the operation of the base station 12 and the
30 wireless device 14 to enable dynamic CSI reporting according to some
   embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated, the base station 12

                                              26
   configures the wireless device 14 with one or more sets of K CSI-RS resources
   (step 400). This configuration is a static or semi-static configuration. For
   instance, this configuration may be made semi-statically via higher layer
   signaling such as, for example, RRC signaling. Further, a single set of K CSI-RS
 5 resources may be configured for all CSI processes of the wireless device 14 (i.e.,
   the same set of K CSI-RS resources is used for all CSI processes). However, in
   other embodiments, a separate set of CSI-RS resources may be configured for
   each CSI process. In some particular embodiments, the base station 12
   transmits beamformed CSI-RS, and the set of K CSI-RS resources configured for
10 a CSI process or all CSI processes corresponds to K different beam directions or
   beams as seen by the base station 12. In this case, K may be, for example, 20
   since 20 two-port CSI-RSs can be transmitted in a single subframe (3GPP TS
   36.211 V1 2.3.0). Further, the K beams may include a serving beam of the
   wireless device 14 and a number of neighboring beams of the serving beam of
15 the wireless device 14.
   [0093]     After configuring the set(s) of K CSI-RS resources, the base station 12
   dynamically configures CSI-RS resource(s) for measurement from the set(s) of
   CSI-RS resources (step 402). This dynamic configuration is performed by
   dynamically transmitting an indication(s) to the wireless device 14 of which CSI
20 RS resource(s) from the set(s) of CSI-RS resources configured for the wireless
   device 14 are to be used for measurement. In some embodiments, the dynamic
   configuration is transmitted via an uplink scheduling grant message, a downlink
   assignment, a message on a dedicated control channel, a DCI message, or a
   LTE MAC Control Element (CE). The dynamic configuration is used for at least
25 one subsequent CSI report. In some embodiments, the dynamic configuration is
   to be used for only one subsequent CSI report. In other embodiments, the
   dynamic configuration is to be used for CSI reports until a new dynamic
   configuration is received.
   [0094]     After receiving the dynamic configuration, the wireless device 14
30 performs measurement(s) on the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s)
   (step 404) and transmits a corresponding CSI report(s) to the base station 12

                                              27
   (step 406). Notably, the wireless device 14 may include an indication of the CSI
   RS resource(s) used for the CSI report(s) (or some other indication that the
   dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s) were used for the CSI report(s)) in
   the CSI report(s) or provide such an indication to the base station 12 via a
 5 separate message(s). The CSI report(s) may be a periodic CSI report(s) or
   aperiodic CSI report(s). As discussed above, the dynamic configuration is used
   for only one CSI report. In this case, the process proceeds to step 412
   discussed below. However, in other embodiments, the dynamic configuration
   applies until a new dynamic configuration is received. In this regard, the wireless
10 device 14 continues to perform measurement(s) and transmit corresponding CSI
   reports, periodically or aperiodically, until a new dynamic configuration is
   received (steps 408 and 410). Once a new dynamic configuration is transmitted
   by the base station 12 and received by the wireless device 14 (step 412), the
   wireless device 14 performs measurement(s) on the newly configured CSI-RS
15 resource(s) and reports the corresponding CSI report(s) to the base station 12
   (step 414 and 416). The process continues in this manner.
   [0095]     Notably, in some embodiments when performing the measurements on
   the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s), the wireless device 14 assumes
   PDSCH rate matching around CSI-RS and CRS. PDSCH rate matching around
20 CSI-RS is, in particular, where PDSCH is not mapped to any Resource Elements
   (REs) in the union of the ZP and NZP CSI-RS resources in the configured set(s)
   of CSI-RS resources. In other words, when mapping PDSCH to REs for
   transmission at the base station 12, the PDSCH is not mapped to any REs that
   are included in the ZP and NZP CSI-RS resources in the configured set(s) of
25 CSI-RS resources.
   [0096]     Figure 10 illustrates the operation of the base station 12 and the
   wireless device 14 according to some embodiments in which the CSI-RS
   resource configuration reverts back to some default configuration after CSI
   reporting on a dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s) is complete. In this
30 example, steps 500-506 are the same as steps 400-406 of Figure 9 and, as
   such, the details are not repeated. After transmitting the CSI report(s) based on

                                              28
   the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s) in step 506, rather than
   continuing to report using the same dynamically configured CSI-RS resources,
   the wireless device 14 reverts to a default CSI-RS resource(s). In particular, the
   wireless device 14 performs measurement(s) on the default CSI-RS resource(s)
 5 (step 508) and transmits a corresponding CSI report(s) to the base station 12
   (step 510). The CSI report(s) may be a periodic CSI report(s) or aperiodic CSI
   report(s). In this example, the wireless device 14 continues to perform
   measurement(s) and transmit corresponding CSI reports, periodically or
   aperiodically, based on the default CSI-RS resource(s) until a new dynamic
10 configuration is transmitted by the base station 12 and received by the wireless
   device 14 (step 512). Once a new dynamic configuration is received by the
   wireless device 14, the wireless device 14 performs measurement(s) on the
   newly configured CSI-RS resource(s) and reports the corresponding CSI
   report(s) to the base station 12 (steps 514 and 516). The process continues in
15 this manner. Notably, in some embodiments when performing the
   measurements on the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s), the wireless
   device 14 assumes PDSCH rate matching around CSI-RS and CRS.
   [0097]      Figure 11 illustrates an embodiment in which the CSI-RS resource(s) is
   dynamically configured via a DCI message. Using the DCI message for the
20 dynamic configuration may be particularly well-suited for aperiodic CSI reporting,
   but is not limited thereto. As illustrated, the base station 12 configures the
   wireless device 14 with one or more sets of K CSI-RS resources (step 600). As
   discussed above, this configuration is a static or semi-static configuration. For
   instance, this configuration may be made semi-statically via higher layer
25 signaling such as, for example, RRC signaling. Further, a single set of K CSI-RS
   resources may be configured for all CSI processes of the wireless device 14 (i.e.,
   the same set of K CSI-RS resources is used for all CSI processes). However, in
   other embodiments, a separate set of CSI-RS resources may be configured for
   each CSI process. In some particular embodiments, the base station 12
30 transmits beamformed CSI-RS, and the set of K CSI-RS resources configured for
   a CSI process or all CSI processes corresponds to K different beam directions or

                                               29
   beams as seen by the base station 12. In this case, K may be, for example, 20
   since 20 two-port CSI-RSs can be transmitted in a single subframe (3GPP TS
   36.211 V1 2.3.0). Further, the K beams may include a serving beam of the
   wireless device 14 and a number of neighboring beams of the serving beam of
 5 the wireless device 14.
   [0098]      After configuring the set(s) of K CSI-RS resources, the base station 12
   dynamically configures CSI-RS resource(s) for measurement from the set(s) of
   CSI-RS resources via a DCI message (step 602). The DCI message includes an
   indication of configured CSI-RS resource(s) from the configured set(s) of CSI-RS
10 resources (e.g., an index or indices). After receiving the dynamic configuration,
   the wireless device 14 performs measurement(s) on the dynamically configured
   CSI-RS resource(s) (step 604) and transmits a corresponding CSI report(s) to
   the base station 12 (step 606), as discussed above. While not being limited
   hereto, in this example, the wireless device 14 continues to use the same
15 dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s) for one or more subsequent CSI
   reports (not shown). This may be the case where, for example, CSI reporting is
   periodic. However, in other embodiments, CSI reporting is aperiodic and the
   CSI-RS resource(s) to use may be dynamically configured for each aperiodic CSI
   report, for example. Once a new dynamic configuration is transmitted by the
20 base station 12 and received by the wireless device 14 (step 612), the wireless
   device 14 performs measurement(s) on the newly configured CSI-RS resource(s)
   and reports the corresponding CSI report(s) to the base station 12 (steps 614
   and 616). The process continues in this manner. Notably, in some embodiments
   when performing the measurements on the dynamically configured CSI-RS
25 resource(s), the wireless device 14 assumes PDSCH rate matching around CSI
   RS.
   [0099]      Figure 12 illustrates an embodiment in which the CSI-RS resource(s) is
   dynamically configured via a LTE MAC CE. In this particular example, CSI
   reporting is periodic; however, the present disclosure is not limited thereto. As
30 illustrated, the base station 12 configures the wireless device 14 with one or
   more sets of K CSI-RS resources (step 700). As discussed above, this

                                              30
   configuration is a static or semi-static configuration. For instance, this
   configuration may be made semi-statically via higher layer signaling such as, for
   example, RRC signaling. Further, a single set of K CSI-RS resources may be
   configured for all CSI processes of the wireless device 14 (i.e., the same set of K
 5 CSI-RS resources is used for all CSI processes). However, in other
   embodiments, a separate set of CSI-RS resources may be configured for each
   CSI process. In some particular embodiments, the base station 12 transmits
   beamformed CSI-RS, and the set of K CSI-RS resources configured for a CSI
   process or all CSI processes corresponds to K different beam directions or
10 beams as seen by the base station 12. In this case, K may be, for example, 20
   since 20 two-port CSI-RSs can be transmitted in a single subframe (3GPP TS
   36.211 V1 2.3.0). Further, the K beams may include a serving beam of the
   wireless device 14 and a number of neighboring beams of the serving beam of
   the wireless device 14.
15 [00100]    After configuring the set(s) of K CSI-RS resources, the base station 12
   dynamically configures CSI-RS resource(s) for measurement from the set(s) of
   CSI-RS resources via a LTE MAC CE (step 702). The LTE MAC CE includes an
   indication of configured CSI-RS resource(s) from the configured set(s) of CSI-RS
   resources (e.g., an index or indices). In response to receiving the dynamic
20 configuration, the wireless device 14 sends an acknowledgement (e.g., a HARQ
   ACK) to the base station 12 to confirm receipt of the transport block containing
   the LTE MAC CE (step 704).
   [00101]    There is a certain amount of time that it takes the wireless device 14 to
   effect the dynamic configuration of the CSI-RS resources, that is to begin
25 measuring and reporting CSI measurements of the CSI-RS resources.
   Particularly for periodic CSI reporting, this results in a time of ambiguity in which
   any CSI reports received from the wireless device 14 are inaccurate (i.e., are
   based on measurements on the previously configured CSI-RS resource(s) rather
   than the newly configured CSI-RS resource(s)). As such, in this example, the
30 base station 12 discards any CSI reports received from the wireless device 14
   during a predefined amount of time after receiving the acknowledgement from

                                             31
   the wireless device 14 in step 704 (steps 706 and 708). This predefined amount
   of time is greater than or equal to the amount of time that it takes for the wireless
   device 14 to effect the dynamic configuration of the CSI-RS resource received in
   step 702.
 5 [00102]    In response to receiving the dynamic configuration in step 702, the
   wireless device 14 performs measurement(s) on the dynamically configured CSI
   RS resource(s) (step 710) and transmits a corresponding CSI report(s) to the
   base station 12 (step 712), as discussed above. Notably, the time needed by the
   wireless device 14 to perform the measurement(s) in step 710 may be part of the
10 time of ambiguity discussed above. Notably, the wireless device 14 may include
   an indication of the CSI-RS resource(s) used for the CSI report(s) (or some other
   indication that the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s) were used for the
   CSI report(s)) in the CSI report(s) or provide such an indication to the base
   station 12 via a separate message(s). In this case, now that the predefined
15 amount of time since receiving the acknowledgement in step 704 has expired,
   the base station 12 can be certain that the CSI report is based on the CSI-RS
   resource(s) configured in step 702. As such, the base station 12 processes the
   CSI report(s) (e.g., to select transmission parameters for the downlink to the
   wireless device 14 in the conventional manner) (step 714). Notably, in some
20 embodiments, the CSI report(s) include an indication that that the dynamically
   configured CSI-RS resource(s) were used for the CSI report(s). This indication
   may be, for example, an indication (e.g., an index) of the CSI-RS resource(s)
   used for the CSI report(s) or any other suitable indication.
   [00103]    At this point, as discussed above, the wireless device 14 may continue
25 to use the same dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s) for one or more
   subsequent CSI reports (not shown). This may be the case where, for example,
   CSI reporting is periodic. However, in other embodiments, CSI reporting is
   aperiodic, and the CSI-RS resource(s) to use may be dynamically configured for
   each aperiodic CSI report, for example. In other embodiments, the wireless
30 device 14 may revert to some default CSI-RS resource(s) until a new dynamic
   configuration is received. Notably, in some embodiments when performing the

                                               32
   measurements on the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s), the wireless
   device 14 assumes PDSCH rate matching around CSI-RS.
   [00104]     While the embodiments described above with respect to Figures 9-12
   focus on dynamic configuration of CSI-RS resources in general, it should be
 5 noted that these CSI-RS resources are, in some embodiments, NZP CSI-RS
   resources and, in other embodiments, NZP CSI-RS resources and/or CSI-IM
   resources. In this regard, Figure 13 illustrates the operation of the base station
   12 to dynamically configure NZP CSI-RS resource(s) and CSI-IM resource(s)
   according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated, the
10 base station 12 configures the wireless device 14 with one or more sets of K CSI
   RS resources (step 800). As discussed above, this configuration is a static or
   semi-static configuration. For instance, this configuration may be made semi
   statically via higher layer signaling such as, for example, RRC signaling. Further,
   a single set of K CSI-RS resources may be configured for all CSI processes of
15 the wireless device 14 (i.e., the same set of K CSI-RS resources is used for all
   CSI processes). However, in other embodiments, a separate set of CSI-RS
   resources may be configured for each CSI process. In some particular
   embodiments, the base station 12 transmits beamformed CSI-RS, and the set of
   K CSI-RS resources configured for a CSI process or all CSI processes
20 corresponds to K different beam directions or beams as seen by the base station
   12. In this case, K may be, for example, 20 since 20 two-port CSI-RSs can be
   transmitted in a single subframe (3GPP TS 36.211 V1 2.3.0). Further, the K
   beams may include a serving beam of the wireless device 14 and a number of
   neighboring beams of the serving beam of the wireless device 14. In some
25 embodiments, the sets of CSI-RS resources include a first set of NZP CSI-RS
   resources and a second set of CSI-IM resources (which may also be referred to
   as ZP CSI-RS resources).
   [00105]     After configuring the set(s) of K CSI-RS resources, the base station 12
   dynamically configures NZP CSI-RS resource(s) and CSI-IM resource(s) for
30 measurement from the set(s) of CSI-RS resources (step 802). The details for the
   dynamic configuration are as discussed above. For instance, the dynamic

                                            33
   configuration may include different NZP CSI-RS resources and CSI-IM resources
   for each of two or more CSI processes. In other words, the dynamic
   configuration may be CSI process specific. Further, the dynamic configuration
   may be performed by transmitting an appropriate indication(s) in, e.g., a DCI
 5 message or a LTE MAC CE, for example. In some embodiments, the set(s) of
   CSI-RS resources configured in step 800 include a set of NZP CSI-RS resources
   and a set of CSI-IM resources. Then, in step 802, the base station 12
   dynamically configures one or more NZP CSI-RS resources for measurement
   from the set of NZP CSI-RS resources (e.g., one NZP CSI-RS resource for each
10 CSI process) and one or more CSI-IM resources for interference measurement
   from the set of CSI-IM resources (e.g., one CSI-IM resource for each CSI
   process).
   [00106]    In response to receiving the dynamic configuration, the wireless device
   14 performs measurement(s) on the dynamically configured NZP CSI-RS
15 resource(s) and CSI-IM resource(s) (step 804). The measurement(s) on the NZP
   CSI-RS resource(s) is measurement(s) of a desired signal, whereas the
   measurement(s) on the CSI-IM resource(s) is measurement(s) of interference, as
   will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure.
   The wireless device 14 transmits a corresponding CSI report(s) to the base
20 station 12 based on the measurements on the dynamically configured CSI-RS
   resource(s) and CSI-IM resource(s) (step 806). Notably, the wireless device 14
   may include an indication of the NZP CSI-RS and CSI-IM resource(s) used for
   the CSI report(s) (or some other indication that the dynamically configured NZP
   CSI-RS and CSI-IM resource(s) were used for the CSI report(s)) in the CSI
25 report(s) or provide such an indication to the base station 12 via a separate
   message(s).
   [00107]    At this point, as discussed above, the wireless device 14 may continue
   to use the same dynamically configured NZP CSI-RS resource(s) and CSI-IM
   resource(s) for one or more subsequent CSI reports (not shown). This may be
30 the case where, for example, CSI reporting is periodic. However, in other
   embodiments, CSI reporting is aperiodic, and the CSI-RS resource(s) to use may

                                             34
   be dynamically configured for each aperiodic CSI report, for example. In other
   embodiments, the wireless device 14 may revert to some default CSI-RS
   resource(s) until a new dynamic configuration is received. Notably, in some
   embodiments when performing the measurements on the dynamically configured
 5 CSI-RS resource(s), the wireless device 14 assumes PDSCH rate matching
   around CSI-RS.
   [00108]     As discussed above, in some embodiments, the set of K CSI-RS
   resources configured for the wireless device 14 correspond to K different beam
   directions from the perspective of the base station 12. Further, in some
10 embodiments, the K different beam directions include the beam direction of a
   serving beam of the wireless device 14 and beam directions of a number of
   neighboring beams of the serving beam of the wireless device 14. The base
   station 12 can then dynamically configure (and re-configure) the CSI-RS
   resource(s) for measurement at the wireless device 14 as the wireless device 14
15 transitions from one beam to another (i.e., as the serving beam of the wireless
   device 14 changes). In this regard, Figure 14 illustrates the operation of the base
   station 12 according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. As
   illustrated, the base station 12 configures the wireless device 14 with a set of K
   CSI-RS resources (step 900). The configuration may be performed, as
20 discussed above, via higher layer signaling (e.g., RRC signaling). Further, the
   set of K CSI-RS resources may be for multiple CSI processes (e.g., all CSI
   processes configured for the wireless device 14) or for a single CSI process
   (e.g., a separate set of CSI-RS resources may be configured for each CSI
   process). Here, the base station 12 transmits beamformed CSI-RSs, and the set
25 of K CSI-RS resources are transmitted of K adjacent beams. The adjacent
   beams include a serving beam of the wireless device 14 and a number of
   neighboring beams of the serving beam of the wireless device 14.
   [00109]     The base station 12 dynamically configures CSI-RSs for measurement
   and CSI reporting for the serving beam of the wireless device 14 and one or
30 more neighboring beams from the set of CSI-RS resources (step 902). The
   dynamic configuration may be performed via any suitable mechanism such as,

                                             35
   for example, a DCI message or a LTE MAC CE. The base station 12 may
   configure one of the set of CSI-RS resources as a NZP CSI-RS for measurement
   on the serving beam and one or more other CSI-RS resources from the set as
   CSI-IM resources for interference measurement. The CSI-RS resources may
 5 continue to be dynamically configured such that different CSI-RS resources are
   configured for measurement and interference measurement as the wireless
   device 14 transitions from one beam to another.
   [00110]    Figure 15 is a block diagram of the base station 12 (e.g., eNB)
   according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated, the
10 base station 12 includes a baseband unit 16 including at least one processor 18
   (e.g., a Central Processing Unit (CPU), Application Specific Integrated Circuit
   (ASIC), Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA), etc.), memory 20, and a
   network interface 22 as well as a radio unit 24 including a wireless, or Radio
   Frequency (RF), transceiver 26 that includes one or more transmitters 28 and
15 one or more receivers 30 coupled to one or more antennas 32. In some
   embodiments, the functionality of the base station 12 described herein is
   implemented in software that is stored in the memory 20 and executed by the at
   least one processor 18, whereby the base station 12 operates to, e.g., configure
   the set of CSI-RS resources for the wireless device 14, configure the
20 measurement purposes of at least some and possibly all of the CSI-RS
   resources in the configured set, etc.
   [00111]    In some embodiments, a computer program is provided, where the
   computer program comprises instructions which, when executed on at least one
   processor (e.g., the at least one processor 18), cause the at least one processor
25 to carry out the functionality of the base station 12 according to any of the
   embodiments described herein. In some embodiments, a carrier containing the
   computer program is provided, wherein the carrier is one of an electronic signal,
   an optical signal, a radio signal, or a computer readable storage medium (e.g., a
   non-transitory computer readable medium).
30 [00112]    Figure 16 illustrates the base station 12 according to another
   embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated, the base station 12

                                              36
   includes a disabling module 34 (only in some embodiments) and a CSI-RS
   indication module 36 (only in some embodiments), each of which is implemented
   in software. The disabling module 34 operates to disable inter-subframe channel
   interpolation/filtering of the NZP CSI-RS and/or averaging of CSI-IM belonging to
 5 a CSI process for the wireless device 14 by, e.g., transmitting an appropriate
   message(s) or signal(s) via an associated transmitter of the base station 12, as
   discussed above. The CSI-RS indication module 36 operates to indicate to the
   wireless device 14 which CSI-RSs to measure by, e.g., transmitting an
   appropriate message(s) or signal(s) via an associated transmitter of the base
10 station 12. As discussed above, the indication of the CSI-RS resources on which
   the wireless device 14 is to measure may be provided by first configuring the
   wireless device 14 with a static or semi-static set of CSI-RS resources (e.g., via
   RRC signaling) and then dynamically configuring which of the CSI-RS resources
   that the wireless device 14 is to measure on, e.g., via a DCI message or LTE
15 MAC CEs.
   [00113]    Figure 17 is a block diagram of the wireless device 14 according to
   some embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated, the wireless device
   14 includes at least one processor 40, memory 42, and a wireless, or RF,
   transceiver 44 that includes one or more transmitters 46 and one or more
20 receivers 48 coupled to one or more antennas 50. In some embodiments, the
   functionality of the wireless device 14 described herein is implemented in
   software that is stored in the memory 42 and executed by the at least one
   processor 40.
   [00114]    In some embodiments, a computer program is provided, where the
25 computer program comprises instructions which, when executed on at least one
   processor (e.g., the at least one processor 40), cause the at least one processor
   to carry out the functionality of the wireless device 14 according to any of the
   embodiments described herein. In some embodiments, a carrier containing the
   computer program is provided, wherein the carrier is one of an electronic signal,
30 an optical signal, a radio signal, or a computer readable storage medium (e.g., a
   non-transitory computer readable medium).

                                              37
   [00115]    Figure 18 illustrates the wireless device 14 according to some other
   embodiments of the present disclosure. As illustrated, the wireless device 14
   includes a CSI-RS indication module 52, a metric computation module 54, and a
   reporting module 56, each of which is implemented in software. The CSI-RS
 5 indication module 52 operates to receive an indication of which CSI-RSs to
   measure via a receiver(s) of the wireless device 14 (not shown). As discussed
   above, the CSI-RS indication module 52 may first receive a static or semi-static
   configuration of a set of CSI-RS resources (e.g., one set of CSI resources per
   CSI process or one set of CSI-RS resources for multiple CSI processes). Then,
10 the CSI-RS indication module 52 receives, via a receiver(s) of the wireless
   device 14 (not shown), a dynamic configuration of which of the CSI-RS resources
   in the configured set(s) of CSI-RS resources that the wireless device 14 is to
   measure on for CSI reporting. The metric computation module 54 then computes
   a measurement(s) on the dynamically configured CSI-RS resource(s). The
15 reporting module 56 then transmits a CSI report to the network (e.g., to the base
   station 12) based on the measurement(s) via an associated transmitter (not
   shown) of the wireless device 14.
   [00116]    Embodiments of systems and methods for flexible CSI feedback are
   disclosed. In some embodiments, a network node (e.g., a radio access node
20 such as, but not limited to, a base station) indicates to a wireless device (e.g., a
   UE) which CSI-RS resource to measure. In some embodiments, this is
   accomplished with an uplink grant to the wireless device.
   [00117]    In one embodiment, the base station configures the wireless device
   with a set of K CSI-RS resources by higher layer signaling, e.g. by using an RRC
25 message. The base station then indicates to the wireless device, possibly in an
   uplink scheduling grant message or some other form of message (e.g., downlink
   assignment, MAC CE, or a dedicated message on a downlink control channel), at
   least one CSI-RS resource of the K CSI-RS resources to be used by the wireless
   device. This at least one CSI-RS resource is the CSI-RS resource for which the
30 UE should perform channel measurements. The wireless device then computes
   measurements on the at least one CSI-RS resource out of the set of K possible

                                            38
   CSI-RS resources. In some embodiments, the K CSI-RS resources may
   correspond to K different beam directions as seen from the base station. In one
   embodiment, K = 20 since 20 two-port CSI-RSs can be transmitted in a single
   subframe.
 5 [00118]     In some embodiments, the network node also indicates to the wireless
   device that the wireless device should disable the inter-subframe channel
   interpolation/filtering of the NZP CSI-RS belonging to a CSI process prior to
   indicating to the wireless device which CSI-RS resource to measure. In some
   embodiments, this is accomplished via higher layer signaling such as RRC
10 signaling or via a DCI message. In some embodiments, the base station also
   indicates that the averaging of CSI-IM estimates is not allowed across
   subframes. In some embodiments, the signaling may further indicate for which
   CSI processes (e.g., predetermined to be all or a subset of the possible CSI
   processes) this applies. In some embodiments, the RRC information element for
15 configuring a CSI process may be extended with a bit controlling whether inter
   subframe NZP CSI-RS filtering is enabled or disabled.
   [00119]     In some embodiments, the wireless device then measures the
   indicated CSI-RS. The wireless device then reports the selected CSI-RS to the
   base station. In some embodiments, this is a periodically scheduled CSI
20 feedback. In some embodiments, this is an aperiodic CSI feedback. In some
   embodiments, the aperiodic request is sent in an uplink grant.
   [00120]     In some embodiments, the wireless device is monitoring a set of NZP
   CSI-RS configurations and selects a subset of those NZP CSI-RS configurations
   for reporting CSI. In some embodiments, the selection could, for example, be
25 based on estimates of channel strengths for the monitored NZP CSI-RS
   configurations (e.g., the subset could be selected to correspond to the N
   strongest channels).
   [00121]     In some embodiments, the base station also indicates which one of the
   CSI-RS resources should be used as a CSI-IM resource. In some embodiments,
30 the wireless device shall assume PDSCH rate matching around all CSI-RS
   resources indicated in the higher layer configuration.

                                            39
   [00122]    In some embodiments, periodic CSI reports using PUCCH are
   computed based on the CSI-RS resource indicated in a downlink DCI message.
   The wireless device will use the selected CSI-RS resource for CSI feedback until
   an indication of a new CSI-RS is received by the wireless device in a DCI
 5 message. Additionally, the wireless device may provide an indication confirming
   which CSI-RS resource is measured, the indication comprising an index of the
   measured CSI-RS resource or alternatively a bit confirming that the downlink DCI
   message was successfully received and that the CSI-RS resource in the DCI
   message is used in the measurement.
10 [00123]    In some embodiments, periodic CSI reports using PUCCH are
   computed based on the CSI-RS resource indicated in an LTE MAC CE. In some
   embodiments, the wireless device may provide an indication confirming which
   CSI-RS resource is measured, the indication comprising an index of the
   measured CSI-RS resource or alternatively a bit confirming that the MAC CE was
15 successfully received and that the CSI-RS resource is used in the measurement.
   [00124]    In some embodiments, the CSI resources configured to the wireless
   device are transmitted in adjacent beams. Hence, the base station can
   dynamically change the CSI measurement reports from the wireless device for
   the current beam serving the wireless device and for the neighboring beams of
20 this serving beam.
   [00125]    Embodiments of systems and methods for CSI feedback are disclosed.
   In one embodiment, a method for CSI feedback, which is dynamic, has low UE
   complexity and solves the problems mentioned above:
              o A message is signaled from an eNB to the UE so that the UE
25                disables the inter-subframe channel interpolation/filtering of the
                  NZP CSI-RS belonging to a CSI process.
              o A dynamically signaled message (e.g., the uplink grant that
                  schedules an (aperiodic) CSI report) contains an indicator for which
                  CSI-RS resource the UE shall perform measurements on for a
30                subsequent aperiodic CSI feedback transmitted on PUSCH.

                                             40
                   *  Since the uplink grant is delivered by layer 1 and because the
                      UE only transmits the aperiodic report when triggered to do so,
                      there is no uncertainty on when the UE has received the
                      indication.
 5           o After the CSI-RS resource indicator carried by DCI has been
                 received, the following periodic CSI reports transmitted using
                 PUCCH will be based on measurements on the indicated CSI-RS.
                   *  A confirmation indicator of the CSI-RS resource may be
                      included in the periodic CSI-RS report to validate that the DCI
10                    was received, and that the measured CSI-RS resource is the
                      one carried by the DCI.
   [00126]   Embodiments of the CSI feedback framework disclosed herein have
   large benefits over the LTE CSI framework when operating in an environment
   where CSI-RS need to be reconfigured often as in the case of many small cells
15 or narrow beams and medium to high UE mobility.
   [00127]   The following acronyms are used throughout this disclosure.
             *   Ps             Microsecond
             *   2D            Two-Dimensional
             *   3GPP          3 rd Generation Partnership Project
20           *   ACK           Acknowledgement
             *   ABS           Almost Blank Subframe
             *   AP            Antenna Port
             *   ARQ           Automatic Repeat Request
             *   ASIC          Application Specific Integrated Circuit
25           *   CDM           Code-Division Multiplexing
             *   CE            Control Element
             *   CFI           Control Format Indicator
             *   CoMP          Coordinated Multipoint
             *   CPU           Central Processing Unit
30           *   CQl           Channel Quality Information

                         41
   * CRS    Cell-Specific Reference Symbol
   * CSI    Channel State Information
   . CSI-RS Channel State Information Reference Signal
   * DCI    Downlink Control Information
 5 * DFT    Discrete Fourier Transform
   * DL     Downlink
   * eNB    Enhanced or Evolved Node B
   . EPDCCH Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel
   * FPGA   Field-Programmable Gate Array
10 * GSM    Global System for Mobile Communications
   * HARQ   Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
   * ID     Identifier
   * IM     Interference Measurement
   * LTE    Long Term Evolution
15 * MAC    Medium Access Control
   * ms     Millisecond
   * NZP    Non-Zero-Power
   * PDCCH  Physical Downlink Control Channel
   * PDSCH  Physical Downlink Shared Channel
20 * PMI    Precoding Matrix Indicator
   * PRB    Physical Resource Block
   * PUCCH  Physical Uplink Control Channel
   * PUSCH  Physical Uplink Shared Channel
   * OFDM   Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
25 * QPSK   Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
   * RB     Resource Block
   * RE     Resource Element
   * RF     Radio Frequency
   * RI     Rank Indicator
30 * RPSF   Reduced Power Subframe

                                              42
              *  RRC            Radio Resource Control
              *  SF             Subframe
              *  TM9            Transmission Mode 9
              *  TM10           Transmission Mode 10
 5            *  TS             Technical Specification
              *  TP             Transmission Point
              *  UE             User Equipment
              *  UL             Uplink
              *  UMB            Ultra Mobile Broadband
10            *  WCDMA          Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
              *  ZP             Zero-Power
   [00128]    Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications
   to the embodiments of the present disclosure. All such improvements and
   modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein.
15

                                             43
   Claims
   What is claimed is:
   1.     A method of operation of a base station of a cellular communications
   network to control Channel State Information Reference Symbol, CSI-RS, based
 5 channel estimation at a wireless device, comprising:
          disabling, at the wireless device, combining of CSI Interference
   Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes; and
          receiving one or more Channel State Information, CSI, reports from the
   wireless device that are generated by the wireless device with disabled
10 combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes.
   2.     The method of claim 1 wherein the wireless device utilizes two or more
   CSI processes for CSI reporting, and disabling combining of CSI Interference
   Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes comprises disabling
15 combining of CSI Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across
   subframes on a per CSI process basis.
   3.     The method of claim 1 wherein the wireless device utilizes two or more
   CSI processes for CSI reporting, and disabling combining of CSI Interference
20 Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes comprises disabling
   combining of CSI Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across
   subframes for all of the two or more CSI processes.
   4.     The method of claim 1 wherein disabling inter-subframe channel
25 interpolation of CSI-RS estimates across subframes comprises signaling, to the
   wireless device, an indication that combining of CSI Interference Measurement,
   CSI-IM, estimates across subframes is not allowed.
   5      The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 further comprising configuring the
30 wireless device with a set of CSI-RS resources.

                                               44
   6.     The method of claim 5 wherein receiving the one or more CSI reports from
   the wireless device comprises receiving CSI reports for a subset of the set of
   CSI-RS resources configured for the wireless device.
 5 7.     The method of claim 5 or 6 wherein configuring the wireless device with
   the set of CSI-RS resources comprises semi-statically configuring the wireless
   device with the set of CSI-RS resources.
   8.     The method of any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the set of CSI-RS
10 resources is specific to a CSI process of the wireless device.
   9.     A base station of a cellular communications network enabled to control
   Channel State Information Reference Symbol, CSI-RS, based channel estimation
   at a wireless device, comprising:
15        at least one transmitter;
          at least one receiver;
          at least one processor; and
           memory storing software instructions executable by the at least one
   processor whereby the base station is operative to:
20                 disable, via the at least one transmitter, combining of CSI
           Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes at a
          wireless device; and
                   receive, via the at least one receiver, a Channel State Information,
          CSI, report from the wireless device that is generated by the wireless
25        device with disabled combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes in
           response to disabling combining of CSI Interference Measurement, CSI
           IM, estimates across subframes at the wireless device.
   10.    A computer program comprising instructions which, when executed on at
30 least one processor, cause the at least one processor to carry out the method
   according to any one of claims 1 to 8.

                                             45
   11.    A carrier containing the computer program of claim 10, wherein the carrier
   is one of an electronic signal, an optical signal, a radio signal, or a computer
   readable storage medium.
 5
   12.    A method of operation of a wireless device in a cellular communications
   network to provide Channel State Information, CSI, reporting, comprising:
           receiving an indication from a base station of the cellular communications
   network to disable combining of CSI Interference Measurement, CSI-IM,
10 estimates across subframes; and
           in response, performing one or more CSI-IM measurements with
   combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes disabled; and
          transmitting a CSI report to the base station determined from the one or
   more CSI-IM measurements.
15
   13.    The method of claim 12 wherein the wireless device utilizes two or more
   CSI processes for CSI reporting, and the indication received from the base
   station is an indication to disable combining of CSI Interference Measurement,
   CSI-IM, estimates across subframes for a particular CSI process.
20
   14.    The method of claim 12 wherein the wireless device utilizes two or more
   CSI processes for CSI reporting, and the indication received from the base
   station is an indication to disable combining of CSI Interference Measurement,
   CSI-IM, estimates across subframes for all of the two or more CSI processes.
25
   15.    A wireless device in a cellular communications network to provide
   Channel State Information, CSI, reporting, comprising:
          at least one transmitter;
          at least one receiver;
30        at least one processor; and

                                             46
         memory storing software instructions executable by the at least one
   processor whereby the wireless device is operative to:
                 receive, via the at least one receiver, an indication from a base
         station of the cellular communications network to disable combining of CSI
 5       Interference Measurement, CSI-IM, estimates across subframes; and
                 in response, perform one or more CSI-IM measurements with
         combining of CSI-IM estimates across subframes disabled; and
                 transmitting a CSI report to the base station determined from the
         one or more CSI-IM measurements.
10

                     <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E>
                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270F>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E>

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>
                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E>

                                              <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                               <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+260E> <U+270E><U+271C> <U+2706> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2704>                           <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+260E>
              <U+2704>                                                 <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+260E>                                                 <U+260E><U+2720>
              <U+2706>                               <U+260E><U+260E>                <U+260E><U+271F>           <U+260E><U+261E>
              <U+271D>                               <U+260E><U+2704>                <U+260E><U+271E>           <U+260E><U+261B>
              <U+271E>                                                 <U+260E><U+271D>
              <U+271F>                                                 <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720>                                                  <U+261B>
              <U+2721>                                                  <U+271D>
              <U+261B>                               <U+271F>                  <U+2721>           <U+261E>
              <U+261E>                               <U+2704>                  <U+2706>           <U+271E>
              <U+260E><U+2704>                                                 <U+2720>
              <U+260E><U+260E>                                                 <U+260E>
                   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>     <U+271D>   <U+271E>    <U+271F>        <U+2720>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706> <U+271D> <U+271E>     <U+271F>        <U+2720>
                                         <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2714><U+2713><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
                                       <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                     <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E>

                                  <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+271E> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2726>
                       <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2704>         <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+260E>
              <U+2704>                        <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E>                        <U+271D>
              <U+2706>               <U+271F>        <U+2721>     <U+261E>
              <U+271D>               <U+2704>        <U+2706>     <U+271E>
              <U+271E>                        <U+2720>
              <U+271F>                        <U+260E>
              <U+2720>                        <U+261B>
              <U+2721>                        <U+271D>
              <U+261B>               <U+271F>        <U+2721>     <U+261E>
              <U+261E>               <U+2704>        <U+2706>     <U+271E>
              <U+260E><U+2704>                       <U+2720>
              <U+260E><U+260E>                       <U+260E>
                   <U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+271F> <U+2720> <U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706> <U+271D> <U+271E> <U+271F> <U+2720>
                                <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2714><U+2713><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
                                  <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2701>
                                <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      <U+271D><U+2704>
<U+2706><U+2704>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>
           <U+2702> <U+260E>
            <U+2701> <U+2704>

                                                              <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2713>
                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                    <U+2720>       <U+261E>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                            <U+2706>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                            <U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+261E>       <U+270C>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                    <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                        <U+271A>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                <U+2717>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                    <U+2704>       <U+2711>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2712>
                              <U+271E>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+2704>
                                  <U+270C>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2720>
                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2706>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                  <U+270D>
                              <U+2711>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+261E>
                              <U+270F>
                                                  <U+270D>
                              <U+2720>   <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                          <U+2701>
                              <U+271D>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                  <U+2713>
                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+270D>
                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+2713>
                              <U+2706>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+260E>
                              <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2720>
                                          <U+2711>
                              <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+271D>       <U+2701>
                              <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2715>       <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+260E>
                                          <U+2720>
                              <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2720>       <U+2701>
                              <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2721>
                              <U+271D>   <U+2712>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                              <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+260E>
                              <U+2720>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                      <U+2716>
                                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+261E>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                          <U+261E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2711>
                              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+271F>
                              <U+2721>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                          <U+2701>
                                              <U+271A>
                              <U+271D>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2706>
                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+2714>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+2720>
                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271F>
                              <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+2713>
                              <U+2706>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+261E>
                                  <U+2713>               <U+260E>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+271E>
                                  <U+271E>               <U+271E>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271B>
                                          <U+2711>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+271F>
                              <U+271D>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+271D>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+261E>
                              <U+2704>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2704>
                      <U+2706>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2704>

                                                              <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2721>                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                <U+2715>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>                             <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                  <U+270E>                             <U+270E>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                                                      <U+2706>                 <U+270C>           <U+2701>
                                                  <U+271F>                             <U+271F>
                                          <U+2720>               <U+271F>             <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>                             <U+2704>
                                          <U+2721>                             <U+2721>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                          <U+2704>                             <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2701>                             <U+2701>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+2701>                             <U+2701>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                              <U+2719>                             <U+2719>       <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                                               <U+2702>
                                          <U+270D>                             <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2701>                             <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                      <U+260E>                             <U+270C>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                              <U+2718>                             <U+2718>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                          <U+270C>                    <U+2706>        <U+270C>
                                                      <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+271F>                             <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                          <U+2720>                             <U+2720>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                                  <U+271E>                             <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                               <U+260E>
                                          <U+2711>                             <U+2711>
                                                  <U+271D>                             <U+271D>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                               <U+2701>
                                          <U+261E>                             <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                                               <U+2704>
                                                  <U+270C>                             <U+270C>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                          <U+2720>                             <U+2720>
                                                               <U+2702>                    <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2720>                             <U+2720>
                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                          <U+271D>                             <U+271D>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                  <U+261B>                             <U+261B>
                                                               <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                          <U+270F>                             <U+270F>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2701>                             <U+2701>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                               <U+2720>
                                                               <U+2721>                    <U+270D>
                                          <U+2702>                             <U+2702>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                  <U+260E>                             <U+260E>
                                                               <U+2704>
                                          <U+260E>                         <U+2717>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                  <U+271D>                             <U+271D>
                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                               <U+2701>
                                                      <U+261B>
                                          <U+271D>                             <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2706>       <U+270C>   <U+2701>   <U+2704>    <U+270D>        <U+2706>       <U+270C>
                                                                                    <U+2711>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2712>
                              <U+271E>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+2704>
                              <U+271F>
                              <U+260E>
                              <U+2706>
                              <U+2711>
                              <U+270F>
                              <U+2720>
                                      <U+2701>
                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+271D>
                              <U+271F>
                                      <U+271F>
                              <U+271E>
                                      <U+260E>
                              <U+2704>
                                      <U+270C>
                              <U+2706>
                                      <U+2704>
                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+271F>
                                      <U+2701>
                              <U+271E>
                                      <U+271D>
                              <U+271E>
                              <U+260E>
                                      <U+270C>
                                      <U+2704>
                              <U+270E>
                                      <U+2721>
                                      <U+2704>
                              <U+270D>
                                      <U+2701>
                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+270D>
                              <U+270C>
                                      <U+261E>
                              <U+260E>
                                      <U+2711>
                              <U+2720>
                              <U+261E>
                                      <U+2713>
                                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+271E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                      <U+2704>
                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+261B>
                                  <U+2704>
                                      <U+2713>
                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2721>
                                      <U+260E>
                                  <U+270D>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                      <U+2720>
                              <U+271D>
                                  <U+270F>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+2714>
                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                        <U+2711>
                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+260E>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                  <U+261E>
                                      <U+271D>
                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                              <U+2706>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                      <U+260E>
                              <U+260E>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+2704>
                                      <U+2704>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                  <U+2720>
                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+271D>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+271F>
                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                        <U+2706>
                              <U+271D>
                                  <U+2706>
                                      <U+271D>
                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+2706>
                              <U+2706>   <U+261E>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>

                                                                          <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>                                                   <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2713>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                  <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+271D>         <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2721>   <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2711>     <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>                         <U+270D>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                      <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2702>           <U+2720>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                      <U+261B>           <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+2706>     <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                              <U+2701>               <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2711>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+270D>   <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                      <U+270D>   <U+2720>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+260E>   <U+270D>
                              <U+2704>   <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                              <U+2718>
                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+271D>
                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+270D>
                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+2720>
                                          <U+2701>
                                      <U+2718>
                                  <U+261B>
                                          <U+271F>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2720>
                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2721>
                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+2711>
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2716>
                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+261E>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2720>
                              <U+2719>           <U+2721>
                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                  <U+271F>
                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+2701>       <U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                          <U+261E>
                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                          <U+270F>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                    <U+2717>
                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                          <U+2711>
                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+270F>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>

                                                                                                                                      <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                              <U+2719>                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                              <U+2718>                                                             <U+2718>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                      <U+2719>                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                  <U+2711>                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+2713>                                                             <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+271E>                                                     <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+2704>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>       <U+260E>                                                     <U+2704>       <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2718>                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>                   <U+270C>                                         <U+2718>                   <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>       <U+271F>                                                     <U+2702>       <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+260E>                                                     <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>       <U+2720>                                                     <U+2720>       <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>                                                             <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+2713>                                                             <U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+261E>       <U+2701>                                                     <U+261E>       <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+271E>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>       <U+2702>                                                     <U+271E>       <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+270F>                                                             <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                  <U+2711>                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                          <U+2713>                                                             <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+271A>                                                             <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>                                                             <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>       <U+270C>                                                     <U+2706>       <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>                                                             <U+261E>
                                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+270D>       <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>       <U+2701>                                                     <U+270D>       <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+270F>                                                             <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+260E>                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                              <U+271A>                                                             <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+260E>       <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>       <U+2702>                                                     <U+260E>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2718>                                                             <U+2718>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>       <U+270D>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2711>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2719>
                                              <U+2719>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                              <U+2718>
                                                          <U+2711>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2716>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2719>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+270D>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>               <U+270C>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                          <U+270E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                              <U+2719>                               <U+2719>                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>                               <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2718>                               <U+2718>                                                             <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>                               <U+271F>                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                            <U+271A>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>                               <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>                               <U+2711>                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>                               <U+270F>                                                             <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>       <U+2713>
                                                          <U+271E>       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                               <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                          <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>                               <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>                               <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>                               <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>                               <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                            <U+271A>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>                               <U+2702>                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2717>                                                                                             <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2702>               <U+270D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                               <U+2704>                     <U+260E>                                       <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>                               <U+260E>                             <U+2702>                               <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>       <U+270C>       <U+260E>
                                                  <U+260E>       <U+270C>       <U+260E>
                                  <U+260E>       <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>

                                                                                                                              <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                              <U+2719>                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                                                  <U+271D>                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+2704>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>       <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2718>                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2718>                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>       <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>       <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>       <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+271E>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>       <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                     <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                     <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>       <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>                                                     <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>                                                     <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+270D>       <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>       <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+270F>                                                     <U+270F>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>       <U+2720>                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2718>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+260E>                                                                                     <U+260E>
                                                          <U+260E>                                                                                     <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2715>                                                                                     <U+2715>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                      <U+260E>                                                                                     <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2702>                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2704>                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2702>                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2718>                                                                                     <U+2718>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                  <U+261E>       <U+271D>                                                                                     <U+271D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                              <U+2719>
                                                          <U+270D>                                                                                     <U+270D>
                              <U+2704>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                     <U+2720>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                              <U+2718>
                              <U+2718>
                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                     <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2711>                                                                                     <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2721>                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+270D>                                                                                     <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2716>                                                                                     <U+2716>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+261E>                                                                                     <U+261E>
                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2711>                                                                                     <U+2711>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2719>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                     <U+271D>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                        <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+270E>                                                                                     <U+270E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                              <U+2719>                       <U+2719>                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>       <U+271D>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>                       <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2718>                       <U+2718>                                 <U+271F>                           <U+2718>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>                       <U+271F>                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>                       <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>                       <U+2711>                                                             <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>                       <U+270F>                                                             <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                       <U+271D>                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>                       <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>                       <U+2704>                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>                       <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>                       <U+270D>                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>                       <U+2702>                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2701>                       <U+2701>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2717>                                                                                     <U+2717>
                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                       <U+2704>                     <U+260E>                                       <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                              <U+2701>               <U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>       <U+2702>
                                                          <U+270C>       <U+2702>
                                          <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>

                                                                                                                                          <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                  <U+2719>                                                         <U+2719>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                  <U+2718>                                                         <U+2718>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                          <U+2719>                                                         <U+2719>
                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2713>                                                         <U+2713>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+271D>               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>       <U+271E>                                                 <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+270E>                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+2721>                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                          <U+2719>                                                         <U+2719>
                                                                              <U+2704>               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>       <U+260E>                                                 <U+2704>       <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2718>                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+2718>                   <U+270C>                                     <U+2718>                   <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>       <U+271F>                                                 <U+2702>       <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+271D>               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>       <U+260E>                                                 <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>       <U+2720>                                                 <U+2720>       <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+270E>                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                      <U+2713>                                                         <U+2713>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+261E>       <U+2701>                                                 <U+261E>       <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+271E>               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>       <U+2702>                                                 <U+271E>       <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+270F>                                                         <U+270F>
                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                              <U+2713>                                                         <U+2713>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+271A>                                                         <U+271A>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>                                                         <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>       <U+270C>                                                 <U+2706>       <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                      <U+260E>                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                              <U+270D>               <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>       <U+2701>                                                 <U+270D>       <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+270F>                                                         <U+270F>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+260E>                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                  <U+271A>                                                         <U+271A>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2717>           <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                          <U+2717>           <U+2702>                                             <U+2717>           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2718>                                                         <U+2718>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2715>
                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                  <U+2704>                       <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>       <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2711>       <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2719>
                                              <U+2719>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                             <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2711>
                                              <U+2718>
                                                          <U+2711>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+270D>                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2720>                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2721>                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+270D>                                                                                                 <U+270D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2716>                                                                                                 <U+2716>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                          <U+261E>                                                                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                          <U+2711>                                                                                                 <U+2711>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2719>                                                                                                 <U+2719>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2718>                                                                                                 <U+2718>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2701>                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+270E>                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2719>                                               <U+2719>                                                         <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+2701>                                               <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2718>                                               <U+2718>                                                         <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2711>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+271F>                                               <U+271F>                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271A>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                      <U+2720>                                               <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                      <U+2711>               <U+261B>                               <U+2711>                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+270F>                                               <U+270F>                                                         <U+270F>
                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+271D>                                               <U+271D>                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2713>
                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                      <U+2720>                                               <U+2720>                                                         <U+2720>
                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                      <U+2704>                                               <U+2704>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                      <U+2720>                                             <U+260E>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2701>                                               <U+2701>                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+270D>                                               <U+270D>                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271A>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+2702>               <U+2721>                               <U+2702>                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+270D>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2717>                                                                                                         <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+271D>                                               <U+2704>                     <U+260E>                                   <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2717>                   <U+270D>                           <U+2717>                                                         <U+2717>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270D>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2717>           <U+270C>   <U+2702>
                                              <U+2717>           <U+270C>   <U+2702>
                              <U+2717>           <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>

                                                                                                                                              <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+260E>                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+270C>                                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E>               <U+2701>       <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>       <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>               <U+2720>       <U+2720>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2715>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                  <U+2704>                       <U+271D>
                                  <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2711>       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                              <U+260E>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                              <U+2719>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+2702>                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+2718>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                                <U+2704>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2719>                                                                    <U+2701>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+270E>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2718>
                                  <U+271D>                       <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                              <U+271A>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+271D>                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+261E>                                        <U+2720>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                      <U+2719>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+2720>                                                                            <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                  <U+260E>           <U+270D>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+260E>                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706>
                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+271E>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                              <U+271F>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+270C>   <U+2706>
                                          <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                          <U+260E>

                                                                                      <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2718>           <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+271E>               <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+270C>           <U+2719>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+270D>               <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271E>       <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>       <U+2720>
                                                                  <U+2701>                   <U+2718>
                  <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2716>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                  <U+260E>
                                              <U+2719>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2715>
                                              <U+2718>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+260E>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2718>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2720>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2718>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+2720>                                                               <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2714>       <U+271D>
                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2720>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+270C>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                              <U+271A>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                  <U+270D>       <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                          <U+270D>   <U+2701>
                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                  <U+261E>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                              <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                  <U+2711>
                                              <U+271A>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                              <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+260E>                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+271E>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2720>   <U+2701>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2704>   <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2701>
                      <U+2706>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2704>

                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>                                                             <U+261E><U+2704><U+2704>
                  <U+2719><U+270E><U+2724><U+2711><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271C><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271A><U+271C><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2704><U+271A><U+2719><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271A><U+270F><U+260E> <U+2722> <U+270C><U+2701><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2711> <U+2706> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+270C>
                   <U+271C><U+2701><U+270C><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2719><U+2701><U+270C><U+271D> <U+270F><U+260E><U+2701> <U+270C><U+2701><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2711> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2701><U+270C><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2719><U+2701><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2701><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725>
                         <U+270F><U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+270C><U+2713><U+271A><U+270F><U+270F><U+2701><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2724> <U+2722><U+2712><U+271E><U+2722><U+2719><U+2701><U+2724><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2701><U+2722><U+2713><U+270C>
<removed-apn>     <U+2712><U+2714><U+2724><U+2722><U+2713><U+271A><U+2719><U+2722><U+270D><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2724><U+2711><U+271A><U+2725> <U+271C><U+2701> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2701><U+2722><U+270C> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2713><U+2701><U+2724><U+270F> <U+2722><U+2724><U+2712> <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A>
                                                                        <U+261E><U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+271C><U+2701><U+2723><U+270E><U+271C><U+270F><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2722> <U+270C><U+2701><U+271C><U+2704><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2701><U+2722><U+2713> <U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271A><U+271C><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2704><U+2719><U+271A><U+2701> <U+2722><U+2724><U+2712>
               <U+270E><U+2724><U+2701> <U+270E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270E><U+271C><U+2701> <U+2724><U+2701><U+271A><U+2725><U+260E><U+2715><U+270E><U+271C><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2701><U+2722><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+260E><U+2701> <U+270C><U+2701><U+271C><U+2704><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2701><U+2722><U+2713> <U+270E><U+2711>
                                <U+270F><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2702><U+271A><U+271C><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2704><U+271A><U+2719><U+2701>
                                     <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

                                  <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                 <U+260E><U+271E>
                                                                      <U+271F><U+2704>
                                                   <U+270F><U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+270C><U+2719><U+2701><U+271A><U+2704><U+2701><U+271C><U+2716><U+270C><U+2718>
                                                        <U+271E><U+271E>
                                                                      <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2713><U+270E><U+271C><U+2714>      <U+2723><U+271C><U+270E><U+2719><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C><U+270E><U+271C><U+2716><U+270C><U+2718>                 <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                      <U+270F> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271E><U+2720>
                <U+271E><U+2706>             <U+271E><U+2704>
                                                       <U+2702>
                                                      <U+271C> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+271E><U+261B>
                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>
                                  <U+2702><U+2712>
                                   <U+260E><U+271E>
                        <U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2712><U+271A><U+2719><U+2722><U+270F><U+271A><U+270E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2701>
                                    <U+271F><U+2706>
                       <U+2713><U+2701><U+270F><U+271C><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2713><U+2723> <U+270F><U+2722><U+270F><U+271A><U+270E><U+2724> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2701>
                                  <U+271F><U+271E>
                           <U+271C><U+2701><U+2723><U+270E><U+271C><U+270F><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2701>
                                  <U+271F><U+2720>
                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2701>

