                                              ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to a method, system and products for transmission, delivery,
playback, and content management of audio and visual files for wireless and non-wireless devices,
and a new Internet-less protocol for such transmission to portable electronic devices, such as cell
phones and the like.

                                 MOBILE DIALOGUE SYSTEM
                     AND MOBILE CONTENT DELIVERY SOLUTIONS
                                   RELATED APPLCATIONS
          This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>.
Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is a divisional of Australian Patent Application
No. 2010260174. Australian Patent Application No. 2010260174 is the Australian National
Phase of PCT Application No. PCT/US2010/038615, which claims priority to US Patent
Application No. 12/456343. The content of all of the above applications are incorporated herein
by reference in their entirety.
                                 FILED OF THE INVENTION
           This invention relates to a method, system and products for the transmission,
   delivery, playback, and content management of audio and visual files for wireless and
   non-wireless devices, and a new Internet-less protocol for such transmission to portable
   electronic devices, such as cell phones and the like.
                             BREIF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
           Fig. 1 Mobile Shopping Search Engine and Buying Guide
           Fig. 2 Travel Reservation Scenario
           Fig. 3 Mobile Stock Trading Scenario
           Fig. 4 Multimodal Dialogue System Architecture
                                                  1

         Fig. 5 Server Side Architecture
         Fig. 6 Client Side Components
         Fig. 7 Information Flow
         Fig. 8 Communication Flow
         Fig. 9 Horizontal Service Oriented System Components
         Fig. 10 Content Management System
         Fig. 11 Content Discovery and Delivery System
         Fig. 12 Dual-processor System for Mobile Multimedia Applications
            DETAILED DISCUSSION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
        Considered herein are various approaches for mobile communication system
designs that capitalize on the efficiency of telephone-initiated protocol, such as disclosed
in co-pending application Serial No. 12/322,537, filed February 4, 2009 which is
incorporated by reference herein, and the advantages of the different input/output
mechanisms working in tandem instead of being constrained by their limitations.
        Critical to bringing the benefits of mobile devices to mass business markets is a
more natural way of communicating. The application of the present examples or "M.800
Mobile Dialogue Systems" enables users to provide different inputs via voice, keyboard
and even graphic or video.
        For example, often listening to instructions, customers may wish to listen to the
instructions again. Multimode interfaces provide the flexibility to choose the most
convenient interaction mode that suits the task and purpose.
                                               2

           M.800 Mobile Dialogue Systems also includes Mobile Download Manager Server
  which is a powerful content delivery solution that provides a superior end-user shopping
  experience. It manages the purchase, packaging and delivery of all types of
  downloadable content-including JavaTM applications, ringbones, games, images and more
  to mobile devices.
          Subscribers have access to the entire content catalog in a single view. This single
  view allows content providers to consolidate content into a single bundle. Subscribers
  can browse, select, purchase and download any type of content, from one intuitive and
  easy-to-use interface, viewed either from their WAP or Web browser.
         Download Manager provides users with a direct access to new or existing content
 and services with one-click purchasing and always up-to date content. The content list is
 updated to the handset automatically when a customer opens the content list on
 customer's mobile phone.
         M.800 Mobile Dialogue Systems are set to grow in importance in the coming
 years, bringing benefits to m-businesses and end-users. With the growing popularity of
mobile handled devices mobile information access and remote transactions are fast
becoming commonplace.
         Business Value
         M.800 Mobile Dialogue System improves the usability of most mobile services
such as Mobile Shopping, Buying Guides, Mobile Product Catalogs, Mobile
                                                                                Directories,
Personal Information Management, and unified messaging. Application Service Provider
can offer a wide range of personalized and differentiated offerings using Mobile Dialogue
                                              3

  interfaces. Call center applications and enterprise data services; such as account
  management, brokerage accounts, customer service, and sales force automation offer
  voice-only interfaces. With Mobile Dialogue interfaces, one can easily access and enter
 information, especially when using small devices by combining multiple input and output
 device.
          Other advantages
          Mobile Shopping Applications based on Mobile Dialogue System allow shoppers
 to search and compare Online Product Information by their barcode or pictures, obtain
 product identification and research product information before making an in-store
 purchase. Mobile Buying Guides and Product Catalogs may reserve an item in a store,
 while one goes home in order to make more detailed online research, as shown in Fig.
                                                                                        1.
 M-Commerce with Mobile Dialogue Systems may improve customers' experience with
 mobile devices and encourage the growth and acceptance of m-Commerce.
         Application Scenarios
         Scenario 1. Mobile Smart Shopping
         Real-Time Video-based Product Identification and Personalized Product Checker.
         Mobile Dialogue Product Checker allows shoppers to search and compare Online
Product Information by their barcode, video or picture, obtain product identification and
research product information before making an in-store purchase. Mobile Shopping
Search Engine and Buying Guide will reserve an item in a store while one goes home in
order to make more detailed online research, as shown in Fig. 1.
         Scenario 2. Travel Reservation. Voice+GUI (Graphic User Interface)
                                              4

               " Display seat selection chart (not simply "window. or aisle":
               *   Use voice or keys to enter PIN code and performs speaker
                  verification:
              " Use audio or voice for notifications;
              e   Information can be saved for later use.
          This scenario is shown in Fig. 2.
          As shown, a user is not tied to a particular channel's presentation, and
  flow interaction becomes a personal and optimized experience. Such multimode
  output is an example of multi-media where the different modalities are closely
  synchronized.
          Scenario 3. Mobile stock trading
         This example demonstrates how your experience is more natural and
 personalized, as one is able to capitalize on the ease of voice input and also view
 detailed information on a visual display in the same session.
         This scenario is shown in Fig. 3.
         Additional features such as speaker verification, interactive displays of
 visual information (e.g. charts), audio/video notification, etc. can make the
interaction more natural. One is not restricted to a particular user interface, but is
able to exploit the advantages of multiple synchronized interfaces.
         System Architecture
         An example system may have Server-Client architecture. The client
portion may comprise basically two parts:
                                       5

          The input part that sends user interactions to the server, such as voice, text,
  pictures and video input, and an output part that presents the results received from
  the server.
          The server side may comprise different modules performing system
 critical tasks. A Fig. 4 illustrates, the server may have an input part which
 collects different input from the user and forwards it to a Dialog and Interaction
 Manager (DAIM). The DAIM module processes the input and interacts with the
 application special module to generate a result to the user. The result can be
 forwarded to the output module that makes the result of the user query presentable
 in the form most suitable.
          Server Side
          The server part of system may comprise in a preferred embodiment five
 main autonomous modules (or servers), or more (not shown), that communicate
 via a central facilitator module, called a Hub, illustrated in Fig. 5. The different
server modules need to communicate with each other to perform certain tasks. To
handle these messages a Hub is implemented. The Hub conveniently provides
modularity to the system.
         Messages are distributed between server modules according to certain
rules based on the service logic.
         The messages are usually asynchronous which means that the modules
cannot expect to receive a response immediately. A module requiring certain
functionality may pass this job to the Hub, and the Hub will then know which
                                         6

module to forward the request to. This makes up the properties modularity,
distribution and seamless integration of modules which constitute the Hub.
        Voice Server
        The Voice Server is the module that handles the voice modality.
Interaction is handled both ways. For example, speech input from the user can be
interpreted by the ASR (Automatic speech recognition) module and voice output
from the system to the user could apply the TTS (Text-To-Speech) module to
construct synthesized voice.
        The Voice Server can support both packet-switched and circuit-switched
voice transmission.    The packet-based version is a VoIP solution.        It simply
copies the audio input and converts it to standard PCM format and transfers it
over a TCP/IP socket connection between client and server.
        GUI Server
        The GUI server handles the visual modality meaning graphics and text
output to the user and the input received from the user, respectively. It acts as the
gateway between the client and the other server modules. Input from the user is
received and forwarded to the Dialog Server via the Multimodal Server. Based on
feedback from a user query, the video, graphics and text presenting the result is
handled by the GUI server. The GUI server uses a web server to display the
graphics and text.
                                      7

         Download Manager Server
         The Download Manager Server may be assigned to update and manage the
 customer's content list and to update new services and information at customer's
 handset over the air.     The server-side application creates a content list for
 download and storage to a customer's cell phone and supports a direct
 correspondence between a web site and cell phone for the purpose of storing and
 delivering any data bundles fast and efficiently in one cost effective package.
         Download Manager provides users with a direct access to new or existing
 content and services with one-click purchasing and always up-to-date content.
The content list is updated to the handset automatically when a customer opens
the content list on customer's mobile phone.
         Dialog Server
         The Dialog Server module also called Dialog Manager is another
important and preferred part of the system. The Dialog Server receives the user
query from the Multimodal Server. Based on these inputs, the Dialog server
extracts the meaning of the user interaction. Further, the Dialog Manager interacts
with the Database Server to generate an answer to the user query. The last step is
to present the query response and transfer the information to the user comprising
speech, graphic and video.
         Database Server and Database'
                                      8

          The Database Server is application specific and should be as general as
 possible to support all kinds of applications.     The Database Server acts as a
 connecting link between the Dialog Server and the Database.
          Client Side
         Basically, the Multimodal Client comprises a Voice Client and a GUI
 Client, both incorporated in a stand alone software product. For example, this
 software can be developed for the Windows Mobile platform such as Microsoft
 Windows Mobile 5.0 or higher.
         Fig. 6 shows a logical overview of the different components that the Client
 consists of namely the Connection Manager, GUI Client and Voice Client.
         The Connection Manager provides an interface between the Voice Client,
 GUI Client and via the network consequently with the Multimodal Server. The
 client communicates with the server using P2P.
         The Voice Client handles the voice modality, i.e., it receives and forwards
voice commands from the user and output synthesized voice from the Multimodal
 Server.
         The GUI Client is somewhat more complex. It consists of a web browser,
which retrieves web pages containing the graphical user interface and
consequently the application provided. It also handles other available input from
the user, i.e., when a user points on an icon on the web page, the coordinates of
the pushed icon is collected and transferred to the Multimodal Server as user
inputs and handled thereafter.
                                       9

         Information and Communication Flow
         Fig. 7 illustrates interaction patterns between user, client and server and
 the information flow between the modules of the system.
         The information flow is based on user queries.            These inputs are
transferred to their respective server modules. The GUI server registers where the
user has pointed and the voice server performs DTMF or voice recognition and
extracts the essential meaning of it. Next these inputs are handed over to the
Multimodal Server, which employs a timer mechanism to collect input signal
within a specified time window.
         Further, when the time window expires of the Multimodal Server has
received a maximum of simultaneous inputs it passes these inputs to the Dialog
Server. The Dialog Server competes the multimodal integration and based on this
process, it will try to create a response to the query. To elaborate a response, the
Dialog Server can query the Database Server. The Database Server performs a
lookup in the Database and returns the result back to the dialog module.
         The result is then processed by the Dialog Manager to create a presentable
response to the user. The response is passed over to the Multimodal Server,
which splits the information into different modalities, i.e., graphics and speech,
which are sent out via the GUI and Voice Server respectively.
         Fig. 7 shows that the Client needs to set up two logical channels between
Client and Server.       One channel for transmission of the voice modality and
another channel for data.
                                        10

        The communication between client and server is detailed in Figure 8.
Steps I to 6 have been described above. At step 7, the Multimodal Server creates
a web/wap page that is uploaded to a web/wap server.            At the same time, a
message is sent to the Client's software telling it to download the web page at the
given URL. The client which has an embedded web browser send a standard
HTTP request to retrieve the web page created.          At step 10, the Multimodal
System transfers the voice response elaborated from the result of the user query.
Preferably in the same moment, the web page presenting the visual modality of
the result is displayed at the client. The synchronization of these two outputs is as
crucial for the user experience as the synchronization of the user input.
        Preferred System Requirements
        Preferred requirements for a mobile multimodal client-server system are
now set out. The example set out above present different situations and different
needs that people may have and a Multimodal System can provide service for.
Based on these scenarios, requirements are focused on both functional and
performance requirements:
             *   The multimodal platform is preferably a generic platform with a
                 possibility to implement an array of services on top of it.
             e   The multimodal platform preferably allows third party service
                 providers to offer their services over the mobile operator's
                 multimodal platform.
                                       I1

    * The client part of the multimodal system is advantageously simple,
        requiring minimal installation for the user on the terminal
    List of Preferred Requirements
        Requirement description
 RI       The system is preferably available over a ubiquitous mobile
          wireless network
 R2       The mobile network supports simultaneous transmission of real
          time voice and data
R3        The transmission of voice maintains the audio quality
R4        The system is effective to receive simultaneous inputs
R5        The multimodal system handles the characteristics that the
          infrastructure provide, i.e. delay, data rate, etc.
R6       The user is able to user .the different input channels to the
         multimodal interface according to user preferences.
R7       The system presents the results of a user query based on user
         preferences.
R8       The multimodal system is able to attract all kinds of people and
         users
R9       The multimodal system provides services that are responsive
         and intuitive
RIO      The services provided over the multimodal platform are easier to
         user that services applying conventional interaction methods
R1I      The multimodal system is based on open standards
R12      The multimodal platformis preferably generic making it
         possible to implement different kinds of applications on top of it
R13      The multimodal platform supports a system interface and API
         that allow third party service providers to offer their services
R14      The client part of the multimodal systems is advantageously
         simple to implement, requiring minimal intervention from the
         user.
       Table 1. Preferred Requirements for the Multimodal System
                               12

           Combining Multimodalities
           Multimodality in the context of this invention means the user of more than one
  Modality. This means that a user is preferably able to use more than one mode when
  giving input to a service. In the same manner the system is preferably able to give output
  to the user using more than one modality. The definition of multimodality is not meant to
  set any restrictions on whether the modalities are applied simultaneously or sequentially.
           The World Wide Web consortium (W3C) has defined three different ways of
 combining multimodal inputs and outputs; sequential, uncoordinated simultaneous and
 coordinated simultaneous multimodal input/output. It is advantageous to distinguish
 these three scenarios because the complexity of their implementation is very different.
           Sequential Multimodal Input/Output
          This is the simplest form of multimodal interaction, where input and output from
different modalities are interpreted separately but at any given moment only a single,
designated input mode is active.
          Uncoordinated Simultaneous Multimodal Input/Output
          In this situation several parallel inputmodes are active at the same time. This
means that the users can choose the input mode they prefer at each dialog stage, but in
turn only one is selected for processing. Which mode is used at each turn can be decided
according to different criteria, such as the first mode to start or that one mode has priority
over the other.
         Coordinated Simultaneous Multimodal Input/Output
                                                 13

         This is the most advanced form of interaction. Also here more than one input
 mode is available simultaneously, but in contrast to the uncoordinated simultaneous
 mode, here all inputs from the different modalities are collected within a time window
 and interpreted. In the coordinated simultaneous mode the events are combined to create
 a query to the Multimodal System.
         Simultaneous Circuit-Switched and Packet-Switched Connections
         In recent years, new promising methods have been discovered which could enable
simultaneous circuit and packet-switched connection for GSM networks.
                      The terminal can be simultaneously connected
                      to both a GPRS service and a GSM service, i.e.,
                      a packet-switched and circuit-switched
                      connection respectively. No such devices are
                      known to be available today .
                      The terminal can be connected to both a GPRS
                      service and a GSM service, but only one at the
                      time. During GSM service, GPRS service is
                      suspended, and then resumed automatically
                      after the GSM service is finished. Most GPRS
                      mobile devices are class B. ;
                      The terminal is connected to either GPRS
                      service or GSM service. The terminal must be
                      switched manually between the two
                      connections.
                                 Table 2. GPRS Classes
        This technology is called Dual Transfer Mode (DTM) and much research has
been put into the topic. The method does not. require two radio-transceivers, making it
more rational and cost- effective. In UMTS, due to the radio interface used, it is fairly
                                              14

 easy to implement support for multiple, parallel bearers over the air interface. This
 enables simultaneous circuit and packet-switched connections. UMTS equipment is able
 to work in different modes of operations, see Table 3.
                         The MS is attached to both the PS domain and CS
                         domain, and the MS is capable of simultaneously
                         operating PS services and CS services.
                        The MS is attached to the PS domain only and may only
                        operate services of the PS domain. However, this does
                        not prevent CS-like services to be offveting r the PS
                        domain (like VoIP).
                        The MS is attached to the CS domain only and may only
                        operate services of the CS domain.
                       Table 3. UMTS modes of operation
        Mobile Operating Systems
        There are several mobile terminals with different operating systems and
connection options in the market today. New so-called smartphones and the convergence
between PDA's and mobile phones result in highly advanced terminals, capable of doing
complex tasks.
        There are mainly two OS' that appear to be dominant of mobile terminals.
Symbian, which is owned by Nokia, Sony Ericcson, Panasonic, Siemens AG, and
Windows Mobile, which is provided by Microsoft.
                                             15

          Until just recently, the Symbian OS was the dominant operating system for
 advanced mobile terminals. This is because some of the world's biggest mobile phone
 manufactures such as Nokia, and Ericcson are using the OS in their smarphones. Despite
 the user of the same platform, every manufacturer uses their proprietary graphical user
 interface. When Microsoft decided to move into the mobile terminal market, it was
 obvious that they would be a strong competitor. Most PC users are familiar with the
 Windows OS. It is natural that many users would like to have the same interface and
access to the same services and applications on their mobile terminal.
         The release Windows Mobile 6 comes into different versions, one version call
Smartphones and the other called PocketPC. The main difference between these versions
is that they are fitted to two different types of advanced mobile terminals. The
Smartphone edition is more like a regular mobile phone with a keypad and a screen. T he
Pocket PC version is developed for PDA's with a touch-sensitive screen.
         Mobile Content Delivery Solution
         Modern'Mobile Content Delivery Solutions utilize a horizontal Service Oriented
Architecture approach. Fig. 9 illustrates typical System components.
                 Preferred System Components
                         e   Mobile InteractionServer (MIS): providing device recognition
                optimal device rendering of discovery portlets and maintaining profiles of
                devices and the digital media formats they support.
                         * Fulfillment Manager: providing delivery of downloadable
                                               16

                content across a range of access channels by determining the appropriate
                download mechanism based on content type and target device and
                subsequently ensuring completion of the download itself.
                        *   User Portal: framework for discovery of available content and
               the facilities to enable rapid integration with an operator's existing billing
               and messaging platforms.
                        .   Content Management System: Providing full content lifecycle
               management from submission and acquisition, to cataloging and
               verification, to publishing and eventual retirement of digital media.
                        The functionality provided by the inventive system is illustrated in
               Fig. 10.
        Content Discovery and Delivery takes place within the context of the User Portal
environment where end-users access and utilize services and content offered by an
operator.
        Content Management takes place within an operator's administrative environment
where Content Providers work with the operator to manage the submission, approval, and
publication of content to the User Portal environment.
        The functionality provided by the individual components, as well as the
integration and interaction with other components in a typical operator environment are
described in more detail below with reference to Fig. 11.
                                               17

        Content Discovery & Delivery in the User Portal Environment
        The User Portal provides end-users with access to a set of available services based
on their service subscription, configured preferences, and the capabilities of the device
they are using to access the User Portal. The User Portal dynamically generates a tailored
view of the end-user's available services by recognizing the user's device, accessing the
user's service subscription profile and appropriately rendering subscribed services based
on the device capabilities. The User Portal allows end-users to access services from a
range of devices, including PC browsers, PDA browsers, WAP and Cell Phone browsers,
etc.
        Among the services offered within the User Portal are content download services
such as ringtone downloads, wallpaper downloads, java game downloads, music and
video downloads, etc. These download services are implemented as "portlets" within the
User Portal, enabling end-users to 'discover' content that is available for download to
their device and subsequently initiate the purchase (if applicable) and 'delivery'
(download) of the content to their device.
        Content Discovery
        The individual content discovery portlets leverage the device-aware framework
provided. by the User Portal to ensure that only content appropriate for an end-user's
device is presented as available for download. For example, polyphonic ringtones would
only be shown in the discover portlet when the end-user's device supports them. The
discovery portlets also leverage the multi-channel device rendering functionality of the
User Portal to ensure optimal presentation and user interaction with the portlet itself.
                                              18

         The Content Delivery Framework integrated within the User Portal provides
  discovery portlets with additional generic capabilities that enable the content discovery
 process, including:
                             An interface for querying and identifying available
 published content based on device characteristics, specific content formats, keywords,
 service association, etc.
                         " An interface that enables retrieval of pricing information to
 present to end-users.
                         *   The ability to initiate delivery of the content itself once
 discovery completes
         Content discovery portlets typically leverage the ability to query the published
 content to enable discovery of content in one of two ways: 1.) End-users are presented
with a series of menus and navigate their way through selected categories of content until
they find a particular piece of content they are interested in. These menus are
dynamically generated by the discovery portlet, ensuring the end-user is only presented
with content choices that have been filtered based on the capabilities of the end-user's
device. Menus of content can be organized and presented by category, by format, by
popularity, etc.; and 2.) End-users are presented with a list of available content matching
the search criteria. Again, the content is filtered based on the capabilities of the end
user's device.
        In fact, the user experience during content discovery may vary greatly depending
on the implementation of individual discovery portlets, the desired business models
                                                19

  employed by the operator and the capabilities provided by the operators underlying
  network itself. Further, end-users may be offered the ability to preview or sample content
 prior to initiating deliver of a full version of the content, and end-users may be offered
 alternative pricing options depending on the content type and the operator's chosen
 business models e.g., free, unlimited ringtone downloads for a flat monthly rate, 10
 wallpapers for 5$, individual java games for 2$ and additional levels for a game at $.25
 each, etc.
         Network capability restrictions may make it impossible to offer pre-paid
 downloads, offer delivery of content using WAP Push, or offer the ability to discover
 content for other end-users.
         The discovery portlets themselves are preferably designed to ensure a simple and
 compelling user experience.
         Content Delivery
         Once an end-user completes the content discovery process and confirms that
delivery of the content should proceed, the delivery process is initiated. Delivery of the
selected content may depend largely on the type of content the end-user has requested;
the capabilities of the end-user's device; and the manner in which the content has been
discovered.
        For example, if discovery was completed using the same device that the content is
to be delivered to, the content can be delivered directly within the same session by
redirecting the end-user's browser or application manager to pull in the content.
                                                20

    Alternatively, the content can be sent separately to the end-user's device using a
   mechanism such as WAP Push.
            The User Portal containing the Content Download service is not discussed. The
   Mobile Interaction Server is deployed within the User Portal framework to provide
   device recognition and optimal rendering of the User Portal and associated services
   across a range of devices.
           The User Portal framework is integrated with various elements within an
  operator's deployment environment so that they can be leveraged during content
  discovery and Delivery. Typically, the User Portal is integrated with the operator's Short
  Message Service Center (SMSC) and WAP Push Proxy Gateway (PPG), prepaid and
  post-paid billing platforms, and the operator's provisioning and customer care platforms.
  The User Portal is also integrated Content Management System.
           Fulfillment Manager
           Within the Mobile Content delivery framework, the Fulfillment Manager
 facilitates the content delivery process. It ensures the end-user requesting the download
 is authorized to download the content, determines the appropriate download mechanism
 to be used, based on the content and target device, and ensures completion of the
 download itself.
          It interfaces to billing and statistical generation components to enable
confirmation of billing and ensure tracking of download and also handles installation
reports from J2ME devices, when appropriate.
                                                   21

        The business logic within the Fulfillment Manager can be customized to align
with operator business models. For example, billing confirmation can occur prior to
delivery of the content or can occur only following completion of the download. The
business logic may also vary between pre-paid and post-paid subscribers.
        The Fulfillment Manager is usually based on the J2EE Client Provisioning
standards. It provides an abstract adapter model for provisioning a number of content
types and supports a number of provisioning models. The Fulfillment Manager facilitates
delivery directly to the discovery device and also supports PC based discovery by
enabling delivery to a device using WAP Push facilities available from the operator's
network.
        The Fulfillment Manager provides specific adapters for MIDP OTA and OMA
OTA, provides a generic download adapter to handle all other downloads e.g. direct
download of images, audio files, etc., and can be easily extended to support additional
adapters as required.
        Content Management
        The Mobile Content Delivery System leverages the core components of the
Content Management Suite:
        Content Server: stores the content submitted by Content Providers and
subsequently published to the Site Caching Services.
        Caching Services: stores published content that is available for download from
discovery portlets in the User Portal. As associated database stores meta-data describing.
                                              22

 the content stored in the Site Caching Services as well as content that is physically hosted
by external Content Providers.
         Contend Services: an interface to the meta-database allowing discovery portlets to
use a content connector to search available published content for specific content
appropriate to present to the end-user for possible download.
         WebPublisher: a tool used by content administrators to manage the lifecycle of
content. Processes are modeled as customized workflows that enable content to b e
submitted, categorized, approved, published and, if appropriate, retired. A meta-data
object model is used to fully describe the content, enabling publication for discovery and
download. The meta-data describes basic details about the content itself, such as type of
content, format and size, as well as descriptive information, such as artist, title, and
category, allowing individual discovery portlets to effectively use the content services
interface to filter content for presentation to end-users.
        Media Services: provides automatic replication and transformation of submitted
content into alternative formats and sizes, performs automatic meta-data extraction, and
provides an extensible plug-in framework enabling integration of DRM toolkits, graphics
services, etc.
        Content Provider
        To facilitate content submission by external Content Providers, a Content
Provider Portal can be deployed in the operator's administration environment. The
Content Provider Portal provides an interface, such as a content management web
application and/or an FTP server that can be used by content Providers to submit and
                                                23

update content to the Content Server. Using a web application, Content Providers would
fill in web-based forms describing the content essentially the meta-data schema and then
upload the content to the Content Server. Using an FTP server, Content Providers would
upload the content and an XML file describing the meta-data for the content.
         Preferred Wireless Device Requirements. Dual-Processor Architecture
In U.S. Patent No. 7,548,875 a wireless communication device with Multimedia DSP
Subsystem is described. This dual-processor architecture is very well suited to process
the most demanding multimedia applications, including real-time video processing. The
architecture has been significantly enhanced and optimized by utilizing a low-power,
programmable DSP and a powerful RISC (Reduced Instruction Set Computing) general
purpose processor.
Because of the demands of applications, a partitioning of the application's tasks between
the two processors is critical. The speed and throughput of the system should be
optimized when tasks are assigned to the processor best suited to handle them. Optimal
assigning tasks to the appropriate processor will reduce the number of processor cycles
required for each task, which, in turn, reduces the power drained from the battery and
extends the usable life of the mobile device.
Fig. 12 shows an efficient way to map a mobile video application onto the dual-processor
architecture that optimized to provide the processing capabilities needed for demanding
wireless multimedia applications and, at the same time, extend the battery life of mobile
devices by consuming less power.
The tasks involved in a mobile video application can be divided into control, transport,
and media decode. Control and transport tasks include processing the Real-Time
Streaming Protocol (RTSP) and the Real-Time Protocol (RTP), which is a media
transport mechanism. Because these tasks are not computationally intense, a general
                                              24

 purpose RISC processor is well suited to executing them.
 Media decode tasks involve decoding the video bit stream, high quality audio decoding
 and other signal processing tasks. These processes are computationally intense. As a
 result, a high-performance, low-power DSP is a good fit for media decode tasks.
 When a video application is processing, radio signals enter the system by way of a
 modem. The general-purpose RISC processor handles the RTP/RTSP protocol processing
 and demultiplexes the audio and video data. The radio signals are then transformed into
 an elementary bit stream and forwarded to the DSP's internal random access memory
 (RAM).
To minimize the processing demands on the system, video applications use the current
frame or image to extrapolate the following frames. A frame is moved one macro-block
at a time from the frame buffer into the DSP's internal RAM where it is combined with
other information and sent to the display as the current frame.
The processing capabilities of the two processors would be wasted if data could not be
moved throughout the system in a timely fashion. Direct Memory Access (DMA)
connections are used to avoid I/O bottlenecks, which can disable a video application. All
of the DMA channels have access to all of the shared memory, ensuring an efficient
internal data flow. The DMA capabilities are needed to speed the movement of data
structures because large graphic images must be quickly and constantly moved from
external memory to internal memory.
Dual-processor architectures raise the question of conflicts between processors which can
arise when both processors contend for the same memory location. In addition, memory
access requests initiated by either of the two processors for a certain location in memory
can be processed only one at a time. The system is able to overcome contention between
the processors because of the Traffic Controller, which is an inherent part of the
architecture.
                                             25

   The Traffic Controller is a programmable arbitration mechanism that sits between the
   DSP, the general-purpose RISC processor and the external interfaces. Depending on the
   algorithms programmed into the Traffic Controller, it will prioritize memory accesses and
   resolve any conflicts that may arise.
   Error correction. Besides regular error resilience tools that are built into the modern
   compression standards like MPEG-4, the post-processing technique is engaged in the
  system. This technique follows the video decoding process and replaces corrupted macro
  blocks with the uncorrupted macro-blocks from the previous frame, making use of data
  that has been recovered through the error resilience tools previously mentioned.
  Error correction process places a strain on a device's 1/0 channels, because these tools
  and technique often require that'the processor re-examines past frames to extrapolate
 more accurately the current frame. Large blocks of data are flowing back and forth
 between the DSP processor's external memory and its on-chip RAM. The system is able
 to overcome it because of many DMA channels, which diminish the likelihood that 1/0
 will become a bottleneck.
          Glossary of Terms
CMS API                          Content Management System Application Programming
                                 Interface
DB                               Database
DC                              Delivery Context
DRM                             Digital Rights Management
FTP                             File Transfer Protocol
J2ME                            Java 2 Platform, Micro Edition
JSP                             Java Server Page
                                              26

  OMA                              Open Mobile Alliance
 MMS-C                            Multi-Media Message Service Center
 PORTLETS                         User Interface Components Managed and Displayed in a
                                  Web Portal
 PDA                              Personal Digital Assistant
 SCP                              Service Control Point
 SDP                              Service Delivery Platform
 SMPP                             Short Message Peer-to-Peer Protocol
 SMS-C                            Short Message Service Center
 WAP                              Wireless Application Protocol
 WAP-GW                           Wireless Application Protocol Gateway
 WPPG                             WAP Push Proxy Gateway
 XML                              Extensible Markup Language
        A preferred method and system for use with present invention is that disclosed in
co-pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/153,756, filed June 26, 2002, entitled
"Media Delivery Platform", new U.S. Patept-No. 7,548,875 which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety.
                                               27

                                            -28
Claims
1. A mobile phone which transmits and receives bar codes in operable connection with a
server system having a plurality of autonomous modules that communicate via a central
facilitator hub module, the server system including:
a GUI server that handles the visual modality meaning graphics and text output to, and
bar code input from the mobile phone;
a dialog server for receiving a query from a multimodal server, wherein the multimodal
server interfaces with each of a voice server and the GUI server in processing
multimodal inputs and outputs, respectively;
a download manager server for updating and managing content on the mobile phone;
a database server for performing a bar code lookup in a database in response to user
input and returning the result to the dialog server;
wherein the mobile phone includes:
       a multimodal client comprising:
          a voice client for handling the voice modality, receiving and forwarding voice
          commands from the mobile phone and outputting synthesized voice from the
          multimodal server, and a GUI client for handling the visual modality, collecting
          and transferring barcode input from the mobile phone to the multimodal server;
          and
       a connection manager for providing an interface between the voice client, the GUI
       client and with the multimodal server over a network.
2. The mobile phone of claim 1, wherein the mobile phone is a cell phone.
[117985992]

                                          - 29
3. The mobile phone according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said mobile phone is configured
with multiple processors, including a programmable digital signal processor (DSP) and a
reduced instruction set computing processor (RISP).
4. The mobile phone of claim 1 wherein said cell phone includes a multimedia digital
signal processor configured for receiving and processing compressed audio and/or visual
data files transmitted by orthogonal frequency-division multiplex modulation.
                                        Skky, LLC
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON
[117985992]

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
