                                            ABSTRACT
   A system for forming a conformal coating on a tubular structure 200 is disclosed. The
   system comprises a tubular structure 200 including an internal surface defining an interior
 5 volume 220 and at least two opposing ends 206a, 206b wherein each opposing end includes
   an opening. The system also comprises at least two vacuum pumping stations 204a, 204b,
   wherein each vacuum pumping station is coupled to one of said openings, and a gas supply
   port 211 a, 211 b coupled to said interior volume 220 and a plurality of magnetic field coils
   240a, 240b, 240c, 240d. Each magnetic field coil 240 is arranged around said tubular
10 structure 200 and said magnetic field coils 240a-d are spaced along the length of said tubular
   structure 200. The system also comprises an arbitrary waveform generator 244 electrically
   connected to said magnetic field coils 240a-d configured to impose a variable current to said
   magnetic field coils 240a-d and configured to provide a phase offset between at least two of
   said magnetic field coils 240a-d.
15
   FIGURE 2a for Publication

                                       r210
       I222a                222b
     I          226a                226bI
211a    208a                               208b 211b
             212a                               212b
                                 200
                     FIG. 2a
                        2/8

                  SUPERHYDROPHOBIC COMPOSITIONS AND COATING PROCESS
                     FOR THE INTERNAL SURFACE OF TUBULAR STRUCTURES
 5                       CROSS REFERENCE To RELATED APPLICATIONS
           The present application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Patent
   Application Serial No. 13/683,690 filed November 21, 2012, the teachings of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
10                                         DEFINITION
           In the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad
   meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer
   or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the term
15 "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
                                       FIELD OF DISCLOSURE
           The present disclosure relates to superhydrophobic conformal coatings presented on
   the internal surface of relatively long tubular structures and processes for forming such
20 coatings.   In particular, the present disclosure relates to superhydrophobic coatings that
   mitigate the nucleation, growth and adhesion of hydrocarbon hydrates and inorganic scales
   on the internal surface of tubular structures.
                                           BACKGROUND
25         Hydrates and, in particular, clathrate hydrates are understood to be crystalline water
   based solids physically resembling ice, in which methane and other relatively small
   hydrocarbons are trapped. Methane hydrate deposits found on and beneath the ocean floor
   and in certain regions of permafrost constitute the majority of known natural gas reserves
   on the planet. In addition, hydrates of methane and other relatively small hydrocarbons form
30 in producing petroleum wells and gas or oil pipelines. However, hydrate formation within
   producing wells and pipelines lead to solid plugs of ice with gas trapped within that occlude
   product flow when unmitigated.
                                                  -1-

           Approximately 10 to 15 % of production costs may be invested in the prevention of
   hydrate formation using technologies based on chemical additives (e.g., methanol, siloxane
   oligomers, poly-N-vinylpyrrolidone, and aluminum sulfate) and physical methods (e.g.,
   high-frequency electromagnetic fields). However, when such preventative methods fail, the
 5 removal of a continuous hydrate plug, for example, in an offshore pipeline is costly.
   Mitigation strategies that are not reliant on chemical additives or external physical methods
   may offer an extraordinary cost savings to pipeline operations if an intrinsic property of the
   surfaces which contact petroleum, and therefore such hydrates, can be manipulated to
   reduce or eliminate the nucleation and/or adhesion of hydrates on such surfaces.
10         Providing organosilicone functionalization and coatings which decrease the
   adhesion of hydrates to these surfaces have been attempted. The hydrophobization of the
   metal surface has relied on, for example, reacting iron oxy-hydroxide functional groups
   present on the surface of carbon steels with trimethyl chlorosilane or chlorosiloxane
   oligomers, as well as the fluorine-substituted analogs of these reactants.         While these
15 strategies may result in surfaces that can be classified as hydrophobic relative to water, with
   water contact angles approaching 1200, these levels of hydrophobicity have been considered
   insufficient to inhibit hydrate nucleation, growth and adhesion on metal surfaces.
           The reference to prior art in the background above is not and should not be taken as
   an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
20 common general knowledge in Australia or in any other country.
                                              SUMMARY
           An aspect of the present disclosure relates to a system for forming a conformal
   coating on a tubular structure, comprising a tubular structure including an internal surface
25 defining an interior volume and at least two opposing ends, wherein each opposing end
   includes an opening, at least two vacuum pumping stations, wherein each vacuum pumping
   station is coupled to one of said openings, a gas supply port coupled to said interior volume,
   a plurality of magnetic field coils, wherein each magnetic field coil is arranged around the
   tubular structure and the magnetic field coils are spaced along the length of the tubular
30 structure, and an arbitrary waveform generator electrically connected to said magnetic field
   coils configured to impose a variable current to said magnetic field coils and configured to
   provide a phase offset between at least two of said magnetic field coils.
                                                 -2-

           The gas supply port may include an internal gas manifold extending along the axial
   length of said tubular structure.
           The magnetic field coils may provide a magnetic flux density of 1-2000 gauss.
           A further aspect of the present disclosure relates to a system for forming a conformal
 5 coating in a tubular structure. The system includes a tubular structure including an internal
   surface defining an interior volume and at least two opposing ends, wherein each opposing
   end includes an opening. The system also includes at least two vacuum pumping stations,
   wherein each vacuum pumping station is coupled to one of the openings. The system further
   includes a gas supply port coupled to the interior volume via a tubular electrode of small
10 diameter (i.e., 0.125-0.5 inch OD) at ground (or positive) potential spanning the length of
   the tubular structure and centrally-suspended under tension, through which gas is supplied
   and exited into the internal volume of tubular structure at approximately midway of length
   of tubular structure through a gas diffuser. In addition, as an optional feature, the system
   may include a plurality of magnetic field coils, wherein each magnetic field coil is arranged
15 around the tubular structure and the magnetic field coils are spaced along the length of the
   tubular structure.   Furthermore, the optional feature of the system includes an arbitrary
   waveform generator electrically connected to the magnetic field coils configured to impose
   a variable current to the magnetic field coils and configured to provide a phase offset
   between at least two of the magnetic field coils. These optional features of the system may
20 be used to assist the static- or dynamic positioning of a plasma as formed inside the tubular
   structure.
           A further aspect of the present disclosure relates to a method of depositing a
   conformal coating. The method includes creating a vacuum within an interior volume of a
   tubular structure, wherein the tubular structure also includes an internal surface. Gas is
25 supplied to the interior volume of the tubular structure, wherein the gas includes a plasma
   precursor in the gas phase. The tubular structure is biased relative to ground. Plasma is
   formed that may be cyclically positioned along the length of the tubular structure. Positive
   ions of the plasma precursor gas are generated and then may be accelerated to the internal
   surface and deposited on the internal surface forming a coating, wherein the coating exhibits
30 a water contact angle of greater than 1200.
           In a particular aspect, there is disclosed method of depositing a conformal coating
   comprising creating a vacuum within an interior volume of a tubular structure, wherein the
   tubular structure includes supplying gas to said interior volume of said tubular structure,
                                                 -3-

   wherein said gas includes a plasma precursor in the gas phase, biasing said tubular structure
   relative to ground, forming a plasma having a density and cyclically positioning said plasma
   density along the length of said tubular structure, generating positive ions of said plasma
   precursor gas which are deposited on said internal surface and forming a coating having a
 5 surface on said internal surface. The coating exhibits a water contact angle of greater than
   1200 and said coating comprises 50 to 60 atomic percent carbon, 20 to 30 atomic percent
   oxygen and 15 to 25 atomic percent silicon, and said atomic percents of carbon, oxygen and
   silicon are present at the surface of said coating and at a depth of up to 300 Angstroms into
   said coating. The coating mitigates the nucleation, growth and adhesion of asphaltenes,
10 waxes and gas hydrates.
           In a related aspect, the present disclosure relates to a conformal coating disposed on
   a tubular structure, comprising a tubular structure having an internal surface and an interior
   volume, and a carbo-siloxane coating disposed on the internal surface, wherein the coating
   has a water contact angle of greater than 1200. The coating comprises 50 to 60 atomic
15 percent carbon, 20 to 30 atomic percent oxygen, and 15 to 25 atomic percent silicon. The
   coating, at a depth of up to 300 Angstroms, includes the following chemical bond types: (a)
   Si-0- at a relative concentration of 38.5(± 12) %; (b) Si-C at a relative concentration of 25.6
   (± 5) %; (c)     C-O at a relative concentration of 4.5 (± 3) %; and (d) C-C at a relative
   concentration of 31.4 (±2) %.
20         In another aspect, there is disclosed a conformal coating disposed on a tubular
   structure, comprising an iron based tubular structure having an initial average roughness
   (Ra) of less than 10 pm, an internal surface and an interior volume and a carbo-siloxane
   coating disposed on said internal surface. The coating has a water contact angle of greater
   than 1200 and comprises 50 to 60 atomic percent carbon, 20 to 30 atomic percent oxygen,
25 and 15 to 25 atomic percent silicon, wherein said coating, at a depth of up to 300 Angstrom,
   comprises:
            (a)     Si-O at a relative concentration of 38.5(± 12) %;
            (b)     Si-C at a relative concentration of 25.6 (± 5) %;
30                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The above-mentioned and other features of this disclosure, and the manner of
   attaining them., may become more apparent and better understood by reference to the
                                                  -4-

   following description of embodiments described herein taken in conjunction with the
   accompanying drawings, wherein:
            FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic of water contact angle measurement;
            FIG. 2a illustrates a schematic of an exemplary embodiment of a system for
 5 performing the process of the present disclosure;
            FIG. 2b illustrates a schematic of another exemplary embodiment of the system for
   performing the process of the present disclosure;
            FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary method for performing the process of the present
   disclosure;
10          FIG. 4 illustrates the shear displacement versus shear force for water-ice on coated
   and uncoated structures;
            FIG. 5 illustrates the relationship of the water-in-oil contact angle and the shear
   stress at peak force (MPa) versus the surface roughness of water-ice on stainless steel;
            FIG. 6 illustrates the shear force versus shear displacement for both uncoated and
15 coated carbon steel relative to solid asphaltenes; and
            FIG. 7 illustrates the Raman spectrum for coatings produces by the process and
   system described herein versus conventional glow-discharge plasma enhanced chemical
   vapor deposition.
20                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            The present disclosure relates to superhydrophobic conformal coatings presented on
   the internal surface of relatively long tubular structures and processes for forming such
   coatings.   In particular, the present disclosure relates to superhydrophobic coatings that
   mitigate the nucleation, growth and adhesion of hydrocarbon hydrates, organic deposits, and
25 inorganic scales on the internal surface of tubular structures.
            As noted above, hydrates and, in particular, clathrate hydrates, are understood as
   crystalline water-based solids in which relatively small hydrocarbons or other low molecular
   weight compounds are trapped inside hydrogen bonded water molecules. Stated another
   way, hydrates are crystalline compounds, which comprise two constituents including host
30 molecules (or water molecules) that form a hydrogen-bonded solid lattice structure and
   guest molecules (including hydrocarbons or other relatively low molecular weight
   compounds) trapped in the host molecules. The hydrocarbons are trapped without chemical
                                                 -5-

   bonding inside the three-dimensional lattice structure formed by the hydrogen bonding of
   the water molecules. Non-limiting examples of hydrocarbons may include methane, ethane,
   propane, isobutene, 2-methyl butane, methylcyclopentane, methylcyclohexane, cyclooctane
   and combinations thereof. Other, non-hydrocarbon hydrates may include carbon dioxide,
 5 hydrogen sulfide, nitrogen, chlorine, etc.
           Hydrates may form if gas and water are present under the appropriate phase-state
   conditions. In the case of a pipeline or well, hydrates can form in the bulk flow or on metal
   surfaces, i.e., surfaces in or bounding the flow. Typically, flow bounding a metal surface is
   colder than the bulk flow. The colder temperatures promote hydrate formation on the metal
10 surfaces, which may provide nucleation sites for the formation of the crystalline lattice.
   Water can wet the metal, and subsequently, clathrate gas-hydrates can form from gas
   molecules originally dissolved in the water phase. Hydrate nucleation may occur at nuclei
   sizes ranging from 5 nm to 30 nm. These nuclei are metastable and may agglomerate into
   larger, stable hydrate clusters in the size range of 100 to 2000 nm.
15         Under conditions of supersaturated gas in the water phase, nucleation proceeds much
   more actively at the water-metal interface compared with gas-water interfaces away from
   the metal surface. In particular, the surface roughness of an unmodified metal substrate,
   having relatively high surface energy, may play two relatively important roles in the activity
   of hydrate nucleation.       First, the surface roughness may create areas of water-phase
20 disruption at the surface, lowering the barrier to hydrate formation. Second, the formation
   of microscopic gas pockets within the asperities of the surface enables hydrate growth by
   creating a relatively large number of gas-liquid interfaces.
           The present disclosure is directed to modifying the surface state of the internal
   surfaces of the pipe wall, such that the surfaces exhibit superhydrophobicity, reducing the
25 surface energy and wettability of water on the pipe wall with respect to water.
   Hydrophobicity may be understood as the repulsion of water from a surface of a given
   material, this is opposed to hydrophilicity wherein water is attracted to the surface of a given
   material. Hydrophobicity may be quantified in terms of contact angle, which as illustrated
   in FIG. 1, is the angle 0 that a drop of water 100 forms relative to a given surface 102. The
30 lower the contact angle, the more the water is attracted to and wets the surface. The greater
   the contact angle, the less water wets the surface. The ability of water to "wet" or "wet out"
   a surface indicates the ability of the water to flow and cover a surface to maximize the
                                                  -6-

   contact area and the attractive forces between the water and surface. In FIG. 1, the contact
   angle may be measured in a mineral oil environment as opposed to an air environment.
           Hydrophobic materials may generally be understood as materials having water
   contact angles that are 900 or greater.      Superhydrophobic materials may be understood
 5 herein as materials having a contact angle with water that is 120' or greater. Thus, the
   internal surfaces of the tubular structures discussed herein are modified to reduce the surface
   energy of the surfaces relative to water therefore increasing the hydrophobicity to contact
   angles of 1200 or greater. As understood herein, the measurements may be performed in
   mineral oil. This serves as a reference environment to approximate the environment in an
10 oil-producing well or flow line.
           The interior surface of the tubular structures may be modified by coating the
   structure with superhydrophobic material which provides a conformal coating. Employing
   high-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS),           the relative contribution of
   different bonding states comprising the superhydrophobic coating was determined from the
15 average XPS-measured states of each element involved in a given bond type. It has been
   determined from these quantitative results that the superhydrophobic coatings may include,
   consist essentially of, or consist of one or more substantially amorphous domains of the
   following chemical bond types: (a) Si-O- at a relative concentration of 38.5(± 12) %; (b) Si
   C at a relative concentration of 25.6 (± 5) %, ; (c) C-O at a relative concentration of 4.5 (±
20 3) %; and (d) C-C at a relative concentration of 31.4 (±2) %. Reference to the feature that
   the domains are substantially amorphous may be understood as that situation wherein 90%
   or greater of the domains are amorphous or non-crystalline.
           The coatings may include, consist essentially of, or consist of 50 to 60 atomic
   percent carbon, including all values and ranges therein, 20 to 30 atomic percent oxygen,
25 including all values and ranges therein, and 15 to 25 atomic percent silicon, including all
   values and ranges therein. The elements are present at a total amount of 100 atomic percent;
   however, impurities may be present up to I atomic percent of the total composition.
   Preferably, the coatings may be composed of 56 to 57 atomic percent carbon, including all
   values and ranges therein, 20 to 26 atomic percent oxygen, including all values and ranges
30 therein, and 17 to 23 atomic percent silicon, including all values and ranges therein. In
   addition, such atomic percent concentrations and the aforementioned bond types are such
   that they are present at the surface and at depths of 100 Angstroms, 200 Angstroms and 300
                                                  -7-

   Angstroms into the coating. Thus, the indicated atomic percent concentration of C, 0 and
   Si is present in a relatively uniform profile from the surface to a depth of 300 angstroms.
            The coatings herein may be preferably formed from silane compounds providing C,
   H, 0 and Si. Preferably a plasma precursor may include hexamethyldisiloxane (HMDSO)
 5 having the formula (CH 3 )3 Si-O-Si(CH3 )3 . It can be appreciated that the precursors so
   identified may then form a plasma by themselves or with the assistance of a noble gas such
   as Ar (preferably) or He, and coat the internal surfaces of the tubular structure to provide
   the amorphous domains noted above.            Additionally, other preferred precursors useful in
   forming superhydrophobic coatings on the internal surface of tubular structures, in
10 accordance with the process methods described herein, include: (1) hexamethyldisilazane
   (CH 3) 3Si-N-Si(CH 3 )3 ; (2) bis-trifluoropropyl tetramethyldisiloxane (CF 3 C 2 H 4 ) Si(CH 3 )2 -0
   Si(CH3)2(CF3C2H4); and (3) combinations of HMDSO or (1) or (2) with a volatile
   fluorocarbon including, but not limited to, perfluoropropane (C3Fs), hexafluoropropylene
   oxide (C 3 F60), perfluorocyclohexane (C6 F12 ), and hexafluorobenzene (C 6F6 ).
15          Tubular structures on which the superhydrophobic coating are applied may be
   understood as structures having a length to diameter (or largest linear cross-section) ratio of
    10:1 or greater, such as 20:1, 30:1, 100:1, and up to 1,000:1. The tubular structure may be
   10 or more feet in length, including all values and ranges between 10 feet and 100 feet,
   including all values and increments therein, such as in the range of 10 to 50 feet, 20 to 70
20 feet, etc. The tubular structures may generally be circular in cross-section. However, in
   other embodiments, the tubular structures may exhibit rectangular, square, triangular or
   geometric cross-sections.        Additional embodiments may include non-linear (in plane)
   hollow shapes, such as "S", bends, and split rings, or helical (out-of-plane) shapes. In these
   cases, the internal electrode/gas-manifold at ground (or positive) potential is suspended with
25 periodic dielectric supports making contact with the internal wall of the structure, as
   opposed to an unsupported, though tensioned, electrode for most linear shapes less than or
   equal to 40-ft in length. Such dielectric supports are translated during the coating process
   so that the area of the support making direct contact with the internal wall of the structure
   is unmasked, thus avoiding the potential for leaving behind periodic uncoated patches or
30 coating variances along the length of the structure wall at the periodic locations of the said
   supports.
                                                   -8-

           The tubular structures may exhibit an initial average surface roughness (Ra) of less
   than 10 pm. The tubular structures may be iron based and may include steel and preferably,
   stainless steel or carbon steel.
           The coatings may be deposited on a structure utilizing a magnetically-assisted
 5 plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition system, an example of which is illustrated in
   FIG. 2a. However, it is to be understood that magnetic field assistance is not a necessary
   requirement of the process conditions, but rather may be used as needed to assist the
   deposition process by concentrating or translating - either dynamically or statically - the
   plasma formed inside the tubular structure. The system includes the tubular structure 200,
10 in which the coating will be deposited, mounted between two high-vacuum pump stations
   204a, 204b on each end 206a, 206b of the tubular structure 200, i.e., at each opening of the
   tubular structure.    Accordingly, should additional openings be provided in the tubular
   structure, additional high-vacuum pumps may be mounted at these openings. Alternatively,
   additional opening may be sealed to prevent escape of the processing gasses. The high
15 vacuum pumps 204a, 204b are operatively connected directly or indirectly to the tubular
   structure in such a manner that gas may be evacuated from the interior volume of the tubular
   structure. A combination of vacuum pumps may be arranged in the high-vacuum pump
   stations.    For example, a positive displacement pump to achieve vacuum and a
   turbomolecular vacuum pump to achieve high-vacuum may be utilized. The high vacuum
20 pump station may achieve a vacuum in the range of 1*10- Torr to 1 * 10-7Torr.
           The tubular structure is electrically isolated from the high-vacuum pumping stations
   using vacuum compatible insulators 208a, 208b. Further, components connected to the
   vacuum pumping stations 204 are connected to an electrical ground G. A gas supply system
   210 is connected to a gas inlet port 211a, 211b located at distal portions of the apparatus
25 212a, 212b. An internal gas manifold 214 (see FIG. 2b), which also serves as an electrode
   at ground potential, running along the axial length L of the tubular structure, including a
   plurality of gas ports 216 may also be provided to distribute the process gasses evenly
   throughout the interior volume 220 of the tubular structure 200. The gas ports are
   operatively coupled to the interior volume of the tubular structure in a manner that a pathway
30 for gas to pass from the storage tanks to the gas ports is provided, filling the interior volume
   of the tubular structure with the supplied gasses. The gas supply system 210 may include
   storage tanks or devices 222a, 222b in which the gas is stored in either a gas or liquid form.
   The gas supply system 210 may also include mass flow controllers 224a, 224b for
                                                  -9-

   controlling the flow rate of the gas entering the system. The gasses are passed through
   supply lines 226a, 226b, 226c, and 226d into the gas inlet ports 211a, 211b. While only
   two storage tanks and mass flow controllers are illustrated, more than two may be present,
   such as three, four and even up to ten. Gasses utilized in the system, process and coatings
 5 herein include a chemical precursor used alone, or in combination with an inert gas, such as
   argon. The inert gases maybe supplied to the interior volume at a ratio of 1:40 to 10:1 of
   the inert gas to the plasma precursor
           A high-voltage, pulsed DC power supply 230 is electrically connected to the tubular
   structure 200. The negatively biased, pulsed voltage may range from 0.5-10kV, including
10 all values and ranges therein with a pulsed frequency ranging from 500-5000 Hz, including
   all values and ranges therein and a pulse width ranging from 1 to 100 p s, including all values
   and ranges therein. The pulsed voltage from the power supply may be biased negatively
   relative to the system ground, forming a plasma in a hollow space of the structure. The
   plasma consists of electrons, ions and neutrals at various energy states. When the chemical
15 precursors (e.g. HMDSO) is fed into the plasma it may fragment, resulting in the formation
   of ionized and un-ionized (radicals) fragments of 1MDSO molecules.                The negatively
   biased voltage extracts the positively charged ions from the plasma and accelerates the ions
   to the internal surface of the tubular structure. The acceleration is with relatively high
   terminal velocities and relatively high kinetic energy. When energetic ions and radicals of
20 the fragments of the HMDSO molecules deposit on the internal surface of the tubular
   structure a coating with the required composition may form.
           As illustrated in FIG. 2a, the system preferably includes two or more magnetic field
   coils 240a, 240b, 240c, 240d, i.e., solenoids, are configured or arranged around the exterior
   of the tubular structure. While four coils are illustrated, up to 10 or 20 coils may be provided
25 depending upon the length of the pipe. Each magnetic field coil may exhibit the cross
   sections shape of a collar and wrap around the periphery of the tubular structure 200, spaced
   along the axial length L of the tubular structure 200. The magnetic field coils are connected
   to one or more DC, constant-current power supplies 242a, 242b producing a magnetic field.
   The magnetic field may penetrate the wall thickness, depending on the magnetic
30 permeability of the structure. Magnetic flux densities in the range of 1 gauss to 2000 gauss,
   including all values and ranges therein, may arise in the hollow region or interior volume
   220 of the tubular structure, i.e., the plasma region.
                                                 - 10 -

           An arbitrary wave form generator 244 is also provided and electrically connected to
   the magnetic field coils to impose a variable current to each field coil 240 combined with a
   phase offset between at least two, and up to all of the magnetic field coils, e.g., 0 to 180'
   phase shift. The plasma density may therefore be cyclically swept or positioned over the
 5 length of the structure. This is reference to the feature that the plasma may be relatively
   confined and intensified (e.g. higher relative plasma concentration) at selected locations
   along the tubular structure length. The swept magnetic flux may therefore form a relatively
   more uniform plasma within the tubular structures as compared to that situation where no
   magnetic flux or a static magnetic flux is provided. Accordingly, a relatively more uniform
10 coating deposition along the internal surface of the relatively long hollow structure may now
   be achieved as needed.
           A process for forming the superhydrophobic coatings is further described herein
   with respect to FIG. 3. The process may optionally begin with a cleaning step 300, such as
   sputter cleaning, to remove contamination including organic species or inorganic surface
15 oxides, from the interior surfaces of the tubular substrates. Initially, a vacuum is created or
   drawn on the interior volume of the tubular member to a pressure in the range of 1* 10-6 Torr
   to 1*10-7 Torr, including all values and ranges therein. Argon gas and, optionally hydrogen
   gas as a reactive gas, is introduced into the tubular substrate through the gas supply system,
   such that a pressure in the range of 10 mTorr to     50 mTorr, including all values and ranges
20 therein, is reached. Other inert gases (e.g., xenon, helium, neon, krypton or combinations
   thereof) may be used alone or in combination with argon gas.
           While maintaining the above noted gas pressures, a negatively biased, pulsed voltage
   ranging from 0.5 to 10 kV, including all values and ranges therein, with a pulse frequency
   ranging from 500 to 5000 Hz, including all values and ranges therein, and a pulse width of
25 1 to 100 microseconds, including all values and ranges therein. Sputter cleaning may occur
   for a period ranging from 30 minutes to 120 minutes, including all values and ranges therein.
   Positive ions (and/or positive ion-radicals) generated by the plasma are accelerated towards
   the negatively biased internal surface of the tubular member with relatively high kinetic
   energy, resulting in the sputter cleaning of surface contaminants from the surface of the
30 structure. During this process, negatively charged species, including electrons and ion
   radicals, accelerate toward the internal electrode/gas-manifold set at ground potential.
           Following the optional plasma sputter cleaning, the chemical precursor gas, such as
   HMDSO described above, may be supplied alone or co-mixed with an inert gas, such as
                                                 - 11 -

   argon, and metered into the interior volume of the tubular structure at a constant flow rate
   302. The precursor gas may be supplied at a flow rate of I to 100 sccm, including all values
   and ranges therein, while the inert gas may be supplied at a flow rate of I to 200 sccm,
   including all values and ranges therein. The gas space, or interior volume, of the tubular
 5 structure is maintained at a total pressure ranging from 10 mTorr to 100 mTorr, including
   all values and ranges therein.
           To initiate deposition of the coating onto the internal surface of the tubular structure,
   a plasma is formed 304 in the interior volume by electrically exciting the tubular structure
   through negatively biasing the tubular structure with a pulsed voltage in the range of 0.5 kV
10 to 10kV, including all values and ranges therein, relative to ground at a pulse frequency of
   500 Hz to 5000 Hz, including all values and ranges therein, and a pulse width ranging from
   1 microseconds to 100 microseconds, including all values and ranges therein.                 The
   deposition period 306 may range from 60 minutes to 120 minutes, including all values and
   ranges therein. The resulting coating has a thickness of up to 2.0 micrometers, such as in
15 the range of 0.2 to 2 micrometers, including all values and ranges. In addition, the resulting
   coating is conformal, i.e., conforming to the surface features of the substrate and exhibiting
   a deviation in thickness of less than or equal to 50 % across the coating. After deposition,
   a substantially smooth and durable coating is formed having a chemical and structural
   composition that exhibits superhydrophobic surface properties and further inhibits the
20 nucleation, growth, and adhesion of gas hydrates and/or adhesion of asphaltenes, waxes and
   inorganic scales on its surface.
           The resulting coating compositions are characterized along the lines noted above.
   The water contact angle (WCA) of a liquid-water drop resting on the surface of a coated
   steel substrate immersed in mineral oil is determined to exceed 1200 and reaches a value of
25 155', including all values and ranges therein. As surface roughness increases, the water
   contact angle increases. Referring again to FIG. 1, the contact angle is determined by the
   angle 0 formed between the surface plane 102 of the coated substrate, parallel with the solid
   water interface, and the tangent line 104 at the water-oil interface intersecting the surface
   plane at the solid-water-oil triple point, measured through the water drop, wherein the oil is
30 mineral oil.    Measurement of the water contact angle may be achieved by methods
   conventionally practiced, which include, for example, a goniometer coupled with a
   relatively high resolution camera.
                                                - 12 -

            In addition, the resulting compositions exhibit reduced water-ice shear pressures
   (i.e., shear strengths). Specifically, the water ice shear pressures may be reduced by more
   than half when utilizing the superhydrophobic coatings (having a contact angle of 120' or
   greater) versus hydrophobic coatings (having a contact angle of less than 1200). The water
 5 ice shear pressure may, for example, be less than or equal to 0.2 MPa, such as 0.001 MPa
   to 0.2 MPa, including all values and ranges therein.         The water-ice shear pressure is
   understood as the amount of shear stress required to displace a water-ice drop bound to a
   surface, wherein the water-ice drop and surface are immersed in oil. This may be compared
   to the water-ice shear pressure of a water-ice drop on an electro-polished uncoated steel
10 surface of 1.089 MPa. Stated another way, the water-ice shear pressure of the coated surface
   is half, or more than half, i.e., I % to 50 % of the water-ice shear pressure of uncoated
   surfaces of the same roughness.
            Further, the resulting compositions exhibit a reduced shear pressure relative to
   hydrocarbon materials such as asphaltene and wax. Shear pressures may also be reduced
15 by half or more than half, i.e., 1 % to 50%, when utilizing the superhydrophobic coatings,
   such as less than or equal to 0.010 MPa.          Thus, the coating also exhibits oleophobic
   characteristics, which may be understood as a molecule that is repelled from oil. In the case
   of inorganic scale, a shear pressure of less than or equal to 0.040 MPa may be used to
   dislodge inorganic scale composed of carbonate salts adhered to its surface, compared with
20 0.16 MPa for the bare surface.
            The superhydrophobic and oleophobic nature of the coatings are useful in mitigating
   or inhibiting the nucleation, growth and adhesion of asphaltenes, waxes, and gas hydrates
   onto the internal surface of the steel pipe materials. Such properties bear significant benefits
   to the offshore pipeline industry by reducing the frequency in which product flow may be
25 encumbered by stoppages due to gas hydrate, asphaltene or wax occlusions formed in the
   pipeline.
            The compositions of matter of the preferred coatings described herein are understood
   to be accessible via the unique combination of the deposition process, the process
   conditions, and the preferred chemical precursors described herein. This, in turn, provides
30 the superhydrophobicity and low surface-adhesion properties necessary for inhibiting the
   nucleation, growth, and adhesion of gas hydrates and the adhesion of asphaltenes, waxes
   and inorganic scales on steel substrates. Further, the coating is capable of resisting wear
                                                 - 13 -

   and abrasion. Moreover, the process is amenable to coating the internal surface of long
   tubular structures.
                                              EXAMPLES
 5         A number of steel substrates were provided having a variety of average surface
   roughness (Ra) ranging from 7.0 micro-inches to 30 micro-inches. The surface roughness
   of each substrate was measured using a stylus-type surface profilometer (Dektak 150, Veeco
   Instruments, Inc.) and collecting the surface profile over a scan distance of 1 cm. The
   average roughness, Ra, was determined by computing the arithmetic average of the absolute
10 values of the vertical deviations (hills and valleys) in the surface profile. Coatings were
   produced on each sample 0.4 microns and 0.8 microns in thickness as described further in
   Table 1 below. Specifically, each sample was first sputter cleaned and then a coating was
   deposited using HMDSO precursor and Ar gas.
           The hydrophobicity of each coating was characterized by measuring the water
15 contact angle in mineral oil using a goniometer coupled with a high-resolution digital
   camera. As previously illustrated in FIG. 1, the water contact angle (WCA) was defined as
   the angle 0 formed between the surface plane 102 of the coated substrate, parallel with the
   solid-water interface, and the tangent line 104 at the water-oil interface intersecting the
   surface plane at the solid-water-oil triple point, wherein the angle passes through the bubble.
20 Digital image processing software (SIMAGIS*, Smart Imaging Technologies, Inc.) was
   employed to accurately derive the said WCAs from the captured images of the water drop
   and coated surface. The water contact angles for each sample are provided below in Table
   1. As illustrated, the greater the roughness and thickness of the coating, the greater the water
   contact angle in oil. However, this effect is expected to reach a maximum, beyond which
25 the contact angle decreases and the shear pressure, as described below, increases.
      Table 1. Hydrophobic And Adhesion Characteristics Of The Coatings on Carbon
                                                 Steel
     Uncoated                 Coating Thickness        WCA in Oil (deg)      Water-Ice      Shear
     Roughness, Ra            (micrometer)                                   Pressure (MPa)
     (micro-inch)
     [micrometer]
                                                 - 14 -

    7.0 [0.18]                0.4                     112                    1.086
     12.0 [0.30]              0.8                     123                    0.445
     15.0 [0.381              0.8                     147                    0.219
    30.0 [0.76]               0.8                     153                    0.063
            The adhesion of water-ice characterized by the water-ice shear pressure (i.e., shear
   strength) was also measured for each coating. Specifically, the water-ice shear pressure was
   characterized by using an apparatus that measures adhesion between a water-ice drop and a
 5 coating on a steel substrate. A description of this apparatus and its application have been
   reported elsewhere [Zou, M.; Beckford, S.; Wei, R.; Ellis, C.; Hatton, G.; Miller, M.A.,
   Applied Surface Science 257 (2011) 3786-3792]. The testing was performed at 262 K. FIG.
   4 illustrates a comparison of the shear force (N) utilized to break the adhesion between bare,
   electropolished stainless steel A having a surface roughness of 5.0 micro-inches (0.13
10 micrometer) and stainless steel having the same roughness and a coating having a thickness
   of 0.8 microns B. As can be seen in FIG. 4, the shear stress required to displace a drop of
   water-ice bound to the coated surface was determined to reach a value as low as 0.0363 MPa
   at 262 K, whereas the electro-polished uncoated steel surface requires a shear stress
   approximately one order or magnitude higher to dislodge a water-ice drop of the same
15 volume bound to its surface at a similar temperature.        Table 1 lists the water-ice shear
   pressures for each coating and surface roughness on carbon steel substrates. In addition,
   FIG. 5 illustrates the relationship of the water-in-oil contact angle 0and the shear stress at
   peak force (MPa) S versus the surface roughness.
            The adhesion of solidified asphaltenes and wax was also determined using the
20 measurement apparatus described above at 262K. In this example, the substrates were
   formed from carbon steel having a surface roughness of 30 micro-inch (0.76 micrometer).
   FIG. 6 illustrates the shear force versus shear displacement for both the bare carbon steel
   sample A and the coated carbon steel sample B. The peak shear-stress required to dislodge
   a drop of solid asphaltene from the surface of uncoated carbon steel in this example was
25 30.2kPa, compared with 9.86 kPa for the coated steel.
            The elemental composition and bonding states of matter of the preferred coatings
   derived from the conditions of the process may be characterized with respect to depth or
   thickness of the coating via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) also known as electron
   spectroscopy for chemical analysis (ESCA).        XPS (or ESCA) may be understood as an
                                                - 15 -

   elemental analysis technique for detecting elements with the exception of hydrogen and
   helium, having a nominal detection limit of approximately 0.1 atomic %. High-resolution
   XPS may also provide information regarding the bonding states of the elements in question.
   The elemental composition of the coatings formed herein is described in Table 2. Tables
 5 3 through 5 provide the bonding state of the coatings.
                Table 2. Relative Elemental Composition By Atomic Percent
                     Of The Preferred Coating As A Function Of Depth
    Depth    (A)   From    Carbon                 Oxygen               Silicon
    Surface
    Surface                57                     26                    17
     100                   56                     22                   22
    200                    57                     21                   22
    300                    57                     20                   23
10
                   Table 3. Relative Concentration Of Bonding States For
          Carbon Is High Resolution Region Of The XPS As A Function Of Depth
    Depth(A)            C - Si              C - C, C - H       C-O                 O-C=O
    Surface             33                  61                 4.8                 1.5
     100                43                  55                 2.6
    200                 44                  53                 3.0
    300                 42                  54                 3.4
15                  Table 4. Relative Concentration Of Bonding State For
          Oxygen Is High Resolution Region Of The XPS As A Function Of Depth
                   Depth (A)           0 - Si             0 -- C
                    Surface            86                 14
                    100                83                 17
                   200                 90                 10
                    300                91                 9.1
20
                                              - 16 -

                      Table 5. Relative Concentration Of Bonding State For
           Silicon 2p High Resolution Region Of The XPS As A Function Of Depth
                      Depth (A)            Si - C*             Si - O*
                      Surface              38                  62
                      100                  55                  45
                      200                  55                  45
                      300                  55                  45
   *Combination of Si     2
                            P32 and Si 2 pu2 peaks
 5
           In addition, the coatings were examined utilizing Raman Spectroscopy to identify
   the unique molecular-structural characteristics of obtained using the processes claimed
   herein.    A comparison was performed between the Raman spectrum of the coating and
   process described herein to that of conventional glow-discharge plasma enhanced chemical
10 vapor deposition (PECVD).        In both cases, HMDSO precursor was used in combination
   with Ar process gas. The spectra are illustrated in FIG. 7, wherein the spectrum exhibited
   by the present process is indicated as I and the spectrum exhibited by the conventional
   process is indicated as II.
           As seen in the graph, the process of the described herein yields a coating that
15 contains a substantially larger proportion of -- Si - 0 - Si - structural groups than the
   conventional process. This is indicated by the symmetric - Si - 0 -- Si - stretching vibrations
   in a broad region of the spectrum near 500 cm-1 , at point A, which is markedly depressed in
   the coating prepared by glow discharge. The broad spectral region near 793 cm-, point B,
   indicates a proportionally large contribution of terminal di- and trimethyl silanes [
20 Si(CH 3)x], which emerge in the Raman spectrum as asymmetric Si - C stretching vibrations.
   Lastly, the spectral region between 1309 cm-1 and 1350 cm- 1, point C, can be assigned to
   CI-12- scissoring modes associated with the formation of carbosilanes [Si - CH2 - Si] in the
   coating. The relative contribution of this structural feature is again greater in the coating
   described herein than in the conventional coating.
25         While particular embodiments have been described, it should be understood that
   various changes, adaptations and modifications can be made therein without departing from
   the spirit of the disclosure and the scope of the appended claims. The scope of the disclosure
   should, therefore, be determined not with reference to the above description, but instead
                                                  - 17 -

  should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of
  equivalents.   Furthermore, it should be understood that the appended claims do not
  necessarily comprise the broadest scope of the disclosure which the applicant is entitled to
  claim, or the only manner(s) in which the disclosure may be claimed, or that all recited
5 features are necessary.
                                            - 18 -

   CLAIMS:
   1.      A system for forming a conformal coating on a tubular structure, comprising:
           a tubular structure including an internal surface defining an interior volume and at
 5 least two opposing ends, wherein each opposing end includes an opening;
           at least two vacuum pumping stations, wherein each vacuum pumping station is
   coupled to one of said openings;
           a gas supply port coupled to said interior volume;
           a plurality of magnetic field coils, wherein each magnetic field coil is arranged
10 around said tubular structure and said magnetic field coils are spaced along the length of
   said tubular structure; and
           an arbitrary waveform generator electrically connected to said magnetic field coils
   configured to impose a variable current to said magnetic field coils and configured to
   provide a phase offset between at least two of said magnetic field coils.
15
   2.      The system of claim 1, wherein said gas supply port includes an internal gas
   manifold extending along the axial length of said tubular structure.
   3.      The system of claim I or claim 2, wherein said magnetic field coils provide a
20 magnetic flux density of 1-2000 gauss.
                                               - 19 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
