                                                23
    ABSTRACT
435  An improved locking device is provided for one a livestock head gate in which two doors
    rollingly engaged on an overhead guide shaft for rolling movement of said two doors
    toward one another into a closed position bracing a livestock animal between said doors
    and away from one another into an open position releasing said livestock animal.
    Primary and secondary shaft-receiving and locking members have respective first and
440 second through-holes therein for receipt of the overhead guide shaft. A spring-receipt
    member is fixed to the primary shaft-receiving member for cooperation with a spring
    that tilts the primary shaft-receiving member into a locking position. The secondary
    movable locking member is retained beside the primary locking in a manner enabling
    both tilting therewith and displacement relative thereto so as to bite onto the shaft at the
445 perimeter of the second through-hole in the locking position.

                                                 1
   IMPROVED LOCKING DEVICE FOR A LIVESTOCK HEAD GATE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                  The present invention relates generally to livestock head gates, and more
   particularly to an improved locking device for livestock head gates of the type in which
 5 a pair of doors are movable back and forth toward and away from one another by rolling
   support of said doors on an overhead guide shaft spanning across an animal-receiving
   opening of the head gate.
   BACKGROUND
                  Australian Patent Application No. 2006201223 discloses a known type of
10 livestock head gate that employs an overhead guide shaft on which two doors are
   movably carried by respective roller carriages at the top ends of the doors so that rolling
   movement of the two doors toward one another when an animals neck is present in the
   animal-receiving opening of the gate will force the doors against the opposing sides of
   the animal's neck to secure the animals head in a generally stationary position.
15                 In existing head gates of this type, the doors are automatically locked in
   place by a respective spring-loaded locking device installed in the roller carriage at the
   upper end of each door. The roller carriage features a housing in the form of a U
   shaped channel with two side walls standing upward from a flat horizontal bottom wall.
   The guide shaft passes longitudinally through this channel-shaped housing between
20 the side walls thereof and above the bottom wall thereof. Near each end of the channel,
   a set of two rollers engage the topside and underside of the guide shaft for rolling
   movement of the carriage horizontally along the guide shaft.
                  The existing locking device features a single locking plate that resides
   between the side walls of the carriage housing and that features a through-hole by
25 which the guide shaft passes horizontally through the locking plate. A spring plate
   projects outwardly from the locking plate on one side thereof at a location below the
   through-hole and the guide shaft passing therethrough. A dowel spanning across the
   top end of the locking plate is seated in a pair of notched cutouts in the top edges of
   the carriage's vertical side walls, and a lower end of the locking plate hangs between a
30 pair of positioning pins that cross horizontally through the side walls of the carriage

                                                  2
   housing just above the bottom wall thereof.
                  A coiled compression spring is disposed between the bottom wall of the
   carriage housing and the underside of the spring plate, whereby this spring biases the
   locking plate out of a vertical orientation into a tilted orientation leaning away from the
 5 spring loaded side of the lock plate. This tilted position locks the roller carriage at its
   current position on the guide shaft by causing the perimeter edge of the locking plate's
   through-hole to frictionally bite against the periphery of the guide shaft. Being spring
   loaded into this tilted locking position, the locking plate will automatically lock the roller
   carriage at any given position, until a lock-release lever is used to push the top-end
10 dowel of the locking plate toward the spring loaded side thereof, thereby forcing the
   locking plate to a vertically upright orientation withdrawing the perimeter edge of the
   locking plate's through-hole out of its frictionally biting engagement with the guide shaft.
                  Applicant has found that there is a desire to improve on the existing
   locking devices for livestock head gates of this type.
15 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                  According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided an improved
   locking device for one of two doors of a livestock head gate of a type in which said two
   doors are equipped with respective roller carriages at upper ends thereof that are
   rollingly engaged on an overhead guide shaft traversing across an animal-receiving
20 opening of the head gate for rolling movement of said two doors toward one another
   into a closed position bracing a livestock animal between said doors and away from
   one another into an open position releasing said livestock animal from between said
   doors, the improved locking device comprising:
                  a primary shaft-receiving member having a first through-hole that passes
25 therethrough in a thickness direction thereof and is sized to accommodate sliding
   receipt of the overhead guide shaft therethrough in an unlocking position of the primary
   shaft-receiving member;
                  a spring-receipt member fixed to the primary shaft-receiving member and
   projecting outwardly away therefrom in the thickness direction for action of a locking
30 spring of the respective roller carriage against said spring-receipt member in a manner

                                                  3
   tilting the primary shaft-receiving member into a locking position about an axis lying in
   a width direction of the primary shaft-receiving member; and
                   a secondary movable locking member retained beside the primary shaft
   receiving member in the thickness direction in a manner tiltable together with the
 5 primary shaft-receiving member and displaceable relative thereto in a height direction
   thereof, said secondary movable locking member having a second through-hole therein
   sized to accommodate sliding receipt of the overhead guide shaft therethrough in the
   unlocked position and to place a perimeter edge of the second through-hole into biting
   engagement with the periphery of the overhead guide shaft in the locking position.
10                 Preferably the spring-receipt member is fixed to the primary shaft
   receiving member at a location spaced below the first opening in the height direction
   for upward action of the locking spring of the respective roller carriage against an
   underside of said spring-receipt member.
                   Preferably the secondary movable locking member, relative to the primary
15 shaft-receiving member, is free floating in the height direction thereof.
                   Preferably the location of the movable locking member is situated over
   the spring-receipt member of the primary shaft-receiving member.
                   Preferably the movable locking member is constrained against movement
   relative to the primary shaft-receiving member in the width direction.
20                 Preferably the movable locking member is constrained against movement
   relative to the primary shaft-receiving member in the thickness direction.
                   Preferably the movable locking member is constrained by a pair of side
   walls attached to said primary shaft-receiving member in fixed relation thereto.
                   Preferably the pair of side walls are situated on a same side of the primary
25 shaft-receiving member as the spring-receipt member.
                   Preferably the pair of side walls stand upright from the spring-receipt
   member.
                   Preferably the spring-receipt member is carried on the primary shaft
   receiving member by said pair of side walls, which are affixed to the primary shaft
30 receiving member.

                                                4
                 Preferably the side walls comprise lower portions between which the
   secondary movable locking member is constrained against movement in the width
   direction, and upper portions in which the secondary movable locking member is
   constrained against movement away from the primary shaft-receiving member in the
 5 thickness direction.
                 Preferably the side walls comprise cutouts in the upper portions thereof
   at which a widened upper portion of the secondary movable locking member reaches
   outwardly beyond respective planes of the side walls to overhang intact areas of the
   lower portions of the side walls that reside beneath said cutouts.
10               Preferably at least one gap is present between the primary shaft-receiving
   member and an inner end of the spring-receipt member nearest thereto, and a lower
   portion of the secondary movable locking member depends downwardly into said at
   least one gap.
                 Preferably the secondary movable locking member has a finger access
15 notch in an underside thereof to aid in manual lifting of the secondary movable locking
   member into an operational position during installation of the locking device on the head
   gate.
                 Preferably a shape of the second through-hole is of greater dimension in
   the width direction than in the height direction.
20               Preferably the second through-hole is oval in shape.
                 Preferably the spring receipt member has a spring guide protruding from
   a bottom surface thereof for receipt of an upper end of the locking spring in coiled
   relation around said spring guide.
                 According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided an
25 improved livestock head gate comprising:
                 two doors equipped with respective roller carriages at upper ends thereof;
                 an overhead guide shaft traversing across an animal-receiving opening
   of the head gate and on which the respective roller carriages are rollingly engaged for
   rolling movement of said two doors toward one another into a closed position bracing a
30 livestock animal between said doors and away from one another into an open position

                                                  5
   releasing said livestock animal from between said doors;
                    each roller carriage      comprising a respective locking device that
   comprises:
                           a primary shaft-receiving member having a first through-hole
 5 therein through which the overhead guide shaft passes;
                           a spring-receipt member fixed to the shaft-receiving member and
   projecting outwardly therefrom in a direction along said upright support shaft;
                           a locking spring acting against said spring-receipt member in a
   manner biasing the shaft-receiving member toward a tilted locking position; and
10                         a secondary movable locking member retained beside the shaft
   receiving member in a manner tiltable together therewith and displaceable relative
   thereto in a direction upwardly and downwardly therealong, said secondary movable
   locking member having a second through-hole therein through which the overhead
   guide shaft also passes and which is dimensioned to place a perimeter edge of the
15 second through-hole into biting engagement with the periphery of the overhead guide
   shaft in the tilted locking position.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                    One embodiment of the invention will now be described in conjunction
   with the accompanying drawings in which:
20                  Figure 1A is an elevational view of a livestock head gate featuring a pair
   of improved door locking devices according to the present invention.
                    Figure 1B is a partial close-up of the livestock head gate of Figure 1A,.
                    Figure 2 is an overhead plan view of the livestock head gate of Figure 1B.
                    Figure 3 is a cross-sectional view of the livestock head gate of Figure 2
25 as viewed along line A - A thereof.
                    Figure 4A is a partially exploded perspective view of one door of the
   livestock head gate of Figure 3.
                    Figure 4B is another partially exploded perspective view of the door of
   Figure 4A from another angle.
30                  Figure 5A is a schematic cross-sectional view of primary and secondary

                                                6
   plates of one of the locking devices in a locking position on an overhead guide shaft of
   the livestock head gate.
                  Figure 5B is a schematic cross-sectional view of the primary and
   secondary plates of Figure 5A in an unlocking position on the overhead guide shaft.
 5                In the drawings like characters of reference indicate corresponding parts
   in the different figures.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                  The appended drawings show several views of a head gate design
   employing improved door locking devices of the present invention.             Extraneous
10 components of the overall head gate that do not contribute to the inventive door locking
   aspects of the design have been omitted for illustrative simplicity, including an outer
   frame of the head gate that delimits the overall available animal-receiving opening of
   the head gate.
                  With initial reference to Figure 1A, the guide shaft 10 is mounted in a
15 horizontal orientation at an elevated location on the head gate to guide horizontal rolling
   movement of two doors 12, 12' back and forth along the guide shaft 10. Each door
   features a respective roller carriage 14, 14' at the top end thereof to provide the rolling
   support of the overall door on the guide shaft, and to carry a respective locking device
   operable to lock the respective door at any given position along the guide shaft. The
20 doors of the illustrated embodiment are each made up of a framework of metal tubing,
   further description of which is omitted since the structure of the door itself is not
   pertinent to the inventive locking devices that are the subject of the present invention.
                  As best shown in Figures 4A and 4B, which show one door's roller
   carriage 14, each roller carriage 14 features a housing 16 in the form of a U-shaped
25 channel with two side walls 18 standing upward from a flat horizontal bottom wall 20.
   Near each end of the housing 16, a respective set of two rollers 22, 24 engage the
   topside and underside of the guide shaft 10 for rolling movement of the carriage 14
   horizontally therealong.      With reference to Figure 3, the guide shaft 10 passes
   longitudinally through the channel-shaped housing of each roller carriage between the
30 side walls thereof and above the bottom wall thereof, thus passing between the upper

                                                 7
   and lower rollers 22, 24 at each  end  of the carriage on a horizontal axis.
                  The two roller carriages 14 and the locking devices 26 installed therein
   are of identical or substantially identical construction, and are installed in mirrored
   configuration to one another across the center of the guide shaft. Accordingly, the
 5 detailed description given herein is written primarily with reference to only one carriage
   and its corresponding locking device, with the understanding that the same description
   applies to the other carriage as well.
                  The locking device 26 of each roller carriage is installed at an intermediate
   location along the channel-shaped housing thereof so as to reside between the two
10 respective pairs of rollers. The locking device 26 features a primary shaft-receiving
   plate 28 that resides between the side walls 18 of the carriage housing. The primary
   shaft-receiving plate has a height dimension that exceeds a width dimension measured
   orthogonal thereto, which in turn exceeds a thickness dimension measured orthogonal
   to the height and width dimensions. In an unlocking position described in more detail
15 further below, the primary shaft-receiving plate occupies a vertical orientation in which
   its height stands vertically upright, its thickness extends parallel to the horizontal
   longitudinal axis A of the guide shaft, and its width extends perpendicularly transverse
   to the horizontal longitudinal axis A of the guide shaft. Reference is made herein to
   thickness, width and height directions corresponding to these dimensions of the primary
20 shaft-receiving plate to serve as a reference in relation to the positioning and orientation
   of other components of the locking device. In the locking position described in more
   detail further below, the primary shaft-receiving plate is tilted out of its vertical unlocking
   position by a small oblique angle, whereby the primary shaft-receiving plate's thickness
   and height dimensions are no longer purely parallel and perpendicular to the
25 longitudinal axis of the guide shaft, but the thickness and height directions are
   nonetheless still useful as reference directions lying generally along and transversely
   upright across the shaft's longitudinal axis.
                  The primary shaft-receiving plate 28 features a horizontal dowel 30 that
   is fixed to and runs along the top edge of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28. The
30 length of the dowel 30 exceeds the width of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 so that

                                                 8
   the ends of the dowel 30 reach outwardly from the plate into respective notches 31 cut
   into the top edges of the carriage side walls 18. A pair bolts 34 cross horizontally
   through the side walls 18 of the carriage housing 16 just above the bottom wall 20
   thereof, and the lower end of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 depends downwardly
 5 between these two bolts 32 toward the bottom carriage wall 20. The shafts of these
   bolts 32 thus define positioning pins for locating the lower end of the primary shaft
   receiving plate 28. The notches 31 in the top edges of the carriage side walls have a
   width exceeding the diameter size of the dowel 30, and the resulting greater size of the
   notches relative to the cross-sectional size of the dowel allows the primary shaft
10 receiving plate to tilt back and forth about a transverse axis lying in the width direction
   of the primary shaft-receiving plate at the lower portion thereof disposed between the
   positioning pin bolts 34. The primary shaft-receiving plate 28 features a first through
   hole 34 passing through its thickness dimension, and the guide shaft 10 passes
   horizontally through the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 via this first through-hole 34.
15 The diameter of the first through-hole 34 slightly exceeds that of the guide shaft 10 so
   that in the vertically upright unlocking position of the primary shaft-receiving plate, the
   guide shaft is slidable back and forth through the first through-hole relative to the
   primary shaft-receiving plate, thereby enabling uninhibited rolling movement of the
   carriage on the guide shaft in this unlocked state.
20                The unique locking device 26 features a secondary movable locking plate
   36 that is separate and distinct from the primary shaft-receiving plate 28, and also
   includes a unique positioning bracket 37 affixed to one side of the primary shaft
   receiving plate 28 to carry the secondary movable locking plate 36 thereon.             The
   positioning bracket 37 features two planar side walls 38 projecting outward from a face
25 of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 on opposite sides of the first through-hole 34.
   These bracket side walls 38 reside in vertical planes that are parallel to the axial
   direction of the first through-hole 34 (i.e. parallel to the thickness dimension of the
   primary shaft-receiving plate) and parallel to the axial direction of the guide shaft 10. A
   bottom wall 40 of the positioning bracket 37 spans perpendicularly between the two
30 bracket side walls 38 at the bottom ends thereof, which reside at a spaced distance

                                                 9
   below the first through-hole 34. The     plane  of the bottom bracket wall 40 is parallel to
   the axial direction of the first-through hole 34, whereby the bottom wall 40 projects
   outwardly away from the face of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 in the thickness
   direction thereof so as to reach generally along the guide shaft 10.
 5                  This bottom bracket wall 40 effectively defines a spring-plate of the
   locking device 26, as an upper end of a coiled compression spring 42 abuts against the
   underside of the bottom bracket wall 40, while the lower end of the spring 42 is seated
   against the topside of the carriage's bottom wall 20, as best shown in Figure 3. The
   bottom bracket wall 40 thus serves as a spring-receipt member fixed to the primary
10 shaft-receiving plate to receive the spring action and convert same into a tilting action
   on the primary shaft-receiving plate. To maintain proper alignment of the spring 42 with
   the bottom bracket wall 40, a cylindrical spring guide 44 projects perpendicularly from
   the underside of the bottom bracket wall 40 to receive the upper end of the spring 42 in
   a coiled position around the spring guide. The diameter of the spring guide 44 closely
15 matches the internal diameter of the coiled spring 42 to provide a snug fit therebetween
   to positively maintain the position of the spring's upper end relative to the bottom
   bracket wall 40.
                    The spring 42 provides an upward force on the bottom bracket wall 40 to
   bias the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 out of its vertically upright unlocking position
20 into its tilted locking position leaning away from the spring-loaded side of the locking
   plate 28. This tilted position locks the roller carriage 14 at its current position on the
   guide shaft 10 by causing the top and bottom of the perimeter edge of the primary shaft
   receiving plate's through-hole 34 to bite against the periphery of the guide shaft 10 at
   the top and bottom thereof. Being spring loaded into this tilted locking position, the
25 primary shaft-receiving plate 28 will automatically lock the roller carriage at any given
   position along the guide shaft 10 in the absence of an unlocking action overcoming the
   spring bias to stand the locking plate 28 vertically upright into its unlocking position that
   allows free relative sliding between the guide shaft and the primary shaft-receiving
   member at the first through-hole therein.
30                  With reference to Figure 3, each locking device 26 is oriented so that the

                                                 10
   spring-loaded, bracket-equipped side of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 faces
   outwardly along the axial direction of the guide shaft 10. That is, the spring loaded side
   of the locking device of each door 12 faces away from the other door. The upward
   spring force applied to the bracket on the outer side of the primary shaft-receiving plate
 5 thus causes the dowel-equipped upper end of the primary shaft-receiving plate to tilt
   toward the center of the guide shaft, i.e. tilt toward the opposite door. This way, forces
   applied to the hanging doors in the outward gate-opening direction (i.e. toward the ends
   of the guide shaft) by the animal constrained between the doors will further contribute
   to tilting of the primary shaft-receiving plates toward the center of the guide shaft (i.e.
10 toward one another), thus increasing the effective bite strength of the primary shaft
   receiving plates on the shaft in order to better resist this attempted opening of the doors
   by the constrained animal.        Only under operation of a lock-release lever 46 in an
   appropriate direction via attached handle 46a will the locked state of the doors be
   released by way of linkage arms 48, 48' that are respectively coupled between the lever
15 46 and the upper dowels 30 of the primary shaft-receiving plates 28. When the lever
   handle is manually actuated in the appropriate unlocking direction, the linkage arms 48,
   48' pivot the primary shaft-receiving plates in the reverse direction about the transverse
   axes at their pin-constrained lower ends toward the unlocked vertical orientation that
   releases the biting action of the primary shaft-receiving plates on the guide shaft.
20                  Referring again to Figure 4A, each bracket side wall 38 has an inner end
   affixed to the primary shaft-receiving plate 28. At this inner end, each bracket side wall
   38 features a cut-out space 38a and an intact tab-like lower area 38b situated beneath
   the cut-out space 38a. The intact tab-like lower area 38b stands upright from the bottom
   bracket wall 40 to provide the attachment of the bracket 37 to the primary shaft
25 receiving plate 28. The cut-out upper space 38a creates a space between the bracket
   side walls 38 and the face of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 at this upper portion
   of the bracket. The bottom bracket wall 40 is carried on the primary shaft-receiving
   plate 28 by the bracket side walls 38. The bottom bracket wall 40 reaches inwardly
   toward the face of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 from the distal outer ends of the
30 bracket side walls 40. With reference to Figure 4B, an intact center tab 40a of the

                                                 11
   bottom bracket wall 40 reaches the primary shaft-receiving plate. On either side of this
   center tab 40a, a respective gap 40b is left between the inner end of the bottom bracket
   wall 40 and the face of the primary shaft-receiving plate 28.
                  The secondary movable locking plate 36 features a lower portion 36a
 5 whose width is slightly less than the distance between the two bracket side walls 38,
   and a widened upper portion 36b whose width exceeds that distance. The height of
   the narrower lower portion 36a of the secondary movable locking plate 36 exceeds the
   height by which tab-like lower area 38b at the inner end of each bracket side wall 38
   stands upwardly from the bottom bracket wall 40. To support the secondary movable
10 locking plate 36 in an installation-ready position beside the primary shaft-receiving plate
   28 at the bracketed side thereof, prior to sliding of the roller carriage onto the guide
   shaft from an end thereof during assembly of the head gate, the lower portion 36a of
   the secondary movable locking plate 36 is lowered into place between the intact lower
   areas 38b of the bracket side walls 38 until the overhanging shoulder 36c created at
15 the junction of the upper and lower portions of the secondary movable locking plate are
   seated atop the intact tab-like lower areas 38b of the bracket side walls 38. In this
   installation-ready position, the widened upper portion 36b of the secondary movable
   locking plate reaches outwardly through the cut-out areas 38a of the upper portions of
   the bracket side walls, thus overhanging the intact lower areas 38b thereof, and the
20 lower end of the secondary movable locking plate 36 reaches downwardly into and
   through the gaps 40b between the bottom bracket wall 40 and the primary shaft
   receiving plate.
                  In this installation-ready position of the secondary movable locking plate,
   where it is seated on the bracket side walls, a second through-hole 50 defined in the
25 widened upper portion 36b of the secondary movable locking plate overlaps with the
   first through-hole 34 in the primary shaft-receiving plate 28, but does not completely
   align therewith, instead residing at a slightly lower elevation. From this installation
   ready position, the secondary movable locking plate must be lifted out of its seated
   condition on the positioning bracket to align the two through-holes with one another and
30 enable relative passage the guide shaft through these aligned holes in order to achieve

                                                 12
   the installed state of the locking device and roller carriage on the guide shaft. To enable
   this installation, a rounded finger access notch 52 is provided in the bottom edge of the
   secondary movable locking plate 36 to span over the intact center tab 40a of the bottom
   bracket wall 40. The finger access notch 52 arches over the center tab 40 of the bottom
 5 bracket wall 40 in the seated installation-ready position of the secondary movable
   locking plate. This way, a user's fingertip can reach into this notch 52 at the bottom of
   the secondary movable locking plate from inside the positioning bracket in order to lift
   the secondary movable locking plate out of its seated position into its operational
   position aligning the two through-holes with one another to enable sliding of the locking
10 device onto the guide shaft 40.
                   In this installed state of the roller carriage and its respective locking
   device, the majority of the widened upper portion of the secondary movable locking
   plate continues to occupy the cut-out spaces 38a in the bracket side walls in
   overhanging relation to the underlying intact tab-like areas 38b, and the majority of the
15 narrower portion of the secondary movable locking plate likewise continues to reside
   between the intact tab-like areas 38b, but the secondary movable locking plate is no
   longer seated on and supported by the bracket 37. Instead, the secondary movable
   locking plate is carried by the guide shaft 10 in an operational position beside the
   primary shaft-receiving plate in floating relation thereto, by which the secondary
20 movable locking plate is displaceable upwardly and downwardly along the face of the
   first locking plate in the height direction thereof.
                   The cut-out upper areas 38a in the bracket side walls that accommodate
   the overhanging outer areas of the widened upper portion 36b of the secondary
   movable locking plate only slightly exceed the thickness of the secondary movable
25 locking plate, whereby the remainder of the upper portion of each bracket side wall 38
   blocks the secondary movable locking plate 36 from moving away from the primary
   shaft-receiving plate 28 in the thickness direction thereof. The width of the narrower
   lower portion 36a of the secondary movable locking plate 36 is only slightly smaller than
   the distance measured between the bracket side walls 38 in the width direction of the
30 primary shaft-receiving plate 28, whereby the side walls also block side to side

                                                13
   movement of the secondary movable locking plate. Accordingly, while not directly
   supported by the bracket 37, the secondary movable locking plate 36 is constrained by
   the positioning bracket 37 in both the thickness and width directions of the primary
   shaft-receiving plate.    However, without any physical attachment to the positioning
 5 bracket 37, the secondary movable locking plate is free floating relative to the
   positioning bracket and the primary shaft-receiving plate in the height direction thereof,
   whereby the primary and secondary plates are slidably displaceable relative to one
   another in the height direction at the facing-together planar sides of these two plates.
                   Since the secondary movable locking plate is constrained in the thickness
10 and width directions by the bracket side walls so that is can't be displaced across or
   away from the primary shaft-receiving plate, the second locking plate will thus tilt
   together with the primary shaft-receiving plate during movement thereof between the
   locking and unlocking positions.      The floating condition of the secondary movable
   locking plate in the height direction allows the secondary movable locking plate to shift
15 relative to the primary shaft-receiving plate as these plates are tilted between the
   locking and unlocking positions. This way, the two through-holes align with one another
   to fit around the guide shaft in a loose slide-enabling manner in the unlocking position,
   but the secondary movable locking plate can shift downward relative to the primary
   shaft-receiving plate as the plates are tilted into the locking position so that both the
20 primary and secondary plates bite into the shaft. Figures 5A and 5B schematically
   illustrate the locking and unlocking positions respectively, whereby it can be seen that
   the two through-holes concentrically align with one another in the unlocking position,
   but the second through-hole 50 must reside slightly lower than the first through-hole 34
   in the locking position.
25                 Applicant has found that an improved locking functionality is obtained by
   this inclusion of a secondary movable locking plate 36 that is movable relative to the
   primary shaft-receiving plate 28 in the height direction while constrained in other
   directions so as to tilt together with the primary shaft-receiving plate 28 and bite onto
   the guide shaft at the top and bottom perimeter edges of the second through-hole under
30 the tilting action provided by the locking spring 42. Not only is a greater locking action

                                                14
   achieved, but applicant has found that the overall locking device also releases more
   easily from the guide shaft under due to the use of a secondary movable locking plate
   36. Additionally, Applicant has found that reliable locking can still be achieved with the
   use of the floating secondary plate when the guide shaft is lubricated, whereas the
 5 existing head gates of this type were not suitable for lubrication. By reducing wear,
   such lubrication can improve the product life of the head gate and reduce need for
   repair, or frequency of such repair. Furthermore, the floating condition of the secondary
   movable locking plate relative to the remainder of the locking device enables simple
   removal of the secondary movable locking plate when the roller carriage is removed
10 from the guide shaft, thus allowing replacement of just the removable secondary
   movable locking plate alone rather than the entire locking device. This improves the
   serviceability of the locking device and reduces associated repair costs for the overall
   head gate.
                  In the illustrated embodiment, the second through-hole 50 in the
15 secondary movable locking plate 36 has an oblong shape of greater dimension in the
   width direction than in the height direction thereof so that the smaller height dimension
   provides effective biting action on the guide shaft under a prescribed degree of tilt of
   the primary and secondary plates, while extra clearance is provided on the sides of the
   guide shaft by the larger width dimension to prevent binding of the roller carriages on
20 the guide shaft in the event of minor twists or deviations in the guide shaft. In the
   illustrated embodiment, the first and second through-holes are both of equal dimension
   in the height direction, so that the primary and secondary plates simultaneously and
   equally bite onto the shaft upon reaching a predetermined tilt angle relative thereto
   under the action of the locking spring. The first through-hole may have matching size
25 and shape to that of the second through-hole, or may vary in either of size or shape in
   relation thereto.
                  While the illustrated embodiment employs primary and secondary plates
   of purely planar form to perform the locking action on the guide shaft, it will be
   appreciated that the overall shape of these elements may vary from a purely flat plate
30 like form, and so these components are also referred to herein more generally as

                                                 15
   primary and secondary members. Likewise, although the illustrated embodiment has
   the spring 42 abutted against a flat plate-like bottom wall 40 of the positioning bracket,
   the particular shape or configuration of this spring-receiving component may vary from
   a purely planar plate-like form, and therefore is also referred to herein as a spring
 5 receipt member. Also, while the illustrated embodiment employs a singular bracket
   whose walls cooperate to both receive the spring action and constrain the floating
   locking plate in its useful operating position beside the primary shaft-receiving plate,
   these functions may alternatively be provided by separate structures, each of which
   may vary in particular shape or form from those of the illustrated embodiment.
10                 Finally, while the forgoing description and accompanying figures show
   both of the primary and secondary plates as biting into the shaft in the titled locking
   orientation of the primary plate, the first through-hole may alternatively exceed the
   second through-hole in height such that only the secondary movable locking plate 36
   bites onto the shaft in the tilted locking position. This way, only the secondary movable
15 locking plate 36 undergoes any wear under the repeated locking and unlocking actions,
   thus improving the useful life of the primary shaft-receiving plate.
                   Since various modifications can be made in my invention as herein above
   described, and many apparently widely different embodiments of same made within the
   scope of the claims without departure from such scope, it is intended that all matter
20 contained in the accompanying specification shall be interpreted as illustrative only and
   not in a limiting sense.
                   In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in
   language more or less specific to structural or methodical features. The term
   "comprises" and its variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of" is used
25 throughout in an inclusive sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features.
         Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to be
   taken as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form part of the
   common general knowledge.
30

                                               16
   CLAIMS:
                   1.     An improved locking device for one of two doors of a livestock head
   gate of a type in which said two doors are equipped with respective roller carriages at
   upper ends thereof that are rollingly engaged on an overhead guide shaft traversing
 5 across an animal-receiving opening of the head gate for rolling movement of said two
   doors toward one another into a closed position bracing a livestock animal between
   said doors and away from one another into an open position releasing said livestock
   animal from between said doors, the improved locking device comprising:
                   a primary shaft-receiving member having a first through-hole that passes
10 therethrough in a thickness direction thereof and is sized to accommodate sliding
   receipt of the overhead guide shaft therethrough in an unlocking position of the primary
   shaft-receiving member;
                   a spring-receipt member fixed to the primary shaft-receiving member and
   projecting outwardly away therefrom in the thickness direction for action of a locking
15 spring of the respective roller carriage against said spring-receipt member in a manner
   tilting the primary shaft-receiving member into a locking position about an axis lying in
   a width direction of the primary shaft-receiving member; and
                   a secondary movable locking member retained beside the primary shaft
   receiving member in the thickness direction in a manner tiltable together with the
20 primary shaft-receiving member and displaceable relative thereto in a height direction
   thereof, said secondary movable locking member having a second through-hole therein
   sized to accommodate sliding receipt of the overhead guide shaft therethrough in the
   unlocked position and to place a perimeter edge of the second through-hole into biting
   engagement with the periphery of the overhead guide shaft in the locking position.
25                 2.     The locking device of claim 1 wherein the spring-receipt member
   is fixed to the primary shaft-receiving member at a location spaced below the first
   opening in the height direction for upward action of the locking spring of the respective
   roller carriage against an underside of said spring-receipt member.
                   3.     The locking device of claim 1 or 2 wherein the secondary locking
30 member, relative to the primary shaft-receiving member, is free floating in the height

                                              17
   direction thereof.
                  4.    The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the location
   of the secondary movable locking member is situated over the spring-receipt member
   of the primary shaft-receiving member.
 5                5.    The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member is constrained against movement relative to the
   primary shaft-receiving member in the width direction.
                  6.    The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member is constrained against movement relative to the
10 primary shaft-receiving member in the thickness direction.
                  7.    The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member is constrained against movement relative to the
   primary shaft-receiving member in the width direction by a pair of side walls attached
   to said primary shaft-receiving member in fixed relation thereto.
15                8.    The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member is constrained against movement relative to the
   primary shaft-receiving member in the thickness direction by a pair of side walls
   attached to said primary shaft-receiving member in fixed relation thereto.
                  9.    The locking device of claim 7 or 8 wherein the pair of side walls are
20 situated on a same side of the primary shaft-receiving member as the spring-receipt
   member.
                  10.   The locking device of claim 9 wherein the pair of side walls stand
   upright from the spring-receipt member.
                  11.   The locking device of claim 10 wherein the spring-receipt member
25 is carried on the primary shaft-receiving member by said pair of side walls, which are
   affixed to the primary shaft-receiving member.
                  12.   The locking device of any one of claims 7 to 11 wherein the side
   walls comprise lower portions between which the secondary movable locking member
   is constrained against movement in the width direction, and upper portions in which the
30 secondary movable locking member in constrained against movement away from the

                                                18
   primary shaft-receiving member in the thickness direction.
                  13.   The locking device of claim 12 wherein the side walls comprise
   cutouts in the upper portions thereof at which a widened upper portion of the secondary
   movable locking member reaches outwardly beyond respective planes of the side walls
 5 to overhang intact areas of the lower portions of the side walls that reside beneath said
   cutouts.
                  14.   The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein at least
   one gap is present between the primary shaft-receiving member and an inner end of
   the spring-receipt member nearest thereto, and a lower portion of the secondary
10 movable locking member depends downwardly into said at least one gap.
                  15.   The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 14 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member has a finger access notch in an underside thereof
   to aid in manual lifting of the of the secondary movable locking member into an
   operational position during installation of the locking device on the head gate.
15                16.   The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein a shape
   of the second through-hole is of greater dimension in the width direction than in the
   height direction.
                  17.   The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the second
   through-hole is oval in shape.
20                18.   The locking device of any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein the spring
   receipt member has a spring guide protruding from a bottom surface thereof for receipt
   of an upper end of the locking spring in coiled relation around said spring guide.
                  19.   An improved livestock head gate comprising:
                  two doors equipped with respective roller carriages at upper ends thereof;
25                an overhead guide shaft traversing across an animal-receiving opening
   of the head gate and on which the respective roller carriages are rollingly engaged for
   rolling movement of said two doors toward one another into a closed position bracing a
   livestock animal between said doors and away from one another into an open position
   releasing said livestock animal from between said doors;
30                each roller carriage     comprising a respective locking device that

                                                19
   comprises:
                          a primary shaft-receiving member having a first through-hole
   therein through which the overhead guide shaft passes;
                          a spring-receipt member fixed to the primary shaft-receiving
 5 member and projecting outwardly therefrom in a direction along said upright support
   shaft;
                          a locking spring acting against said spring-receipt member in a
   manner biasing the primary shaft-receiving member toward a tilted locking position; and
                          a secondary movable locking member retained beside the primary
10 shaft-receiving member in a manner tiltable together therewith and displaceable relative
   thereto in a direction upwardly and downwardly therealong, said secondary movable
   locking member having a second through-hole therein through which the overhead
   guide shaft also passes and which is dimensioned to place a perimeter edge of the
   second through-hole into biting engagement with the periphery of the overhead guide
15 shaft in the tilted locking position.
                    20.   The livestock head gate of claim 19 wherein the spring-receipt
   member of at least one of the locking devices is fixed to the primary shaft-receiving
   member at a location spaced below the first through hole and the locking spring acts
   upwardly against an underside of said spring-receipt member.
20                  21.   The livestock head gate of claim 19 or 20 wherein the secondary
   movable locking member of at least one of the locking devices is free floating relative
   to the primary shaft-receiving member thereof in the direction upwardly and downwardly
   therealong.
                    22.   The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 21 wherein the
25 location of the secondary movable locking member of at least one of the locking devices
   is situated over the spring-receipt member of the primary shaft-receiving member.
                    23.   The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 22 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member of at least one of the locking devices is constrained
   against movement relative to the primary shaft-receiving member in a width direction
30 thereof that is laterally transverse to the guide shaft.

                                                20
                 24.     The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 23 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member of at least one of the locking devices is constrained
   against movement relative to the primary shaft-receiving member in a thickness
   direction thereof that runs generally along the guide shaft.
 5               25.     The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 22 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member of said at least one of the locking devices is
   constrained against movement relative to the primary shaft-receiving member in a width
   direction thereof that is laterally transverse to the guide shaft by a pair of side walls
   attached to said primary shaft-receiving member in fixed relation thereto.
10               26.     The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 23 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member of said at least one of the locking devices is
   constrained against movement relative to the primary shaft-receiving member in a
   thickness direction thereof that runs generally along the guide shaft by a pair of side
   walls attached to said primary shaft-receiving member in fixed relation thereto.
15               27.     The livestock head gate of claim 25 or 26 wherein the pair of side
   walls are situated on a same side of the primary shaft-receiving member as the spring
   receipt member.
                 28.     The livestock head gate of claim 27 wherein the pair of side walls
   stand upright from the spring-receipt member.
20               29      The livestock head gate of claim 28 wherein the spring-receipt
   member of said at least one of the locking devices is carried on the primary shaft
   receiving member by said pair of side walls, which are affixed to the primary shaft
   receiving member.
                 30.     The livestock head gate of any one of claims 25 to 29 wherein the
25 side walls comprise lower portions between which the secondary movable locking
   member is constrained in a lateral direction transverse to the guide shaft, and upper
   portions in which the secondary movable locking member in constrained in a
   longitudinal direction along the guide shaft to block movement of the secondary
   movable locking member away from the primary shaft-receiving member.
30               31.     The livestock head gate of claim 30 wherein the side walls of at

                                              21
   least one of the locking devices comprise cutouts in the upper portions thereof at which
   a widened upper portion of the secondary movable locking member reaches outwardly
   beyond respective planes of the side walls to overhang intact areas of the lower portions
   of the side walls that reside beneath said cutouts.
 5                32.    The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 31 wherein, on
   at least one of the locking devices, at least one gap is present between said primary
   shaft-receiving member and an inner end of the spring-receipt member nearest thereto,
   and a lower portion of the secondary movable locking member depends downwardly
   into said gap.
10                33.    The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 32 wherein the
   secondary movable locking member of at least one of the locking devices has a finger
   access notch in an underside thereof to aid in manual lifting of the of the secondary
   movable locking member into an operational position during installation of the locking
   device on the head gate.
15                34.    The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 33 wherein a
   shape of the second through-hole of at least one of the locking devices is of greater
   dimension measured across the secondary movable locking member than upwardly
   and downwardly of said secondary locking member.
                  35.    The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 34 wherein the
20 second through-hole of at least one of the locking devices is oval in shape.
                  36.    The livestock head gate of any one of claims 19 to 35 wherein the
   spring receipt member of at least one of the locking devices has a spring guide that
   protrudes from a bottom surface thereof and around which an upper end of the locking
   spring is coiled.
25







