Abstract
Antimicrobial compositions comprising one or more compound components generally recognized as
safe for human consumption, and related methods of use, such compositions and methods as can be
employed in a wide range of agricultural, industrial, building, pharmaceutical, personal care and/or
animal care products and applications.

WO 2014/145828                                              PCT/US2014/030657
                                         9/11
                                            0               0
                                            II              ||
                       O-CH-CH-C-0-CH-CH-                   C-OH
     H                      1         2                  2
             H3              H6                  (UH) 6
          H      H          CH3                   CH
          RI -- a - L - RHAMNOPYRANOSYL - p- HYDROXYDECANOYL
                               - @ - HYDROXYDECANOATE
                                               0               0
                          O-CH-CH-C----              CH-CH-    C-OH
           O   CH3
                        H31
                                 H
                                      2              12  2
             H                 CH                    CH
                         03                            3
          HCH3
           H      HA
          R2 -- 2-0-a-L-RHAMNOPYRANOSYL-a-L- RHAMNOPYRANOSYL
                     - p-HYDROXYDECANOYL- p-HYDROXYDECANOATE
                                        Fig. 9

    WO 2014/145828                                                             PCT/US2014/030657
                    Antimicrobial Compositions and Related Methods of Use
        [0001]      This application claims priority benefit from U.S. application serial no.
13/815,839 filed March 15, 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Background of the Invention.
        [0002]      Much progress has been made toward identification and development of
biocides for controlling various molds, plant diseases and the like. However, most
commercial biocides or pesticides in use are compounds which are classified as carcinogens
or are toxic to wildlife and other non-target species. For example, methyl bromide is widely
used as a soil fumigant and in the post-harvest treatment of microbial infections. Human
toxicity and deleterious environmental effects will ultimately result in discontinued use of
methyl bromide and various other synthetic biocides/pesticides. As a result, recent efforts
have been directed to the identification and development of natural or biomimetic
compositions demonstrating comparable antimicrobial or pesticidal effect.
        [0003]      One such approach relates to endophytes and associated volatile by
products. Endophytes are defined in the art as microorganisms residing in the interstitial
spaces of living plant tissue, but are generally not considered to be parasitic. In particular,
endophytes found in conjunction with rain forest plants have generated considerable interest
for reasons relating to the antibiotic character of their volatile by-products. Several members
of the Muscodor genus (i.e., M. albus, M. roseus and M. vitigenus) have been shown to
produce volatile by-products exhibiting antibiotic or insecticidal character. However, the
respective by-product of each species includes various naphthalene and/or azulene
derivatives. Such compounds, together with other by-product components, can be toxic or
otherwise unhealthy, and the corresponding mixtures are considered unacceptable for various
end use applications. Accordingly, there remains an on-going search in the art to identify
natural compositions and to develop biomimetic compositions absent from such compounds,
that are safe for human use and demonstrate effective antimicrobial properties.
Summary of the Invention.
        [0004]      In light of the foregoing, it is an object of the present invention to provide
flavorings that have antimicrobial compositions and/or methods for their use, thereby
overcoming various deficiencies and shortcomings of the prior art, including those outlined
above. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that one or more aspects of this
invention can meet certain objectives, while one or more other aspects can meet certain other
objectives. Each objective may not apply equally, in all its respects, to every aspect of this
                                                1

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
invention. As such, the following objects can be viewed in the alternative with respect to any
one aspect of this invention.
         [0005]     It can be an object of the present invention to provide a Muscodor species
and a volatile by-product thereof, absent naphthalene and azulene (non-GRAS compounds)
related compounds, in conjunction with a methodology for the prevention, inhibition and/or
eradication of microbial infection.
         [0006]     It can be another object of the present invention to provide a system
comprising such a species or strain thereof and an associated volatile by-product in
conjunction with a non-indigenous medium or substrate for use against microbial infection.
         [0007]     It can be another object of the present invention to provide such a system
and/or related methodology for use, without limitation, in the context of human and animal
food, produce, plants, plant parts, seeds, agricultural crops and other organic materials,
packaging, building materials, fibers, cloth, clothing articles, and pharmaceutical and/or
medical applications.
         [0008]     It can be another object of the present invention to provide, in the
alternative or in conjunction therewith, a range of biomimetic man-made compositions
demonstrating antimicrobial activity comparable to such Muscodor species.
         [0009]     It can be an object of the present invention to provide one or more such
compositions of components edible or otherwise safe for human use and consumption.
         [0010]     It can be another object of the present invention to provide a system,
composite or article comprising such a non-natural, biomimetic composition in conjunction
with a medium or substrate for the prevention, inhibition and/or eradication of microbial
infection. It can be another object of the present invention to provide such a system,
composite and/or article for use, in a context of the sort described above or illustrated
elsewhere herein.
         [0011]     It can also be an object of the present invention to provide a method for
antimicrobial and/or pesticidal treatment comprising such a composition, without limitation
as to medium, carrier or substrate.
         [0012]     Other objects, features, benefits and advantages of the present invention
will be apparent from this summary and the following descriptions of certain embodiments,
and will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art having knowledge of various
antimicrobial compositions and related treatments. Such objects, features, benefits and
advantages will be apparent from the above as taken into conjunction with the accompanying
                                               2

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
examples, data, figures and all reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, alone or with
consideration of the references incorporated herein.
        [0013]       In part, the present invention can be directed to a system comprising at
least one of a strain of M. crispans, a volatile by-product thereof or vapor of such a volatile
by-product and a non-indigenous medium or substrate. Such media or substrates can be as
described herein or as would otherwise be understood by those skilled in the art. Regardless,
such a strain can be provided in the form of a biologically pure culture, optionally in
conjunction with a carrier component suitable for media/substrate contact or end-use
application, such a culture sufficiently viable for production of a volatile by-product. In
accordance with this invention, a by-product or a modification of a by-product of
M. crispans, or vapor corresponding thereto, is as compositionally described elsewhere
herein.
        [0014]       Accordingly, the present invention can also be directed to using such a
system and/or the volatile fungal by-products thereof to provide antimicrobial effect. Such a
method can comprise providing a non-indigenous substrate or medium capable of supporting
microbial activity or growth; and contacting such a substrate or a medium with a culture of a
strain of M. crispans, a volatile by-product thereof and/or vapor from such a by-product. In
certain embodiments, such contact can comprise such a strain on, about or approximate to
such a medium or substrate. In certain other embodiments, a volatile by-product or
modifications of a by-product of M. crispans, or a corresponding vapor, can infuse or
otherwise contact such a medium or substrate.
        [0015]       Without limitation as to any such system or method, such a substrate can
be selected from a food or produce item, a packaging component for a food or other
perishable item, a fiber, clothing or clothing item, a building or construction component, a
plant, plant surface, soil, garbage or refuse. Such contact can be bioactive with respect to
microbial presence and/or prophylactic.
        [0016]       In part, the present invention can be directed to a non-naturally occurring
antimicrobial composition, whether the components thereof are naturally-derived,
chemically-synthesized or a combination thereof. Such a composition can comprise
compounds selected from alcohol, aldehyde, ketone, acid and/or acid ester components of a
biomimetic Muscodor sp. by-product composition, such a composition as can be absent fused
aromatic compounds, substituted fused aromatic compounds and hydro derivatives of such
compounds. In certain non-limiting embodiments, such a composition can comprise an acid
                                                3

   WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
component selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, propanoic acid and combinations
thereof.
         [0017]      In certain embodiments, the present invention can be directed to a
naturally-derived antimicrobial composition comprising a C2 - about C5 acid component; a C2
-about C5 ester component; and at least two C2 - about Cs components isolatable from a
volatile by-product of an isolated culture of Muscodor crispans,such a composition as can
have a pathogen activity profile different from a pathogen activity profile of an isolated,
cultured Muscodor sp., a volatile by-product thereof and/or a synthetic mixture of such a
volatile by-product. Such an acid component can be selected from isobutyric acid, propanoic
acid and combinations thereof. Independently, such an ester component can be selected from
a C4 ester acetate, a C5 ester acetate and combinations thereof.
         [0018]      In certain other embodiments, such a composition can comprise propanoic
acid, and a component selected from a C2 - about Cs acid ester, an aldehyde and combinations
thereof. In certain such embodiments, an acid ester component can be selected from acetic
acid esters, isobutyric acid esters and combinations thereof. One such embodiment can
consist essentially of propanoic acid and isobutyl isobutyrate. Another such embodiment can
consist essentially of propanoic acid, isoamyl acetate and an aldehyde such as benzaldehyde.
         [0019]      Without limitation, in certain other embodiments, such a composition can
comprise about 8 - about 10 components otherwise isolatable from a volatile by-product of
M. crispans. In certain such embodiments, each component of such a composition can be
isolatable from such a volatile by-product. As such a composition can be naturally-derived,
each such component can be a fermentation product, and fermentation can be selected from
bacterial, yeast and/or fungal fermentations. Regardless, each such component of such a
composition can be generally recognized as safe for human consumption under Chapter 21 of
the United States Code of Federal Regulations and corresponding sections and/or provisions
thereof.
         [0020]      Regardless, in certain non-limiting embodiments, such an isolatable
component can be isobutyric acid. In certain such embodiments, propanoic acid can be at
least in part substituted for isobutyric acid. In such or other non-limiting embodiments, such
an isolatable component can be 2-butanone. In certain such embodiments, acetic acid,
propanoic acid or a combination thereof can at least in part be substituted for 2-butanone. In
such or yet other non-limiting embodiments, such an isolatable component can be ethanol. In
certain such embodiments, acetic acid can be at least in part substituted for ethanol.
Regardless of the identity or amount of any such acid component, ester component and/or
                                                4

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
isolatable component, such a naturally-derived composition can comprise a surfactant
component. In certain such embodiments, a biosurfactant can be incorporated therewith.
Without limitation, a biosurfactant can be a rhamnolipid component selected from a
monorhamnolipid, a dirhamnolipid and combinations thereof.
         [0021]      Alternatively, the present invention can be directed to a synthetic, non
naturally derived antimicrobial composition. Such a composition can comprise a C2 - about
C5  acid component; a C2 - about C5 ester component; and at least two C 2 - about Cs
components isolatable from a volatile by-product of an isolated culture of Muscodor
crispans, such a composition as can have a pathogen activity profile different from a
pathogen activity profile of an isolated, cultured Muscodor sp. or a volatile by-product
thereof. Such acid, ester and/or isolatable components can be as described above or
illustrated elsewhere herein. Regardless, such an antimicrobial composition can comprise a
surfactant component. In certain such non-limiting embodiments, such a surfactant can be a
rhamnolipid component selected from a monorhamnolipid, a dirhamnolipid and combinations
thereof.
         [0022]      In part, the present invention can be directed to a biomimetic,
antimicrobial composition comprising a liquid mixture of compounds selected from C2 to
about C5 alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, acids and acid esters and combinations and sub
combinations thereof, such a composition not isolated from Muscodor sp. As discussed
elsewhere herein, such a liquid mixture can be volatile at room and/or ambient temperatures.
With respect to such a composition and the compounds thereof, the term "about" can mean,
as would be understood by those skilled in the art, carbon and/or methylene homologs with
corresponding molecular weight and/or structural isomerism limited only by mixture with
one or more other components, compounds and at least partial room/ambient temperature
volatility of the resulting composition. With respect to certain non-limiting embodiments,
such a composition can comprise alcohol, aldehyde, ketone, acid and acid ester compounds
selected from components of a biomimetic M. crispans by-product composition, of the sort
described below. Such a composition can comprise compounds chemically synthesized,
compounds isolated from bacterial fermentation and combinations of such compounds. In
certain such embodiments, such a composition can comprise an acid component selected
from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, propanoic acid and combinations thereof.
         [0023]      In part, the present invention can also be directed to a non-naturally
occurring, whether naturally-derived and/or chemically-synthesized, antimicrobial
composition comprising compounds selected from C2 to about Cs alcohols, aldehydes,
                                                 5

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
ketones, acids and acid esters and combinations and sub-combinations of such compounds,
such selected compounds generally recognized as safe ("GRAS") for human consumption,
such designation as provided in Chapter 21 of the United States Code of Federal Regulations
and corresponding sections and/or provisions thereof. In certain non-limiting embodiments,
such compounds can be selected from alcohol, ketone, acid and/or acid ester components of a
biomimetic M. crispansby-product composition. In certain embodiments, a microbe
activity/mortality profile thereof differs from that of either M. crispansor M. albus, a volatile
by-product thereof and/or corresponding synthetic by-product compositions thereof.
Regardless, in certain such embodiments, such a composition can comprise an acid
component selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, propanoic acid and combinations
thereof.
         [0024]     In part, the present invention can comprise a composition comprising a
composition of this invention; and a surfactant component, such a surfactant component
alone or as can be incorporated into a carrier component. In certain embodiments, such a
surfactant can be a biosurfactant, such a biosurfactant as can be a rhamnolipid component
selected from a monorhamnolipid, a dirhamnolipid and combinations thereof.
         [0025]     In part, the present invention can also be directed to a system or composite
comprising an inventive composition and a substrate or medium component. Such a
composition can be as described above or illustrated elsewhere herein. Without limitation, a
substrate can be selected from a food or produce item, a packaging component (e.g., a film or
wrapper) for a food or other perishable item, a fiber, cloth or clothing item, a building or
construction component, a human tissue, a plant, plant surface, soil, and garbage or refuse. In
certain embodiments, such a composition, whether liquid or gaseous, can be incorporated or
otherwise in contact with such a medium, substrate or substrate surface.
         [0026]     In part, the present invention can be directed to an article of manufacture,
such an article as can comprise a solid carrier component and a volatile antimicrobial
composition absorbed in, adsorbed on, coupled to or otherwise incorporated therewith. Such
an antimicrobial composition can comprise propanoic acid; and a component selected from a
C2 - about C5 acid ester, an aldehyde and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, such
an acid ester can be selected from acetic acid esters, isobutyric acid esters and combinations
thereof; and/or an aldehyde component can be selected from a C2 - about CS aldehyde
component. In certain such embodiments, an acid ester can be isobutyl isobutyrate; or such
an aldehyde component can be benzaldehyde. Regardless, such an antimicrobial composition
can be incorporated with a carrier component comprising a clay. In certain such
                                               6

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
embodiments, such a carrier component can comprise a bentonite clay. Regardless, such a
composition can comprise one or more optional components or adjuvants, including but not
limited to a rhamnolipid component.
         [0027]     Alternatively, such an article of manufacture can be considered with an
incorporated antimicrobial composition as can comprise propanoic acid and a C2 - about C5
acid ester comprising at least one of an alkylcarbonyl group, RC(O)-, wherein R comprises an
isopropyl, (CH 3) 2CH-, moiety, and an alkoxy group, -OR', wherein R' comprises an
isopropyl, -CH(CH 3) 2, moiety. In certain embodiments, such an acid ester can be selected
from isoamyl acetate, isobutyl isobutyrate and a combination thereof. In certain such
embodiments, such an antimicrobial composition can consist of propanoic acid and isobutyl
isobutyrate. In certain other such embodiments, such a composition can consist of propanoic
acid, isoamyl acetate and benzaldehyde. Regardless, such a solid carrier component can
comprise a clay.
         [0028]     Accordingly, such an article can comprise a solid carrier component
comprising a bentonite clay, and an antimicrobial composition incorporated therewith.
Without limitation, such an antimicrobial composition can be selected from a composition
consisting essentially of propanoic acid and isobutyl isobutyrate; and a composition
consisting essentially of propanoic acid, isoamyl acetate and benzaldehyde.
         [0029]     In part, the present invention can also be directed to an article of
manufacture comprising granules of a solid carrier component and an antimicrobial
composition incorporated therewith. Such a composition can comprise a C2 - about C5 acid
component; at least one C2 - about Cs component isolatable from a volatile by-product of an
isolated culture of Muscodor crispans grown on potato dextrose agar; and a component
selected from at least one C2 - about Cs acid ester, an aldehyde and combinations thereof. As
relates to such an article, such composition-incorporated solid carrier component granules can
be provided in a vapor-permeable enclosure.
         [0030]     In certain embodiments, such solid carrier and antimicrobial compositions
can be as discussed above or illustrated elsewhere herein. In certain such embodiments, such
an antimicrobial composition can be about 0.01 wt. % to about 10.0 wt. % of such an article.
In certain such embodiments, such a composition can be about 0.20 wt. % to about
10.0 wt. %. In yet other embodiments, such a composition can be about 1.0 wt. % to about
3 wt. % of such an article. Without limitation as to solid carrier component or antimicrobial
composition incorporated therewith, such an enclosure can comprise a woven mesh and/or
                                               7

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
non-woven material as can be configured as a flexible bag or pouch. Regardless, such an
article of manufacture can be provided in a container with a perishable food item.
         [0031]      Accordingly, this invention can also be directed toward a method of
microbial or insect treatment, prevention, inhibition, eradication and/or to otherwise affect
microbial or insect activity. Such a method can comprise providing a composition of this
invention, including but not limited to one or more compositions of the sort illustrated herein;
and contacting a microbe or insect or an article/substrate capable of supporting microbial or
insect activity with such a composition in an amount at least partially sufficient to affect
microbial or insect activity. Such a microbe (e.g., a fungus, bacterium or virus) or insect can
be in a medium, on or about a surface of a substrate of the sort discussed above.
Accordingly, such contact can be direct and/or upon volatilization of such a composition.
Regardless, such treatment can be active with respect to microbial or insect presence and/or
prophylactic. As illustrated elsewhere herein, treatment can be considered in the context of
microbial or insect death and/or inhibited growth or activity.
         [0032]      In part, the present invention can also be directed to a method of affecting
microbial activity. With respect to such a method, the present invention can comprise
providing an article of the sort described above or illustrated elsewhere herein; and contacting
the vapor of an antimicrobial composition of such an article with a microbe and/or a food
item capable of supporting microbial activity, such a composition as can be in an amount
sufficient to affect microbial activity. In certain embodiments, such a food item can comprise
post-harvest produce. Together with an article of this invention, such produce as can be
optionally introduced to a container at a point along a produce supply chain. Without
limitation, produce introduction can be at a point of harvest, a point of processing, a point of
wholesale distribution, a point of retail sale, and combinations thereof. Regardless of
produce or point of introduction, such an antimicrobial composition can be as described
above or illustrated elsewhere herein.
         [0033]      As discussed below and illustrated by several non-limiting examples, this
invention can comprise one or more acid salts. Accordingly, in part, the present invention
can be directed to one or more compositions comprising a propanoic acid component; and a
component selected from a C 4 -about C6 acid salt component, a C2 - about C5 acid ester
component, a C2 - about Cs aldehyde component and combinations thereof. In certain
embodiments, such an acid salt component can be selected from salts of isobutyric acid, salts
of citric acid and combinations thereof. In certain such embodiments, such an acid salt
component can be selected from salts of isobutyric acid and combinations thereof. Without
                                                 8

   WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
limitation, such a salt can be selected from potassium and ammonium salts of butyric acid.
Regardless of the presence of an acid salt component, such an ester component can be
selected from esters of a C 4 acid and combinations thereof. Likewise, regardless of the
presence of an acid salt and/or ester component, such an aldehyde component can be
benzaldehyde. In certain other embodiments, regardless of the presence of an acid salt
component, ester component and/or aldehyde component, such a composition can comprise a
C2 -about C6 acid component in addition to propanoic acid. In certain such embodiments,
such an additional acid component can be selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, citric
acid, and combinations thereof.
         [0034]     Without limitation, such a composition can comprise propanoic acid and at
least one C 4 acid salt. In certain embodiments, such an acid salt can be selected from
potassium and ammonium salts of isobutyric acid. In certain such embodiments, such a
composition can comprise an acid component in addition to propanoic acid. Such an
additional acid component as can be selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, citric acid and
combinations thereof. In certain other embodiments, such a composition can comprise
propanoic acid and at least one C2 - about C5 acid ester component. Certain such
embodiments can comprise at least one C4 acid ester. Regardless, such a composition can
comprise an acid component in addition to propanoic acid, such an additional acid component
as can be selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, citric acid and combinations thereof.
         [0035]     In part, the present invention can also be directed to compositions
comprising propanoic acid and at least one C4 - about C6 acid salt component. In certain
embodiments, such an acid salt component can be selected from salts of isobutyric acid, salts
of citric acid and combinations thereof. In certain such embodiments, such an acid salt can
be a salt of isobutyric acid. Without limitation, such an acid salt component can be selected
from potassium and ammonium salts of isobutyric acid, and combinations thereof.
Regardless of the identity of such an acid salt component, such a composition can comprise
an acid component in addition to propanoic acid, such an additional acid component as can be
selected from C2 - about C6 acids and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, such an
additional acid component can be selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, citric acid and
combinations thereof. Without limitation, such a composition can be selected from a
composition consisting essentially of propanoic acid and a salt of isobutyric acid; and a
composition consisting essentially of propanoic acid, a salt of isobutyric acid, and at least one
of acetic acid and citric acid.
                                               9

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
         [0036]     As discussed above and illustrated below, such compositions can be
incorporated into an article of manufacture. Accordingly, in part, the present invention can
be directed to an article of manufacture comprising one or more compositions, of the sort
discussed above, comprising propanoic acid. In certain embodiments, such an article can be
selected from a human food product, an animal food product, an animal care product, a
packaging product and a solid carrier component. Without limitation, a solid carrier
component can comprise a clay. In certain other embodiments, such a human food product
can be selected from processed foods. Various such articles are illustrated below, including
but not limited to cheese and related dairy products.
         [0037]     In accordance with certain embodiments of this invention, compositions
comprising certain food and flavor compounds (FFCs) are especially inhibitory and/or lethal
to certain pathogenic fungi, bacteria and other microbes of agricultural, medicinal, or
commercial or industrial concern. Such compositions can be distinguished over any previous
mixture containing biologically derived compounds: for instance, the present compositions
do not contain any naphthalene or azulene (non-GRAS compounds) derived substances.
Conversely, such compositions can comprise a mixture of organic compounds, each of which
otherwise considered (i.e., GRAS) a food or flavoring substance.
         [0038]     The present invention demonstrates the nature of such compositions, their
preparation and application to various items (e.g., without limitation, food, fibers, implements
and construction surfaces) to preserve their integrity and prevent destruction by various fungi
(molds and other microorganisms). Such compositions can also be applied to building
structures, plant parts and even clothing items for their preservation. Further, as
demonstrated below, such a composition can negatively affect Mycobacterium tuberculosis-
the microorganism that causes tuberculosis--including at least 3 strains that are otherwise
drug resistant.
Brief Description of the Drawings.
         [0039]     Figure 1. Photographs illustrating the killing effect of the FFCs against
clinical cultures of drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis after exposure for 2 days.
         [0040]     Figure 2. A series of photographs illustrating the prevention of fungal
growth (mold) on cheese by several methods employing the FFCs.
         [0041]     Figure 3. The protective effect of the FFCs on yams in storage in the
presence of 0.2 ml of an FFC composition for 2 days. The yams were then photographed
after 10 days. (The test is on the left and the control is on the right.)
                                               10

    WO 2014/145828                                                         PCT/US2014/030657
        [0042]     Figure 4. The protective effect of the FFCs from the decay of garbage for
10 days held at 300 C.
        [0043]     Figure 5. Demonstrating effect against tomato rot/wilt, on the left is the
control plate of C michiganense, and on the right is the plate treated with 20 microliters an
FFC composition of this invention.
        [0044]     Figure 6. Demonstrating effect of an FFC composition of this invention
incorporated into a skin cream product.
        [0045]     Figures 7A-B and 8 illustrate structures of several non-limiting,
representative monorhamnolipid and dirhamnolipid compounds, in accordance with certain
non-limiting embodiments of this invention.
        [0046]     Figure 9 provides two embodiments of a rhamnolipid component,
designated RI and R2 for the respective mono- and dirhamnolipid structures, which can be
used alone or in combination of one with the other, as described in several of the following
examples, in accordance with certain non-limiting embodiments of this invention.
        [0047]     Figure 10 provides alternate nomenclature and structures of FFCs useful in
conjunction with various antimicrobial compositions, in accordance with certain non-limiting
embodiments of this invention.
        [0048]     Figures 11 A-B provide digital images of (A) post-harvest produce
preserved over 7 days in the presence of bentonite granules impregnated with an
antimicrobial composition of this invention; and, by comparison, (B) a control system
showing spoilage after 7 days in the presence of granules without an incorporated
antimicrobial composition.
Detailed Description of Certain Embodiments.
        [0049]     As illustrated by several non-limiting embodiments, this invention relates
to the use of a new species of Muscodor and/or its volatile by-products and the development
of non-natural, laboratory-prepared, biomimetic compositions comprising common food and
flavor compounds that, when incorporated into various media, applied to surfaces, or
introduced to an atmosphere, space or volume, bring about a decontamination of the desired
surface medium or volume of otherwise unsightly, harmful, and/or pathogenic
microorganisms including plant fungi and the causal agent of tuberculosis. The invention has
extremely important implications and applications to modern agriculture, human medicine,
food sciences, and industry. The compositions of this invention are not obvious as having
antimicrobial properties given the fact that no one individual ingredient, in and of itself, is
                                              11

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
biologically active. A synergistic combination of component ingredients manifests the full
potential antimicrobial activity.
         [0050]      With respect to the use of such a Muscodor species, a volatile by-product
thereof or a non-naturally-occurring biomimetic composition comprising FFCs, contact can
be direct or by exposure to a vapor associated with such a species, by-product of biomimetic
composition. As illustrated below, in the context of certain embodiments, while vapor
exposure can inhibit growth, direct microbial contact may be required for bacterial or fungal
death.
         [0051]      Regardless of mode of contact, the compositions of this invention can be
laboratory-made, comprising chemically-synthesized components, naturally-derived
components or a combination of such synthetic and natural components. Regardless, such
compositions can be biomimetic with respect to the effect of a Muscodor by-product on a
particular bacterial or fungal species. Alternatively, such a composition, by relative
concentration or selection of any one or more FFC component thereof, can demonstrate
varied or enhanced antimicrobial activity, as compared to a Muscodor fungal by-product.
         [0052]      In certain such embodiments, such a composition can be on, or as can be
applied to, a substrate or medium comprising a proteinaceous or cellulosic component which
can, is capable of or does support microbe growth. Without limitation, certain embodiments
can comprise plants, plant components (e.g., roots, stems, leaves or foliage, produce and the
like) and any originating shoots or seeds. In particular, without limitation, such compositions
can be on any plant produce, whether termed a fruit, vegetable, tuber, flower, seed or nut,
whether before or post-harvest. Certain such plants and/or produce therefrom are recognized
in the art, alone or collectively, as agricultural crops. Accordingly, in certain embodiments, a
composition of this invention can be on or applied to such a crop at any time during
development, pre-harvest and/or post-harvest. Likewise, a composition of this invention can
be applied to or incorporated into a beverage, food (e.g., human, pet and/or animal) product
or article of manufacture which can, is capable of or does support microbe growth.
         [0053]      In certain other embodiments of this invention, such a composition can be
on, or as can be applied to, a substrate or surface supporting or supportive of microbe (e.g.,
yeast and/or fungi bacteria and/or virus) growth. Accordingly, such a substrate or surface can
comprise any material which can, is capable of or does support microbe growth. Such
substrates include but are not limited to wood, ceramics, porcelain, stone, plaster, drywall,
cement, fabrics, leather, plastics and the like.
                                                12

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
        [0054]      In certain other embodiments, various compositions of this invention can
be on, in contact with, or as applied or administered to a substrate or surface comprising
mammalian or human tissue, including but not limited to nails, hair, teeth or mouth, skin and
other cellular material, in the context of a pharmaceutical or personal care or hygiene
formulation for the treatment or prevention of microbial growth or infection. Representative
compositions are described, below, in terms at least in part applicable to one or more other
embodiments.
        [0055]      An endophytic fungus was recovered from inside the tissues of a wild
pineapple plant (Ananas ananassoides)growing in the Bolivian Amazon. Ultimately, it was
shown to produce a mixture of volatile compounds having antimicrobial activities. Using
molecular techniques, the fungus was found to possess sequence similarities to members of
the Muscodor genus. These fungi are known to produce volatile organic compounds that can
act as anti-microbials which are effective against both human and plant pathogens. Members
of the Muscodor species have been identified utilizing methods such as Phylogenetic
Character mapping employing 18S rDNA plus ITS-5.8S rDNA sequence analyses. The
sequences found in the present fungus and other Muscodor spp. were BLAST searched in
GenBank, and compared to other fungi (Bruns et al., 1991; Reynolds and Taylor 1993;
Mitchell et al., 1995; Guarro et al., 1999; Taylor et al., 1999). Ultimately it was determined
that these isolates are related to Xylaria (Worapong et al., 200 1a&b). All isolated taxa that
belong to Muscodor have similar characteristics, such as growing relatively slowly,
possessing a felt-like mycelium, producing biologically active volatile compounds, and
causing no harm to the plants in which they originally resided. Finally, they each share
closely similar rDNA sequences (Ezra et al., 2004).
        [0056]      Although the present fungus shared all of the same common features
mentioned above, there were a number of different aspects to the taxon which distinguished it
from all other Muscodor spp. and isolates. As illustrated more fully in the following
examples, these unique characteristics support establishment of the present fungus as a new
species. The name proposed for this novel endophytic fungus is Muscodor crispans.
        [0057]      As analyzed by GC/MS, the isolated fungus produced alcohols, esters and
small molecular weight acids, in the gas phase, when grown on potato dextrose agar (PDA).
As shown in Table 1, below, such compounds include propanoic acid, 2-methyl; 1 -butanol,
3-methyl, acetate; 1 -butanol, and ethanol. Neither naphthalene nor azulene derivatives (non
GRAS compounds) were produced by this organism when grown on PDA, distinguishing it
from all other Muscodor spp. studied thus far. The odor produced by the fungus becomes
                                               13

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
noticeable after about 1 week and seems to increase with time up to and including at least
three weeks. As illustrated below, the volatiles of this fungus possess inhibitory and lethal
bioactivity against a number of plant and human pathogens using the standard bioassay
technique (Strobel et al., 2001).
Table 1.
  Retention                                 Compound                                  MW
  Time Min.
      2:05         Acetaldehyde                                                      44.03
      3:40         Ethyl Acetate                                                      88.05
      3:51         2-Butanone                                                        72.06
      4:08         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester                           102.07
      4:18         Ethanol                                                           46.04
      5:29         Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester                                 116.08
      6:39         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester                   144.12
      6:46         1-Propanol, 2-methyl-                                             74.07
      6:52         2-Butenal, 2-methyl-, (E)-                                         84.06
      7:12         1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate                                     130.10
      8:18         Hexane, 2,3-dimethyl-                                             114.14
      8:21         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester                    158.13
      8:31         1-Butanol, 3-methyl-                                               88.09
      13:37        Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-                                          88.05
      14:41        Formamide, N-(1-methylpropyl)-                                    101.08
      16:44        Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester                                  164.08
     20:44         Cyclohexane, 1,2-dimethyl-3,5-bis(1-methylethenyl)-               192.19
         [0058]      As discussed above, the present invention includes use of M. crispans
and/or a volatile by-product thereof in conjunction with a non-indigenous medium, substrate
and/or volume for antimicrobial effect. Such use and/or applications can be as described
herein or as would otherwise be understood by those skilled in the art, including but not
limited to use and application of the sort described in U.S. Patent No. 6,911,338, the entirety
of which is incorporated by reference.
         [0059]      Alternatively, a wide range of natural and synthetic biomimetic
compositions can be used with comparable or enhanced effect or, as evidenced by one or
more embodiments, to provide results heretofor not available through use of either the fungus
or its volatile by-product. As a departure from the prior art and the by-product of
M. crispans, such antimicrobial compositions can comprise food and flavor compounds
generally recognized as safe for human use and consumption. Representative thereof, several
non-limiting biomimetic compositions are provided in Tables 2-7, below. Various other
compositions can comprise combinations of compounds selected from any one or more of
                                              14

    WO 2014/145828                                                         PCT/US2014/030657
Tables 2-7. (See, e.g., examples 52-56.) Alternatively, any such composition can comprise a
component compound in addition to or as replacement for any compound listed, to enhance
volatility or modify any other end-use or performance property. In certain such
compositions, such a replacement or additional compound can have a GRAS designation
and/or be so designated at levels utilized--such compositions as can be considered essentially
free of any component or material that would not be generally recognized as safe (GRAS)
under the applicable United States Code of Federal Regulations. Such compositions can,
alternatively, include a component found in a volatile by-product of M. crispans and/or not in
a volatile by-product of another Muscodor sp.
         [0060]     Each such compound can be provided within an effective concentration or
percentage range and is either commercially available or can be prepared by those skilled in
the art. With regard to the latter, fermentation techniques can be used to naturally prepare
and isolate such compounds. Alternatively, such compounds can be chemically synthesized.
With respect to several non-limiting embodiments of this invention, each compound of
Tables 2-7 can be obtained as a fermentation product, such products and corresponding
compositions as are available under the Flavorzon trademark from Jeneil Biotech, Inc. of
Saukville, Wisconsin.
Table 2. A biomimetic composition of this invention comprising:
                     Compound
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
2-Butanone
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Ethanol
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
1-Butanol, 3-methyl
Propanoic acid
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
Table 3. A biomimetic composition of this invention comprising:
                     Compound
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
2-Butanone
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
                                              15

   WO 2014/145828                                               PCT/US2014/030657
                   Compound
Ethanol
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
1-Butanol, 3-methyl
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
Propanoic Acid
Table 4. A biomimetic composition of this invention comprising:
                   Compound
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
2-Butanone
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Acetic Acid
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
1-Butanol, 3-methyl
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
Table 5. A biomimetic composition of this invention comprising:
                   Compound
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
Acetic Acid
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Ethanol
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
1-Butanol, 3-methyl
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
                                           16

   WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
Table 6. A biomimetic composition of this invention comprising:
                    Compound
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
Propanoic Acid
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Ethanol
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
1-Butanol, 3-methyl
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
Table 7. A biomimetic composition of this invention comprising various combinations of
compounds selected from or comprising the following compounds:
             %                                    Compound
about  0.1 - about 10         Acetaldehyde
about  0.5 - about 25         Ethyl Acetate
about  0.1 - about 15         2-Butanone
about  4 - about 99           Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
about  1.5 - about 40         Ethanol
about  0.1 - about 10         Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
about  0.1 - about 15         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
about  0.1 - about 10         1-Propanol, 2-methyl
about  0.5 - about 25         1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
about  0.5 - about 25         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
about  2 - about 50           1-Butanol, 3-methyl
about  10 to about 99         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
about  0.1 - about 10         Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
         [0061]     With respect to any FFC composition of this invention, it is contemplated
that any compound component thereof--including any compound component described
referenced or inferred herein, such as but not limited to any component in Tables 1-7 and 10
and structural isomers and/or carbon and methylene homologs thereof--can be present in an
amount or a range separate and apart from any other compositional component. Accordingly,
without limitation, each such compound component can be present in an amount of or a range
of about 0.1 wt. %, (or less) about 0.2 wt. %, about 0.3 wt. %, or about 0.4 wt. %,... or/to
about 1.0 wt. %, about 1.1 wt. %, about 1.2 wt. %, about 1.3 wt. %, or about 1.4
wt. % ... or/to about 2.0 wt. %, about 2.1 wt. %, about 2.2 wt. %, about 2.3 wt. %, or about
2.4 wt. % ... or/to about 3.0 wt. %, about 3.1 wt. %, about 3.2 wt. %, about 3.3 wt. %,or
                                              17

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
about 3.4 wt. % ...  or/to about 4.0 wt. %, about 4.1 wt. %, about 4.2 wt. %, about 4.3 wt. %,
or about 4.4 wt. % . . .or/to 5.0 wt. %, about 5.1 wt. %, about 5.2 wt. %, about 5.3 wt. %, or
about 5.4 wt. % . .. or/to about 6.0 wt. %, about 6.1 wt. %, about 6.2 wt. %, about 6.3 wt. %,
or about 6.4 wt. % . .. or/to about 7.0 wt. %, about 7.1 wt. %, about 7.2 wt. %, about 7.3
wt. %, or about 7.4 wt. % ... or/to about 8.0 wt. %, about 8.1 wt. %, about 8.2 wt. %, about
8.3 wt. %, or about 8.4 wt. % ... or/to about 9.0 wt. %, about 9.1 wt. %, about 9.2 wt. %,
about 9.3 wt. %, or about 9.4 wt. % . .. or/to about 10.0 wt. %; and or/to about 10.1
wt. % ... or/to about 20.0 wt. %, in accordance with such incremental variation; or/to about
20.1 wt. % ... or/to about 30.0 wt. %, in accordance with such incremental variation; or/to
about 30.1 wt. % . . . or/to about 40.0 wt. %, in accordance with such incremental variation;
or/to about 40.1 wt. % . . . or/to about 50.0 wt. %, in accordance with such incremental
variation; or/to about 50.1 wt. % . . . or/to about 60.0 wt. %, in accordance with such
incremental variation; or/to about 60.1 wt. % . .. or/to about 70.0 wt. %, in accordance with
such incremental variation; or/to about 70.1 wt. % ... or/to about 80.0 wt. %, in accordance
with such incremental variation; or/to about 80.1 wt. % . . . or/to about 90.0 wt. %, in
accordance with such incremental variation; or/to about 90.1 wt. % ... or/to about 99.9 wt. %
(or more), in accordance with such incremental variation. Likewise, without limitation, any
composition of this invention--regardless of identity or amount of any particular compound
component or combination--can be present in amount (wt. %) or a wt. % range incrementally
variable, as described above, from 0.1 wt. % to 99.9 wt. % of any composition or medium
(e.g., within any range from about 0.1 wt. % to about 1.0 wt. %, about 2.0 wt. %, about 4.0
wt. % or to about 10.0 wt. %) therein incorporated or article or substrate thereon applied.
        [0062]      Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing amounts,
concentrations or quantities of components or ingredients, properties such as molecular
weight, reaction conditions, and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be
understood as being modified in all instances by the term "about." Accordingly, unless
indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters set forth in this specification and attached
claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be
obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit application
of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of claims, each numerical parameter should at least
be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary
rounding techniques.
        [0063]      Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and the parameters setting forth
the broad scope of this invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth and the
                                               18

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however, may
inherently contain a certain error resulting from the standard deviation found in a respective
testing measurement.
         [0064]     The compositions and methods of this invention can suitably comprise,
consist of or consist essentially of any compound component or amount/concentration thereof
disclosed, referenced or inferred herein--including but not limited to any compound
component in Tables 1-7 and 10, together with any structural isomers thereof, carbon and/or
methylene homologs of any such alcohol component, aldehyde component, ketone
component, acid component and/or ester component, whether the acid-derived and/or
alcohol-derived moiety thereof. Regardless of amount/concentration, each such compound
component or moiety/substituent thereof is compositionally distinguishable, characteristically
contrasted and can be used in conjunction with the present compositions and methods
separate and apart from another such component amount/concentration or another compound
component (or moiety/substituent) or amount/concentration. Accordingly, it should be
understood that the inventive compositions and/or methods, as illustratively disclosed herein,
can be claimed, practiced or utilized with change in amount or concentration in the absence
of any one component compound (or moiety and/or substituent thereof), such compound (or
moiety/substituent thereof) or amount/concentration thereof which may or may not be
specifically disclosed, referenced or inferred herein, the change or absence of which may or
may not be specifically disclosed, referenced or inferred herein.
         [0065]     In preferred embodiments, a biologically effective composition of such
FFCs (prepared as a liquid mixture) is readily volatilized at room temperature and diffuses
throughout an enclosed space to effectively inhibit and/or kill unwanted contaminating fungi
(molds) on surfaces that are desired to be free of such harmful microbes. The mixture maybe
applied as a spray (e.g., can with ingredients under pressure) or simply placed in a container
and allowed to evaporate in the closed container or sealed bag.
         [0066]     Regardless, the FFC compositions of this invention can be incorporated
into a variety of end-use compositions, limited only by application. Such compositions
include but are not limited to those directed to human/animal food or nutrient, personal
hygiene, healthcare, agricultural, industrial, residential, medical and consumer applications.
In certain non-limiting embodiments, an FFC composition and/or component(s) thereof can
be present at about 0.1 wt.% or less to about 99.9 wt.% or more of a particular end-use
composition. Such level of incorporation is limited only by desired antimicrobial effect
and/or formulation considerations.
                                               19

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
         [0067]       The present FFC compositions, under effective dose levels, are effective in
killing many plant pathogens, fungi that can cause food spoilage, microbes that can cause
major human diseases and microbes that can foul work surfaces, homes and other buildings.
A non-exclusive list of such applications is below:
         1.      For treatment of cheeses in storage or in preparation to control unsightly mold
contamination of surfaces and eventual spoilage of the cheese blocks.
         2.      For treatment of various plant parts in storage including roots, tubers, stems,
seeds and other organs that may be eventually used for food preparation of for planting and
re-vegetation or agricultural purposes.
         3.      For use in decontaminating buildings that may either have moldy surfaces or
be infested to a point that a mold problem may develop.
         4.      For use in the preservation of garbage whilst it is in shipment over long sea
hauls from one port to another for eventual fermentation into energy related products.
         5.      For the decontamination of soils that may harbor microbes that are potential
plant pathogens.
         6.      For the treatment of patients with tuberculosis and other mycobacterium
infections.
         7.      For treatment to control nasal infections and to clear nasal passage ways.
         8.      For combining with specifically designed polymers that can be used to wrap
and thus preserve materials including foods, fibers and other items for longer term safe
storage.
         [0068]       More generally, the compositions of this invention can be used to inhibit
the growth of or kill an organism selected from the group consisting of a fungus, a bacterium,
a microorganism and a range of other microbes or pests. Using methods well known to those
of skill in the art, such a composition is contacted with the organism in an amount at least
partially effective to kill or inhibit the growth of the organism. Alternatively, it can be used
to treat human or animal waste, e.g., as a component of a waste water or solid management or
treatment. Such compositions also are useful to decontaminate human and animal waste,
e.g., decrease or remove bacterial and fungal contamination. Yet further, such a composition
can be used to treat or prevent mold on building materials and in buildings by contacting the
building, the building materials, or the spaces between the building materials with an
effective amount thereof or vapors therefrom. For the purpose of illustration only, an
effective amount of such a composition can be used alone or in combination with other
fumigants or active agents in a room or alternatively, during whole building fumigations.
                                               20

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
         [0069]       When used in agricultural applications, the invention provides a method
for treating or protecting fruit, seeds, plants or the soil surrounding the plants from an
infestation by an organism such as a fungus or a bacterium, by contacting the microorganism
with an effective amount of one or more compositions of the sort described herein.
         [0070]       As discussed above, the present invention provides a method of
preventing, treating, inhibiting and killing a bacterial, fungal, viral and/or other microbial
infection. Such a method can comprise administering to an article, animal/mammal or plant
substrate, having such an infection or growth or capable of supporting such an infection or
growth, an effective amount of an inventive composition--alone or as can be incorporated
into a composition or formulation. Accordingly, the present invention provides one or more
compositions for pharmaceutical, personal (e.g., without limitation, cosmetic), industrial
and/or agricultural use.
         [0071]       Microbial treatment can be achieved by contacting a bacterium, fungus,
virus and/or other microbe with an effective amount of an inventive composition. Contacting
may take place in vitro or in vivo. "Contacting" means that such a composition of this
invention and such a microbe are brought together in a manner sufficient to prevent, inhibit
and/or eliminate microbial infection and/or growth. Amounts of such a composition effective
for such treatment may be determined empirically, and making such determinations is within
the skill in the art. Inhibition includes both reduction and elimination of microbial
growth/activity.
         [0072]       Compositions of this invention may be administered to or contacted with a
human, animal or plant, or article substrate surface by any suitable route, including but not
limited to orally or nasally (e.g., for pharmaceutical or personal care applications), and
topically, as by powders, granules, liquids, sprays, ointments, lotions or creams.
Accordingly, compositions of the invention can comprise the respective component
compounds in admixture with one or more acceptable carriers and, optionally, with one or
more other compounds or other materials. Such a carrier should be "acceptable" in the sense
of being compatible with the other components/ingredients of the formulation and not
deleterious to the desired effect or application.
         [0073]       Regardless of the route of delivery, treatment or administration selected,
the inventive compositions can be formulated to provide acceptable concentrations or dosage
forms by conventional methods known to those of skill in the art. The amount or
concentration of any such composition or component thereof, with or without a carrier, will
vary depending upon the target microbe/substrate/article being treated, the particular mode of
                                                21

   WO 2014/145828                                                              PCT/US2014/030657
administration/delivery and all of the other factors described above. The amount combined
with a carrier material will generally be that amount of such a composition providing the
lowest or a minimal concentration effective to produce a desired antimicrobial effect.
         [0074]      The relative amounts or concentrations of an FFC composition and another
optional component in the compositions of the present invention can vary widely within
effective ranges, as demonstrated in the examples that follow. The concentrations and/or
doses utilized are preferably selected to achieve an enhanced or increased activity over
individual prior art components alone and/or to maximize the activity of the composition at
the lowest effective component concentration(s). Accordingly, the weight ratios and/or
percent concentrations yielding such enhanced activity depend not only on the specific FCC
composition utilized, but on the specific end-use application of the composition including,
but not limited to, climate, soil composition, nature of the substrate, article and/or microbial
host to be treated and/or potential exposure to a particular microbe.
         [0075]      Methods of preparing formulations or compositions include the step of
bringing a composition of this invention, or one or more component compounds, into
association with a carrier and, optionally, one or more accessory ingredients. In general, the
formulations are prepared by bringing such a composition/component into association with a
carrier (e.g., a liquid or finely divided solid carriers) and, if desired, shaping the product.
         [0076]      Formulations relating to the invention, whether a composition of this
invention or any article of manufacture incorporating such a composition, may be in the form
of capsules, cachets, pills, tablets, powders, granules, paste or as a solution or a suspension in
an aqueous or nonaqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as
an elixir or syrup, or as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose
and acacia) and/or as washes (e.g., mists, spray or mouth) and the like, each containing a
predetermined amount of an inventive composition or components thereof.
         [0077]      In other solid such formulations (e.g., capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
powders, granules and the like), a composition of this invention can be mixed with one or
more other active ingredients and/or acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate or dicalcium
phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches, lactose,
sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
carboxymethyl-cellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose and/or acacia;
(3) humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium
carbonate, potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate;
(5) solution retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary
                                                22

   WO 2014/145828                                                             PCT/US2014/030657
ammonium compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol
monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such as talc,
calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and
mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the
compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may
also be employed as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as
lactose or milk sugars, as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.
         [0078]     A tablet may be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or
more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder (for example,
gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose), lubricant, inert diluent, preservative, disintegrant
(for example, sodium starch glycolate or cross-linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose),
surface-active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable
machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient(s) moistened with an inert liquid
diluent.
         [0079]     The tablets, and other solid forms of such compositions or articles
incorporating such compositions, such as dragees, capsules, pills and granules, may
optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells, such as enteric coatings and other
coatings well known in the formulating art. They may also be formulated so as to provide
slow or controlled release of the active ingredient(s) therein using, for example,
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile,
other polymer matrices, liposomes and/or microspheres. These compositions may also
optionally contain opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the active
ingredient(s) only, or preferentially, in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract,
optionally, in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used
include polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient(s) can also be in
microencapsulated form.
         [0080]     Liquid forms for use or administration of this invention include
pharmaceutically- or otherwise-acceptable emulsions, mixtures, microemulsions, solutions
(including those in distilled or purified water), suspensions, mists, syrups and elixirs. In
addition to an inventive composition or compound component(s) thereof, a liquid form may
contain inert or other diluents commonly used in the art, such as, for example, water or other
solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl
carbonate, ethyl acetate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed,
                                               23

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol,
polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof.
         [0081]      Besides inert diluents, such compositions and/or related articles can also
include adjuvants such as but not limited to wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending
agents (e.g., sticker and spreader agents for agricultural application), coloring, perfuming and
one or more other preservative agents. Suspensions can comprise suspending agents as, for
example, ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters,
microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar and tragacanth, and
mixtures thereof.
         [0082]      Formulations of compositions of this invention and/or articles or products
incorporating such inventive compositions for substrate or topical (e.g., in the context of a
personal care or hygiene product) administration/delivery of this invention, include powders,
sprays, ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches and inhalants. Such
ointments, pastes, creams and gels may contain, in addition to an inventive composition of
this invention, excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins, starch,
tragacanth and other gums, cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites,
silicic acid, talc and zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof. Likewise, powders and sprays can
contain excipients such as lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates
and polyamide powder, or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain
customary propellants such as volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as butane and
propane, or be delivered under positive air pressure.
         [0083]      Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be
employed in the compositions of the invention include water, ethanol, polyols (such as
glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof,
vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can
be maintained, for example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin, by the
maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of
surfactants.
         [0084]      Depot forms of articles or products incorporating a composition of this
invention can be made by forming microencapsule matrices of an active ingredient(s) in
biodegradable polymers such as polylactide-polyglycolide. Depending on the ratio of the
active ingredient(s) to polymer, and the nature of the particular polymer employed, the rate of
release of the active ingredient(s) can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable
polymers include poly(orthoesters) and poly(anhydrides). Depot injectable formulations are
                                               24

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
also prepared by entrapping the active ingredient(s) in liposomes or microemulsions which
are compatible with body tissue.
         [0085]     Further, the compositions of the present invention and/or articles or
products incorporating such a composition can comprise additional chemical and/or
biological, multi-site and/or single site antimycotic or antifungal, antibacterial and
antimicrobial agents, of a similar and/or different modes of action, as will be well known to
those skilled in the art. Such agents can include, but are not limited to, potassium
bicarbonate, silica, copper or sulfur-based compounds and/or botanical oils (e.g., neem oil).
Further, such agents can include, but are not limited to azoles; polyenes, such as amphotericin
B and nystatin; purine or pyrimidine nucleotide inhibitors, such as flucytosine; polyoxins,
such as nikkomycins; other chitin inhibitors, elongation factor inhibitors, such as sordarin and
analogs thereof; inhibitors of mitochondrial respiration, inhibitors of sterol biosynthesis
and/or any other fungicidal or biocidal composition known to those skilled in the art suitable
for treating or preventing yeast or fungal, bacterial, viral and/or other microbial infections of
plants, other substrates, animals and/or humans, or as can be found on or in any article of
manufacture.
         [0086]     In certain embodiments, articles or products incorporating the
compositions of the present invention can also include one or more preservative components
known in the art, including but not limited to, sorbic or benzoic acid; the sodium, potassium,
calcium and ammonium salts of benzoic, sorbic, hydroxymethyl glycinic, and propionic acid;
and methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl paraben and combinations thereof.
         [0087]     The compositions of this invention may contain a compound comprising
an acidic or basic functional group and are, thus, capable of forming pharmaceutically- or
otherwise-acceptable salts with pharmaceutically- or otherwise-acceptable acids and bases.
The term "pharmaceutically-acceptable salts" refers to the relatively non-toxic, inorganic and
organic acid and base addition salts of such compounds. Regardless, such salts can be
prepared by reacting such a compound with a suitable acid or base. Suitable bases include
the hydroxide, carbonate or bicarbonate of such an acceptable metal cation, ammonia, or such
an acceptable organic primary, secondary or tertiary amine. Representative alkali or alkaline
earth salts include the lithium, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and aluminum salts
and the like. Representative organic amines useful for the formation of base addition salts
include ethylamine, diethylamine, ethylenediamine, ethanolamine, diethanolamine,
piperazine and the like. Representative acid addition salts include the hydrobromide,
hydrochloride, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, acetate, valerate, oleate, palmitate, stearate, laurate,
                                               25

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
benzoate, lactate, phosphate, tosylate, citrate, maleate, fumarate, succinate, tartrate,
napthalate, mesylate, glucoheptonate, lactobionate, and laurylsulphonate salts and the like.
         [0088]     The compositions of the present invention can be used as aqueous
dispersions or emulsions and are available in the form of a concentrate containing a high
proportion of an FFC (with or without a surfactant) composition, as can be diluted (e.g.,
water or another fluid component) before use. Emulsifiable concentrates or emulsions may
be prepared by dissolving a composition of the present invention, together with any other
desired active ingredient, in a solvent optionally containing a wetting or emulsifying agent
and then adding the mixture to water which may also contain a wetting or emulsifying agent.
Suitable organic solvents include alcohols and glycol ethers. These concentrates should
preferably be able to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage be
capable of dilution with water in order to form aqueous preparations which remain
homogeneous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional spray
equipment.
         [0089]     Depending on the type of end-use application, articles or products
incorporating compositions of the present invention may also comprise any other required
components including, but not limited to, solid or liquid carriers to facilitate application,
surfactants including biosurfactants, protective colloids, adhesives, thickeners, thixotropic
agents, penetrating agents, stabilizers, sequestrants, texturing agents, flavoring agents (e.g.,
for post-harvest or processed food/beverage applications), sugars, colorants, etc., as will be
well known to those skilled in the art.
         [0090]     For example, such compositions and/or related articles or products can be
used for agricultural purposes and formulated with such a carrier or diluent. The
compositions can be applied, formulated or unformulated, directly to the foliage of a plant, to
seeds or to other medium in which plants are growing or are to be planted, or they can be
sprayed on, dusted on or applied as a cream or paste formulation, or they can be applied as a
vapor or as slow release granules. Application can be to, or proximate to, any part of the
plant including the foliage, stems, branches or roots, or to soil surrounding the roots, fruit or
vegetable (pre- or post-harvest) or to the seed before it is planted, or to the soil generally, to
irrigation water or to hydroponic culture systems. The inventive compositions can also be
injected into plants or sprayed onto vegetation (including fruits and vegetables) using low
volume or pressure or electrodynamic spraying techniques, or any other treatment method
known in the art or industry.
                                               26

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
         [0091]     In certain embodiments, whether or not agricultural or related to food
processing, compositions and/or articles or products impregnated with and/or incorporating
compositions of this invention may be in the form of dustable powders or granules
comprising a solid diluent or carrier, for example, fillers (also such as animal or cat litter),
kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, dolomite, calcium carbonate, talc, powdered magnesia, fuller's
earth, gypsum, diatomaceous earth, china clay and other impregnatable materials. Such
granules can be preformed granules suitable for application without further treatment. These
granules can be made either by impregnating pellets of filler with an inventive composition or
another active ingredient or by pelleting a mixture of the active ingredient and powdered
filler. For instance, compositions for dressing seed may include an agent (for example, a
mineral oil) for assisting the adhesion of the composition to the seed; alternatively the active
ingredient can be formulated for seed dressing purposes using an organic solvent. The
compositions may also be in the form of wettable powders or water dispersible granules
comprising wetting or dispersing agents to facilitate the dispersion in liquids. The powders
and granules may also contain fillers and suspending agents. Alternatively, the compositions
may be used in a micro-encapsulated form. They may also be formulated in biodegradable
polymeric formulations to obtain a slow, controlled release of the active substance.
         [0092]     Regardless, such solid formulations comprising such an inventive
composition can be provided in a range of products or articles in varying forms, shapes or
moldings, including but not limited to cylinders, rods, blocks, capsules, tablets, pills, pellets
(e.g., also pet foods), strips, spikes and the like. Alternatively, granulated or powdered
material can be pressed into tablets or used to fill a range of capsules or shells. As discussed
above, any such composition of this invention, whether formulated or unformulated, can be
used alone, applied to a substrate or incorporated in a product or article of manufacture for a
wide range of end-use applications, including but not limited to pharmaceutical, personal,
industrial and agricultural compositions and related methods of use.
         [0093]     Generally, a useful solid carrier component can comprise any material that
is at least somewhat porous and/or can hold an aforementioned antimicrobial composition
without undue swelling. Together with materials of the sort described above and elsewhere
herein, examples of such carrier components include silica gels, zeolites, calcium silicate,
clays, activated charcoal, alumina, allophane, vermiculite, various absorbant and/or slow
release polymers, and combinations thereof, as would be understood in the art by those made
aware of this invention. In certain embodiments, such a carrier component can comprise one
or more clay materials--examples of which are useful in the context of this invention include,
                                                27

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
but are not limited to, attapulgite, montmorillonite, bentonite, hectorite, sericite and kaolin
clays and mixtures thereof. Without limitation, bentonite clays, such as those comprising
colloidal hydrated aluminum silicate containing varying quantities of iron, alkali and/or
alkaline earth metals, have been found especially useful. Bentonite clay materials and related
processed products are commercially available from a number of sources, including
American Colloid Company of Arlington Heights, Illinois, under the trade name Bentonite
AE H, together with other sources identified herein or as would be known to those skilled in
the art.
         [0094]       Depending upon a particular article or end-use application, a volatile
antimicrobial composition can be used neat or in combination with one or more solvents or
diluent components, such as but not limited to water, aqueous alcohol and other solvents
compatible with such an antimicrobial composition and/or an FFC component thereof. As a
further consideration, the release or volatility of such an antimicrobial composition can be
varied or adjusted by the presence of any one such solvent or diluent component.
         [0095]       Production of various articles of this invention generally involves
admixture of an antimicrobial composition of this invention and a suitable solid carrier
component. Admixture can be performed using any technique known in the art. As but one
consideration, mixing technique and duration should be sufficient to disperse an antimicrobial
composition over or throughout a solid carrier component. The order of admixture can vary.
For instance, a solid carrier component can be provided or prepared, first, followed by
addition of an antimicrobial composition. Alternatively, such an antimicrobial composition
and all components used to produce a carrier component can be admixed together. With
regard to the latter, the components can be admixed neat or with a solvent (e.g., water and/or
an alcohol), dispersant or one or more other adjuvants. With respect to one formulation
technique, the components used to produce a solid carrier and the antimicrobial composition
can be admixed, with the latter, optionally, as an aqueous solution. In yet another
embodiment, a powder form of a suitable carrier component can be admixed with an
antimicrobial composition and a suitable binder component to provide an agglomeration of
particles or granules of suitable dimension. Regardless of carrier identity, formulation
technique or granule size, an antimicrobial composition can be present at about 1.0 - about
3.0 wt.% of such an article and associated carrier component.
         [0096]       An article of this invention can be arranged and presented in conjunction
with a package or enclosure for release or volatilization of an antimicrobial composition. A
tote, lid, insert, covered tray or cup, carton, vial and other such enclosures known in the art
                                                 28

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
can be used, providing sufficient article retention and antimicrobial release/vaporization
therefrom. Examples of useful gas/vapor permeable enclosures include those configured in
the shape of a flexible bag, pack or pouch of a mesh or non woven fabric composed of a gas
permeable material.
         [0097]      The articles described herein are useful in affecting microbial activity,
including inhibition of microbial growth, on and/or near a food item, thereby extending the
shelf life of the food item. Toward that end, such an article - whether alone, without an
enclosure or optionally presented in conjunction with a flexible bag or pouch - can be
positioned with respect to or dropped in a container for shipping, storage or display of a
desired food item (e.g., without limitation, fruits, vegetables and other agricultural produce),
such container selected or designed depending on a particular food item. Article placement
within such a container can be at any one or more points along a corresponding food supply
and distribution chain.
Examples of the Invention.
         [0098]      The following non-limiting examples and data illustrate various aspects
and features relating to the compositions and/or methods of the present invention, including
the preparation and use of antimicrobial compositions comprising various component
compounds, as are described herein. In comparison with the prior art, the present
compositions and methods provide results and data which are surprising, unexpected and
contrary thereto. While the utility of this invention is illustrated through the use of several
compositions and component compounds which can be used therewith, it will be understood
by those skilled in the art that comparable results are obtainable with various other
compositions and component compounds, as are commensurate with the scope of this
invention.
                                            Example la
         [0099]      Fungal Isolation. Several small stems of Ananas ananassoideswere taken
from a plant growing in the Bolivian Amazon in March of 2007. They were collected in a
savanna region adjoining the rainforest at 12040'07" S and 68041'58" W and were
immediately transported for analysis. Several small (2-5 inch) pieces from the stems were
cut and placed into 70% ethanol for 30 seconds under a laminar flow hood. A pair of sterile
tweezers was used to hold the stems separately in the flame to remove excess alcohol. Then
small pieces of inner tissue (beneath the bark) were excised and placed onto potato dextrose
agar (PDA) with an actively growing M. albus isolate 620 on one side of the plate having a
center well removed from it. Effectively, this technique can be used to select for other
                                              29

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
isolates of Muscodor (Worapong et al., 200 1a&b). During an incubation period of two
weeks, the Petri plates were examined periodically for any fungal growth. Once hyphae were
observed, the hyphal tips were aseptically cut out of the agar and placed on fresh PDA. The
isolate was found in this manner. Several Petri plates (PDA) were used to determine if the
fungus produced volatile antibiotics. This procedure included removing a 1-inch section of
the agar from the middle of the plate, plating a plug of the isolate on one side and allowing it
to grow for several days, and then plating test organisms on the other side of the gap.
                                           Example lb
         [0100]     Fungal Taxonomy. Fungus in nature is associated with A. ananassoides
and is a deuteromycete belonging to mycelia sterilia. Fungalcolonies whitish on all media
tested when left out of direct sunlight. Fungalcolonies pinkish on all media tested when put
into direct sunlight. Spores or other fruiting bodies were not observed under any conditions.
Hyphae (0.6-2.7 gm) commonly growing by branching, sometimes forming perfect coils
(ca. 40 gm) and having cauliflower like bodies (3.5-14 gm) associated with them. Hyphae,
newly developing, grow in an undulating pattern when observed under all conditions with all
of the media tested. Mycelium on PDA covers the plate in 3-4 weeks and produces a fruity
odor.
         [0101]     Holotype: Endophytic on A. ananassoides. Collections were made in the
Bolivian Amazon in the Heath River area. The holotype comes from only one A. annisoides
stem, collected in the Heath River country. A living culture is deposited as Muscodor
crispans in the living Montana State University mycological collection as acquisition number
2347 (2/29/2008). Both 18S rDNA and ITS sequences of M. crispans (B-23) have been
submitted to GenBank with the assigned serial number-EU195297.
         [0102]     Telomorph: The telomorph of this fungus may be found in Xylariaceae,
based on the similarity of the 18S rDNA gene sequence data between M. crispans and the
family Xylariaceae in the GenBank database (Bruns et al., 1991; Reynolds and Taylor 1993;
Mitchell et al., 1995; Guarro et al., 1999; Taylor et al., 1999). The molecular data from the
18S rDNA gene sequences of M. crispans show a 100% homology with M. albus isolate 620.
                                              30

    WO 2014/145828                                                        PCT/US2014/030657
         [0103]     Etymology: The genus name, Muscodor, is taken from the Latin word
which means musty. This is consistent with the quality of the odor produced by the first three
isolates of the genus. The species name is crispans, from the Latin meaning "curly, wavy."
The hyphae grow in regular undulating patterns.
                                          Example 2a
         [0104]     Scanning Electron Microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy was
performed on the isolate of example 1 after procedures described by Castillo et al. (2005).
Agar pieces and host plant pieces supporting fungal growth were placed in filter paper
packets then placed in 2% gluteraldehyde in 0.1 M sodium cacodylate buffer (pH 7.2 - 7.4)
with Triton X 100, a wetting agent, aspirated for 5 minutes and left overnight. The next day
the pieces were washed six x 15-minute changes in water buffer 1:1, followed by a 15-minute
change in 10% ethanol, a 15-minute change in 30% ethanol, a 15-minute change in 50%
ethanol, five x 15-minute changes in 70% ethanol, and were then left overnight or longer in
70% ethanol. They were then rinsed six times for 15 minutes in 95% and then three 15
minute changes in 100% ethanol, followed by three 15-minute changes in acetone. The
microbial material was critically point dried, gold sputtercoated, and images were recorded
with an XL30 ESEM FEG in the high vacuum mode using the Everhart-Thornley detector.
Hyphae were measured using Image J software available on-line.
                                          Example 2b
         [0105]     Fungal Biology. The fungus produced a white mycelium on a water based
medium. No fruiting structures or spores of any kind have been found under any lab
conditions. Hyphae tend to intertwine to form coils. Other species of Muscodor also have
this tendency (Worapong et al., 200 1a). Newly developing hyphae tend to grow in an
undulating fashion rather than the typical straight pattern and commonly intertwine to make
rope like structures. This pattern of growth may prove useful as a diagnostic tool in
identifying this organism in in-vivo inoculation studies. The fungus also produces
cauliflower-like structures that seem to be connected to the hyphae by small strands. These
bodies do not germinate under any conditions and thus appear not to be spores. This
observation seems to be unique for Muscodor spp. and has not been noted as being present in
any other fungal species in general.
                                          Example 3a
         [0106]     Fungal Growth and Storage. It was determined that the isolate did not
produce spores or any other fruiting bodies when several pieces of carnation leaves were
placed on top of an actively growing isolate to encourage spore production, and no such
                                             31

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
structures were observed after a week of incubation at 230 C. The fungus was also plated on
several different media including Cellulose Agar (CA), Malt Agar (MA), and Corn Meal
Agar (CMA) to determine if spore production would be displayed. With the exception of a
slower growth rate on some of the media, no other characteristics of the fungus appeared to
be different, and no fruiting bodies or spores were observed.
         [0107]      Several methods were used to store the isolated fungus as a pure culture,
one of which was the filter paper technique. The fungus was also allowed to grow on PDA,
and then it was cut into small squares which were placed into vials containing 15% glycerol
and stored at -70' C. The fungus was also stored at 4' C by a similar method, using distilled
water rather than glycerol. However, the most effective method of storage was on infested
sterile barley seed at -70' C.
                                            Example 3b
         [0108]      Other, more classical features of the isolated M. crispanswere also
examined and compared to M. albus. Muscodor crispans produced a slow growing, dense,
white colored mycelium on all media tested, unless it was placed in direct sunlight, which
caused the mycelium to develop a light pink color. This contrasts to M. albus that produces a
whitish mycelium on all comparable media and conditions tested (Worapong et al., 200 1a).
The young hyphae also grew in an undulating fashion, rather than the characteristic straight
cable-like fashion as commonly observed with M. albus (Strobel et al., 2001). No spores
formed on any medium including ones containing the host plant material or carnation leaves.
Hyphae varied in diameter (0.8-3.6 im) and were often intertwined to make more complex
structures and even hyphal coils (Figs. 1-3). These hyphae were generally bigger than those
of M. albus (Worapong et al., 200 1a).
                                             Example 4
         [0109]      Qualitative Analysis of Volatiles. The method used to analyze the gases in
the air space above a 10-day old culture of the mycelium growing in Petri plates was
comparable to that used on the original isolate of the M. albus strain cz-620 (Strobel et al.,
2001). First, a baked "Solid Phase Micro Extraction" syringe (Supelco) consisting of 50/30
divinylbenzene/carburen on polydimethylsiloxane on a stable flex fiber was placed through a
small hole drilled in the side of the Petri plate sporting the fungal growth. The fiber was
exposed to the vapor phase of the fungus for 45 min. The syringe was then inserted into the
splitless injection port of a Hewlett Packard 6890 gas chromatograph containing a 30 m x
0.25 mm I.D. ZB Wax capillary column with a film thickness of 0.50 mm. The column was
                                               32

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
temperature programmed as follows: 300 C for 2 min followed to 2200 C at 5' C/min. The
carrier gas was ultra high purity Helium (local distributor), and the initial column head
pressure was 50 kPa. Prior to trapping the volatiles, the fiber was conditioned at 240' C for
20 minutes under a flow of helium gas. A 30 second injection time was used to introduce the
sample fiber into the GC. The gas chromatograph was interfaced to a Hewlett Packard 5973
mass selective detector (mass spectrometer) operating at unit resolution. Data acquisition and
data processing were performed on the Hewlett Packard ChemStation software system.
Initial identification of compounds in the volatile mixture produced by the fungus was made
through library comparison using the NIST database.
                                           Example 5a
         [0110]      Fungal DNA Isolation and Acquiring ITS-5.8S rDNA Sequence
Information. A 10 day old culture of the present fungus, growing on PDA, was used as a
source of DNA after incubation at 250 C using the Rapid Homogenization: Plant leaf DNA
Amplification Kit (Cartagen; Washington, USA). Some of the techniques used were
comparable to those used to genetically characterize other M. albus isolates from Australia
(Ezra et al., 2004). Squares of the cultured mycelia (0.5 cm 2 ) were cut from one week old
cultures. The agar was scraped from the bottom of the pieces, in order to exclude as much
agar as possible. The pieces were placed into 1.5 ml Eppendorf vials and incubated for about
10 minutes at -800 C. The DNA was then extracted according to the instructions of the kit
manufacturer. Extracted DNA was diluted (1:9) in double-distilled, sterile water and 1 gl
samples were used for PCR amplification. The ITS 1, 5.8S ITS2 rDNA sequence was
amplified by the polymerase chain reaction using the primers ITS 1
(TCCGTAGGTGAACCTGCGGG) and ITS4 (TCCTCCGCTTATTGATATGC). The PCR
procedure was carried out in a 14 gl reaction mix containing 1 gl DNA extracted from the
fungal culture (1:9 dilution), 0.5 gl primer ITS1 and 0.5 gl primer ITS4, 7 pl RedMixTM
plus PCR mix with 1.5 mM MgCl 2 (GeneChoice, Inc., Maryland, USA) and 5 gl ddH2 0 PCR
grade (Fisher Scientific, Wembley, Western Australia, Australia). The PCR amplification
was performed in a Biometra personal cycler (Goettingen, Germany): 960 C for 5 minutes
followed by 35 cycles of 950 C for 45 seconds, 500 C for 45 seconds and 720 C for 45 seconds,
followed by a 720 C cycle for 5 minutes. The PCR products were examined using gel
electrophoresis, on a 1.3% agarose gel for 30 minutes at 1OV with TAE buffer (GelXLUltra
V-2 from Labnet International, Inc., (Woodbridge, NJ, USA) or Wealtec GES cell system,
from (Wealtec Inc., Georgia, USA). Gels were soaked in a 0.5 ptg ml-1 ethidium bromide
                                              33

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
solution for 5 minutes and then washed in distilled water for 5 minutes. Gel imaging was
performed under UV light in a Bio-Imaging System (model 202D; DNR-Imaging Systems,
Kiryat Anavim, Israel). A ~500 bp PCR product was purified using the UltraClean PCR
Clean Up DNA Purification Kit (MO BIO Laboratories, Inc., California, USA). Purified
products were sent for direct PCR sequencing. Sequencing was performed on both strands of
the PCR product using ITSI and ITS4 primers. Sequencing was performed using DYEnamic
ET terminators on a MegaBACETM 1000 analysis system (Danyel Biotech Ltd., Rehovot,
Israel). Sequences were submitted to the GenBank on the NCBI web site. Sequences
obtained in this study were compared to the GenBank database using the BLAST software on
the NCBI web site.
                                           Example 5b
         [0111]     Molecular Biology of Muscodor crispans. The partial sequences of 18S
rDNA, ITS 1, 5.8S, and ITS2 have been demonstrated to be highly conserved regions of DNA
and therefore very useful in the classification of organisms (Mitchell et al., 1995). These
molecularly distinguishing partial sequences of M. crispanswere obtained and compared
with the data in GenBank. After searching the 18S rDNA sequences, 525bp of M. crispans
were subjected to an advanced BLAST search. The results showed 100% identity with
525 bp of M. albus (AF324337). Comparative analysis of the partial ITS 1&2 and
5.8S rDNA sequences of M. crispans hit ITS 1 and 2 of M. albus (AF324336), M. roseus
(AY034664), X enteroleuca CBS 651.89 (AF163033), X arbusculaCBS 452.63
(AF163029), and Hypoxylonfragiform (HFR246218) at 95, 95, 90, 90, and 91% homologies,
respectively.
                                           Example 5c
         [0112]     While this invention is, in part, described in conjunction with isolated
novel fungi, it will be understood that variants and mutants of such fungi - as would be
understood in the art - are also contemplated in the context of the present invention. The
terms "variant" and "mutant" can be defined as provided in U.S. Patent No. 6,911,338, the
entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. Accordingly, this invention can be
directed to variant or mutant strains of M. crispans and corresponding compositions thereof.
                                           Example 6a
         [0113]     Bioassay tests for M. crispans against plant pathogens. The vapor of the
volatile by-product of M. crispans was tested for microbial inhibitory activity using a
relatively simple test, as previously described in the literature (Strobel, et al., 2001). A strip
                                              34

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
of agar (2 cm wide) in a standard PDA Petri dish was removed and M. crispanswas
inoculated and allowed to grow on one side of the plate for about a week. The test fungus or
bacterium was then inoculated on the other side of the Petri dish, using small plugs of agar
for the fungi. The bacteria and yeasts were streaked onto the agar (1.5 cm long). The plate
was then wrapped with one piece of Parafilm and incubated at 23'C for 48 hr. The effect of
M. crispans on the growth of the test organisms and determined first by verifying the
presence or absence of growth where the inoculations had taken place. If growth was
observed, measurements of the diameter in two locations of the fungal hyphae were taken.
The biological activity of the vapor on bacteria and yeasts were assessed by estimating the
degree to which their growth was affected as percentage of growth on a control plate (Strobel
et al., 2001). If no growth was observed, the test organism was aseptically removed from the
test plate and inoculated onto a fresh PDA plate at some time point after exposure to the
vapor in order to ascertain viability of the test organism.
         [0114]     Utilizing the preceding methodology, when M. crispans was grown for
7-10 days at 23 'C on PDA, the volatile by-product of the fungus proved to be lethal to
several fungi and bacteria. Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, as well as yeasts and
each of the major classes of fungi, were utilized as test organisms. Most of the test organisms
were 100% inhibited and died after a 2 day exposure to the by-product of M. crispans. (See
Table 8.) Some of the test organisms did not succumb to the volatiles of M. crispans after a
two day exposure, but their growth was significantly inhibited by the volatile by-product, and
they were killed after a four day exposure. Such organisms include Penicilliumroquefortii,
Bipolaris sorokiniana,Stagonospora sp., and Fusariumoxysporum, among others.
Table 8. Effects of the M. crispans volatile by-product on many fungal pathogens of plants
and some assorted bacteria. The inhibition values were calculated as % of growth inhibition
as compared to an untreated control test organism. The tests were repeated at least 3 times
with comparable results. Inhibition of the test organisms was recorded 48 hours after
exposure to the fungus and vapor of the volatile fungal by-product.
                                                Inhibition
                                               (%) after 48      Alive after      Alive after
                                                   hours          48 hours         96 hours
              Test organism                      exposure         exposure         exposure
Alternariahelianthi                                 100               N                N
Aspergillusfumigatus                                100               Y                N
Bacillus subtilis*                                  100               N                N
                                               35

   WO 2014/145828                                  PCT/US2014/030657
                            Inhibition
                           (%) after 48 Alive after      Alive after
                              hours      48 hours         96 hours
             Test organism   exposure   exposure          exposure
Bipolaris sorokiniana           100         Y                 N
Botrytis cinerea                100         N                 N
Candida albicans*               100         N                 N
Cephalosporiumgramineum         100         N                 N
Ceratocystisu/mi                100         Y                 N
Cochioloboluscarbonum           100         N                 N
Colletotrichum lagenarium       100         N                 N
Curvularialunata                100         Y                 N
Drechslerateres                 100         N                 N
Drechsleratritici-repentis      100         N                 N
Dreschleraportulacae            100         N                 N
Escherichiacoli*                100         N                 N
Fusariumavenaceum               100         N                 N
Fusariumculmorum                100         N                 N
Fusariumoxysporum               100         Y                 N
Fusariumsolani                  50          Y                 Y
Ganoderma sp.                   100         Y                 N
Geotrichum candidum             100         Y                 N
Mycosphaerellafijiensis         100         N                 N
Penicillium roquefortii         100         Y                 N
Phytophthoracinnamomi           100         N                 N
Phytophthorapalmivora           100         N                 N
Pythium ultimum                 100         N                 N
Rhizoctonia solani              100         N                 N
                           36

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
                                              Inhibition
                                             (%) after 48        Alive after        Alive after
                                                 hours            48 hours           96 hours
              Test organism                    exposure           exposure           exposure
Saccharomyces cerevisiae*                        90-95                N                  N
Sclerotinia sclerotiorum                           100                N                  N
Stagonosporasp.                                    100                Y                  N
Tapesia yallundae                                  100                N                  N
Trichoderma viridae                                 10                Y                  Y
Verticillium dahliae                               100                Y                  N
Xanthomonas axonipodis p.v. citri*                 100                N                  N
        *Denotes that these organisms were streaked onto the test plate, and an indication of
growth was made if colony development eventually occurred. After appropriate exposure to
the volatile by-product of M. crispans,the streaked area was compared to the growth on the
control plate and estimated for the % inhibition. Eventually each organism was restreaked on
to a PDA plate to test for viability.
                                          Example 6b
        [0115]      With reference to Table 8, the effect of the vapor of the volatile by-product
of M. crispans on Botrytis is quite noticeable--especially on B. cinerea, the cause of gray
mold of various plants. The inhibitory and killing effects are also applicable to Botrytis ali
which causes gray mold neck rot of onion. Without limitation, such results suggest the
present invention can be used effectively to modify the produce surface or storage
atmosphere post-harvest to prevent mold and related issues. Likewise, such results support
use of an FFC composition of this invention to treat onion (e.g., Vidalia onions), shallot and
garlic produce to prevent or control fungal growth.
                                          Example 6c
        [0116]      Vapor from the volatiles of M. crispans are also effective against many of
the fungi causing decay and fungal growth on grain (e.g., corn, wheat, barley, rice, etc.), and
this invention can be used in conjunction with various fruits and vegetables such as potatoes,
beets, carrots sweet potatoes--such grains, fruits or vegetables, whether before or after
harvest, in storage or shipment. Accordingly, the compositions and methods of this invention
can be applied to some of the major fungi-related issues in the agriculture and food
processing fields, and can be used to target organisms such as but not limited to Alternaria,
                                             37

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
Cladosporium,Aspergillus, Penicillium, Diplodia,Fusariumand Gibberella. (See, e.g.,
Table 8.)
                                            Example 6d
         [0117]      Vapor from the by-product of M. crispanswas effective against the
Mycosphaerellafijiensisfungus. (See, Table 8.) Accordingly, the invention can be used as
treatment for the fungus-associated Black Sigatoka disease of bananas and plantains.
                                            Example 6e
         [0118]      Citrus canker disease threatens the very existence of the United States
citrus industry. As shown in Table 8, vapor from the by-product of M. crispans effectively
kills the canker-causing pathogen Xanthomonas axonipodis p.v. citri. Such results suggest
that FFC compositions and related methods of the present invention can be used effectively to
treat seeds, seedlings, orchards, equipment or apparatus (including, e.g., worker equipment
and clothing) and/or harvested fruit to prevent, inhibit or control canker disease.
                                             Example 7
         [0119]      As a follow up to the tests and results of Example 6, bioassay tests with the
vapor of the volatile by-product of M. crispans were run against various other plant and
human pathogenic fungi and bacteria. (See, Table 9, below). The fungus was grown on
X-plates with PDA in one quadrant and incubated for 3-5 days at room temperature prior to
inoculation with one or more test organisms. Control plates were made at the same time of
inoculation and grown on the same medium that was optimal for the individual test organism.
The test organisms, Staphylococcus aureus 6538, Salmonella cholerasuis 10708, Escherichia
coli 11229, S. aureus ATCC 43300 (MRSA), and Vibrio cholerae ATCC 14035, were grown
on Trypticase Soy Agar (TSA) in the three remaining quadrants of the X plate. Three plates
of each organism, with appropriate controls, were exposed to the vapor of the by-product of
the fungus for approximately two, four and six days at room temperature. In order to check
for the viability of the test microbe, the fungus was then physically removed, and the control
and test plates were placed in an incubator at 351'C for a minimum of three to four days,
with the exception of the Mycobacterium spp. which were incubated for approximately one
additional month. This was done in order to ascertain if the vapor of the by-product had
inhibited or killed the test organism, and viability of the organism was assessed. This same
protocol was followed for the Yersinia pestis and Bacillus anthracis, except that the exposure
times were changed to 3 and 5 days, and Y pestis was incubated at 281'C and in 5% CO 2
after exposure to the fungus. The Mycobacterium marinum ATCC 927 was grown on 7H 11
                                               38

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
agar (Difco Co) in the remaining three quadrants, using the previously stated protocol, and
incubated at 331'C. All three replicates in the tests with each organism behaved identically.
          [0120]     For all Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains, also grown on 7H 11, a section
of agar was removed from the plate and the B-23 fungus (on PDA) was inserted. The plates
were then inoculated from a broth culture. Control plates, where no fungus was present, were
also inoculated. At each appointed time interval, a section of agar was removed from the
plates and transferred to a separate and empty plate and placed in an incubator at 3510 C in
order to determine the viability of the microbe. The plates were placed in a plastic bag with
moistened paper towels to prevent desiccation.
          [0121]     Pseudomonas aeruginosa 15442 and Burkholderiathailandensis 70038
were both grown on TSA agar. They were left at room temperature for the optimal growth
time for the organism and then moved to an incubator at 351'C and observed. It is to be
noted that all tests using human pathogens were conducted under strict and federally
approved biosafety conditions. All tests on human pathogens were repeated at least twice.
Table 9. Effects of the volatile by-product of M. crispans on various Gram + and Gram
bacterial species. The exposure times were varied according to the particular organism of
interest, and the viability of the test organism was determined after that period (listed as
growth or no growth).
                                                             Growth/ No
                                                             Growth (in
                                Typeof                       the presence
Organism                        Cell Wall   Exposure Time    of M. crispans)  Comments
S. aureus 6538                  Gram +      2, 4 and 6 days  No growth
S. cholerasuis 10708            Gram -      2, 4 and 6 days  No growth
P. aeruginosa 15442             Gram -      2 days           Growth           No visible difference
                                                                              between exposed and
                                                                              control plates.
M. marinum ATCC 927             Acid-fast   2, 4 and 6 days  No growth
B. thailandensis70038           Gram -      2 days           Growth           No visible difference
                                                                              between exposed and
                                                                              control plates.
S. aureus ATCC 43300            Gram +      2, 4 and 6 days  Growth           No actual colonies
(MRSA)                                                                        formed, just a slightly
                                                                              filmy growth.
E. coli 11229                   Gram -      2, 4 and 6 days  Growth           No visible difference
                                                                              between exposed and
                                                                              control plates.
V choleraeATCC 14035            Gram -      2, 4 and 6 days  Growth           Growth at 4 and 6 day
                                                                              exposures appears to
                                                                              be slightly inhibited in
                                                                              comparison to control
                                                                              plates.
Y pestis 91-3365                Gram -      3 and 5 days     No growth
                                                39

    WO 2014/145828                                                             PCT/US2014/030657
                                                               Growth/ No
                                                               Growth (in
                                Typeof                         the presence
Organism                        Cell Wall  Exposure Time       of M. crispans)  Comments
B. anthracisA2084               Gram +     3 and 5 days        Growth           Only a few colonies
                                                                                left after exposure and
                                                                                when incubated, more
                                                                                grew.
M. tuberculosis 3081 (resistant Acid-fast  2, 4, 7 and 14 days No growth
to isoniazid)
M. tuberculosis                 Acid-fast  2, 4, 7 and 14 days No growth
50001106 (resistant to
streptomycin)
M. tuberculosis                 Acid-fast  2, 4, 7 and 14 days No growth
59501228 (resistant to
streptomycin/ethambutol)
M. tuberculosis                 Acid-fast  2, 4, 7 and 14 days No growth
59501867 (susceptible)
          [0122]      As shown in Table 9, all four acid-fast bacteria (Mycobacterium
tuberculosis strains) were killed after 2, 4, 7, and 14 day exposure to actively growing
M. crispans (6-10 day old culture). Other bacteria which were killed after at least 2 days of
exposure to M. crispanswere: Staphylococcus aureus 6538, Mycobacterium marinum,
Yersinia pestis, and Salmonella choleraesuis. Relatively somewhat or completely unaffected
by exposure to M. crispanswere the following: Pseudomonas aeruginosa,Burkholderia
thailandensis,Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Escherichiacoli, Vibrio cholera, and
Bacillus anthracis. However, the growth of S. aureus (MRSA) was only a slimy film rather
than any distinct colonies and thus it was affected by the VOCs of M. crispans. In addition,
the B. anthracisplate had only a few colonies left on the exposure plate, but more colonies
grew after removal of M. crispans and subsequent incubation. Therefore, it is suspected that
M. crispans vapor of the by-product is only effective against the vegetative cells of B.
anthracis,but not against the spores. One month after the last observation time (14 days), no
growth was observed on any of the plates exposed to the fungus, and growth was observed on
all of the control plates.
          [0123]      The experiments of the following examples illustrate various embodiments
of the inventive compositions and the utility thereof. One representative composition,
without limitation as to component amount, concentration or ratio, is provided in Table 10.
In certain embodiments, an amount of isobutryic acid can be replaced with propanoic acid at
or about the same level. In certain such or other embodiments, ethanol can be replaced with
acetic acid and/or 2-butanone can be replaced with either acetic acid or propanoic acid. Also,
various esters can be replaced with isomers or homologs (e.g., without limitation, a
                                                40

    WO 2014/145828                                                                      PCT/US2014/030657
3-methylbutyl ester, of propanoic acid, for a 2-methylbutyl ester thereof) of the esters listed.
The results observed in the following examples were obtained with a composition of the
compounds listed in Table 10. Consistent therewith, various other compositions can be used
with comparable effect.
Table 10. A composition of food and flavor compounds useful in the control of harmful
microorganisms.
            Compound* in a Series of FFCs
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
2-Butanone
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Ethanol
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
1-Butanol, 3-methyl
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
*Each of these compounds occurs as a liquid at room temperature and can be used one with another to provide a
liquid composition that readily volatilizes at room temperatures or temperatures and pressures that otherwise
permit volatilization.
An FFC Composition Used for Plant Disease Control.
                                                   Example 8a
         [0124]        The relative ability of the FFCs to inhibit and kill test organisms was
measured. Test solutions were prepared by placing compounds in vials. The test mixture
(20 microliters) was placed in a presterilized microcup (4x6 mm) located in the center of a
Petri plate containing PDA. When not in use, the mixture was stored at 0' C. The test
organisms (as mentioned in Table 9), freshly growing and excised on 3 mm 3 agar blocks (at
least 3 agar blocks per test fungus), were placed 2-3 cm from the microcup and the plate
wrapped with two layers of parafilm. Measurements were made on mycelial growth from the
edge of the agar blocks after a given time period. However, in the case of Geotrichum
candidum they were streaked and checked for new visible growth and viability by restreaking
from the original area of the agar plate that had been inoculated. Appropriate controls were
also set up in which no test solution was placed into the microcup. Tests on 20 1il                 of the FFC
mixture were done at least twice with comparable results.
                                                      41

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
                                            Example 8b
         [0125]     Viability of the test microbes was made by aseptically removing the small
agar block and placing it on a PDA plate and observing growth after 1-3 days, or by
re-streaking the Geotrichum candidum on a fresh PDA plate. In this manner the viability of
the microbes could be assessed. The results shown in Table 11 a indicate that the organisms
listed below are all inhibited by the particular FFC composition and in most cases killed by
the exposure to them. These include Aspergillus niger, Penicillium sp. on cheese,
Cercosporabeticola, Verticillum dahaliae,Pythium ultimum, Phytophthorapalmivora,
Mycophaeraellafijiensis,Rhizoctonia solani, Aspergillusfumigatus, Geotrichum candidum,
Trichoderma viridi, Ganodermasp., Curvulariasp., and Botrytis alli. Thus, when properly
applied, an FFC composition has an ability to control these pathogenic microbes. Such
results indicate many other pathogenic microbes can be either inhibited or killed by this
mixture.
Table 1 la. A brief list of various plant pathogenic microbes and their sensitivities to a
representative FFC composition of this invention, with an exposure to 20 microliters of the
mixture for 2 days at 230 C on potato dextrose agar (PDA) in a parafilm sealed Petri plate.
The agar plugs with the test microbe were eventually tested for viability after removal and
placement on a regular Petri plate of PDA.
       Test Organism                Effect on Growth            Alive or Dead after 48 hr
Aspergillus niger                No growth                                 Dead
Penicillium sp. on cheese        95% inhibition                            Alive
Cercosporabeticola               No growth                                 Dead
Verticillum dahaliae             No growth                                 Dead
Pythium ultimum                  No growth                                 Dead
Phytophthorapalmivora            No growth                                 Dead
Mycophaeraellafijiensis          No growth                                 Dead
Rhizoctonia solani               No growth                                 Dead
Aspergillusfumigatus             No growth                                 Dead
Geotrichum candidum              No inhibition                             Alive
Trichoderma viridi               60% inhibition                            Alive
Ganoderma sp                     No growth                                 Dead
Curvulariasp                     No growth                                 Alive
Botrytis alli                    No growth                                 Dead
                                            Example 8c
         [0126]     With reference to the data of Table 1 la, the activity profile of the FFC
composition utilized indicates, in several instances, different and/or enhanced antimicrobial
effect, as compared to M. crispans and vapors of the volatile by-product thereof.
                                              42

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
                                             Example 8d
        [0127]      With reference to the preceding example and using comparable techniques
and procedures, the same pathogens were treated with propanoic acid vapors. Comparative
results are shown in Table 1 Ib, below, with the data of Table 11 a reproduced in columns A
and B, and observed effects of propanoic acid, alone, provided in column C (% inhibition).
At 20 gl, the amount of propanoic acid is comparable to a level of propanoic acid in certain
embodiments of this invention. Propanoic acid is representative of various lone compounds
of the prior art known to have certain antimicrobial effect. However, as demonstrated by
comparative data of Table 11 b, the present compositions provide new and synergistic results
over and beyond that expected independently from a lone prior art component outside the
context of this invention. As shown therein, while the prior art is at best merely inhibitory,
the inventive compositions eliminate (i.e., kill) many pathogens tested. Similar results are
obtainable by comparison with other such lone prior art compounds/compositions.
Table 1 lb. Comparative results showing improved antimicrobial activity over propanoic
acid.
        Test Organism            Effect on Growth        Alive or   Propanoic
                                         (A)            Dead after  Acid alone at 20pl
                                                          48 hr     After 24 hr
                                                            (B)(C)
Aspergillus niger               No growth                 Dead      0%       Alive
Penicillium sp. on cheese       95% inhibition            Alive
Cercosporabeticola              No growth                 Dead      75%      Alive
Verticillum dahaliae            No growth                 Dead
Pythium ultimum                 No growth                 Dead      80%      Alive
Phytophthorapalmivora           No growth                 Dead      100%      ND*
Mycophaeraellafijiensis         No growth                 Dead
Rhizoctonia solani              No growth                 Dead      80%      Alive
Aspergillus fumigatus           No growth                 Dead      0%       Alive
Geotrichum candidum             No inhibition             Alive     0%       Alive
Trichoderma viridi              60% inhibition            Alive
Ganoderma sp                    No growth                 Dead
Curvulariasp                    No growth                 Alive
Botrytis alli                   No growth                 Dead      0%      Alive
* 100% inhibition, but viability not determined (ND).
Use of FFC Compositions for Treating Tuberculosis and Other Human Pathogens
                                             Example 9a
        [0128]      Four clinical drug resistant strains of M. tuberculosis isolates (5901867,
50001106, 59501228 and 3081) were exposed to an FFC composition. For each isolate,
10 piL of the culture was placed in the middle of a 7H 11 agar plate and then evenly spread
                                               43

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
across the whole surface of the plate with a sterile plastic loop. Lids from 0.65 ml
microcentrifuge tubes (micro caps) were cut off and autoclaved at 1210 C for 15 minutes
inside an autoclavable tube with a screw-cap lid. Sterile forceps were used to remove a micro
cap which was placed in the center of the inoculated plate. The control plates (one for each
isolate) did not receive a micro cap. Three plates for each isolate were made and 5, 10, or
20 [tL of the FFCs were placed in each of the three micro caps of the respective plates. The
plates were then placed into a zip-lock sealed plastic bag with a damp paper towel and
incubated at 360 C 10 C for approximately 28 days. After approximately 48 hours of
exposure, the micro cap was removed and disposed of and the plates were returned to the
incubator. The paper towels were frequently checked and re-moistened to prevent
dehydration of the media. All of the control plates had growth. All of the plates that were
exposed to 5 and 10 ptL of volatiles had growth. Only one isolate (50001106) exposed to
20 [tL of volatiles had growth. It is to be noted that each isolate of M. tuberculosis is a
clinical drug resistant strain of this organism. All experiments were carried out in US
Government Approved Biosafety Laboratory Conditions.
         [0129]     The control plates and the plates exposed to 5 and 10 piL of volatiles were
plated on 4/14/08. The plates exposed to 20 ptL of volatiles were plated on 4/22/08. All
plates were checked multiple times. The final check was performed on 5/19/08 and those
organisms that did not survive are indicated on Table 12 as
Table 12. Inhibitory Effects of the FFCs in the growth of drug resistant M. tuberculosis
    Isolate of M.
     tuberculosis                 5 pL                    10 pL                   20 pL
       5901867                      +                        +                      -
      50001106                      +                        +                      +
      59501228                      +                        +                      -
         3081                       +                        +                      -
         [0130]     The actual effects of an FFC composition of this invention on another
strain of TB are shown in Figure 1: The killing effect of the FFCs on a strain (110107) of M.
tuberculosis. The plate on the left is a control plate that had not been treated with
20 microliters of the FFCs for 48 hours, while the plate on the right was treated for 48 hours.
Both plates were then incubated for 28 days at 36' C. It is obvious from these experiments
that the FFCs were able to kill   34 of the drug resistant isolates of M. tuberculosis. The
prospect now exists for animal and eventually human trials using such FFC compositions in
the treatment of tuberculosis.
                                               44

    WO 2014/145828                                                             PCT/US2014/030657
                                             Example 9b
         [0131]      Consistent with the data of the preceding example, broader aspects of this
invention can be demonstrated. Viable cultures and suitable media are prepared using
materials and techniques well-known to those skilled in the art. For instance, exposure to an
FFC composition of this invention (e.g., by direct contact of a liquid composition or by
vapors therefrom) can result in growth inhibition or death of the following coliform bacteria
(gram stain and morphology): Escherichiacoli (gram negative, rod), Salmonella enteritidis
(gram negative, rod), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (gram negative, rod), Staphylococcus aureus
(gram positive, cocci) and Listeria monocytogenes (gram positive, rod).
         [0132]      Likewise, such results can also be obtained and demonstrated with various
other gram-negative and/or gram-positive bacteria such as but not limited to Bacillus cereus
(gram positive, rod) and Clostridium botulinum (gram positive, rod).
                                             Example 10
         [0133]      The IC 50 was calculated for some of the test organisms that were tested
against an artificial composition to mimic the volatile by-product of M. crispans. (See,
Table 1.) With reference to Table 12, all of the test organisms were inhibited 100% with the
utilization of 15 [tL of the artificial mixture, and several of them were killed with as little as
10 [L. Verticillium dahliae, Botrytis cinerea, and Aspergillusfumigatuswere not killed by
even the largest volume of the mixture (30 ptL), but all three were 100% inhibited with 10 or
15 [tL of the test mixture. The most sensitive organism was Pythium ultimum, which was
killed with 10 ptL and 100% inhibited with 2.5 piL thus it is the case that the IC 50 values do
not necessarily reflect the killing ability of the volatiles since both P. ultimum and Botrytis
cinerea possess virtually the same IC 5 0 s but one is killed and the other was not (Table 13).
Table 13. The IC 5 0s of the artificial mixture of the components of the volatile by-product of
M. crispans on various plant pathogens. Amounts of the mixture, ranging from 1 piL to
30 piL, were added to a sterile plastic well in the center of the test plate, and the pathogenic
organisms were placed around the edge of the plate. Viability was assessed after 48 hours
and compared to a control plate with no mixture added but with the sterile well in place. Any
organisms which showed no growth after that period were determined to be 100% inhibited,
while those which showed no growth after the 48 hours and no growth after isolation onto
PDA immediately following the 48 hour assessment were considered dead. The IC5 o
calculation was determined by dividing the amount of the artificial mixture required to cause
50% inhibition (in [tL) by the total air space in the Petri dish (50 mL).
                                                45

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
                                  Minimum volume to cause     Volume to cause
        Test Organism                100% inhibition (pL)       death (pL)        IC 50 (pL m- 1 )
Pythium ultimum                              2.0                   10.0            0.030  0.004
Phytophthoracinnamomi                        5.0                   30.0            0.056  0.009
Sclerotinia sclerotiorum                    n/a                    >30              0.15   0.016
Botrytis cinerea                            10.0                   >30             0.035   0.004
Rhizoctonia solani                          20.0                   15.0             0.039 +0.006
Aspergillusfumigatus                         2.0                    20             0.031  0.003
Verticillium dahliae                         5.0                   >30             0.062  0.004
Phytophthorapalmivora                        1.0                    5.0                <0.02
Use of an FFC Composition for the Treatment of Garbage to Control Microbial Decay.
                                               Example 11
          [0134]       An artificial mixture of items, which would normally be considered as
garbage, was assembled into two ammo cartridge boxes. These items consisted of waste
cereal items, flower parts, meat wastes, newspaper fiber, and miscellaneous other wastes.
Into one box was placed a small beaker containing 0.2 ml of the aforementioned FFC
composition. Into the other box was placed a beaker with no FFCs. Both boxes were
incubated for 10 days at 80' F. At the end of that time the boxes were opened and examined.
It was obvious that no decay had occurred in the box with the FFCs. On the other hand, the
control box had completely turned to a massive amount of decay. The use of the FFC
composition for garbage treatment is an opportunity to save intact garbage form decay whilst
in transit to facilities around the world that ferment the garbage into energy related products
such as methane. Figure 4 illustrates that the FFC composition protected the garbage from
microbial decay under the conditions of this experiment.
Use of an FFC Composition for the Treatment of Cheese to Control Fungal Decay
                                               Example 12
          [0135]       A vial containing 10 ml of the aforementioned FFC composition was
incorporated in or with and/or used to soak a piece of clear plastic Saran@ wrap 10 x 10
inches. The plastic wrap was soaked in the FFC composition for 6 days, drip dried and then
used as a wrapper over the cheese piece thoroughly inoculated with a cheese strain of
Penicillum sp. In another experiment, the cheese piece was inoculated with the fungus then
                                                  46

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
wrapped with regular Saran@ wrap and then injected with 10 microliters of the FFCs. The
appropriate controls are indicated on the illustration above with Penicillium sp. alone, treated
wrapper alone, the FFCs alone and control (no treatment). The experimental cheese pieces
were incubated for 1 week at room temperature and then portions of each cheese item was
eat-tested by lab personnel. It is to be noted that there was no adverse effects of storage in
this manner with a prostitution of the taste of the cheese when compared to a newly cut fresh
piece of cheese that had been stored in the refrigerator. The totally fungal infested cheese
piece was not eaten. It is obvious from Figure 2 that use of an FFC composition under the
wrapper or with the treated wrapper caused virtually complete protection of the cheese piece
from decay and colonization of the cheese by Penicillum sp. This was true with the treated
wrapper and with the injection of 10 microliters of FFCs under the plain Saran wrapped
cheese alone.
Use of an FFC Composition for the Treatment of Food and Plant Parts (e.g., plant produce) to
Control Fungal Decay
                                           Example 13a
         [0136]     Several yams were obtained for these experiments. It was thought that the
surface contaminating microbes causing eventual decay would be plentiful enough for the
inoculum. Thus, two yam pieces were placed in a plastic box with the lid sealed in the
presence of a small beaker containing 0.2 ml of the FFCs. The control box contained a
beaker with no FFCs. The sealed boxes were then held at room temperature for 10 days and
then examined. It was obvious that no surface and deeper contamination of the treated yam
pieces developed, while the control yams developed multiple areas of surface blemishes and
insipient decay as illustrated in Figure 3: The untreated yam is on the left and the one on the
right has been treated with the FFCs. Note the large area of fungal decay on the top end of
the yam on the left.
                                           Example 13b
         [0137]     As a related end-use application, an FFC composition and/or component
thereof can be applied to harvested fruit or vegetable produce to compensate for removal of
any natural, waxy or protective coating thereon. For instance, harvested squash and similar
produce, with cut stems, can be treated with an FFC composition (e.g., with spray
application) to control/inhibit microbial growth, improve marketability and extend shelf life.
                                              47

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
                                              Example 14
         [0138]      A synthetic FFC composition of this invention, in accordance with
compositions of the sort described in Tables 2-7 and 10, compared favorably with the use of
live M. albus for control of seedling diseases of sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) caused by
Pythium ultimum, Rhizoctonia solani AG 2-2 and Aphanomyces cochlioides, and root-knot
nematode, Meloidogyne incognita, on tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). The synthetic
composition provided control of damping- off equal to a starch-based formulation of the live
fungus for all three sugar beet pathogens, and significantly reduced the number of root-knot
galls on tomato roots. Rate studies with the FFC composition utilized showed that
concentrations of 2 1tl/cm  3 and 0.75   1tl/cm 3 of a soil carrier/medium component provided
good control of Rhizoctonia and Pythium damping-off, respectively, of sugar beet. A
concentration of 5       cm 3 sand provided 100% mortality in 24 h for M. incognita. By
                       1tl/
comparison, using in vitro studies, this same rate of the biorational provided fewer root-knot
galls than an M. albus infested ground barley formulation applied at 5 g/l of sand.
                                              Example 15
         [0139]      Corynebacteriummichiganese causes serious tomato loss through tissue
wilt and rot. An authentic culture of this bacterium was streaked on nutirnet broth agar and a
small cap was placed in the middle of the plate. Into the cap was placed 20 microliters of an
artificial, lab-prepared FFC composition of this invention. A control plate contained no FFC
composition. The plates were incubated for 24 hr., then examined. There was no growth of
the bacterium on the FFC-treated plate. (See, Fig. 5.) As such, an FFC compositon of this
invention can be used, without limitation, to treat tomato seeds, plants or produce.
Alternatively, an FFC composition can be mixed with water as a pre-bed soil drench.
                                              Example 16
         [0140]      With reference to the preceding and consistent with several of the
foregoing examples, a range of FFC compostions of this invention can be used either
prophylactically or in the treatment of active disease states, such disease including, without
limitation, diseases affecting sugar beet, tomato, onion, grain, banana and plantain, and citrus
crops among others.
         [0141]      More generally, the present compostions and methods can be directed to
the treatment and enhanced viability of seeds, plants, produce and/or related food products-
whether prophylactically or in the presence of fungal or bacterial microbes, regardless of
lifecycle stage (e.g., zoospore, etc.), development, growth or extent of infection.
                                                 48

   WO 2014/145828                                                             PCT/US2014/030657
Accordingly, as would be understood by those in the art, such compositions can comprise
and/or be applied, irrespective of form (e.g. powder, granules, liquid, mist, suspension, vapor,
pastes, gels, coatings, etc.), on the surface of or in contact with a seed, seedling or plant (e.g.,
roots, stems, leaves, etc.) or produce therefrom (e.g., either pre- or post-harvest).
                                            Example 17
         [0142]     FFC compositions and/or components thereof, either alone or as can be
incorporated into various other compositions, can be employed in a variety of end-use
applications in the poultry, produce and related food-processing industries. Several such non
limiting applications are provided in the following examples.
                                            Example 17a
         [0143]     An FFC composition of this invention, in accordance with compositions of
the sort described in Tables 2-7 and 10, is used to treat a range of egg products, including but
not limited to whole egg, and liquid whole egg, fortified whole egg, and liquid fortified whole
egg, salt whole egg, and liquid salt whole egg, sugar whole egg, and liquid sugar whole egg,
and blends of such products--whether or not liquid--with sugar, syrup solids, syrups, dextrose
and dextrins and/or gums and thickening agents, together with scrambled egg mixes and
liquid scrambled egg mixes, reduced cholesterol egg products and liquid products and blends
thereof, and related products containing less than about 10% egg solids, shell eggs and egg
components including but not limited to decholesterolized egg yolk. Such terms will be
understood by those skilled in the art and have standard meanings in accordance with
accepted industry and regulatory usage.
                                            Example 17b
         [0144]     Likewise, various FFC compositions of this invention, including but not
limited to those utilizing propanoic acid in at least partial substitution for isobutryic acid, can
be used in the preparation and/or packaging of extended shelf life (ESL) liquid egg products,
including but not limited to whole egg, scrambled mixes, egg yolk and egg white liquid
products.
                                            Example 17c
         [0145]     Likewise, various FFC compositions of this invention can be used in the
processing of cracked, empty egg shells. As would be understood in the art, using available
techniques and processing equipment, an FFC composition and/or a component thereof
alone or as incorporated as part of another composition-can be applied (e.g., sprayed on) to
empty shells before further processing, for instance into a nutraceutical product. Likewise,
                                               49

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
one or more compositions of this invention can be applied to or incorporated with or
otherwise used to treat poultry carcass, meat or a related meat product, using apparatus and
techniques known in the art. By extension, one skilled in the art would understand that the
present invention can also be utilized with other types of animal carcass, meat, processed
meat products and all other forms of animal flesh (e.g., mammals, birds, fishes, snails, clams,
crustaceans, seafood and other edible species), as also illustrated in one or more of the
following examples.
                                           Example 17d
         [0146]      As an extension of the preceding example, such an FFC composition can
be incorporated into such a processed nutraceutical product (e.g., herbal and spice capsules or
tablets) to inhibit bacterial/fungal growth.
                                           Example 17e
         [0147]      While the preceding examples illustrate various downstream processing
applications, the present invention can be utilized more widely in the context of egg and
poultry production. Without limitation, FFC compositions or related components of this
invention can be introduced to any poultry or egg production facility and/or applied to any
equipment or machinery associated therewith. For instance, air or surface treatment of a coop
or growing/laying facility can control, reduce and/or inhibit airborne and surface-deposited
contaminants and subsequent microbial growth thereon.
                                           Example 18
         [0148]      An FFC composition or one or more components thereof can be
incorporated into a variety of other processed food products, including food products having
a water activity otherwise supportive of microbial growth. For instance, such a composition
or component can be incorporated into humus, peanut butter and other such spreads, dips and
mixtures. Relating to the peanut growing and processing industries, compositions and related
components of this invention can be applied to peanuts before and after the shells are
cracked, after an initial peanut wash, to a related processed product (e.g., peanut butter)
and/or on packaging equipment and packing materials.
                                           Example 19
         [0149]      Likewise, an FFC composition/component of this invention (e.g., one or
more of or compositions of Tables 2-7 and 10, above, or variations of the sort described
therein) can be used as or incorporated into a variety of skin care or treatment products,
regardless of formulation (e.g., lotion, ointment, cream, etc.).
                                              50

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
                                            Example 19a
         [0150]     For instance, acne is commonly caused by one or more bacterial species
invading skin follicles. Demonstrating further use of this invention, an aqueous formulation
of a propanoic acid-substituted FFC composition of this invention was prepared and used to
treat an adolescent male subject presenting age-related acne. One application every three
days for three weeks significantly reduced, by visual observation, the number and intensity of
acne lesions.
                                            Example 19b
         [0151]     Demonstrating another use of this invention in the context of a consumer
and/or health care product, an FFC composition of this invention was incorporated (at
approximately 2% by weight) in a representative over the counter skin cream preparation.
With reference to Figure 6, a PDA plate was prepared and incubated for one day with a
control cream (without FFC component or composition), top left; a control cream
contaminated with bacterial cells, top right; "treated" cream with FFC composition, bottom
left; and treated cream with bacterial contamination, bottom right. As shown, bacterial
growth in such a skin cream product was prevented by incorporating a modest concentration
of an FFC composition of this invention.
                                             Example 20
         [0152]     Likewise, this invention can be utilized in conjunction with a range of oral
hygiene, care and treatment products. Without limitation, the following examples
demonstrate such use of a propanoic acid-substituted FFC composition of the sort described
above. Alternatively, various other FFC compositions can be used, in accordance with
compositions of Tables 2-7 and 10, above, or variations thereof as described elsewhere
herein.
                                            Example 20a
         [0153]     For instance, illustrating one such oral care/hygiene product, a
mouthwash/rinse product was formulated utilizing about 1% of such an FFC composition.
Such a product was prepared by incorporation of such an FFC composition into a
commercially-available, off-the-shelf mouthwash/rinse product. FFC compositions of this
invention, regardless of concentration or dose level, can also be incorporated into a tooth
paste/gel or related gum, mouth, oral or dental care product.
                                               51

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
                                            Example 20b
          [0154]     Lichen planus (LP) is an autoimmune disease of the skin that can occur
inside the mouth or on other mucous membranes. As membranes become unstable, bacteria
or fungi can take up residence in these areas and cause pain, reddening, infection, bleeding
and swelling of the tissues. In order to reduce the cause of extraneous involvement of
bacteria in this disease, a mouth wash product was prepared containing a 1% aqueous
solution of such an FFC composition. The mouth of the patient was rinsed twice to three
times daily for at least 3-4 minutes and then spit out. Photos were taken before the treatments
were applied and after three weeks of treatment. After 3 weeks, the results showed an almost
total reduction of gum reddening, accompanied by a nearly totally reduction of mouth and
gum pain as well as a return to near normal color of the gums and other mucous membrane
color. The patient reported a near-total cessation of pain/bleeding and the most relief from
LP, as compared to prior experience.
                                            Example 20c
          [0155]     A 1% solution of the aforementioned FFC composition in an off-the-shelf
mouth rinse was used to reduce dental plaque and treat other problems arising from bacteria
associated with oral problems. Daily use, with 3-4 mouth rinses/day, for two months resulted
in little or no dental plaque build-up. Gums that were initially recorded as red, swollen, and
easily caused to bleed (from notes actually taken by the dentist) now appeared as normal in
color and did not bleed upon probing with the "explorer" instrument.
                                            Example 20d
          [0156]     To confirm effectiveness of such an FFC composition, mouth spittle
resulting from the previous example was placed on one side of a nutrient agar plate, spittle
from a non-FFC commercial mouth rinse was placed on the other side of the same plate, and
non-rinse spittle was placed on another plate. The spittles were then incubated for two days.
By comparison: the non-rinse spittle had a high bacterial load; the non-FFC rinse spittle had,
as expected, a reduced bacterial load; but the FFC-rinse spittle had no detectable bacteria.
                                            Example 20e
          [0157]     In another example, an oral surgeon tested an FFC composition (e.g., as
1% of a commercial rinse/wash product) prior to oral surgery. The patient placed non-treated
spittle on an agar plate (nutrient agar), rinsed with the FFC-rinse solution and placed that
spittle on another agar plate. After two-three days of incubation there were no bacterial
                                               52

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
colonies on the FCC-rinse treated plate, indicating use before and after oral surgery to treat or
inhibit tooth or other oral infections.
                                             Example 21
         [0158]     Mastitis in milk cows is caused by a complex of bacteria associated with
the udder. In accordance with various non-limiting embodiments of this invention an FFC
composition or a rhamnolipid modified FFC composition of the sort described below can be
applied to the udder at the time of milking to reduce the prospect of bacterial infections and
contamination of milk product.
                                             Example 22
         [0159]     Various FFC compositions of this invention can be used to reduce
microbial loads on industrial/medically important biofilms. With regard to the latter, items
ranging from dental prostheses to artificial joints, can be treated with an FFC composition of
this invention before surgical implantation.
                                             Example 23
         [0160]     FFC compositions of this invention can be used to control fungal and
bacterial decay of clothing items especially those exposed to moist environments (i.e,.
leathers, shoes, boots, straps, ties, belts). For instance, application of 0.2 ml of a 1% FFC
composition of the sort described above was placed in boots that had become totally wet.
The boots were enclosed to maintain the resulting vapors for a few hours, then exposed to dry
air. The results showed no decay, and the boots dried without a residual moldy smell.
                                             Example 24
         [0161]     Compositions of the present invention can comprise various FFC
components and can be formulated as would be understood by those skilled in art made
aware of this invention. Without limitation, regardless of end-use application or treatment,
one or more of the present FFC components and/or related compositions can be incorporated
into various antibacterial or antimycotic compositions. Without limitation, such a
composition can comprise a rhamnolipid surfactant component--either alone or in
conjunction with an antibacterial and/or antimycotic component of the sort known in the art.
With respect to the latter, such compostions can comprise a syringomycin and/or a
pseudomycin component.
         [0162]     More specifically, as would be understood by those skilled in the art, a
rhamnolipid component can comprise one or more compounds of the sort described in U.S.
                                               53

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
Patent Nos. 5,455,232 and 5,767,090, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety. Such a rhamnolipid compound, whether presently known in the art or hereafter
isolated and/or characterized, can be of a structure disclosed therein or varied, as would also
be understood by those skilled in the art. For example, without limitation, whether
synthetically-derived or naturally occurring (e.g., from a Pseudomonasspecies or a strain
thereof) in an acid form and/or as a corresponding acid salt, such a compound can be alkyl
and/or acyl-substituted (e.g., methyl and/or acetyl, respectively, and higher homologs thereof)
at one or more of the saccharide hydroxy positions. Likewise, whether in mono- and/or
dirhamno form, any such compound can be varied by hydrophobic moiety. As a non-limiting
example, with reference to Figs. 7A and 7B, m and n can independently range from about 4
to about 20, regardless of whether such moieties are saturated, monounsaturated or
polyunsaturated, whether the hydrophobic moiety is protonated, present as the conjugate base
with any counter ion or otherwise derivatized. Consistent with broader aspects of this
invention, a rhamnolipid useful in such compositions is structurally limited only by resulting
surface active function and/or antimicrobial effect in conjunction with an FFC composition of
this invention. Accordingly, structural variations of the sort described in International
Publication WO 99/43334 are also considered in the context of this invention, such
publication incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. See, also the non-limiting
rhamnolipid components/structures of Figs. 8-9.
         [0163]     Without regard to antimicrobial or rhamnolipid identity, a carrier
component of the inventive compositions can comprise a fluid selected from, but not limited
to, water, an alcohol, an oil, a gas and combinations thereof. For instance, while such
compositions are unlimited with respect to amount or concentration (e.g., wt. %) of
antimicrobial or rhamnolipid quantities, a carrier comprising water and/or an alcohol can be
used to facilitate desired formulation, shipping, storage and/or application properties, as well
as effective concentration and resulting activity.
         [0164]     Such rhamnolipid surfactant components, antimycotic components and/or
related compositions include but are not limited to those described in co-pending application
serial no. 11/351,572, in particular examples 9-15 thereof, such application filed on February
10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such rhamnolipid surfactant
components, antimycotic components and/or related compositions can incorporate or be used
in conjunction with one or more FFC components and/or FFC compostions of the present
invention. Such antibacterial and/or antimycotic components are known to those skilled in
                                              54

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
the art and commercially available. Various rhamnolipid components and related surfactant
compositions are available from Jeneil Biosurfactant Co., LLC, under the Zonix trademark.
                                              Example 25
         [0165]      For instance, illustrating such rhamnolipid-related variations, a range of
compositions can be prepared with one or more rhamnolipid components and one or more
FFC compositions of this invention (and/or one or more FFC components thereof), for use as
or in conjunction with a post-harvest wash or treatment of a wide range of fruits and
vegetables. Without limitation, in such a composition, a rhamnolipid component, (e.g., as
described in the aforementioned '572 application) can be present in an amount ranging from
about 0.1 wt.% to about 99.9 wt.%, and an FFC composition/component (e.g., compositions
of Tables 2-7 and 10, above) can be present in an amount ranging from about 99.9 wt.% to
about 0.1 wt.%. With reference to applicable EPA regulations, there is no tolerance limit for
the aforementioned Zonix rhamnolipid surfactants. Likewise, there is no tolerance limit for
the FFC compositions/components of this invention. Accordingly, food treated with such
rhamnolipid/FFC compositions can be consumed without further washing.
                                             Example 25a
         [0166]      In accordance with the foregoing, a rhamnolipid/FFC composition can be
used to wash citrus fruits. One such wash/bath composition was prepared using an 8.5%
rhamnolipid solution (in water) and a 50%FFC solution (e.g., the composition of Table 10 in
water). One gallon of a 95:5 (v/v) mixture was diluted to 425 gallons. Using procedural
protocols known in the industry or otherwise required under applicable state or federal
regulations, the composition was used effectively to clean and penetrate citrus peel--killing
both surface and interior bacteria and fungi. While effective results were demonstrated with
citrus fruit, this and related rhamnolipid/FFC compositions can be used comparably in
conjunction with post-harvest wash or treatment of any fruit or vegetable (e.g., without
limitation, blueberries, tomatoes, grapes, onions, sugar beets, sweet potatoes, apples, pears,
pineapples and various other tropical produce such as but not limited to noni and acai fruit,
etc.). Fruits/vegetables washed or treated with FFC compositions of this example would be
recognized as safe and hygienic for human consumption.
                                             Example 25b
         [0167]      Whether or not having an incorporated rhamnolipid component, various
FFC compositions of this invention can be used to treat various fruits and vegetables (e.g.,
                                                55

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
without limitation, pears, peaches, apples, tomatoes, apricots, mangos and the like) before or
upon packaging or canning to reduce bacterial/fungal loads.
                                          Example 26
        [0168]      Sourcing of FFC Component Compounds. Component compounds for use
in compositions of this invention can be obtained commercially or prepared using synthetic
techniques of the sort well-known or otherwise described in the literature. (See, e.g., U.S.
Pat. No. 6,911,338, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.)
        [0169]     Alternatively, as can be preferred in conjunction with certain
embodiments--including but not limited to animal and human food and beverage items,
personal care and cosmetic products and related processing and manufacturing techniques,
GRAS component compounds and related FFC compositions of this invention can be derived
naturally through fermentation techniques, and are available under the Flavorzon trademark
from Jeneil Biosurfactant Co., LLC of Saukville, Wisconsin. Accordingly, various
compositions of this invention, depending on end-use or application, can comprise
compounds derived from bacterial fermentation, compounds chemically synthesized and
various mixtures of compounds of fermentative and synthetic origin.
        [0170]     With reference to the preceding, the following examples illustrate non
limiting use or incorporation of one or more compositions of this invention, such use or
incorporation as would be understood by those skilled in the art made aware of this invention,
and described in the context of several prior patents, each of which is incorporated herein by
reference for purpose of demonstrating that one skilled in the art would understand such use
or incorporation of this invention.
                                          Example 27
        [0171]     Illustrating other embodiments, various compositions of this invention can
be formulated for use as an additive for a fruit drink, such as described in the incorporated
U.S. Patent No. 6,566,349. For instance, compositions of this invention may be added to a
juice in combination with or as a substitute for a flavonoid compound and/or an antioxidant,
or may be pre-applied to fruits and vegetables before processing, to increase product shelf
life. As would be understood by those skilled in the art, such compositions of the '349 Patent
can be modified to include one or more compositions of the present invention in an amount of
which for any end-use application can be determined, in a straight-forward manner without
undue experimentation.
                                             56

     WO 2014/145828                                                        PCT/US2014/030657
                                           Example 28
         [0172]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
preserving tea and tea/fruit mixture beverages, such as described in the incorporated U.S.
Patent No. 5,866,182. For instance, compositions of the present invention may be used in
combination with or as a replacement for K-sorbate and/ Na-benzoate, ascorbic acid, and
dimethyl dicarbonate. As will be understood by those skilled in the art, such beverages of the
'182 Patent (e.g., example 1 thereof) may be modified to include one or more compositions of
the present invention, an amount of which for any particular application may be determined
in a straight-forward manner without undue experimentation.
                                           Example 29
         [0173]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
preserving and/or enhancing the antimicrobial effect of antiperspirants and deodorants, such
as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 5,176,903. For instance, compositions of the
present invention can be used in combination with or as a replacement for parabens,
imidazolidinyl urea, quatemium-15, benzyl alcohol, phenoxyethanol, and various other
suitable preservatives (e.g., as described in examples 1-3 thereof) and added to such
antiperspirant/deodorant to protect against degradation, extend shelf life and/or enhance
effectiveness, one or more such compositions in an amount of which can be determined in a
straight-forward manner without undue experimentation by one having ordinary skill in the
art.
                                           Example 30
         [0174]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
antiperspirants, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 4,548,808. For
instance, one or more compositions of the present invention can be added to the substantially
anhydrous non-alcoholic antiperspirant products described in the '808 Patent (e.g., examples
1-6 thereof) in effective amounts readily determined without undue experimentation by one
having ordinary skill in the art--to extend shelf-life and enhance antimicrobial effect.
                                           Example 31
         [0175]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
animal/pet food, for example dog food, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent
No. 3,119,691. One having ordinary skill in the art would recognize that one or more of the
present compositions can be added to low hydration dog food, high moisture dog food, and
rehydratable dog food to (e.g., to the product formulations described therein) prolong the
                                              57

    WO 2014/145828                                                         PCT/US2014/030657
shelf-life of products disclosed in the '691 Patent, such composition(s) in an amount readily
determined without undue experimentation.
                                            Example 32
          [0176]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in cat
litter, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent Nos. 5,060,598 and 4,721,059.
Various absorbent materials, including, for example, clay, alfalfa, wood chips, and saw dust,
and increased absorbent materials including clay-like filler ('059 Patent) and peat
('598 Patent) are used to absorb urine and control odor. One or more compositions of the
present invention may be used in conjunction with these materials (e.g., sprayed on or
otherwise incorporated into) to reduce or eliminate microbial activity and control odor after
use of the litters, such composition(s) in an amount readily determined without undue
experimentation.
                                            Example 33
          [0177]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
spray disinfectant applications, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent
No. 6,250,511. The '511 Patent describes including a treatment solution in the spray bottle
comprising between about 25% and 75% of at least one glycol compound, between 0.2% and
60% of an antimicrobial component, between about 5% and 45% of a surfactant, and
optionally effective amounts of fragrances, dyes and other additives (at col. 3 thereof). For
instance, one or more compositions of the present invention can be used in conjunction with a
disinfectant of the '511 Patent as a replacement for the antimicrobial component, or as an
additive thereto, such composition(s) in an amount readily determined by one skilled in the
art without undue experimentation.
                                            Example 34
          [0178]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for cleaning
and/or disinfecting food and beverage processing equipment, such as described in the
incorporated U.S. Patent No. RE 40,050. While the '050 Reissue teaches a halogen dioxide
composition, such a formulation could be modified by one skilled in the art to substitute one
or more compositions of the present invention, such composition(s) in an amount readily
determined without undue experimentation and contacted with or applied to such processing
equipment using apparatus and techniques of the sort described in the '050 Reissue (e.g., as
described in cols. 3-4 thereof).
                                              58

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
                                           Example 35
         [0179]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
preserving wood, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 4,988,576 (and for
lignocellulosic-based composites described in incorporated U.S. Pat. No. 7,449,130). The
'576 Patent teaches impregnating wood with a solution of a preservative composition
comprising a graft copolymer of lignosulfonate, hydroxyl benzyl alcohol and a metal salt or a
mixture of metal salts, or alternately of at least one metal salt of a graft copolymer of
lignosulfonate, the copolymer being a reaction product of lignosulfonate and acrylic
monomers. For instance, one or more compositions of the present invention may be used
alone or in combination with such preservatives taught by the '576 Patent (or the '130 Patent),
as described, respectively, in examples 1-4 and 1-2 thereof, to impregnate and preserve wood,
such composition(s) in an amount readily determined by one having ordinary skill in the art
without undue experimentation.
                                           Example 36
         [0180]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use with
sanitizing and/or disinfecting wipes, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent
No. 4,575,891, which teaches a pad partially saturated with a disinfectant (e.g., col. 2
thereof). The '891 Patent describes suitable disinfectants as alcoholic solutions, and other
antiseptic solutions. For instance, one or more compositions of the present invention may be
used alone or in combination with such disinfectants and incorporated into such a wipe
material, such composition(s) in an amount readily determined and incorporated by one
skilled in the art without undue experimentation.
                                           Example 37
         [0181]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use with
a hand sanitizing lotion, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 6,187,327. For
instance, one or more compositions of the present invention can be formulated to be added to
and work in conjunction with the lotion of the '327 Patent or to replace any of the active
ingredients of the lotion to improve antimicrobial effect. The '327 Patent also discloses
various other known hand sanitizers (e.g. an amphoteric-cationic surfactant, a cationic
surfactant, a wetting agent, and a nonionic regressing agent). Regardless, a composition of
the present invention can be incorporated as a replacement for or use in conjunction with any
of the active ingredients in any such hand sanitizer, such composition(s) in an amount readily
determined without undue experimentation.
                                               59

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
                                           Example 38
        [0182]       Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
treating edible or crop seeds, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 4,581,238,
which teaches contacting with seeds with steam having a sorbate dispersed therein (e.g., in
cols. 2-5 thereof). For instance, using techniques and apparatus disclosed therein, one or
more compositions of the present invention can be volatilized or otherwise applied to such
seeds, such composition(s) in an amount readily determined by one having ordinary skill in
the art without undue experimentation.
                                           Example 39
        [0183]       Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
preventing or inhibiting the growth of spoilage organisms, such as described in the
incorporated U.S. Patent No. 4,356,204, which teaches contacting food with an effective
growth inhibiting amount of a ketohexanoic acid (e.g., in cols. 2-3 thereof). One or more
compositions of the present invention can be used alone or with such a ketohexanoic acid to
further inhibit and/or kill spoilage organisms. Likewise, incorporated U.S. Patent
No. 2,711,976 suggests the use of amino acids to increase the resistance of custard foods to
spoilage organisms and Staphylococcus species. Again, one or more compositions of the
present invention may be used alone or in combination with or as a substitute for such amino
acids. Likewise, incorporated U.S. Patent No. 2,866,819 suggests the use of sorbic acid as a
preservative in foods. Again, one or more compositions of the present invention may be used
alone or in combination or as a substitute for sorbic acid. Likewise, incorporated U.S. Patent
No. 2,910,368 discloses the use of EDTA with sorbic acid to increase the shelf life of
vegetables. Again, one or more compositions of the present invention may be used alone or
in combination with EDTA and/or sorbic acid. In each instance, such composition(s) of the
present invention can be used in an amount readily determined by one skilled in the art
without undue experimentation.
                                           Example 40
        [0184]       Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
treating fruit, seeds, grains, and legumes, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent
No. 5,273,769, which teaches placing any of the items to be treated in a container then
introducing carbon dioxide and ammonia. For instance, using apparatus and techniques
described therein (e.g., examples 1-4), one or more compositions of the present invention
may be utilized effectively as would be understood in the art without undue experimentation.
                                              60

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
                                             Example 41
         [0185]     Compositions of the present invention may also be formulated for use in
treating dental and medical articles/devices and implants, the latter as more specifically
described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 6,812,217, which teaches an antimicrobial
polymer film applied to the exterior surface of an implantable medical device. For instance,
using techniques of the sort described therein, one ore more compositions of the present
invention may also be deposited on or otherwise incorporated with such a device or article
(whether medical or dental) or polymer film thereon (e.g., as described in cols. 5-6) to
provide antimicrobial effect, such composition(s) in an amount readily determined by one of
ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation.
                                             Example 42
         [0186]     Compositions of the present invention may also be formulated for use in
treatment of textiles, such as in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 5,968,207, which teaches
application of triclosan ester to textile fibers or fabric by diffusion or impregnation. For
instance, one or more compositions of the present invention may be formulated for use alone
or in combination with such compound to improve anti-microbial properties of a textile or
fibers thereof, whether a man-made, natural, or a blend (e.g., as described in cols. 2-3 of the
'207 Patent), such composition(s) in an amount readily determined by one of ordinary skill in
the art without undue experimentation.
                                             Example 43
         [0187]     Compositions of the present invention can be formulated for treatment of
surfaces of a food processing facility, related equipment and foodstuffs, such as described in
the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 7,575,744. For instance, using techniques and apparatus of
the sort described therein, one or more compositions of the present invention may be
formulated and disposed on equipment and foodstuff surfaces in a wide range of food
processing facilities to reduce or eliminate microbial activity, such facilities/equipment
including but not limited to snack, poultry, citrus, peanut and related food processing
facilities/equipment (see, e.g., col. 20). Such composition(s) can be employed in an amount
readily determined by one skilled in the art without undue experimentation.
                                             Example 44
         [0188]     Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in the
treatment of microbial-related diseases (i.e., mastitis, hoof & mouth, etc.) in farm animals and
livestock, and to inhibit microbial growth on crops, plants, grains, and other foodstuffs, such
                                                61

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 7,192,575, which teaches application of and
a composition comprising clove bud oil, eucalyptus oil, lavender oil, tea tree and orange oil.
For instance, one or more compositions of the present invention can be formulated for use
alone or in combination with that of the '575 Patent (e.g., examples 1-2 thereof), such
composition(s) in an amount readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art without
undue experimentation.
                                          Example 45
        [0189]       Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use in
preserving foodstuffs such as dressings, sauces, marinades, condiments, spreads, butters,
margarine, dairy based foods, and the like from microbial spoilage, such as described in the
incorporated U.S. Patent No. 6,156,362, which teaches a combination of antimicrobial
components. One or more compositions of the present invention can be formulated for use
alone or in combination with one or more of the components of the '362 Patent (e.g.,
examples 1-4 thereof), such composition(s) or in an amount readily determined by one of
ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation.
                                          Example 46
        [0190]       Compositions of the present invention can be formulated for incorporation
with a wide range of water-based and organic-based paints, stains and related surface
coatings, such as described in the incorporated U.S. Patent No. 7,659,326 and the authorities
recited therein (e.g., Kirk-Othmer-Paint; pp. 1046-1049, Vol. 17; 1996, by Arthur A. Leman,
the disclosure of which is also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). For instance,
one or more compositions of the present invention may be formulated for use or alone in
combination with another antimicrobial component described in the detailed description and
examples 1 and 3 of the '326 Patent, such composition(s) in an amount readily determined by
one skilled in the art without undue experimentation.
                                          Example 47
        [0191]       Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use or
incorporation into after-shave products, such as those described in the incorporated U.S.
Patent No. 6,231,845. For instance, one or more compositions of the present invention can be
used in conjunction with components of the sort described in examples 1-6 of the '845 Patent,
to provide antimicrobial effect to such after-shave products of the prior art. Such
compositions can be present in an amount readily determined by one skilled in the art without
undue experimentation.
                                              62

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
                                           Example 48
        [0192]      Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use or
incorporation into a product for treatment of a carcass, meat or meat product (e.g., of
mammals, birds, fishes, clams, crustaceans and/or other forms of seafood, and other edible
species), such as described in the incorporated U.S. patent number 7,507,429. For instance,
one or more compositions of the present invention may be formulated for use alone or in
combination with another antimicrobial component, for incorporation into a product of the
sort described in the '429 patent. Such composition(s) can be present in an amount readily
determined by one skilled in the art without undue experimentation, and the corresponding
product(s) can be applied or otherwise utilized with techniques and apparatus described in the
'429 patent or as would otherwise be understood by those skilled in the art made aware of this
invention. (See, e.g., the meat processing, spraying, immersing and treating, and composition
and component sections of the detailed description of the '429 Patent.)
                                           Example 49
        [0193]      Compositions of the present invention can also be formulated for use or
incorporation into a material (e.g., a material for a coating or other incorporation) for a food
product, such products including but not limited to snack foods, cereal foods and other food
components, such snack and cereal foods and materials of the sort described in the
incorporated U.S. patent number 7,163,708. Without limitation as to how such materials can
be applied, one or more compositions of the present invention can be used alone or in
conjunction with one or more of the antimicrobial or preservative components of such
materials, as described in the detailed description of food products and coating materials, of
the '708 patent. Accordingly, as would be understood by one skilled in the art, such a
composition can be present in an amount readily determined without undue experimentation.
                                           Example 50
        [0194]      Compositions of the present invention can be formulated for incorporation
with a variety of edible spread compositions, including but not limited to peanut butter
compositions, such as those described in the incorporated U.S. patent number 7,498,050. For
instance, as would be understood by one skilled in the art, one or more compositions of the
present invention can be used in conjunction with such edible spread products to provide or
otherwise enhance antimicrobial effect, as described in examples 1-2 of the '050 Patent, such
composition(s) as can be present in an amount readily determined without undue
experimentation.
                                              63

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
                                           Example 51
        [0195]      Compositions of the present invention can be formulated for incorporation
with a wide range of pest control compositions, such as those described in the incorporated
U.S. Patent No. 6,720,450 (e.g., in sections 2-3 of the detailed description thereof). For
instance, one or more compositions of the present invention may be formulated for use alone
or in combination with another antipesticidal component, such as that described in the '450
patent. Likewise, one or more compositions of this invention can be formulated as described
therein, with a suitable carrier component, for use against various blood-imbibing insects,
including but not limited to various types of mosquitoes, and insect pests of agricultural
crops. The present compositions can be used as described therein for direct contact,
inhibition and/or elimination of mosquitoes, including the larvae, pupa and/or adult forms
thereof. Alternatively, the present compositions can be used and/or formulated for repellent
action. Regardless, such composition(s) can be present in an amount readily determined by
one skilled in the art without undue experimentation and can optionally include a surfactant
component. Such a surfactant can be a biosurfactant. Without limitation, such a
biosurfactant can be selected from monorhamnolipids, dirhamnolipids and combinations
thereof.
        [0196]      With reference to paragraphs [0046] - [0047], [0051] - [0052] and [0105]
and alternate compositions of the sort described in and available through use of the FFCs of
Tables 2-7 and 10, the following examples demonstrate the use of several such FFC
compositions and related articles, in accordance with this invention.
                                           Example 52
        [0197]      Several assays were undertaken using representative antimicrobial
compositions against various test organisms. Plugs of inoculum (3x3 mm) were streaked at a
minimal level, then exposed, respectively, to vapors from compositions B - L placed in a
microcup center well. Radial growth from each plug was measured (mm) after 38 hours at
room temperature.
Table 14.
Test      Pythium     Rhizoc    Vert   Asp    Phyto    Fus     Botr    Scl     Bacillus   E. coli
column
A         31          8         2.5    3.5     3.0     9.5      5.5    7       growth     growth
B         0           0         0      1       0       0.2      0.5     1.7    slight     0
C         0           0         0      0.5     0       0.7      0.2    0.8     trace      0
D         0           0         0      0.45    0       0.7      0      0       0          0
                                             64

    WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
E         0            0         0       0.4    0        0.5     0.1     0.7     0         0
F         0            0         0       0.1    0.1      0       0.1     0.7     trace     0
G         0            0         0       0.2    0.1      0.1     0.1     3.5     0         0
H         0            0         0       0.1    0.15     2.5     0.2     0.15    0         0
I         0            0         0       0.15   0        0.3     0.1     0.15    0         0
J         0            0         0       0.7    0        0.1     0       0       0         0
K         0            0         0       0.7    0        0.3     0.15    1.7     0         0
L         0            0         0       0.07   0         1.5    0       0.8     0         0
Antimicrobial compositions tested:
A = control (no treatment)
B  = a composition of Table 10, above; 10 microliters
C  = propanoic acid:isoamyl acetate, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
D  = propanoic acid:isobutyl isobutyrate, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
E  = propanoic acid:isopentyl isobutyrate, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
F =  propanoic acid:allyl acetate, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
G  = propanoic acid:methyl isobutyrate, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
H  = propanoic acid:phenylethyl acetate, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
I = propanoic acid:benzaldehyde, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
J = propanoic acid:isoamyl acetate:benzaldehyde, 7:2:2 (v/v/v); 11 microliters
K  = propanoic acid:all esters above in equal mix, 7:2 (v/v); 9 microliters
L  = propanoic acid:all esters above in equal mix:benzaldehyde, 7:2:2 (v/v/v); 11 microliters.
        [0198]      Test Organisms: Pythium ultimum (Pythium); Rhizoctonia solani (Rhizoc);
Verticullum dahliae (Vert); Aspergillusfumigatus (Asp); Phytophthoracinnamomi (Phyto);
Fusariumsolani (Fus); Botrytis cinerea (Botr); Sclerotinia sclerotiorum (Scl); Bacillus
subtilus (Bacillus); and Escherichiacoli (E. coli).
        [0199]      As demonstrated above, specific compositions of this invention can be
designed for differential antimicrobial effect. For instance, while composition B was
somewhat less than advantageous against the Botrytis and Sclerotinia species, composition D
inhibited growth completely, under the assay conditions employed. Regardless, an
antimicrobial composition of this invention--whether used neat, in vapor form or incorporated
with a carrier component--can show beneficial results with a propanoic acid component
present at a ratio of at least about 7:about 1 with respect to any other composition component.
(See Figure 10 for structures and nomenclature of FFCs employed in compositions B-L.)
With respect to compositions B-L, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that while
certain acid esters are specifically referenced, various other C2 - about C5 acid esters and
combinations thereof can be used with comparable effect.
                                               65

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
                                           Example 53
        [0200]       In accordance with and illustrating use of various articles of this invention,
granules of bentonite clay (e.g., from Al Harvey of Lovell, Wyoming) were impregnated with
a representative composition of Table 10, above, (~0.80 ml/g of bentonite) and placed in an
open-top enclosure. Granules of this article and part of a bunch of raspberries (i.e., a post
harvest perishable food item) were placed in a sealed container. After seven days, little mold
or other microbial growth was evident. (See, Figure 11 A.) By comparison, using a control
system of bentonite granules without incorporated antimicrobial composition, raspberries
from the same bunch were stored in a sealed container over the same time period: excessive
spoilage was observed. (See, Figure 11 B.)
                                           Example 54
        [0201]       Various other compositions of this invention, including without limitation
compositions B - L of Example 52, can be incorporated with a solid carrier component. For
instance, commercially-available bentonite clay granules can be impregnated with such a
composition, for use in conjunction with a vapor-permeable enclosure, such as a sealed or re
sealable flexible bag or pouch. Whether a suitably-dimensioned mesh or of a porous non
woven Tyvek@ or functionally-similar material, such a bag/pouch can provide an article with
all components (i.e., an antimicrobial composition, a carrier and an enclosure) meeting FDA
specifications relating to food processing and contact.
                                           Example 55
        [0202]       With reference to paragraphs [0055] and [0119] and Example 11, above,
bentonite clay granules can be impregnated with a composition of Table 10, then packaged
into a vapor permeable pouch, or similar such enclosure, and positioned proximate to a
deposit or collection of human waste or refuse. Without limitation, such an article can be
placed in or adjacent to a container of human waste - optionally, as a preliminary measure
en route to a final treatment and/or disposal.
                                          Example 55a
        [0203]       With reference to paragraphs [0057] - [0062] and [0119], an antimicrobial
composition useful in conjunction with the end-use application of example 55 is represented,
below.
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Ethanol
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
                                              66

    WO 2014/145828                                                         PCT/US2014/030657
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
                                           Example 55b
        [0204]       Again, with reference to paragraphs [0057] - [0062] and [0119], another
antimicrobial composition useful in conjunction with the end-use application of example 55
is represented, below.
Acetaldehyde
Ethyl Acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
                                           Example 55c
        [0205]       Further, with reference to paragraphs [0057] - [0062] and [0119], another
antimicrobial composition useful in conjunction with the end-use application of example 55
is represented, below.
Ethyl Acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
1-Propanol, 2-methyl
1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
                                            Example 56
        [0206]       With further reference to paragraphs [0077] and [0087] - [0091], Tables 2
7 and 10 and Examples 32-33, various FFC compositions of this invention can be used to
prepare cat litter and related animal care products. For instance, bentonite clay granules or
other solid carrier components are contacted or impregnated with an antimicrobial
                                               67

    WO 2014/145828                                                         PCT/US2014/030657
composition (e.g., 0.20 wt. % to about 10.0 wt. % or, in certain embodiments, about
1.0 wt. % to about 3.0 wt. %) of the sort represented below.
            wt.%                                   Compound
about 0.1 - about 10          Acetaldehyde
about 0.5 - about 10          Ethyl Acetate
about 0.1 - about 10          2-Butanone
about 4 - about 20            Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester
about 1.5 - about 15          Ethanol
about  0.1 - about 10         Acetic acid, 2-methylpropyl ester
about  20 - about 40          Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylpropyl ester
about  0.1 - about 10         1-Propanol, 2-methyl
about  20 - about 40          1-Butanol, 3-methyl-, acetate
about  1.0 - about 30         Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-methylbutyl ester
about 2 - about 10            1-Butanol, 3-methyl
about 40 - about 80           Propanoic acid, 2-methyl
about 0.1 - about 10          Acetic acid, 2-phenylethyl ester
Alternatively, compositions of the sort described in Examples 52 (compositions B-L) and
Examples 55a-55c can also be used in the preparation of such a litter article. Regardless, the
relative amount of any such component can be adjusted for any particular formulation,
desired antimicrobial effect and/or to accommodate the presence of any one or more additives
of the sort described herein including but not limited to perfuming/fragrance agents.
                                           Example 57
         [0207]     With reference to paragraphs [0026] and [0087] and Example 52, above,
compositions of this invention can be prepared using propanoic acid in conjunction with one
or more acid salts, including but not limited to salts of any one or more C2 - about C6 acids.
Such acid salts, including those of food grade quality, can be prepared, as described below,
and are available from sources well-known to those skilled in the art, including but not
limited to Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO).
                                          Example 57a
         [0208]     In accordance with certain embodiments of this invention and with
reference to paragraph [0061], the following compositions can be considered without
limitation as to component amount or concentration, such compositions including:
                A. propanoic acid:a C4 acid salt:
                B. propanoic acid:a C5 acid salt;
                C. propanoic acid:a C6 acid salt;
                D. propanoic acid:a combination of C4 acid salts;
                E. propanoic acid:a combination of C5 acid salts;
                                              68

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
                 F. propanoic acid:a combination of C6 acid salts; and
                 G. propanoic acid:a combination of C4 -C6 acid salts.
Such C4 -C6 acid salts and combinations thereof can be, without limitation, selected from salts
of n-C4 - n-C6 monocarboxylic acids and structural isomers thereof and suitable
corresponding C4 -C6 polycarboxylic and hydroxypolycarboxylic acids including but not
limited to salts of 2-methylpropanoic acid, 2-methylbutanoic acid, 3-methylbutanoic acid,
2,3-dimethylpropanoic acid, 2,2-dimethylpropanoic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid and other
C4-C6  mono- and (hydroxy)polycarboxylic acids, as would be understood by those skilled in
the art made aware of this invention, such salts as can be, without limitation, selected from
alkali (e.g., sodium, potassium, etc.), alkaline-earth (e.g., calcium, magnesium, etc.) and
quaternary amine (e.g., ammonium, etc.) salts of such acids. Such compositions can be
prepared by mixing the components neat or with a suitable solvent or diluent such as but not
limited to water and/or an aqueous alcohol and, optionally, in the presence of a surface active
component such as a rhamnolipid.
                                           Example 57b
         [0209]      With reference to any composition of Example 57a, various other
compositions of this invention can include one or more esters of one or more C2 - about C5
acids and structural isomers thereof, in addition to or as a substitute for any such acid salt
component.
                                           Example 57c
         [0210]      With reference to any composition of Examples 57a-b, various other
compositions of this invention can include one or more C2 - about CS aldehyde components in
addition to or as a substitute for any such acid salt and/or acid ester component.
                                           Example 57d
         [0211]      With reference to the compositions of Examples 57a-c, various other
compositions of this invention can include another C2 - about C6 acid component. Without
limitation, such an additional acid component can be selected from acetic acid, isobutyric
acid, citric acid and combinations thereof, in addition to or as a partial substitute for
propanoic acid.
                                           Example 57e
         [0212]      Notwithstanding the compositions of Examples 57 and 57a-d,
compositions of propanoic acid and at least one C 4 - about C6 acid salt, compositions of
propanoic acid and at least one additional C2 - about C6 acid component and compositions of
                                               69

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
propanoic acid and at least one C4 - about C6 acid salt providing the absence of an acid ester,
aldehyde and/or ketone can be utilized. Regardless, as discussed above, any composition of
this invention can be absent naphthalene and azulene derivative compounds and other fused
aromatic compounds and hydro derivatives thereof.
                                           Example 58
        [0213]      With reference to any one or more preceding compositions of Examples 57
and 57a-e, such composition(s) can be incorporated into an article of manufacture, including
but not limited to those of the sort discussed herein or otherwise used as described above.
Generally, without limitation and as described above, one or more such compositions can be
incorporated into a food ingredient or nutraceutical (e.g., Example 17d), a range of food
products (e.g., at paragraphs [0032], [0052] and [0066]) including processed foods such as
peanut butter, humus, and various dips and spreads (e.g., Example 18), cheeses (e.g., at
paragraph [0067]) and other dairy and related products, solid carrier components (e.g.,
Examples 53-56), and such carrier components in conjunction with vapor permeable
enclosures (e.g., Examples 53-55) and as a substitute for sorbic acid, benzoic acid and sorbate
and benzoate salts (e.g., Examples 28 and 39).
                                           Example 59
        [0214]      With reference to Examples 57 and 57a-e, comparative testing of a
representative composition of propanoic acid and a salt of isobutyric acid (e.g., potassium)
demonstrated this invention as providing antimicrobial effect when incorporated into a food
item. More specifically, 0.1 gram of potassium isobutyrate was added to 20 microliters of
propanoic acid. (Similarly, several reference compositions were also prepared, as indicated
in Table 15, below.) The test and reference compositions were hand-mixed into 10 grams of
fresh refrigerated humus (Costco) and placed in a sealed container. The treated and control
containers were held at 250 C then examined and sampled at 10 and 18 days. Sampling of
each container was accomplished with a sterile transfer needle, with approximately 1 mg.
streaked onto a potato dextrose agar (PDA) Petri plate, incubated for 30 hours, then
examined. Results are summarized in Table 15, below.
Table 15.
                      Appearance              Taste           Appearance              Taste
Treatment               (10 days)           (10 days)          (18 days)            (18 days)
Control           Odiferous product;    Not taste tested   Advanced fungal       Totally
10 g humus        fungal growth                            growth over           repugnant
                  visible;                                 almost the entire     smell; not taste
                                               70

   WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
                 considerable                             surface of the food   tested
                 growth on PDA                            product
A                Product appeared      Excellent taste,   The product           Taste remains
                 normal, as per        as per original    appeared normal,      comparable to
                 original humus; no    humus              as per original       that of original
                 discernable                              humus; no             refrigerated
                 microbial growth                         microbial growth      humus product
                 on PDA plate                             on product surface;
                                                          no discernable
                                                          microbial growth
                                                          on PDA plate
B                Product appears      Acidic taste        Fungal colonies       Unacceptable
                 about the same as     and tangy          developed on          tangy acid-like
                 original humus;       flavor             product surface       taste
                 light microbial
                 growth pattern on
                 PDA plate
C                Product appeared     Acid-like taste    No apparent fungal Stronger
                 normal as per                            or other bacterial    acid-like taste
                 original humus;                          growth on product
                 considerable                             surface
                 microbial growth
                 on PDA plate
D                Odiferous; great      Putrid taste       Some microbial        Putrid taste
                 deal of microbial                        growth on surface
                 growth on PDA                            of product
                 plate
A:  0.1 g K isobutyrate in 20 gl propanoic acid, in 10 g humus
B:  20 gl propanoic acid, in 10 g humus
C:  0.2 g Na 2HPO 4 in 100 gl propanoic acid, in 10 g humus
D:  0.1 g K isobutyrate, in 10 g humus
                                          Example 60a
        [0215]      Purpose: Determine if a composition of this invention will inhibit mold in
an enzyme modified cheese (EMC) cheddar product (EMC CH) which is susceptible to mold
growth due to its high pH and low titratable acidity (TA). Procedure: Prepare a composition,
obtain an EMC cheddar product, and prepare a Blue Cheese Slurry as a source of mold spores
to deliver 1-10 CFU/100 gram sample. Test efficacy of the composition.
                                             71

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
Preparation of antimicrobial composition:
1.    Prepare a 4 M (Molar) solution of Potassium Isobutyrate (K-IB) by adding 394.92 g
      Isobutyric Acid and 498.76 g of 45% KOH (Potassium Hydroxide) to a 1-L volumetric
      flask.
2.    Add deioinized water to bring volume up to 1 L.
3.    Temper to room temperature and readjust volume.
4.    Measure pH=8.11
5.    Weigh all ingredients in the percentages in the table below, including: 4 M Potassium
      Isobutyrate, propionic acid, acetic acid, and citric acid to prepare the final composition.
The composition of this example (designated FF#2) is comprised of potassium isobutyrate,
propionic acid, acetic acid and citric acid.
It has a pH of 5.39.
 Ingredient                     %        grams
 K-IBA (4 M)                  67.0          16.75
 Propionic Acid               20.0           5.00
 Acetic Acid                  10.0           2.50
 Citric Acid                   3.0           0.75
                             100.0         25.00
Enzyme Modified Cheese cheddar product (EMC CH)[Production Lot# 140210]:
                               EMC         Target
 Specifications                  CH
 % Moisture                     43.5       42 - 46
 % Fat                          28.0       26-30
 TA (Titratable acidity)        18.5       20 - 24
 % Salt                          2.1         1-2
 pH                              5.9      5.2-6.0
 Mold Count (cfu/g)             <10          < 10
 GC/LC assay                  (mg/g)
 Isobutyric Acid               2.112
 Propionic Acid                0.024
 Acetic Acid                   2.307
Preparation of Blue Cheese Slurry (BM) (Blue Mold)
1.    Previous plating yielded 3.4 billion CFU/g of Penicillium roqueforti in the blue cheese.
2.    Add 1 g Blue Cheese into 9 ml Sodium Citrate (2.0%) buffer (1/10 dilution).
                                               72

    WO 2014/145828                                                       PCT/US2014/030657
3.   Make one dilution (1/10) and 3 serial dilutions of 0.1 ml into 9.9 ml Sodium Citrate
     buffer.
4.   Plate 0.2 ml on each sample and control "C" and "D".
5.   BM calculation to equate 6.8 CFU/sample.
Experiment:
1.   Place 100 g of EMC CH as Negative Control "Aa" in white cups and "Ab" in sterile
     cups.
2.   Place 99 g of EMC CH as Negative Control "B" with 1 ml FF#2 (1.0%) in white cup.
3.   Place 100 g of EMC CH with 0.2 ml BM on the top surface as Positive Control "C" in
     white cup.
4.   Place 100 g of EMC CH with 0.2 ml BM mixed within as Positive Control "D" in white
     cup.
5.   Test white cups "E" will have 1 ml FF#2 (1.0 %) in 99 g EMC CH with 0.2 ml BM
     inoculated on the top surface.
6.   Test white cups "F" will have 1 ml FF#2 (1.0%) in 99 g EMC CH with 0.2 ml BM
     inoculated within product.
7.   Number and label white test cups.
8.   Incubate at 250 C for 12 weeks (84 days).
9.   Sample one test cup for initial pH, TA and mold count.
10.  Test mold counts using PDA (Potato Dextrose Agar w/ 1%Tartaric Acid) on weeks 2, 4,
     8, and 12.
11.  Sample final pH and TA at 12 weeks.
12.  Record Results.
13.  Obtain a GC/MS assay of Sample A and B to compare FF#2 chemical effects in
     product.
                                                                           EMC CH       EMC CH
                    EMC CH        EMC CH       EMC CH        EMC CH         1% FF2       1% FF2
                    + Control     1% FF#2        BM top       BM mix        BM top       BM mix
 Sample Test           "A"           "B"          "C"t           "D"          "E"          "6F
 Week 1, Day7        Aa/Ab-1          BI           Cl             D1           El          Fl
 Week 2, Day                                                                               F2
  14                 Aa/Ab-2          B2           C2             D2           E2
 Week 4, Day                                                                               F3
 28                  Aa/Ab-3          B3           C3             D3           E3
                                           73

    WO 2014/145828                                  PCT/US2014/030657
 Week 8, Day                                                          F4
 56                Aa/Ab-4  B4       C4          D4       E4
 Week 12, Day                                                         F5
 84                Aa/Ab-5  B5       C5          D5       E5
RESULTS:
                                         Visible    Mold
                                          Mold      Count
 Test Cup               pH      TA      (Yes/No)    cfu/g
 Aal-initial           6.08    19.68       no        <10
 Aal-day7                                  no         na
 Aa2-day14                                yes
 Aa3-day28                                 yes
 Aa4-day56
 Aa5-day84
 AbI-initial           5.96    19.81       no        <10
 Abl-day7                                  no        NA
 Ab2-day14                                 no
 Ab3-day28                                yes
 Ab4-day56
 Ab5-day84
 BI-initial            5.71     23.7       no        <10
 B1-day7                                   no        NA
 B2-dayl4                                  no
 B3-day28                                   no
 B4-day56
 B5-day84
 Cl-initial            6.03    20.88       no        6.8
 C1-day7                                   no        NA
 C2-dayl4                                  no
 C3-day28                                  no
 C4-day56
 C5-day84
 DI-initial            5.92    20.61       no        6.8
 D1-day7                                   no        NA
 D2-dayl4                                  no
 D3-day28                                  no
 D4-day56
 D5-day84
 E l-initial           5.63     20.3       no        6.8
 El-day7                                   no        NA
 E2-dayl4                                  no
 E3-day28                                   no
 E4-day56
 E5-day84
                                 74

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
 Fl-initial                5.53               19.1            no              6.8
 F1-day7                                                      no              NA
 F2-day14                                                     no
 F3-day28                                                      no
 F4-day56
 F5-day84
                                          Example 60b
         [0216]     Purpose: Determine if FF#2 will inhibit mold in a Lipolyzed cream
product (LC) which is susceptible to mold growth due to its high pH and low TA. Procedure:
Prepare FF#2, obtain Lipolyzed cream product without potassium sorbate, and prepare a Blue
Cheese Slurry as a source of mold spores to deliver 1-10 CFU/100 gram sample. Test
efficacy of FF#2.
Preparation of FF#2:
1.    Prepare a 4 M (Molar) solution of Potassium Isobutyrate (K-IB) by adding 394.92 g
      Isobutyric Acid and 498.76 g of 45% KOH (Potassium Hydroxide) to a 1-L volumetric
      flask.
2.    Add deioinized water to bring volume up to 1 L.
3.    Temper to room temperature and readjust volume.
4.    Measure pH=8.11
5.    Weigh all ingredients in the percentages in the table below, including: 4 M Potassium
      Isobutyrate, propionic acid, acetic acid, and citric acid to prepare the final FF#2.
FF#2 is comprised of potassium isobutyrate, propionic acid, acetic acid and citric acid.
It has a pH of 5.39.
 Ingredient                     %        grams
 K-IBA (4 M)                  67.0         16.75
 Propionic Acid               20.0           5.00
 Acetic Acid                  10.0           2.50
 Citric Acid                   3.0           0.75
                             100.0         25.00
Lipolyzed Cream product (LC)[Production Lot# 140205]:
 Specifications                  LC        Target
 % Moisture                    54.61       54-59
 % Fat                          38.5       34 - 39
 TA (Titratable acidity)         8.5        9 - 13
 pH                             4.41      4.2-5.2
 Mold Count (cfu/g)             <10          < 10
                                               75

    WO 2014/145828                                                       PCT/US2014/030657
 GC/LC assay                 (mg/g)
 Isobutyric Acid              0.07
 Propionic Acid               0.00
 Acetic Acid                  0.20
Preparation of Blue Cheese Slurry (BM) (Blue Mold)
1.   Previous plating yielded 3.4 billion CFU/g of Penicillium roqueforti in the blue cheese.
2.   Add 1 g Blue Cheese into 9 ml Sodium Citrate (2.0%) buffer (1/10 dilution).
3.   Make one dilution (1/10) and 3 serial dilutions of 0.1 ml into 9.9 ml Sodium Citrate
     buffer.
4.   Plate 0.2 ml on each sample and control "C" and "D".
5.   BM calculation to equate 6.8 CFU/sample.
Experiment:
1.   Place 100 g of LC as Negative Control "Aa" in white cups and "Ab" in sterile cups.
2.   Place 99 g of LC as Negative Control "B" with 1 ml FF#2 (1.0%) in white cup.
3.   Place 100 g of LC with 0.2 ml BM on the top surface as Positive Control "C" in white
     cup.
4.   Place 100 g of LC with 0.2 ml BM mixed within as Positive Control "D" in white cup.
5.   Test white cups "E" will have 1 ml FF#2 (1.0 %) in 99 g LC with 0.2 ml BM inoculated
     on the top surface.
6.   Test white cups "F" will have 1 ml FF#2 (1.0%) in 99 g LC with 0.2 ml BM inoculated
     within product.
7.   Number and label white test cups.
8.   Incubate at 250 C for 12 weeks (84 days).
9.   Sample one test cup for initial pH, TA and mold count.
10.  Test mold counts using PDA (Potato Dextrose Agar w/ 1%Tartaric Acid) on weeks 2, 4,
     8, and 12.
11.  Sample final pH and TA at 12 weeks.
12.  Record Results.
13.  Obtain a GC/MS assay of Sample A and B to compare FF#2 chemical effects in
     product.
                                           76

    WO 2014/145828                                         PCT/US2014/030657
                                                                 LC          LC
                      LC       LC        LC           LC      1% FF2      1% FF2
                   + Control 1% FF#2    BM top      BM mix    BM top      BM mix
 Sample Test          "A"      "B"       "C1          "D"       "E"          "F
 Week 1, Day7       Aa/Ab-1     BI        C1           D1        El          F1
 Week 2, Day 14     Aa/Ab-2     B2        C2           D2        E2          F2
 Week 4, Day 28     Aa/Ab-3     B3        C3           D3        E3          F3
 Week 8, Day 56     Aa/Ab-4     B4        C4           D4        E4          F4
 Week 12, Day                                                                F5
 84                 Aa/Ab-5     B5        C5           D5        E5
RESULTS:
                                              Visible      Mold
                                               Mold        Count
 Test Cup                pH         TA       (Yes/No)      cfu/g
 Aal-initial            4.55       9.73         no          <10
 Aal-day7                                       no           na
 Aa2-day14                                      no
 Aa3-day28                                      yes
 Aa4-day56
 Aa5-day84
 Abl-initial            4.49        9.8         no          <10
 Abl-day7                                       no          NA
 Ab2-day14                                      yes
 Ab3-day28                                     yes
 Ab4-day56
 Ab5-day84
 BI-initial             4.66       9.79         no          <10
 B1-day7                                        no          NA
 B2-day14                                       no
 B3-day28                                        no
 B4-day56
 B5-day84
 Cl-initial             4.58       9.53         no          6.8
 C1-day7                                        no          NA
 C2-day14                                       yes
 C3-day28                                      yes
 C4-day56
 C5-day84
 DI-initial             4.64       9.37         no          6.8
 D1-day7                                        no          NA
 D2-day14                                       no
 D3-day28                                       no
 D4-day56
 D5-day84
 E l-initial            4.67         10         no          6.8
                                     77

    WO 2014/145828                                                        PCT/US2014/030657
 E l-day7                                                      no          NA
 E2-dayl4                                                      no
 E3-day28                                                      no
 E4-day56
 E5-day84
 Fl-initial                 4.72             10.74             no          6.8
 F1-day7                                                       no          NA
 F2-dayl4                                                      no
 F3-day28                                                      no
 F4-day56
 F5-day84
         [0217]     As shown by the results of Examples 60a-b, a representative composition
of this invention can be used to effectively inhibit mold growth in otherwise susceptible dairy
food products.
                                           Example 61
         [0218]     The composition of Examples 60a-b (FF#2) was tested against
representative strains of fungi and bacteria. The composition was placed in a micro cup in
the center of a potato dextrose agar plate with small plugs of inoculum spaced around the
center well micro cup at 2 cm. The cup contained the amounts of the composition as
indicated in Table 16. The plates were incubated for 24 hours at ambient temperature and
measured. Measurements were made on a control plate and the amount of inhibition
expressed for the composition is presented as the amount of growth versus control plate
growth (without composition). The percent inhibition results were calculated after a
minimum of two measurements for each test organism were completed.
Table 16.
       Test Organism           6 gi in Micro cup    12.5 gl in Micro cup   25 gl in Micro cup
                                 % inhibition           % inhibition          % inhibition
Rhizoctonia solani                      66                    80                   100
Phytophthoracinnamomi                   73                    100                  100
Verticillum dahliae                     40                    80                   100
Sclerotiorum sclerotiorum               19                    60                   100
Penicillum sp.                          15                    10                   100
Aspergillus fumigatus                   80                    80                   100
Fusarium solani                         45                    63                   100
Pythium ultimum                       N.D.                    100                  100
Bortytis cinerea                      N.D.                    50                    95
E.coli                                N.D.                  Trace                  100
Bacillus subtilus                      N.D                  Trace                 Trace
                                              78

   WO 2014/145828                                                             PCT/US2014/030657
         [0219]       As a further test against the same fungi and bacteria, the composition was
placed directly as a droplet at the center of a potato dextrose agar plate with small plugs of
inoculum spaced around the center at 2 cm increments. The plates were incubated for 24
hours at ambient temperature and measured. The amount of composition applied is indicated
in Table 17. Measurements were made on a control plate and test plates. The amount of
inhibition expressed for the composition is presented as the amount of growth versus the
control plate growth.
Table 17.
       Test Organism                6 l on agar          12.5 sl on agar
                                    % inhibition           % inhibition
Rhizoctonia solani                       100                    100
Phytophthoracinnamomi                     52                    78
Verticillum dahliae                        0                     0
Sclerotiorum sclerotiorum                  0                    64
Penicillum sp.                             0                    33
Aspergillusfumigatus                      30                    60
Fusarium solani                            0                    32
Pythium ultimum                          100                    100
Bortytis cinerea                          0.                    50
E.coli                                  N.D.                No growth
Bacillus subtilus                        N.D                  Trace
N.D. = not determined
The bacteria controls grew well and the "trace" statement indicates some growth
occurred relative to the control.
         [0220]       The results of this example show that the composition is active in the gas
phase, as all organisms, at one or all concentrations were affected during the course of at least
24 hours. At 25 pl, the effect was maximized since most organisms were 100% inhibited
(Table 16). When the composition was placed directly in the middle of the plate on the
surface, the influence of the composition was somewhat diminished, as there was
undoubtedly diffusion into the agar bed. Nevertheless, antimicrobial activity was observed
(Table 17). The higher concentration (12.5 ul) affected both test bacteria and fungi more than
the lower dosage (6 ul) on the agar bed, except for Verticillum.
                                                 79

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
We Claim:
        1.      An article comprising a solid carrier component; and a volatile composition
incorporated therewith, said composition comprising propanoic acid; and a component
selected from a C2 - about C5 acid ester, an aldehyde and combinations thereof.
        2.      The article of claim 1 wherein said composition comprises a said acid ester
component, said ester selected from acetic acid esters and isobutyric acid esters and
combinations thereof.
        3.      The article of claim 2 wherein said acid ester is isobutyl isobutyrate.
        4.      The article of claim 1 wherein said composition comprises a C2 - about CS
aldehyde component.
        5.      The article of claim 4 wherein said aldehyde is benzaldehyde.
        6.      The article of claim 1 wherein said carrier component comprises a clay.
        7.      The article of claim 6 wherein said clay comprises a bentonite clay.
        8.      The article of claim 7 wherein said composition comprises a rhamnolipid
component.
        9.      An article comprising a solid carrier component; and a volatile composition
incorporated therewith, said composition comprising propanoic acid and a C2 - about C5 acid
ester comprising at least one of an alkylcarbonyl group, RC(O)-, comprising an isopropyl
moiety, and an alkoxy group, -OR', comprising an isopropyl moiety.
        10.     The article of claim 9 wherein said acid ester is selected from isoamyl acetate,
isobutyl isobutyrate and a combination thereof.
        11.     The article of claim 10 wherein said acid ester is isobutyl isobutyrate.
        12.     The article of claim 11 wherein said composition consists of propanoic acid
and isobutyl isobutyrate.
        13.     The article of claim 10 wherein said acid ester is isoamyl acetate.
        14.     The article of claim 13 wherein said composition consists of propanoic acid,
isoamyl acetate and benzaldehyde.
        15.     The article of claim 9 wherein said composition comprises a rhamnolipid
component.
        16.     The article of claim 9 wherein said carrier component comprises a clay.
        17.     The article of claim 16 wherein said clay is a bentonite clay.
        18.     The article of claim 17 wherein said acid ester is selected from isoamyl
acetate, isobutyl isobutyrate and a combination thereof.
                                             80

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
         19.     The article of claim 18 wherein said composition is selected from the
compositions of claims 12 and 14, and a combination of said compositions.
        20.      An article comprising a solid carrier component comprising a bentonite clay;
and a composition incorporated therewith, said composition selected from a composition
consisting essentially of propanoic acid and isobutyl isobutyrate, and a composition
consisting essentially of propanoic acid, isoamyl acetate and benzaldehyde.
        21.      An article comprising granules of a solid carrier component; and a
composition incorporated therewith, said composition comprising a C2 - about C5 acid
component; at least one C2 - about C5 component isolatable from a volatile by-product of an
isolated culture of Muscodor crispans grown on potato dextrose agar; and a component
selected from at least one C2 - about Cs acid ester, an aldehyde and combinations thereof, said
granules in a vapor-permeable enclosure.
        22.      The article of claim 21 wherein said acid component is propanoic acid.
        23.      The article of claim 22 wherein said composition comprises a said acid ester
component, said ester selected from acetic acid esters and isobutyric acid esters and
combinations thereof.
        24.      The article of claim 23 wherein said composition comprises a C2 - about CS
aldehyde component.
        25.      The article of claim 21 wherein said solid carrier component comprises a clay.
        26.      The article of claim 21 wherein said enclosure is a flexible bag.
        27.      The article of claim 21 wherein said composition is selected from a
composition consisting essentially of propanoic acid and isobutyl isobutyrate, and a
composition consisting essentially of propanoic acid, isoamyl acetate and benzaldehyde.
        28.      The article of claim 27 wherein said carrier component is a bentonite clay.
        29.      The article of claim 28 wherein said composition is about 1.0 wt. % to about
3.0 wt. % of said article.
        30.      The article of claim 28 in a flexible bag comprising a mesh material.
        31.      The article of claim 30 in a container with a perishable food item.
        32.      A method of affecting microbial activity, said method comprising providing
an article of claim 21 and contacting the vapor of a composition of said article with at least
one of a microbe and a food item capable of supporting microbial activity, said composition
in an amount sufficient to affect microbial activity.
        33.      The method of claim 32 wherein said food item comprises post-harvest
produce, said produce and article in a container.
                                               81

    WO 2014/145828                                                           PCT/US2014/030657
        34.     The method of claim 33 wherein said produce is introduced to a said container
at a point along the supply chain for said produce.
        35.     The method of claim 34 wherein said introduction is selected from a point of
harvest, a point of processing, a point of wholesale distribution, a point of retail sale, and
combinations thereof.
        36.     The method of claim 32 wherein said acid component of said composition
comprises propanoic acid.
        37.     The method of claim 36 wherein said composition comprises a said acid ester
component, said ester selected from acetic acid esters and isobutyric acid esters and
combinations thereof.
        38.     The method of claim 37 wherein said composition comprises an acid ester
component selected from isobutyl isobutyrate, isoamyl acetate and a combination thereof.
        39.     The method of claim 38 wherein said antimicrobial composition comprises a
C2 - about Cs aldehyde.
        40.     The method of claim 39 wherein said aldehyde is benzaldehyde.
        41.     The method of claim 38 wherein said food item comprises post-harvest
produce, said produce and article in a container.
        42.     A composition comprising propanoic acid; and a component selected from a
C2 - about C5 acid ester, an aldehyde and combinations thereof.
        43.     The composition of claim 42 wherein said acid ester component is selected
from acetic acid esters, isobutyric acid esters and combinations thereof.
        44.     The composition of claim 43 wherein said acid ester is selected from isoamyl
acetate and isobutyl isobutyrate.
        45.     The composition of claim 44 comprising isoamyl acetate and benzaldehyde.
        46.     A composition comprising a propanoic acid component; and a component
selected from a C4 -C6 acid salt component, a C 2 _C  5 acid ester component, a C2-C8 aldehyde
component and combinations thereof.
        47.     The composition of claim 46 wherein a said acid salt component is selected
from salts of isobutyric acid, salts of citric acid and combinations thereof.
        48.     The composition of claim 47 wherein said acid salt component is selected
from salts of isobutyric acid and combinations thereof.
        49.     The composition of claim 48 wherein said salt is selected from potassium and
ammonium salts of isobutyric acid.
                                                82

    WO 2014/145828                                                          PCT/US2014/030657
         50.     The composition of claim 46 wherein said ester component is selected from
esters of a C 4 acid and combinations thereof.
         51.     The composition of claim 46 wherein said aldehyde component is
benzaldehyde.
         52.     The composition of claim 46 comprising a C2 -C6 acid component in addition
to said propanoic acid component.
         53.     The composition of claim 52 wherein said acid component is selected from
acetic acid, isobutyric acid, citric acid and combinations thereof.
         54.     The composition of claim 46 comprising propanoic acid and at least one C 4
acid salt.
         55.     The composition of claim 54 wherein said acid salt is selected from potassium
and ammonium salts of isobutyric acid.
         56.     The composition of claim 55 comprising an acid component in addition to said
propanoic acid, said additional acid component selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid,
citric acid and combinations thereof.
         57.     The composition of claim 46 comprising propanoic acid and at least one C2-Cs
acid ester component.
         58.     The composition of claim 57 comprising at least one C 4 acid ester.
         59.     The composition of claim 57 comprising an acid component in addition to said
propanoic acid, said additional acid component selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid,
citric acid and combinations thereof.
         60.     A composition comprising propanoic acid and at least one C4 -C6 acid salt
component.
         61.     The composition of claim 60 wherein said acid salt component is selected
from salts of isobutyric acid, salts of citric acid and combinations thereof.
         62.     The composition of claim 61 wherein said acid salt component is a salt of
isobutyric acid.
         63.     The composition of claim 62 wherein said acid salt component is selected
from potassium and ammonium salts of isobutyric acid.
         64.     The composition of claim 60 comprising an acid component in addition to the
said propanoic acid, said additional acid component selected from C2 _C6 acids and
combinations thereof.
         65.     The composition of claim 64 wherein said additional acid component is
selected from acetic acid, isobutyric acid, citric acid and combinations thereof.
                                                83

   WO 2014/145828                                                            PCT/US2014/030657
        66.     The composition of claim 65 selected from a composition consisting
essentially of propanoic acid and a salt of isobutyric acid; and a composition consisting
essentially of propanoic acid, a salt of isobutyric acid and at least one of acetic acid and citric
acid.
        67.     An article of manufacture comprising a composition selected from
compositions of claim 46, compositions of claim 60 and combinations of said compositions.
        68.     The article of claim 67 selected from a human food product, an animal food
product, a packaging product and a solid carrier component.
        69.     The article of claim 68 wherein said solid carrier comprises a clay.
        70.     The article of claim 68 wherein said human food product is selected from
processed foods.
        71.     The article of claim 70 selected from dairy products.
                                              84

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
