H:\Kzh\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KZH\15953658_1.doex-03/11/2017
                                                              ABSTRACT
Depressants comprising one or more types of polysaccharides comprising one or more types
of pentosan units are provided. Also disclosed are processes for enriching a desired mineral
from an ore comprising the desired mineral and gangue, wherein the process comprises
carrying out a flotation process in the presence of one or more collecting agents and one or
more of the depressants.

   Documnt3-03//2017
                          DEPRESSANTS FOR MINERAL ORE FLOTATION
                               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
                [0000] The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/708,222, filed October 1, 2012. This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
 5 2013327553, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                               FIELD OF THE ART
                [0001] The present disclosure generally relates to depressants for use in mineral ore
   flotation processes.
                                                 BACKGROUND
10              [0002] In the processing of mineral-containing ores, it is necessary to separate
   undesirable minerals known as gangue (e.g. A120 3 , SiO 2 and TiO 2 ) from the desired minerals
   in ore (e.g. iron ore). One method of accomplishing this goal is to depress the flotation of a
   particular mineral during the normal flotation process. In mineral flotation systems, it is
   common to depress the gangue materials while floating the desirable mineral or minerals. In
15 differential or reverse flotation systems, it is common to depress the desired mineral or
   minerals while floating the gangue. Depression is conventionally accomplished by the use of
   one or more depressing agents (also known as depressants) during the flotation step. The
   depressant, when added to the flotation system, exerts a specific action on the material to be
   depressed thereby preventing it from floating. The ability of the depressant to facilitate such
20 separation is referred to as its selectivity, i.e. a more selective depressant achieves better
   separation of the gangue from the desired minerals.
                [0003] In a typical ore flotation scheme, the ore is ground to a size sufficiently small to
   liberate the desired mineral or minerals from the gangue. An additional step in the flotation
   process involves the removal of the ultra-fine particles by desliming. Ultra-fine particles are
25 generally defined as those less than 5 to 10 microns in diameter. The desliming process may
   be accompanied by or followed by a flocculation step or some other type of settling step such
   as the use of a cyclone separating device. This step is followed by a flotation step wherein
   gangue materials are separated from the desired mineral or minerals in the presence of
   collectors and/or frothers.
30              [0004] It has been conventional in many flotation systems to use naturally derived
   substances such as starches, dextrins and gums as depressants. In some countries, there is a
   prohibition against using substances such as starch which have food value in this type of

  WO 2014/055502                                                          PCT/US2013/062847
commercial application.
        [0005] Starch, or causticized starch, is commonly used as a depressant in reverse
iron ore flotation processes. Native starch is typically digested with sodium hydroxide or
boiling water before use in such applications, see for example Tang et al. "The Acidity of
Caustic Digested Starch and Its Role in Starch Adsorption on Mineral Surfaces"
InternationalJournal of Mineral Processing (2012), doi: 10.101 6/j.minpro.2012.06.001.
Starch produces relatively small but robust flocs which can be further upgraded by
washing.
        [0006] Large quantities of starch are consumed as a result of its use as a depressant
in flotation processes. For example, Brazilian iron ore pellet feed production in 2010 was
approximately 73,000,000 Tons, which consumed approximately 50,000 Tons of starch as
the depressant. Depressant consumption is expected to increase at least 4-fold by 2017.
                                       BRIEF SUMMARY
        [0007] Depressants comprising one or more types of polysaccharides comprising
one or more types of pentosan units, and compositions comprising the depressants and a
solvent, are provided. Also disclosed herein are processes for enriching a desired mineral
from an ore comprising the desired mineral and gangue, wherein the process comprises
carrying out a flotation process in the presence of one or more collecting agents and one or
more of the depressants.
        [0008] The disclosure may be understood more readily by reference to the
following detailed description of the various features of the disclosure and the examples
included therein.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
        [0009] Figure 1 is graph of the iron and silicate content in the fraction concentrate
for processes using an exemplary depressant (KEMXMC) and starch.
        [0010] Figure 2 is a graph of which shows the correlation of iron and silicate in the
fraction concentrate.
        [0011] Figure 3 shows the effect of the depressant amount on the metallurgic
recovery for KEMXMC and starch.
        [0012] Figure 4 shows the effect of the collector amount on the metallurgic
recovery for KEMXMC and starch.
                                              2

  WO 2014/055502                                                          PCT/US2013/062847
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0013] According to the various exemplary         embodiments described herein,
depressants and related compositions and processes may be used to process mineral
containing ore to separate gangue from desired minerals. Exemplary depressants comprise
one or more types of polysaccharides comprising one or more types of pentosan units. The
depressants, compositions and processes may provide improved selectivity compared to
other depressants such as starch or causticized starch. In particular, the depressants may
provide increased flotation process selectivity, decreased collector consumption, decreased
sodium hydroxide consumption, and/or decreased landfill, as compared to starch-based
depressants. The exemplary depressants also offer an advantage over starch-based
depressants because they do not have food value. In exemplary embodiments, the
depressants may be provided in a form which renders them easier to dilute and/or directly
apply, for example in gel form.
         [0014] Definitions
         [0015] As used herein, a "depressant" refers to an agent that depresses the flotation
of the desired minerals in preference to depressing the flotation of the associated gangue.
         [0016] As used herein, the "desired minerals" refers to minerals which have value
and may be extracted from ore which contains the desired mineral and gangue. Examples
of desired minerals include iron powder, hematite, magnetite, pyrite, chromite, goethite,
marcasite, limonite, pyrrohotite or any other iron-containing minerals.
         [0017] As used herein, "gangue" refers to the undesirable minerals in a material
that contains both undesirable and desired minerals, for example an ore deposit. Such
undesirable minerals may include oxides of aluminum, silica (e.g. quartz), titanium, sulfur
and alkaline earth metals. In certain embodiments, the gangue includes oxides of silica,
silicates or siliceous materials.
         [0018] As used herein, the term "polysaccharide" refers to carbohydrate molecules
of repeated monomer (monosaccharide) units joined together by glycosidic bonds. The
polysaccharide may vary in structure, for example, may be linear or branched. The
molecules may contain slight modifications of the repeating unit. Monosaccharides are
generally aldehydes or ketones with two or more hydroxyl groups. A polysaccharide
containing a single type of monosaccharide unit is referred to as a homopolysaccharide,
while a polysaccharide containing more than one type of monosaccharide unit is referred
to as a heteropolysaccharide. Polysaccharides are generally considered to contain ten or
                                              3

  WO 2014/055502                                                         PCT/US2013/062847
more monosaccharide units, while the term "oligosaccharide" is generally used to refer to
the polymers containing a small number, e.g. two to ten, of monosaccharide units.
         [0019] As used herein, the term "starch" refers to a carbohydrate consisting of a
large number of glucose units joined by glycosidic bonds. It is well established that starch
polymer consists mainly of two fractions, amylose and amylopectin, which vary with the
source of starch. The amylose having a low molecular weight contains one end group per
200 - 300 anhydroglucose units. Amylopectin is of higher molecular weight and consists
of more, than 5,000 anhydroglucose units with one end group for every 20 - 30 glucose
units. While amylose is a linear polymer having a 1->4 carbon linkage, amylopectin is a
highly branched polymer with a 1->4 and a 1->6 carbon linkages at the branch points.
         [0020] As used herein, "ore" refers to rocks and deposits from which the desired
minerals can be extracted. Other sources of the desired minerals may be included in the
definition of "ore" depending on the identity of the desired mineral. The ore may contain
undesirable minerals or materials, also referred to herein as gangue.
         [0021] As used herein, "iron ore" refers to rocks, minerals and other sources of
iron from which metallic iron can be extracted. The ores are usually rich in iron oxides and
vary in color from dark grey, bright yellow, deep purple, to rusty red. The iron itself is
usually found in the form of magnetite (Fe 30 4), hematite (Fe 2 0 3 ), goethite (FeO(OH)),
limonite (FeO(OH).n(H 2 0)), siderite (FeCO 3) or pyrite (FeS 2). Taconite is an iron-bearing
sedimentary rock in which the iron minerals are interlayered with quartz, chert, or
carbonate. Itabirite, also known as banded-quartz hematite and hematite schist, is an iron
and quartz formation in which the iron is present as thin layers of hematite, magnetite, or
martite. Any of these types of iron are suitable for use in processes described herein. In
exemplary embodiments, the iron ore is substantially magnetite, hematite, taconite or
itabirite. In exemplary embodiments, the iron ore is substantially pyrite. In exemplary
embodiments, the iron ore is contaminated with gangue materials, for example oxides of
aluminum, silica or titanium. In exemplary embodiments, the iron ore is contaminated
with clay.
         [0022] Depressants
         [0023] The exemplary embodiments include a depressant having one or more
types of polysaccharides comprising one or more types of pentosan units. Exemplary
pentosan units are monosaccharides having five carbon atoms, including, for example,
xylose, ribose, arabinose, and lyxose. In exemplary embodiments, the pentosan unit may
                                              4

  WO 2014/055502                                                       PCT/US2013/062847
be an aldopentose, which has an aldehyde functional group at position 1, such as, for
example, the D- or L- forms of arabinose, ribose, xylose and lyxose.           Exemplary
polysaccharides include, for example, xylan, hemicellulose, and gum arabic. Exemplary
hemicellulose is derived from biomass, for example grasses and wood, such as hardwood.
In exemplary embodiments, the hemicellulose may contain mixtures of xylose, arabinose,
mannose and galactose. Exemplary gum arabic may contain arabinose and ribose. In
exemplary embodiments, the one or more types of pentosan units comprises xylan units
and one or more of hemicellulose and aldopentoses. In exemplary embodiments, the one
or more types of polysaccharides are derived from plant cell walls, for example sugar
cane- or corn-plant cell walls, or algae. In exemplary embodiments, the one or more types
of polysaccharides are derived from sugar cane, fiber cane, or corn. In exemplary
embodiments, the one or more types of polysaccharides are derived from sugar cane
bagasse. In exemplary embodiments, the one or more types of polysaccharides are derived
from corn fiber residue. In exemplary embodiments, the depressant may be a blend or a
mixture of polysaccharides having one or more types of pentosan units. In certain
embodiments, the depressant may consist essentially of polysaccharides comprising one
type of pentosan unit, for example xylan. In certain embodiments, the one or more types of
pentosan units comprise xylan. In exemplary embodiments, a depressant is provided that
includes one or more types of polysaccharides comprising xylan units.
        [0024] In exemplary embodiments, a polysaccharide comprising xylan may be
extracted from plant material or from algae with dilute alkaline solutions. In exemplary
embodiments, the polysaccharide comprising xylan may be extracted from sugar cane
bagasse or corn fiber residue with dilute alkaline solutions.
        [0025] Xylan is an oligosaccharide which could be extracted in the form of 5 to
200 anhydroxylose units consisting of D-xylose units with 1 ->4 linkages.
               H                 H    OH         H             H     OH
                                 HOOH
                       HH-     /OH    H H      HH              OH    H H
               OH  H             H                OH  H       H H_
               H   OH            H                H   OH        H
Xylan oligosaccharide with 5 to 200 anhydroxylose units consisting of D-xylose units with
                                        1 ->4 linkages
                                              5

  WO 2014/055502                                                         PCT/US2013/062847
         [0026] In exemplary embodiments, the polysaccharides comprising one or more
types of pentosan unit may be extracted from the pulping black liquors, from the cold
caustic extraction (CCE) filtrates, and/or from acid pre-hydrolyzes or auto-hydrolyzes
process in order to achieve dissolve pulp grades. Such extractions are described in, for
example, Jayapal et al. Industrial Crops and Products 2012, v. 42, pp. 14-24; Muguet et
al. Holzforschung 2011, v. 65, pp. 605-612; and Gehmayer et al. Biomacromolecules
2012, v. 13, pp. 645-65 1.
         [0027] In exemplary embodiments, the depressants are not substantially digestible
or are not suitable for human consumption. In certain embodiments, the depressants do not
comprise substantial amounts of arabinose or ribose or sources thereof.
         [0028] In exemplary embodiments, the depressant may have any molecular weight
so long as the depressant has the effect of depressing the flotation of the desired minerals
in preference to depressing the flotation of the associated gangue. In exemplary
embodiments, the depressant possesses           essentially no flocculating   properties. In
exemplary embodiments, the molecular weight of the depressant is about 700 to about
50,000; about 700 to about 25,000; or about 700 to about 8000 Daltons. In exemplary
embodiments, the molecular weight of the depressant is about 5 to about 300, about 5 to
about 150, or about 5 to about 50 aldopentose units, for example xylose units.
         [0029] According to the various         exemplary embodiments, the amount of
depressant to be used is that which will depress the flotation of the desired mineral ore or
ores to a necessary or desired extent. The amount of depressant needed will depend, at
least in part, on a number of factors such as the desired mineral and gangue to be separated
and the conditions of the flotation process. In exemplary embodiments, the amount of
depressant used in the flotation process is about 0.01 to about 1.5 kilogram, or about 0.2 to
about 0.7 kg of depressant per metric ton of ore to be floated. In exemplary embodiments,
the specific consumption of depressant in the processes is about 0.01 to about 1.5
kilogram, or about 0.2 to about 0.7 kg of depressant per metric ton of ore to be floated.
         [0030] According to the exemplary embodiments, the depressants may be used
alone, or may be used in a flotation process with other depressants. Other depressants
which may be used in combination with the exemplary depressants include but are not
limited to: starch; starch activated by treatment with alkali; cellulose esters, such as
carboxymethylcellulose and sulphomethylcellulose; cellulose ethers, such as methyl
cellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose and ethyl hydroxyethylcellulose; hydrophilic gums, such
                                              6

  WO 2014/055502                                                           PCT/US2013/062847
as gum arabic, gum karaya, gum tragacanth and gum ghatti, alginates; starch derivatives,
such as carboxymethyl starch and phosphate starch; and combinations thereof.
         [0031] The exemplary depressants are generally useful as depressants in mineral
flotation. In particular, the exemplary depressants are effective in selectively depressing
the flotation of desired mineral(s) as compared to gangue. In certain embodiments, the
exemplary depressants are used to enhance the separation of iron-containing minerals,
such as iron oxides or iron powder, from silicate gangue by differentially depressing the
flotation of the iron-containing minerals relative to that of the silicate gangue. One of the
problems associated with the separation of iron-containing minerals from silicate gangue
is that the iron-containing minerals and silicates both tend to float under certain processing
conditions. The exemplary depressants may be used to change the flotation characteristics
of the iron-containing minerals relative to silicate gangue, to improve the separation
process.
         [0032] According to the various embodiments, the amount of depression may be
quantified. For example, a percent of depression may be calculated by measuring the
weight percent of the particular mineral or gangue floated in the absence of any depressant
and measuring the weight percent of the same mineral or gangue floated in the presence of
a depressant. The latter value is subtracted from the former; the difference is divided by
the weight percent floated without any depressant; and this value is multiplied by 100 to
obtain the percent of depression. In exemplary embodiments, the percent of depression
may be any amount that will provide a necessary or desired amount of separation to enable
separation of the desirable minerals from gangue. In exemplary embodiments, use of the
exemplary depressant causes the flotation of desirable minerals to be depressed by at least
about 5%, about 10%, or about 12%. In exemplary embodiments, use of the depressant
causes the flotation of the gangue to be depressed by less than about 7.5% or about 5%.
         [0033] Compositions
         [0034] In exemplary embodiments, a composition comprises a depressant and a
solvent, wherein the depressant comprises one or more types of polysaccharides
comprising one or more types of pentosan units. Exemplary depressants may be any
depressant according to the embodiments described herein. In exemplary embodiments,
the solvent is water.
         [0035] In exemplary embodiments, the composition is a gel, for example a
polysaccharide gel. In exemplary embodiments, the gel is water-soluble.
                                              7

  WO 2014/055502                                                           PCT/US2013/062847
        [0036] An exemplary composition may be formulated to provide a sufficient
amount of depressant to a flotation process, i.e., an amount sufficient to produce a desired
result.
        [0037] In an exemplary embodiment, the composition may include one or more
other depressants.    In an exemplary embodiment, the composition may include one or
more agents or modifiers.      Examples of such agents or modifiers include, but are not
limited to, frothers, activators, collecting agents, depressants, dispersants, acidic or basic
addition agents, or any other agent known in the art.
        [0038] Processes
        [0039] According to exemplary embodiments, a flotation process may use the
exemplary depressants described herein. As discussed above, flotation is a commonly
used process for separating or concentrating desirable minerals from ore, for example iron
from taconite. Flotation processes take advantage of the differences between the
hydrophobicity of the desired minerals and that of the gangue to achieve separation of
these materials. Such differences can be increased with the use of surfactants and flotation
agents, including but not limited to collecting agents and depressants (also called
depressing agents).
        [0040] Generally, a flotation process may include the steps of grinding crushed
ore, classifying the ground ore in water, treating the classified ore by flotation to
concentrate one or more minerals in the froth while the remainder of the minerals of the
ore remain in the water pulp, and collecting the minerals in the froth and/or pulp. Some of
these steps are described in more detail below.
        [0041] In exemplary embodiments, a flotation process comprises separating the
gangue from the desirable mineral concentrate by floating the gangue in the froth and
recovering the desirable mineral concentrate as the underflow. In other exemplary
embodiments, a flotation process comprises separating the gangue from the desirable
mineral concentrate by inducing the gangue to sink to the bottom of the cell (as
underflow) and recovering the desirable mineral concentrate as the overflow (froth). In
exemplary embodiments, the flotation process comprises separating iron concentrates
from silica and other silaceous materials by flotation of the silica and recovering the iron
concentrate as underflow.
        [0042] In exemplary embodiments, a process for enriching a desired mineral from
an ore having the desired mineral and gangue includes carrying out a flotation process in
                                               8

  WO 2014/055502                                                            PCT/US2013/062847
the presence of one or more collecting agents and one or more depressants. In exemplary
embodiments, at least one of the one or more depressants comprises one or more types of
polysaccharides comprising one or more types of pentosan units. In exemplary
embodiments, at least one of the one or more depressants comprises one or more types of
polysaccharides comprising xylan units.
         [0043] In exemplary embodiments, the desired mineral is an iron-containing
mineral, such as iron oxides or iron powder.
         [0044] In exemplary embodiments, a process for enriching an iron-containing
mineral from an ore having the iron-containing material and silicate-containing gangue,
includes carrying out a flotation process in the presence of one or more collecting agents
and one or more depressants. In exemplary embodiments at least one of the one or more
depressants comprises one or more types of polysaccharides comprising one or more types
of pentosan units. In exemplary embodiments, at least one of the one or more depressants
comprises one or more types of polysaccharides comprising xylan units.
         [0045] In exemplary embodiments, the flotation process is a reverse or inverted
flotation process, for example a reverse cationic flotation process. In such processes, the
flotation of the desired mineral is selectively depressed when compared to the flotation of
the gangue so as to facilitate separation and recovery of the desired mineral.
         [0046] In exemplary embodiments, the flotation process is a direct flotation
process, for example a cationic or anionic flotation process.
         [0047] In certain exemplary embodiments, the one or more depressants are added
in the form of a composition comprising the depressant and a solvent.
         [0048] In exemplary embodiments, the one or more depressants may be added at
any stage of the process prior to the flotation step. In certain embodiments, the one or
more depressants are added before or with the addition of the collecting agents.
         [0049] In an exemplary process, various agents and modifiers may be added to the
ore that is dispersed in water (flotation pulp), and air is introduced into the pulp to form a
froth. The resulting froth contains those materials which are not wetted and have an
affinity for air bubbles. Examples of such agents and modifiers include but are not limited
to frothers, activators, collecting agents, depressants, dispersants, acidic or basic addition
agents, or any other agent known in the art.
         [0050] In exemplary embodiments, a collecting agent or collector may be added to
the flotation pulp. Generally, collecting agents may form a hydrophobic layer on a given
                                               9

  WO 2014/055502                                                           PCT/US2013/062847
mineral surface in the flotation pulp, which facilitates attachment of the hydrophobic
particles to air bubbles and recovery of such particles in the froth product. Any collecting
agent may be used in the exemplary processes. The choice of collector will depend, at
least in part, on the particular ore to be processed and on the type of gangue to be
removed. Suitable collecting agents will be known to those skilled in the art. In exemplary
embodiments, the collecting agents may be compounds comprising anionic groups,
cationic groups or non-ionic groups. In certain embodiments, the collecting agents are
surfactants, i.e. substances containing hydrophilic and hydrophobic groups linked together.
Certain characteristics of the collecting agent may be selected to provide a selectivity and
performance, including solubility, critical micelle concentration and length of carbonic
chain.
         [0051] Exemplary collecting agents include compounds containing oxygen and
nitrogen, for example compounds with amine groups. In exemplary embodiments, the
collecting agents may be selected from the group consisting of: ether amines, for example
primary ether monoamines, and primary ether polyamine; aliphatic Cs-C 2 0 amines for
example aliphatic amines derived from various petroleum, animal and vegetable oils, octyl
amine, decyl amine, dodecyl amine, tetradecyl amine, hexadecyl amine, octadecyl amine,
octadecenyl amine and octadecadienyl amine; quaternary amines for example dodecyl
trimethyl ammonium chloride, coco trimethyl ammonium chloride, and tallow trimethyl
ammonium sulfate; diamines or mixed amines for example tallow amine, hydrogenated
tallow amine, coconut oil or cocoamine, soybean oil or soya-amine, tall oil amine, rosin
amine, tallow diamine, coco diamine, soya diamine or tall oil diamines and the like, and
quaternary ammonium compounds derived from these amines; amido amines and
imidazolines such as those derived from the reaction of an amine and a fatty acid; and
combinations or mixtures thereof. In an exemplary embodiment, the collecting agent is an
ether amine or mixture of ether amines.
         [0052] Exemplary collecting agents may be partially or wholly neutralized by a
mineral or organic acid such as hydrochloric acid or acetic acid. Such neutralization
facilitates dispersibility in water. In the alternative, the amine may be used as a free base
amine by dissolving it in a larger volume of a suitable organic solvent such as kerosene,
pine oil, alcohol, and the like before use. These solvents sometimes have undesirable
effects in flotation such as reducing flotation selectivity or producing uncontrollable
frothing. Although these collecting agents differ in structure, they are similar in that they
                                                 10

  WO 2014/055502                                                           PCT/US2013/062847
ionize in solution to give a positively charged organic ion.
         [0053] According to the exemplary embodiments, the quantity of collecting agent
may vary over a wide range. The amount of collecting agent may depend, at least in part,
upon the gangue content of the ore being processed. For example, ores having higher silica
content may require greater quantities of collecting agents. In exemplary embodiments,
about 0.01 to about 2 lbs., or about 0.1 to about 0.35 lbs., of collecting agent per ton of ore
is used in the process.
         [0054] In exemplary embodiments, one type of collecting agent is used in the
process.     In exemplary embodiments, two or more collecting agents are used in the
process.
         [0055] In exemplary embodiments, one or more frothing agents are used in the
process. Exemplary frothing agents are heteropolar organic compounds which reduce
surface tension by being absorbed at air-water interfaces and thus facilitate formation of
bubbles and froth. Examples of frothing agents are methylisobutyl carbinol; alcohols
having 6-12 carbon atoms which optionally are alkoxylated with ethylene oxide and/or
propylene oxide; pine oil; cresylic acid; various alcohols and soaps. In exemplary
embodiments, about 0.001 to 0.2 lb. of frothing agent per ton of ore are provided.
         [0056] According to an exemplary embodiment, after completion of the flotation, a
gangue-enriched flotate (froth), for example a silicate-enriched flotate, and a bottom
fraction rich in the desired mineral (tailings, underflow), for example iron, are produced.
         [0057] According to the embodiments, one or more steps may be done prior to the
flotation step to prepare the ore for flotation. For example, in one step of the process, the
ore can be ground, together with water, to the desired particle size, for example a particle
size between about 5 and about 200 pim. Optionally, conditioning agents such as sodium
hydroxide and/or sodium silicate may be added to the grinding mill prior to grinding the
crude ore. In exemplary embodiment, sufficient water is added to the grinding mill to
provide a slurry containing approximately 70% solids.
         [0058] In exemplary processes, the ground ore may be deslimed. For example, the
ground ore may be suspended in water, and fine material maybe deslimed, for instance, by
filtration, settling, siphoning or centrifuging. In exemplary embodiments, the desliming
step may be repeated one or more times.
         [0059] In exemplary processes, an ore-water slurry may be prepared from the
deslimed ore, and one or more depressants according to the embodiments may be added to
                                               11

  WO 2014/055502                                                          PCT/US2013/062847
the slurry. In exemplary embodiments, the one or more depressants are added in an
amount of about 10 to about 1500 g per ton of ore. In exemplary embodiments, the ore
water slurry to transferred to a flotation cell and the one or more depressants are added to
the ore water slurry in the flotation cell.
         [0060] In exemplary embodiments, base or alkali may be added to adjust the pH of
the slurry. For example, the slurry may be adjusted to a pH in the range of about 8 to
about 11, or about 9 to about 11, or about 10 to about 11. In certain embodiments, the pH
is adjusted to about 10.5. In exemplary embodiments, the pH of the slurry in the flotation
cell is maintained at between about 8 and about 11 for optimum iron recoveries.
         [0061] According to the embodiments, in one step of the flotation process, one or
more collecting agents may be added, for example after the addition of the one or more
depressants and any other process agents.
         [0062] In exemplary embodiments, once all of the processing agents have been
added, the mixture is further conditioned or agitated for a period of time before the froth
flotation is carried out. If desired, a froth-regulating means can be added on a convenient
occasion before the froth flotation.
         [0063] In exemplary embodiments, the flotation process may be performed in a
plurality of flotation processing steps.        For example, the flotation process may be
performed in flotation units containing a plurality of communicating cells in series, with
the first cell(s) being generally used for the rougher flotation, and subsequent cell(s) being
used for the cleaner flotation. In exemplary embodiments, each flotation cell may be any
flotation equipment, including, for example, the Denver laboratory flotation machine
and/or the Wemco Fagergren laboratory flotation machine, in which the slurry mixture is
agitated and air is injected near the bottom of the cell as desired.
         [0064] In exemplary embodiments, before flotation treatment the ore-water slurry
comprises about 20 to about 40% by weight solids. The duration of the flotation process
depends upon the desired result.         In exemplary embodiments, the time of flotation
treatment may be from about 1 to 10 minutes for each circuit. The time of the flotation
process may depend at least in part upon the gangue content, the grain size of the ore
being treated and the number of flotation cells involved.
         [0065] According to the embodiments, in the rougher flotation treatment, the
gangue may be selectively separated from the ore and removed with the flotation froth.
The desired mineral concentrate from the flotation treatment is removed as the underflow
                                               12

  WO 2014/055502                                                          PCT/US2013/062847
and isolated as the rougher concentrate. In exemplary embodiments, the concentrate of the
desirable mineral in the rougher concentrate is found to contain a sufficiently low quantity
of gangue to be suitable for almost any desired use.
         [0066] In exemplary embodiments, the flotation froth, the rougher concentrate, or
both may be further processed. For example, in exemplary embodiments, the overflow or
froth from the rougher flotation may be advanced to a first cleaner flotation cell where a
second flotation treatment is performed. The underflow from this first cleaning flotation
cell is an mineral concentrate identified as the first cleaner middlings which generally will
contain more gangue than the rougher concentrate but significantly less gangue than the
original crude ore. The overflow frothing from the first cleaning cell may be advanced to a
second cleaning flotation cell where the flotation procedure is repeated and another
mineral concentrate is obtained which is identified as the second cleaner middlings. In
exemplary embodiments, the froth flotation cleaning is repeated one or more times. Any or
all of the cleaner middlings may be combined with a rougher concentrate to provide an
upgraded mineral ore concentrate. The extent to which the rougher concentrate is
combined with the various middling fractions will depend upon the desired mineral
content of the final product derived from the procedure. As an alternative embodiment, the
cleaner middlings may be returned and recycled through the rougher flotation cell to
further upgrade these cleaner middlings.
         [0067] The    depressants,   compositions     and   processes   of the   exemplary
embodiments can be used to provide higher selectivity and desired mineral recoveries as
compared to other depressants when used in cationic flotation processes. In exemplary
embodiments, the mineral concentrate, e.g. hematite concentrate, that is obtained by the
exemplary processes meets the specifications for the steel industry. In exemplary
embodiments, the depressants, compositions and processes can be used to maximize the
iron recovery to increase production of metallic charge per unit ore fed, which may
provide increases in production and profitability.
         [0068] The following examples are presented for illustrative purposes only, and
are not intended to be limiting.
                                         EXAMPLES
         [0069] General Protocol for Flotation Tests
         [0070] Flotation tests described herein were generally performed with iron pulp
samples according to the following procedure:
                                              13

  WO 2014/055502                                                             PCT/US2013/062847
         [0071] 1) The pulp is filtered using a vacuum pump and filtration kit (Kitazato
flask, Buchner funnel and filter paper white ribbon).
         [0072] 2) The volume of liquid filtered is measured and recorded.
         [0073] 3) The filtered liquid is transferred to a bottle suitable for further analysis of
iron by wet chemistry and the silicate was determinate as the mass of insoluble in 3:1
HCl:H 2NO 3 .
         [0074] 4) The solid is weighed in trays and subsequently dried at 105 0C for 24
hours.
         [0075] 5) After cooling, the weight of the solid is recorded.
         [0076] 6) The final solid is put in a bottle suitable for further ICP analysis of iron,
alumina, phosphorous and silicate and particle size distribution. It is then separated for
making the pulp to be used in the flotation test.
         [0077] Using a calibrated pH meter, a make-up water (to keep the level of the
recipient of the flotation cell constant) is prepared by adjusting its pH (for example to pH
 10.5 with NaOH 5% or acetic acid 10%) to a desired value.
         [0078] The collector solution of amine, for example an ether amine (concentration
is, for example, 1 wt %), is prepared as well as the depressant solution (concentration is,
for example, 1 wt %). Preparation of the depressant solution must take into account its
moisture and organic content.
         [0079] The flotation cell (2L) is weighed and the required amount of pulp for
flotation is added as follows: a dry mass of pulp is added, up to its half, completing the
other half with the required quantities of collector and depressant solutions and with
"water" (liquid) filtered from the sample of the pulp received. (Note: the capacity of the
flotation cell is measured up to the height of the blades.) The addition of these materials is
made as follows:
         [0080] 1) The "water" volume needed for sample homogenization is added.
         [0081] 2) The extractor is downloaded up to the limit, switching on the rotation
(950 rpm). The initial pH is measured and recorded.
         [0082] 3) The mass of depressant solution is added in and conditioned and/or
agitated for a period of time, for example 5 minutes, observing the pH. If the pH stabilizes
at a desired value (for example 10.5), no adjustment is needed. Otherwise, pH modifiers
(for example 50% NaOH and/or acetic acid solution 10%) may be added to adjust the pH to
the desired value.
                                                14

  WO 2014/055502                                                             PCT/US2013/062847
          [0083] After the conditioning and/or agitation and if necessary, pH adjustment, the
mass of amine collector solution is added to the recipient vessel and the remaining volume
of the tank is completed with remaining calculated "water" from the sample, for a given
pulp solids %. This mixture is conditioned or agitated for a period of time, for example 1
minute. Collection trays are weighed and their weighs recorded.
          [0084] With the flotation cell and the collection trays put together, maximum
aeration and collecting shovels are switched on, starting to count the timing of flotation
(chosen according to each test). The level of recipient is kept constant by the use of make
up water, already prepared previously with a desired pH, for example a pH of 10.5.
          [0085] At the end of the test, the flotation cell is cleaned taking the necessary care
for no contamination of the materials floated and sunk.
          [0086] The floated (gangue) and sunk (concentrate) materials are collected in the
weighed trays during the time chosen for collection. The samples are subsequently dried at
 105 0 C.
          [0087] The trays containing the float and sunk materials are weighed and recorded.
A quantity of each material is sent for analysis of iron, silica, alumina and phosphorus.
          [0088] Example 1: Flotation Test with High Grade Iron Ore and Exemplary
Depressant Comprising Xylan
          [0089] In this example, flotation tests were conducted on a laboratory scale and the
objective of these tests were to separate the mineral of interest (hematite) from gangue.
The general protocol for flotation tests as described above was used for these experiments.
The depressant used for these experiments was a blend of polysaccharides present in plant
cell walls comprising mainly xylan (labeled KEMXMC) or starch (for example corn or
tapioca starch). In this raw iron ore sample, the values of iron and silicate were 59.7%
(59.61% and 59.88%) and 13.0% (13.43% and 12.66%) respectively.
          [0090] It was observed that the KEMXMC depressant, when used in the flotation
tests, performed comparably or better than starch. At depressant concentrations of less
than 200 g/T, KEMXMC increased iron concentration in the final sample compared to
processes with similar amounts of starch (see Figure 1). Smaller amounts of silicate were
also observed in the samples which were produced by processes utilizing KEMXMC
compared to starch (see Figures 1 and 2). It was also observed that metallurgic recovery
was increased (see Figure 3), and the amount of collector needed was decreased (see
Figure 4) when KEMXMC was used in place of starch in the flotation test.
                                                15

  WO 2014/055502                                                          PCT/US2013/062847
         [0091] Example 2: Flotation Test with High Grade Iron Ore and Exemplary
Depressant Comprising Xylan from Sugar Can Bagasse or Corn Fiber Residue
         [0092] In this example, flotation tests were conducted on a laboratory scale and the
objective of these tests were to separate the mineral of interest (hematite) from gangue.
The depressant used for these experiments was a blend of polysaccharides present in plant
cell walls comprising mainly xylan (labeled KEMXMC) or starch (for example corn or
tapioca starch). The source of the xylan was sugar cane bagasse (ca. 20% over dry base) or
corn fiber residue (ca. 20-30% over dry base). Chemical analysis of the iron ore sample
was by X-ray fluorescence and the results are provided in Table 1.
         [0093] Table 1. Chemical Analysis of High Grade Iron Ore
Substance                                         Weight %
Fe                                                65.1
SiO 2                                             5.24
A1 2 0 3                                          0.87
P                                                 0.03
Mn                                                0.18
TiO2                                              0.14
CaO                                               <0.10
MgO                                               <0.10
         [0094] The general protocol for flotation tests as described above was used for
these experiments. The specific parameters for the experiments are provided in Table 2.
         [0095] Table 2. Flotation Test Parameters for High Grade Iron Ore and Exemplary
Depressants or Starch
Depressant Type                                          Starch        KEMXMC
Depressant Amount                                        700           700
(g/ton)
Collector Amount (g/ton)                                 28            3
pH                                                       10.5          9.5
Time (min)                                               5             5
Agitation (rpm)                                          1100           1100
Fe in Concentrate (wt %)                                 68.2          68.2
SiO 2 in Concentrate (wt %)                              2.53          2.64
                                               16

  WO 2014/055502                                                         PCT/US2013/062847
Fe Recovery (%)                                          97.33         99.96
         [0001] Example 3: Flotation Test with Low Grade Iron Ore and Exemplary
Depressant Comprising Xylan from Sugar Can Bagasse or Corn Fiber Residue
         [0002] In this example, flotation tests were conducted on a laboratory scale and the
objective of these tests were to separate the mineral of interest (hematite) from gangue.
The depressant used for these experiments was a blend of polysaccharides present in plant
cell walls comprising mainly xylan (labeled KEMXMC 1 or KEMXMC2) or starch (for
example corn or tapioca starch). The source of the xylan was sugar cane bagasse (ca. 20%
over dry base) or corn fiber residue (ca. 20-30% over dry base). Chemical analysis of the
iron ore sample was by X-ray fluorescence and the results are provided in Table 3.
         [0003] Table 3. Chemical Analysis of High Grade Iron Ore
Substance                                         Weight %
Fe                                                50.9
SiO 2                                             24.8
A1 2 0 3                                          0.14
P                                                 0.07
Mn                                                0.10
TiO2                                              <0.10
CaO                                               <0.10
MgO                                               <0.10
         [0004] The general protocol for flotation tests as described above was used for
these experiments. The specific parameters for the experiments are provided in Table 4.
         [0005] Table 4. Flotation Test Parameters for Low Grade Iron Ore and Exemplary
Depressants or Starch
Depressant Type                               Starch      KEMXMCl           KEMXMC2
Depressant Amount                             1200        2000               600
(g/ton)
Collector Amount (g/ton)                      32          32                 32
pH                                            10.5        10.5               10.5
Time (min)                                    3           3                  3
Agitation (rpm)                               950         950                950
                                               17

  WO 2014/055502                                                    PCT/US2013/062847
Fe in Concentrate (wt %)                    67.77        67.93         61.60
SiO 2 in Concentrate (wt %)                 1.23         1.26          10.41
Fe Recovery in Concentrate (%)              79.18        92.11         98.22
Fe in Gangue (wt%)                          23.88        13.27         8.17
         [0006] In the preceding procedures, various steps have been described. It will,
however, be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto, and
additional procedures may be implemented, without departing from the broader scope of
the exemplary procedures as set forth in the claims that follow.
                                             18

ll:\Kzh\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\KZII\15953468_l.docx-03 /t12017
                                                               - 19
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.                 A process enhancing the separation of iron containing minerals from a mineral ore,
wherein the process comprises carrying out a flotation process in the presence of one or more
collecting agents and one or more depressants, and wherein at least one of the one or more
depressants comprises one or more types of polysaccharides comprising one or more types of
pentosan units;
                 wherein the one or more types of polysaccharides are derived from corn, corn fiber
residue or com-plant cell walls.
2.                The process of claim 1, wherein the flotation process is a reverse cationic flotation
process.
3.                The process of claim 1, wherein the one or more depressants is added in the form of a
composition comprising the depressant and a solvent.
4.                The process of claim 3, wherein the solvent is water.
5.                The process of claim 1, wherein the process differentially depresses the flotation of the
iron-containing minerals.
6.                The process of claim 1, wherein the process further comprises the steps of(i) grinding
the mineral ore, (ii) classifying the ground ore in water.
7.                The process of claim 6, wherein the process further comprises the steps of (iii) treating
the classified ore by flotation to concentrate one or more minerals in froth while the remainder
of the minerals of the ore remain in water pulp, and (iv) collecting the minerals in the froth
and/or the pulp.
8.                The process of claim 1, wherein the flotation process comprises the steps of treating
the mineral ore by flotation to concentrate one or more minerals in froth while the remainder
of the minerals of the ore remain in water pulp, and collecting the minerals in the froth and/or
the pulp.
9.                The process of claim 1, wherein the flotation process is a reverse or inverted flotation
process.
 10.                The process of claim 1, wherein the flotation process is a direct flotation process.

ll:\Kzh\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\KZII\15953468_l.docx-03 11l2017
                                                               - 20
 11.                The process of claim 7, wherein the process comprises adding the one or more
depressants to the ground ore in water prior to treating the classified ore by flotation.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
