                                             ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a plugging system for use in an acetabular implant, the plugging system
including an aperture surround adapted to be connectably received within or integrally formed around
an aperture in an acetabular implant; and a lid portion comprising a means for receiving a tool,
wherein the lid portion and aperture surround are adapted to be releasably and/or lockingly
connected to each other. Also described are acetabular implants adapted to receive the plugging
systems and methods for their use.

400
         460
                    420
       Fiur 742
                440
    Figure 7/8

                             Improvements to Acetabular Implants
Technical Field
This invention relates to improved bone replacement implants, methods for their use and
the manufacture thereof.
Background of the Invention
Successful placement and attachment of an orthopaedic implant to patient bone is essential
in securing successful patient outcomes for people undergoing bone replacement surgery.
Some of the disadvantages and problems with current techniques are discussed below with
reference to the acetabular region, however such issues are common across all regions
where bone replacements are conducted, including the knee, elbow, shoulder to name a
few.
Typical acetabular augmentation occurs during the process of total hip replacement. During
the augmentation process, an acetabular implant is placed within the patient's acetabulum
and is designed to engage the head of a replacement femoral implant or femoral implant.
Failure or sub-optimal incorporation of the replacement implant is common and may be
associated with one or more design features of implants currently used for an acetabular or
other bone replacement. Such features include the polished surfaces present in common
bone implants that make osseointegration difficult, sub-optimal levels of surface scaffolding
associated with the implant, difficulty in positioning and alignment of the implant, or
structural disadvantages that result in the inability of the surgeon to effectively place,
secure and pack bone graft behind the implant.
It is the object of the present invention to address one or more of these issues to improve
success rates of bone replacement surgeries through improved implant design,
                                                 1

manufacturing methods and/or methods for implant use, or at least to overcome some of
the disadvantages.
Alternatively, it is the object of the present invention to at least provide the public with a
useful choice.
Summary of the Invention
Preferred aspects of the invention are set forth in the appended claims. Particular
embodiments are described below in non-limiting terms.
According to a first embodiment of the invention there is provided an orthopaedic implant,
wherein the implant surface includes an area of integrally formed three dimensional
scaffold on two or more bone apposition surfaces associated with the implant.
In preferred embodiments of the invention, the implant includes three dimensional scaffold
on every bone apposition surface within the implant.
In preferred embodiments, the implant includes one or more flanges and the three
dimensional scaffold is located on one or more implant flange surfaces and/or flange edges
and/or over flange corners.
In further preferred embodiments, the implant includes a hemispherical cup portion,
wherein the outer convex surface of the cup portion includes three dimensional scaffold.
Preferably, the implant is a patient-specific implant.
Preferably, the implant is a femoral implant or an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the implant is a tri-flange acetabular implant including an ischial flange, a
pubic ramus flange and an ilium flange.
Preferably the ischium flange, ilium flange and/or pubic ramus flange include three
dimensional scaffold across substantially all their surfaces.
Alternatively, the ischium flange, ilium flange and/or pubic ramus flange include three
dimensional scaffold on the surface adapted to connect to patient bone.
                                                 2

In further preferred embodiments of the invention there is provided an orthopaedic
implant, wherein the three dimensional scaffold and implant are integrally formed.
More preferably, the implant and three dimensional scaffold are integrally formed using
additive manufacturing technology.
In alternative embodiments, the three dimensional scaffold is applied to the implant
following implant manufacture.
In further preferred embodiments, the three dimensional scaffold is formed using a
modified dodecahedron structure.
In alternative embodiments, the three dimensional scaffold is formed using a trabecular
mesh structure.
In further embodiments the implant includes an open mesh three dimensional scaffold on
selected surface areas on the implant for the ingrowth of soft and hard tissues, wherein the
open mesh scaffold has a unit cell size of between 1.0mm and 3.0mm, and a 200 - 1,000
micron element.
More preferably, the three dimensional scaffold has a unit cell size of between 1.2mm
2.0mm.
Preferably, the three dimensional scaffold has a porosity of between 50% and 80%.
In further preferred embodiments of the invention the area of three dimensional scaffold
further includes an antibacterial coating. This coating may be applied following manufacture
of the implant, or included within the material used for integrally forming the implant
during additive manufacturing.
More preferably, the antibacterial coating is an antibacterial coating including silver.
In more preferred embodiments, the implant includes one or more suture holes.
More preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant and includes one or more suture
holes located on the hemispherical cup of the implant.
More preferably, the implant includes between one and ten suture holes.
                                                3

More preferably, the suture holes are circular or elliptical in shape.
Preferably, the one or more suture holes are located 5 - 40mm from the edge of the
hemispherical cup.
According to a second embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for the
manufacture of a patient-specific orthopaedic implant wherein the implant surface includes
an area of integrally formed three dimensional scaffold on two or more bone apposition
surfaces associated with the implant, the method including the steps of;
    a) extracting patient-specific information regarding a patient's specific bone geometry
        at an augmentation site;
    b) designing a patient-specific implant based on said information, the implant including
        one or more regions of three dimensional scaffold located on one or more bone
        apposition surfaces;
    c) manufacturing implant based on design of step (b) using additive manufacturing
        techniques and wherein the manufacturing includes the step of integrally forming
        the three dimensional scaffold with the implant.
Preferably, the method includes the step of integrally forming three dimensional scaffold on
every bone apposition surface within the implant.
Preferably the method includes the step of forming an implant with one or more flanges,
the three dimensional scaffold integrally formed on one or more implant flange surface
and/or flange edges.
Preferably the method includes the step of integrally forming an implant including a cup
portion, wherein the convex outer surface of the cup portion includes three dimensional
scaffold.
Preferably, the method includes manufacturing a femoral implant or an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the method includes manufacturing a tri-flange acetabular implant
including an ischium flange, a pubic ramus flange and an ilium flange.
                                              4

Preferably the method includes the steps of including three dimensional scaffold
substantially across every surface of the ischium flange, ilium flange and/or pubic ramus
flange.
Alternatively the method includes including three dimensional scaffold on the surfaces
adapted to connect to patient bone.
In further preferred embodiments, the method includes the step of forming three
dimensional scaffold using a substantially dodecahedron structure.
In alternative embodiments, the method includes the step of forming three dimensional
scaffold using a substantially trabecular mesh structure.
In further preferred embodiments, the method further includes the step of forming one or
more suture holes in the implant.
More preferably, when the method includes manufacturing an acetabular implant, the
method includes the step of forming one or more suture holes on the hemispherical cup of
the implant.
In further preferred methods, the method includes the further step of application of an
antibacterial coating, preferably an ion beam silver sputter coating.
Preferably, the additive manufacturing method is electron beam melting (EBM)
manufacturing.
According to a third embodiment of the invention there is provided a bone replacement
implant, wherein the implant surface includes at least one area of three dimensional
scaffold and at least one area of roughened, textured surface.
Preferably, the roughened surface texture is located on substantially all outwardly facing
surfaces of the implant not covered with three dimensional scaffold.
In further preferred embodiments, the bone replacement implant is an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the acetabular implant includes roughened surface texture on
substantially all outwardly facing surfaces of the implant not covered with three
                                                5

dimensional scaffold with the exception of the medial wall of the acetabular rim of the
implant.
More preferably, a portion of the medial wall of the acetabular rim is a polished surface to
allow sliding of tendons across the implant once positioned.
Preferably the implant surface including an area of roughened, textured surface has a
surface roughness Ra value of between substantially 1 and 25Im.
In further preferred embodiments of the invention the area of roughened surface texture
further includes an antibacterial coating. This coating may be applied following manufacture
of the implant, or included within the material used for integrally forming the implant
during additive manufacturing.
More preferably, the antibacterial coating is an antibacterial coating including silver.
In more preferred embodiments, the implant includes one or more suture holes.
More preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant and includes one or more suture
holes located on the hemispherical cup of the implant.
More preferably, the implant includes between one and ten suture holes.
More preferably, the suture holes are circular or elliptical in shape.
Preferably, the one or more suture holes are located 5 - 40mm from the edge of the
hemispherical cup.
According to a fourth embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for the
manufacture of a patient-specific bone replacement implant wherein the implant surface
includes at least one area of three dimensional scaffold and at least one area of roughened,
textured surface the method including the steps of;
    a) extracting patient-specific information regarding a patient's specific bone geometry
        at said implantation site;
     b) designing a patient-specific implant based on said information, the implant including
        one or more regions of three dimensional scaffold and at least one area of
        roughened, textured surface;
                                                6

    c) manufacturing implant based on design of step (b) using additive manufacturing
        techniques and wherein the manufacturing includes the step of integrally forming
        the three dimensional scaffold and textured surface with the implant;
    d) blasting the textured surface and polishing any untextured surface.
Preferably, the method includes the step of integrally forming a roughened, textured
surface on all outwardly facing external surfaces of the implant not covered with three
dimensional scaffold.
In further preferred embodiments, the bone replacement implant formed by the method is
an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the method includes the step of forming roughened surface texture on
substantially all outwardly facing surfaces of the implant not covered with three
dimensional scaffold with the exception of the medial wall of the acetabular rim.
More preferably, the method includes the further step of polishing a portion of the medial
wall of the medial acetabular rim to produce a substantially smooth finish.
Preferably the implant surface including an area of roughened, textured surface has a
surface roughness Ra value of between substantially 1 and 251m.
Preferably the area of smooth finish has a surface Ra value of less than 1.
In further preferred embodiments, the method further includes the step of forming one or
more suture holes in the implant.
More preferably, when the method includes manufacturing an acetabular implant, the
method includes the step of forming one of more suture holes on the ilium flange of the
implant.
In further preferred methods, the method includes the further step of application of an
antibacterial coating, preferably an ion beam silver sputter coating.
Preferably, the additive manufacturing method is electron beam melting (EBM)
manufacturing.
                                                7

According to a fifth embodiment of the invention there is provided a patient-specific bone
replacement implant, wherein the implant includes at least one integrally formed guide
means for facilitating correct alignment of the implant within a patient.
In preferred embodiments of the invention the implant includes one or more integrally
formed guide means adapted to enable correct rotational positioning and one or more
guide means adapted to enable correct linear positioning with respect to a recipient
patient's bone geometry.
Preferably, the guide means is a raised or depressed feature on the implant surface. In
preferred embodiments of the invention the patient-specific bone replacement implant is
an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the implant is a tri-flange acetabular implant including a hemispherical
acetabular cup, an ilium flange, an ischium flange and a pubic ramus flange.
Preferably, the acetabular implant includes a linear orientation marker on the ischium
flange and/or pubic ramus flange of the implant.
Even more preferably, the orientation marker is in the form of a line and is positioned on
the implant so as to lie substantially parallel with the patient's pubic ramus ridge when the
implant is inserted in a correct position within a patient.
In further preferred aspects of the invention the implant includes a guide means in the form
of a projection adapted to engage with patient bone when the implant is correctly seated
within the patient.
More preferably, the projection is adapted to engage with a patient's acetabular notch
when the implant is correctly seated within the patient.
Preferably, the projection is an elongate projection extending outwardly from an upper
region of the acetabular cup between the ischium flange and pubic ramus flange of the
implant.
                                                 8

More preferably, the projection is an elongate projection extending outwardly from an
upper region of the acetabular cup between the ischium flange and pubic ramus flange,
wherein the projection extends at an angle of at least 600 from the external wall of the
acetabular cup.
More preferably, the projection extends at an angle of at least 90" from the external wall of
the acetabular cup.
More preferably, the projection includes a bend or curve.
Preferably, the projection includes a bend or curve of at least substantially 600 or more
along the length of the projection, the bend or curve angling the projection downwards
towards the base of the acetabular cup.
More preferably, the projection includes a bend or curve of substantially 90" or more. In
further embodiments the projection surface includes an area of three dimensional scaffold
or roughened surface area.
More preferably, the three dimensional scaffold is integrally formed with the projection
surface.
In more preferred embodiments, the implant includes one or more suture holes.
More preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant and includes one or more suture
holes located on the hemispherical cup of the implant.
More preferably, the implant includes between one and ten suture holes.
More preferably, the suture holes are circular or elliptical in shape.
Preferably, the one or more suture holes are located 5 - 40mm from the edge of the
hemispherical cup.
According to a sixth embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for the
manufacture of a patient-specific bone replacement implant including at least one integrally
formed guide means for facilitating correct alignment of the implant within a patient, the
method including the steps of;
                                               9

    a) extracting patient-specific information regarding a patient's specific bone geometry
        at a specific implantation site;
     b) designing a patient-specific implant based on said information, the implant including
        one or more guide means for facilitating correct alignment of the implant within a
        patient;
    c) manufacturing implant based on design of step (b) using additive manufacturing
        techniques.
In preferred embodiments of the invention the method of steps b) and c) includes forming a
guide means in the form of a directional indicator.
Preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the implant is a tri-flange acetabular implant including an ilium flange,
ischium flange and pubic ramus flange.
In preferred embodiments of the invention the guide means of steps b) and c) is a linear
orientation marker on the ischium flange and/or pubic ramus flange of the implant.
In further preferred aspects of the invention the guide means of step b) and c) is in the form
of a projection adapted to engage with the acetabular notch when the implant is correctly
placed within the patient.
Preferably, the projection is an elongate projection extending outwardly from an upper
region of the acetabular cup between the ischium flange and pubic ramus flange of the
implant.
In further preferred embodiments, the method further includes the step of forming one or
more suture holes in the implant.
More preferably, when the method includes manufacturing an acetabular implant, the
method includes the step of forming one of more suture holes on the hemispherical
acetabular cup of the implant.
Preferably, the additive manufacturing method is electron beam melting (EBM)
manufacturing.
                                               10

According to a seventh embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for the
placement and orientation of an acetabular implant as described above within a patient, the
method including the steps of;
     a) placing the implant within a prepared patient acetabulum region;
     b) aligning the at least one guide means on the implant with a reference point
        associated with patient bone.
According to a eighth embodiment of the invention there is provided a plugging system for
use within a bone replacement implant, the plugging system including an aperture surround
adapted to be connectably received within an aperture in a bone replacement implant; and
a lid portion, wherein the lid portion and aperture surround are adapted to be releasably
and/or lockingly connected to each other.
Preferably the implant and aperture surround are integrally formed.
Preferably, the lid portion and aperture surround are connectable using a threading
mechanism, interference fit mechanism or lock and key mechanism.
Preferably the lid portion includes three dimensional scaffold on at least a portion of the lid
portion surface.
Alternatively, at least a portion of the aperture surround and/or lid portion includes a rough
surface finish with an Ra of between 1 - 251im.
In one embodiment of the invention the surface of the lid portion may be shaped to fit the
contour of the implant in which the plugging system may be included. For example the
upper surface of the lid portion may be concave, convex or curved to mimic the contours of
the implant in which it is placed.
In further embodiments the lid portion of the plugging system may include a means for
receiving a tool.
More preferably, the lid portion includes a means for receiving a screwdriver, hex key or
other tool suitable for placement and removal of the lid portion.
In more preferred embodiments, the implant includes one or more suture holes.
                                                11

More preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant and includes one or more suture
holes located on the hemispherical cup of the implant.
More preferably, the implant includes between one and ten suture holes.
More preferably, the suture holes are circular or elliptical in shape.
Preferably, the one or more suture holes are located 5 - 40mm from the edge of the
hemispherical cup.
According to a ninth embodiment of the invention there is provided a closure means, the
closure means adapted to cover an aperture and removably attach to the aperture edges in
a bone replacement implant.
Preferably, at least one surface of the closure means includes three dimensional scaffold, or
a roughened surface finish.
Preferably, the closure means includes a removal means to ensure the closure means can be
removed from the implant if necessary.
In one further embodiment the surface of the closure means may be shaped to fit a specific
bone implant in which the closure means may be placed. For example the surface of the lid
portion may be concave, convex or curved to mimic the contours of the implant in which it
is placed.
Preferably, the closure means is adapted to be removably attached to the implant using a
threading mechanism, interference fit mechanism or lock and key mechanism.
According to an tenth embodiment of the invention there is provided a bone replacement
implant, the implant including at least one aperture and a plugging system for said aperture
as described above.
Preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant.
More preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant and the plugging system is located
substantially in the base of the acetabular cup.
                                               12

Even more preferably, the plugging system located in the base of the acetabular cup
includes a concave lid portion to mimic the internal contours of the acetabular cup wall.
In more preferred embodiments, the implant includes one or more suture holes.
More preferably, the implant is an acetabular implant and includes one or more suture
holes located on the hemispherical cup of the implant.
More preferably, the implant includes between one and ten suture holes.
More preferably, the suture holes are circular or elliptical in shape.
Preferably, the one or more suture holes are located 5 - 40mm from the edge of the
hemispherical cup.
According to a eleventh embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for the
placement of bone graft behind a bone replacement implant that has been inserted and
sealed within a patient, the method including the steps of;
    a) selecting a bone replacement implant including an aperture and a plugging system as
        described above;
    b) inserting implant into a patient , positioning and sealing the implant in known
        fashion, with or without the lid portion in position;
    c) once the implant is in position and sealed, removing the lid portion of the plugging
        system within the implant if still in position;
    d) packing bone graft through the aperture surround of the plugging system to an area
        or void behind implant;
    e) replacing lid portion and locking into position to seal off aperture.
According to a twelfth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a bone replacement
implant, wherein the implant includes at least two features selected from;
    a) an area of three dimensional scaffold on two or more bone apposition surfaces
        associated with the implant;
    b) an area of roughened surface texture located on substantially all outwardly facing
        surfaces of the implant not covered with a three dimensional scaffold structure;
                                                13

    c) at least one integrally formed guide means for facilitating correct alignment of the
         implant within a patient; and
    d) an aperture and a plugging system, the plugging system including an aperture
        surround adapted for attachment to the aperture in the bone replacement implant;
        and a lid portion, wherein the lid portion and aperture surround are adapted to be
         releasably and/or lockingly connected to each other.
Preferably, the bone replacement implant is an acetabular implant.
Preferably, feature a) further includes features as described in more detail above in relation
to the first embodiments of the invention.
Preferably, feature b) further includes features as described in more detail above in relation
to the third embodiments of the invention.
Preferably, feature c) further includes features as described in more detail above in relation
to the fifth embodiments of the invention.
Preferably, feature d) further includes features as described in more detail above in relation
to the eighth and tenth embodiments of the invention.
In further embodiments there is provided a method of manufacturing the implant according
to any one of the first, third, fifth, eight and tenth embodiments of the invention using
additive manufacturing.
According to a thirteenth embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for the
manufacture of a patient-specific bone replacement implant wherein the implant surface
includes at least two features selected from;
    a) an area of three dimensional scaffold on two or more bone apposition surfaces
        associated with the implant;
     b) an area of roughened surface texture located on substantially all outwardly facing
        surfaces of the implant not covered with a three dimensional scaffold structure;
    c) integrally formed guide means for facilitating correct alignment of the implant within
        a patient ; and
                                                  14

    d) an aperture adapted to receive a plugging system, the plugging system including an
        aperture surround adapted for attachment to the aperture in the bone replacement
        implant; and a lid portion, wherein the lid portion and aperture surround are
        adapted to be releasably and/or lockingly connected to each other;
wherein the method includes the steps of;
    e) extracting patient-specific information regarding a patient's specific bone geometry
        at said implantation site;
    f) designing a patient-specific implant based on said information in e) and further
        information relating to two or more of features a) - d);
    g) manufacturing implant based on the design of step (f) using additive manufacturing
        techniques.
Preferably, step f) further includes features as described in more detail above in relation to
the second, fourth and sixth embodiments of the invention as discussed in further detail
above.
 Further aspects of the invention, which should be considered in all its novel aspects, will
become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading of the following description which
provides at least one example of a practical application of the invention.
Description of the Drawings
One or more embodiments of the invention will be described below by way of example only
with reference to an acetabular implant or implant, and without intending to be limiting,
with reference to the following drawings, in which;
Figure 1        shows perspective view of an acetabular implant with an integrally formed
                three dimensional scaffold region on all bone apposition surfaces according
                to one preferred embodiment of the invention;
                                               15

Figure 2        shows an acetabular implant with three dimensional scaffold located on the
                undersides of the acetabular cup and the ilium flange in one preferred form
                of the invention;
Figure 3        shows an upper perspective view of an acetabular augment in one
                embodiment of the invention including suture holes in the acetabular cup;
Figure 4        shows a perspective view of an acetabular augment with a roughened
                surface in one preferred form of the invention;
Figure 5        shows a perspective view of an acetabular implant including orientation
                guides according to one preferred embodiment of the invention;
Figure 6        shows a side perspective of the implant shown in Figure 5;
Figure 7        shows a perspective view of an acetabular implant including an aperture and
                plugging system according to one preferred embodiment of the invention;
Figure 8        shows a side cross section of the implant as shown in Figure 7 in one
                preferred embodiment of the invention.
Detailed Description of the Invention
The implant, systems and methods of the present invention are described in further detail
below and with reference to Figures 1 - 8.
The orthopaedic implants described in the current invention may be applied to a range of
bone implants and implants, designed for use in any number of regions in the body and may
also be applied to implants of varying shapes and sizes.
In a preferred aspect of the invention the implants and methods of the present invention
are for use in acetabulum implants. However, this use is not intended to be limiting and as
                                               16

would be understood by a person skilled in the art, the methods, implant and systems
described herein may include a range of implant designs and locations as necessary. The
following description will for exemplary purposes be described in relation to an acetabular
implant and associated methods.
The figures include acetabular implants designed for both left and right hip replacements
and therefore some figures will differ in orientation. For example the implant shown in
Figure 4 is designed for use with a patient's right hip, while Figure 5 is designed for use with
a patient's left hip, therefore the specific flanges are located in different places on each of
these implant diagrams. The description below is intended to be applied to either the left or
the right acetabular region.
A first aspect of the invention is shown with reference to Figure 1 which shows a
perspective view of an acetabular implant 100 with an integrally formed three dimensional
scaffold region identified by crossed contour lines, the three dimensional scaffold located on
regions of desired bone apposition.
Preferred acetabular implants of the present invention are patient-specific implants that
include an acetabular cup portion 110 and three flanges extending from the rim of cup 110.
These flanges are designed to enable fixation of the implant to the surrounding patient
bone, and are typically classified as the ilium flange 120, ischium flange 130 and pubic ramus
flange 140. When fixed to a patient, the flanges connect to the corresponding regions of
patient anatomy, for example the ilium flange 120 contacts and is designed to correspond to
and contour the ilium of the patient. Screw holes 152 are adapted for connecting implant
100 to bone.
In the preferred embodiments as shown in Figure 1, which shows the underside of an
acetabular implant, the three dimensional scaffold region is preferably positioned across all
underside surfaces of the implant to enhance osseointegration of bone to the implant
surface. This includes positioning of three dimensional scaffold underneath the acetabular
cup 110 and on the bases and edges of any support flanges, in particular the ilium flange
120, pubic ramus flange 140 and ischium flange 130.
                                                  17

As seen in Figure 1, the three dimensional scaffold forms a continuous surface over the
underside of the acetabular cup 110 and flanges 120, 130 and 140 with no breaks or regions
of polished metal surface. This continuous surface allows for maximum osseointegration of
bone with the implant surface. In some preferred embodiments, the scaffold region extends
over the lip 150 of the flanges to further improve osseointegration at this region.
When applied to an acetabular implant, the three dimensional scaffold on the under surface
and the edges of the flanges 120, 130 and 140 allows osseointegration and encourages the
periosteal new bone to grow up over the flange. This results in improved long term fixation
from bone growth over the flanges and rim loading, as well as from the underside of the
acetabular cup 110.
Figure 2 shows an acetabular implant in a further embodiment where mesh shown by cross
hatched lines is located on the underside of the acetabular cup 110 and the underside of the
ilium flange 120, but does not reach the edges of the implant 100. This mesh positioning is
adapted to suit the requirements of individual patients and mesh may be located in areas of
maximum bone apposition. In some circumstances, flanges may not be large enough to
accommodate mesh once a screw hole has been positioned on the flange and mesh may or
may not reach the edges of the flange at different locations on the implant surface. In such
situations mesh may be located on one or two flanges only for example, as seen in Figure 2.
Preferred three dimensional scaffold of the present invention is integrally formed during the
formation of an acetabular implant using additive manufacturing technologies, in particular
EBM manufacturing which achieves a preferred surface finish on manufactured implants.
The preferred three dimensional scaffold structure for use in the present invention is a
three dimensional modified dodecahedron structure with an individual unit cell structure of
between 1.0 mm and 3.0mm. Maintaining unit cell size is important to increase the chances
of effective osseointegration with the implant. If unit cell size is too small, the three
dimensional scaffold becomes difficult to clean and sterilise prior to use. If the unit cell size
                                               18

becomes too large, the structure loses mechanical integrity and osseointegration may also
not be achieved as readily with a more spacious three dimensional scaffold structure.
As would be clear to a person skilled in the art, the style of three dimensional scaffold
structure discussed above is not intended to be limiting and it is envisaged that other
formations of three dimensional scaffold that are mechanically sound may be used in the
method and products of the present invention.
Other formations of three dimensional scaffold may include a range of different shaped
scaffold members that are connected to form a structural sound lattice, often formed from
"unit cells". A unit cell for the purposes of describing the scaffold structure may be a void
defined by scaffold members on all sides. For a dodecahedron structure, the unit cell would
be the three dimensional area inside the dodecahedron. Other unit cell shapes may be
substantially spherical, oval, cube, cuboid, cylindrical, hexagonal, octagonal or triangular
prisms for example. Alternatively the unit cell may have an irregular three dimensional
shape wherein the unit cells throughout the scaffold are not uniform but formed by an
arrangement of plate and rod like structures that create a lattice similar to that found in
trabecular bone tissue within human bone.
Screw threads 151 are not intended to include three dimensional scaffold as would be clear
to a person skilled in the art.
Figure 3 shows an acetabular implant of the present invention wherein mesh is located on
the underside of hemispherical acetabular cup 110 and underneath the flanges (mesh not
seen in Figure 3). Also present on the side wall of acetabular cup 110 are suture holes 170.
Suture holes 170 are preferably integrally formed within the wall of acetabular cup 110 and
are designed to enable the articular capsule to be sutured on to the implant.
Such suture holes may be any shape but are preferably circular, oval or elliptical and are
approximately 2 - 6mm in diameter or width and are located 5 - 40mm from rim 180 of the
acetabular cup. The number of suture holes will depend on the size and shape of the
implant, with more or less suture holes incorporated as required. In typical implants
                                                19

between two and six suture holes are likely to be required, however more or less may be
added as needed.
Suture holes 170 may be incorporated at other locations on the implant to further enable
attachment of the implant to bone. Such locations may include other regions of the
acetabular cup, or on flanges to enable the implant to be further secured to soft tissue or
bone once fixed in position.
Figure 4 shows a further embodiment of the invention in relation to an acetabular implant
200 wherein the implant 200 includes a roughened textured surface (indicated by diagonal
lines) on the areas of an implant (for example 220) where three dimensional scaffold
structure is not required. Three dimensional scaffold structure is typically placed on the
underside of the implant where osseointegration will occur.
As with the acetabular implant shown in Figures 1 - 3, the preferred acetabular implants
incorporating a roughened surface texture are patient-specific implants that include an
acetabular cup portion 110 and three flanges 120, 130 and 140 extending from the rim of
cup 110.
Preferably, the roughened textured surface is located on substantially all surfaces that are
outward facing once the implant has been correctly positioned within a patient, so as to
enhance integration of the implant with the soft tissues of the recipient acetabulum and
surrounding areas. As would be clear to a person skilled in the art, surfaces of the implant
such as screw threads 210 for example will not include a roughened surface as smooth
surfaces are required for effective attachment of screws or other attachment means.
Roughened surfaces may be produced using the additive manufacturing, preferably EBM
manufacturing to the exact required surface roughness, or alternatively surfaces may be
sanded or altered post-manufacturing to achieve the exact surface required. Preferably the
roughened surface has an Ra value of between 1 - 20 im, with the higher Ra values
indicating a rougher surface.
                                              20

The inventors have found that high Ra values are more effective in producing effective
osseointegration of bone with an implant, however this is not intended to be limiting.
When used in an acetabular implant, the surface adjacent to the gluteal muscles and around
the rest of the implant includes a roughened textured surface so that the soft tissues
adhere. This stops the formation of a fluid filled sack through which pressure can be
transmitted to cause flow and "water-chisel" out the interfaces. It also significantly
increases the dead space in which bacteria can grow/ contaminate and form an abscess.
It should be appreciated that small regions of polished, smooth surface may be included in
the implant where rough surface may cause tissue damage. As shown in Figure 4, a portion
of the acetabular rim 240 located between pubic ramus flange 140 and ischium flange 130
may be polished in order for soft tissue to pass over the rim without being damaged by a
roughened surface. This region in particular is where the psoas tendon may run if the
fibrous capsule has been removed or is absent. In patient-specific implant design exact
placement of such polished areas may be defined and manufactured based on individual
information regarding patient anatomy. Other areas of implants of the present invention
may include polished, smooth regions where the implant makes specific contact with fragile
or moveable soft tissue, such as nerves, blood vessels, tendons, ligaments etc.
The roughened textured surface and the three dimensional scaffold covered surfaces
indicated by Figures 1- 4 are preferably coated with a bacterial resisting surface to prevent
or deter possible infection. One such coating that may be used is an ion beam silver sputter
coating. As would be appreciated by a person skilled in the art, a range of different known
anti-bacterial coatings may be applied to the surfaces in order to reduce infection risk
during and post surgery.
In a further embodiment of the invention the bone replacement implant may include one or
more orientation guides as shown in Figures 5 and 6. Correct orientation of an implant
within a patient is vital to enable successful placement of the attachment mechanisms (e.g.
screws) as well as ensuring a successful fit within the patient itself.
                                                21

Placement of implants within a patient can often be difficult, as alignment must be correct
in a range of directions, and typically space is restricted due to the limits of the surgical
opening in the patient.
As shown in Figure 5, where a tri-flange acetabular implant 300 is exemplified, a first
orientation guide 310 is positioned on the pubic ramus flange 140 in the form of a linear
groove so as to substantially align with the patient's pubic ramus ridge when the implant
300 is inserted in the correct position within a patient. This orientation line is typically a
linear line running substantially perpendicular to the acetabular rim along the pubic ramus
flange, from a first point proximate the acetabular rim to a second point proximal to the
outer edge of the pubic ramus flange. This alignment between pubic ramus ridge and
orientation marker on the implant enables exact correct placement of an attachment means
locating through the pubic ramus flange 140 of implant 300 which is crucial in an acetabular
implantation. In other examples not shown, the orientation guide or groove may be
positioned on the ischium flange 130, or at other positions within the implant to enable
correct alignment of the implant 300. .
Such an orientation guide 310 is particularly useful on the pubic ramus as the bone is
relatively narrow.
In preferred embodiments the alignment means is in the form of a linear depression
showing a central guide line down the length of the depression. The linear depression is
recessed into the pubic ramus flange, allowing the specialist to feel the alignment direction
tactilely as well as see it visually. If space is limited when positioning the implant, having a
recessed alignment means allows the specialist to align the implant correctly using touch. In
other embodiments the alignment means may be raised from the implant surface to form a
guide means the can be read visually as well as tactilely.
A raised or depressed orientation guide 310 may be incorporated at various other locations
on an implant as required by patient-specific needs.
In further preferred aspects of the invention when applied to an acetabular implant, the
implant may further include a guide means in the form of a projection 330 adapted to
                                                     22

engage with a patient's acetabular notch when the implant 300 is correctly placed within
the patient.
In one preferred embodiment, projection 330 is located between the ischium 130 and public
ramus 140 flanges of the implant 300 shown in Figures 5 and 6. Projection 330 is in the form
of an elongate flange and extends away from the upper ridge of the external surface of the
hemispherical cup of the acetabular implant. Projection 330 preferably includes a bend,
corner or curve of at least substantially 90" or more as shown by angle A in Figure 6. This
curve A enables projection 330 to fit around the acetabular notch of a patient, securing the
implant in position. The exact angle will be dependent on the specific bone geometry of the
individual patient, however as would be understood by a skilled person, a projection with a
very acute angle less than 90" would be difficult to position, as tight angles would need to
be negotiated to position the implant in place.
Projection 330 may be of varying widths and lengths as dictated by the patient-specific data,
however limitations are introduced by the size and position of the ischium and pubic ramus
flanges.
Projection 330 may also include an area of three dimensional scaffold or roughened surface
texture on any of the projection surfaces to aid in osseointegration with bone and
adherence to surrounding soft tissue. In one embodiment projection 330 is formed from
TiAl6V and includes an area of three dimensional scaffold on at least the under surface of
the projection indicated by arrow 360 on Figure 6 and includes an area of roughened
surface texture on the upper surface of the projection indicated by arrow 370.
 It is envisaged the other projections may be used in a range of implants where additional
guide means extending from the implant may improve correct seating of implants within a
patient.
Figures 7 and 8 show one embodiment of the invention wherein an acetabular implant 400
is formed with an aperture 420 (also seen clearly in Figure 1) located at the base of the
                                                23

acetabular cup 410, and includes a plugging system 430 to enable placement of bone graft
behind implant 400 once implant 400 has been positioned and seated within a patient.
The plugging system of the present invention includes an aperture surround (not shown)
adapted for attachment to an aperture 420 in a bone replacement acetabular implant 400
and a lid portion 415, wherein the lid portion 415 and aperture surround are adapted to be
releasably and/or lockingly connected to each other.
The presence of the aperture 420 within the implant 400 and the plugging system 430
provides the ability to access behind the implant 400 to restore bone stock and provide
further stability by introducing grafted bone to any dead space located behind the implant
once seated. Without the aperture 420 and plugging system 430 of the present invention,
bone graft must be packed into any dead space prior to seating of the bone graft. This
introduces difficulties in seating the implant, as the bone graft surface may not be smooth,
or alternatively, may not fill the dead space entirely.
 The plugging system 430 enables bone graft to be packed behind the implant, then enables
complete sealing of the aperture to ensure the integrity of the implant is not compromised.
In preferred plugging system design, the system includes an aperture surround which is
integrally formed within the aperture, for example in the form of an aperture with threaded
interior walls.
Other connection means may be located either integrally formed with the aperture or as
part of a separate aperture surround. For example, connections means such as lock and key
mechanisms, interference or friction fit mechanisms may be used to create a tight seal
between the aperture and the lid portion of the plugging system.
Alternatively the aperture surround may be formed separately then retrofitted to an
aperture in an implant using known attachment techniques.
The plugging system also includes a lid portion 415. Lid portion 415 complements the
aperture surround in order to create a releasably locking connection means. Lid portion 415
                                                24

is preferably designed such that when in the closed position, lid portion 415 is shaped to fit
the contour of the implant in which it is placed. For example, when positioned in the base
of an acetabular cup, lid portion 415 may include a concave upper surface (not shown). This
allows the geometry of the implant to be unaffected by the plug, allowing for example bone
cement to be placed over the lid portion at a usual thickness.
Lid portions or closure mechanisms of the present invention may also include means for
inserting or removing the lid portion or closure means from within an aperture in an
implant, for example the hex key depression 440 shown in Figures 7 and 8. In use, the lid
may be threaded into position within an aperture surround then tightened or loosened
using a hex key which fits into depression 440. Other suitable means not indicated in the
Figures include means to receive a screwdriver, hook, handle or other fastening or loosening
means as would be appreciated by a person skilled in the art. It should be appreciated that
any such feature is preferably a negative feature to ensure that any corresponding femoral
head is able to smoothly rotate within the acetabular cup region without being damaged.
When a press fit mechanism is used to secure a lid portion 415 to the aperture surround,
removal means 460 may be included in the inner base of the acetabular cup. These removal
means allow the user to insert a tool to remove the lid portion if necessary.
In one preferred embodiment of the invention, an acetabular implant includes an aperture
in the base of the acetabular cup, the edges of the aperture including a threaded wall
adapted to receive a corresponding threaded lid portion adapted to fit and be received into
the aperture in the base of the acetabular cup. One in position, the lid can be tightened or
loosened by use of a hex-key that can be received into a hexagonal shaped depression in the
lid surface.
It is preferable that the base of the lid portion 470 includes a similar surface to the base of
the acetabular cup portion of the implant. This will preferably be, but is not limited to a
three dimensional mesh or scaffold. The presence of a three dimensional scaffold on the
underside of the lid portion aids in osseointegration of the bone graft packed behind the lid
with the implant, increasing the strength of the bond between the patient and implant.
                                                 25

The manufacturing methods of the present invention may include the use of patient-specific
information to create an implant that specifically matches the bone morphology of the
patient at the insertion location. This information allows for design and positioning of
features of the present invention, such as three dimensional scaffold, roughened textured
surfaces, orientation guides and/or apertures and plugging systems.
Patient-specific information regarding structural anatomy can be collected by a variety of
known means, such as CT scanning, X-rays, MRI scans or radiography techniques for
example.
In manufacturing the implants of the present invention, such patient-specific information is
gathered and a model of a patient-specific implant is developed based on the inclusion of
features of the present invention that are likely to result in the most successful replacement
outcome for the patient.
The model is then used to manufacture the patient-specific implant using additive
manufacturing techniques, preferably EBM manufacturing. Following manufacture of the
implant, the implant is then surface finished if necessary and any further features added
such as screw placement holes or additional orientation markers for example . The implant
is then cleaned and sterilised before being provided to a hospital or surgical professional for
use.
The apparatus and methods described in the current application have a number of
advantages over implants and methods for their manufacture currently known in the art.
Implants of the present invention may include one or more of the embodiments outlined in
this description, as required by specific needs of individual patients.
In a preferred embodiment, the implant of the invention is a patient-specific tri-flange
acetabular implant, with ilium, ischium and pubic ramus flanges incorporating two or more
                                               26

of the features described above. In some embodiments, the implant will include all of the
features. This exemplary implant includes an integrally formed three dimensional scaffold
on the underside of the acetabular cup and the underside of at least two of the three
flanges to aid in osseointegration at all bone-implant interfaces. In circumstances where
flanges are large enough to incorporate scaffolding in addition to apertures for screw
connections, the scaffold may be located on the underside of all three flanges where they
will connect to patient bone when in position.
The upper surfaces of each of the flanges and the internal surface and rim of the acetabular
cup include a roughened surface finish. Typically, such surfaces are polished smoothly,
however by incorporating a textured finish to these surfaces integration with surrounding
soft tissue is enhanced. One area of the acetabular implant that has a polished, smooth
surface is the often the medial wall of the acetabular rim, between the pubic ramus and
ischium flanges. This smooth surface allows the psoas tendon to run over the rim, with any
risk of abrasion or damage from moving across a roughened surface.
The implant further includes an orientation line along the upper roughened surface of the
pubic ramus flange, to aid in aligning the implant during implantation. This orientation line is
typically a linear line running substantially perpendicular to the acetabular rim along the
pubic ramus flange, from a first point proximate the acetabular rim to a second point
proximal to the outer edge of the pubic ramus flange. The implant further includes an
elongate projection extending from the acetabular rim between the pubic ramus flange and
the ischium flange, the projection adapted to connect to the acetabular notch when the
implant is positioned within a patient.
The implant further includes and aperture in the base of the acetabular cup, the aperture
adapted to receive a closure mechanism that may be fitted in position within the base of the
cup after the implant has been positioned within a patient.
The positioning of three dimensional scaffold over substantially all the bone apposition
surfaces of an implant increases the potential for osseointegration of the bone to the
implant when compared to levels of osseointegration of bone with the implant across
                                                27

polished or smooth surfaces. Extending the three dimensional scaffold region to cover edges
and corners of some of the implant surfaces further encourages new bone growth around
the implant, increasing stabilisation of the implant within the patient over time and
therefore improving chances for a successful replacement result.
Likewise, the use of roughened, textured surfaces on implant surfaces not incorporating
three dimensional scaffold for improves the adherence of soft tissue to the implant. Known
implants and implants often have a large surface area that are formed from polished or
smooth surfaces, which is less effective in facilitating regeneration of soft tissue around the
implant than the use of roughened, textured surfaces.
The inclusion of orientation guides integrally formed within an implant improves the
accuracy of seating an implant in the correct position within a patient site. Orientation
guides that are integrally formed when manufacturing patient-specific implants are
positioned exactly to achieve the optimum placement of each individual patient. The more
accurate the seating of the implant is, the more successful the replacement procedure will
be.
Effective packing of bone graft underneath or behind an implant in a patient is typically a
difficult process, as dead space areas are often difficult to access or to pack effectively and
still allow optimal seating of an implant on top of the packed bone graft. The inclusion of the
plugging systems of the present allow for access to the underside or rear of the implant
after it has been seated within a patient, allowing bone graft to be packed to an exact level
without influencing the seating of the implant and also allowing access to areas that may
previously not have been reachable. The ability to seal and lock the plug to recreates the
implant surface, allowing it is function as if there were no aperture in place.
As with the above improvements, this increases the chances of the implant being
successfully incorporated within the patient.
The suture holes discussed for incorporation into the implants of the current invention
provide additional strength and support when locating the implant within a patient. In
                                                 28

particular, suture holes in the acetabular cup allow for the acetabular capsule to be
connected directly back on to the implant. Such suture holes may be incorporated at any
position on the implants as necessitated by the patient's specific requirements.
The manufacturing methods described herein to produce implants with the above inventive
features allow formation patient-specific implants that have a range of improved features
integrally formed within the implant. This not only reduces labour costs, but allows for the
creation of robust, effective and often single piece implants that result in large
improvements in patient outcomes.
The entire disclosures of all applications, patents and publications cited above and below, if
any, are herein incorporated by reference.
Reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that that prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge in the field of endeavour in any country in the world.
Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers or components
having known equivalents thereof, those integers are herein incorporated as if individually
set forth.
It should be noted that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred
embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and
modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention
and without diminishing its attendant advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes
and modifications be included within the present invention.
                                                29

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE:
    1. A plugging system for use within an acetabular implant, the plugging system including an
       aperture surround adapted to be connectably received within or integrally formed around an
       aperture in an acetabular implant; and a lid portion comprising a means for receiving a tool,
       wherein the lid portion and aperture surround are adapted to be releasably and/or lockingly
       connected to each other.
    2. The plugging system of claim 1, wherein the lid portion includes three dimensional scaffold on
       a surface of the lid portion.
   3. The plugging system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the lid portion is shaped to fit the contour
       of the implant in which the plugging system may be included.
   4.  An acetabular implant including a hemispherical cup portion, the implant including at least
       one aperture located substantially in the base of the acetabular cup, the aperture adapted to
       receive the plugging system of claim 1.
   5.  A method for the placement of bone graft behind an acetabular implant that has been
       inserted and sealed within a patient, the method including the steps of;
       a) selecting an acetabular implant including an aperture and a plugging system as claimed
            in claim 1;
       b) inserting implant into a patient, positioning and sealing the implant in known fashion,
            with or without the lid portion in position;
       c) once the implant is in position and sealed, removing the lid portion of the plugging
            system within the implant if lid portion is still in position;
       d) packing bone graft through the aperture surround of the plugging system to an area or
            void behind implant; and
       e)   replacing lid portion and locking into position to seal off aperture.

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 6/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 7/8

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 8/8

