                                              ABSTRACT
          A device may receive form analysis information to be used to analyze a form for an
organization. The form analysis information may include an industry profile associated with
the organization, a government regulation that governs the organization, and a form field
justification that indicates a justification for including a particular field in the form. The device
may analyze the form based on the form analysis information and based on one or more
fields included in the form. The device may generate one or more scores for the one or more
fields based on analyzing the form. The one or more scores may be generated based on
the industry profile, the government regulation, and the form field justification. The device
may perform one or more automated actions in association with the form based on the one
or more scores.

                                                 1
                AUTOMATED FORM GENERATION AND ANALYSIS
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     An organization, such as a business or government agency, may often have a
need to collect information. Collected information may include sensitive information, such
as classified information, confidential business information, or the like. Collected information
may also include personally identifiable information, such as information that can be used to
distinguish or trace an individual's identity (e.g., name, social security number, date and
place of birth, mother's maiden name, or biometric records) or any other information that is
linked or linkable to an individual (e.g., medical, educational, financial, or employment
information). Significant privacy concerns may exist, however, when sensitive information
or personally identifiable information is collected by an organization.

                                                  2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that receive form analysis information to be used to analyze a computer
implemented form for an organization, the form analysis information including an industry
profile associated with the organization, a government regulation that governs the
organization, and a form field justification that indicates a justification for including a particular
field in the computer-implemented form, analyze the computer-implemented form based on
the form analysis information and based on one or more fields included in the computer
implemented form, generate one or more scores for the one or more fields based on
analyzing the computer-implemented form, the one or more scores being generated based
on the industry profile, the government regulation, and the form field justification, and perform
one or more automated actions in association with the computer-implemented form based
on the one or more scores, wherein the automated actions include any one or more of adding
a field to the computer-implemented form, removing a field from the computer-implemented
form, or replacing a first field, included in the computer-implemented form, with a second
field.
[0003]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method, including obtaining, by one or more devices, form analysis information to be used
to analyze a form for an organization, the form analysis information including an industry
profile associated with the organization, a government regulation that governs the
organization, and a form field justification that indicates a justification for including a particular
field in the form, analyzing, by the one or more devices, the form based on the form analysis
information and based on one or more fields included in the form, generating, by the one or
more devices, one or more scores for the one or more fields based on analyzing the form,
the one or more scores being generated based on the industry profile, the government
regulation, and the form field justification, and performing, by the one or more devices, one
or more automated actions in association with the form based on the one or more scores,
wherein the automated actions include any one or more of adding a field to the computer
implemented form, removing a field from the computer-implemented form, or replacing a first
field, included in the computer-implemented form, with a second field.

                                                   3
 [0004]     In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
 readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive
form analysis information to be used to analyze a potential form for an organization, the form
analysis information including at least one of an industry profile associated with the
organization, a government regulation that governs the organization, or a form field
justification that indicates a justification for including a particular field in the potential form,
analyze the potential form based on the form analysis information and based on a plurality
of fields to be included in the potential form, generate scores for the plurality of fields based
on analyzing the potential form, the scores being generated based on at least one of the
 industry profile, the government regulation, or the form field justification, and perform one or
 more automated actions in association with the potential form based on the scores, wherein
the automated actions include any one or more of adding a field to the computer
 implemented form, removing a field from the computer-implemented form, or replacing a first
field, included in the computer-implemented form, with a second field.

                                               4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]     Fig. 1 is a diagram of an overview of an example implementation described herein;
[0006]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0007]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0008]     Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for automated form generation and
analysis; and
[0009]     Figs. 5-27 are diagrams of example implementations relating to the example
process shown in Fig. 4.

                                                  5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0010]      The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0011]      Organizations may use forms (e.g., computer-implemented forms, such as
electronic forms, web forms, etc.) to obtain data from users, such as customers, patients,
students, employees, or stakeholders, other organizations, or the like. Such data may have
varying degrees of sensitivity, and may be governed by different data privacy laws and
policies depending on the nature of the data, a governing jurisdiction (e.g., a jurisdiction that
governs an organization, a user, etc.), an industry of the organization, policies of the
organization, agreements between the organization and users, the likelihood of a data
breach, the consequences of a data breach, or the like. For example, a data privacy law
may result in legal punishment if broken, such as if personal information is used without
consent. As another example, a data privacy policy may refer to a best practice in handling
data privacy to reduce risk, but that does not result in legal punishment if broken, such as a
policy to delete stale data. Due to the number of factors that impact the risk of obtaining
different types of data, it may be difficult to accurately assess, using subjective judgment and
intuition, a level of risk associated with a form used to gather the data. Furthermore, it may
be difficult to generate forms that meet organizational needs based on the number of factors
to be considered for form generation.
[0012]      Implementations described herein use a form analysis platform, implemented
within a cloud computing environment, to generate and analyze forms using well-defined
rules (e.g., rules that define an objective action to be a taken when a condition is satisfied),
and to provide an accurate assessment of the level of risk associated with forms used to
obtain potentially sensitive data. In some implementations, the form analysis platform uses
natural language processing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data analysis, web
crawling, or another automated technique to accurately determine the level of risk, to provide
recommendations regarding a form, to perform an automated action for a form, or the like.
By using these automated techniques, the form analysis platform provides an accurate and

                                                6
objective analysis of forms, provides a consistent analysis of forms so that multiple forms
can be compared, and improves security by reducing the likelihood and impact of data
breaches associated with data obtained using the forms.           This analysis may be more
consistent than subjective techniques used to analyze forms. While some implementations
are described herein in connection with a single form, the techniques described herein may
be applied to hundreds, thousands, millions, or more forms.
[0013]     Fig. 1 is a diagram of an overview of an example implementation 100 described
herein.   As shown in Fig. 1, example implementation 100 includes a cloud computing
environment, which includes a form analysis platform. As shown, the form analysis platform
may obtain form analysis information, which may include industry profile information,
government regulations, form field justifications, data policies, and/or benchmarking
information.
[0014]     In some implementations, the form analysis information may be input by a user,
such as via a user interface provided by the form analysis platform.            Additionally, or
alternatively, the form analysis information may be obtained from external devices.          For
example, the form analysis platform may use artificial intelligence, web crawling, and/or
natural language processing to obtain information about the organization, the organization's
industry, government regulations that apply to data privacy, benchmarking to obtain relevant
forms that exist on the web, or the like.
[0015]     As further shown in Fig. 1, the form analysis platform may generate and/or analyze
one or more forms (e.g., a new form and/or an existing form) based on the form analysis
information. For example, as shown, the form analysis platform may apply rules, natural
language processing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, web crawling, big data
analysis, etc., to analyze a form.
[0016]     As further shown in Fig. 1, the form analysis platform may generate scores based
on analyzing the form(s).     For example, the form analysis platform may generate a form
privacy score, a form justification score, an organizational privacy score, a field combination
score, a benchmark score, or the like, as described in more detail elsewhere herein.
Additionally, or alternatively, the form analysis platform may provide recommendations

                                                7
based on analyzing the form(s). For example, the form analysis platform may generate a
recommendation to add or remove form fields, to use a particular form, to delete stale data,
to implement a data privacy policy, or the like, as described in more detail elsewhere herein.
Additionally, or alternatively, the form analysis platform may perform automated actions
based on analyzing the form(s). For example, the form analysis platform may perform an
automated action to add or remove a form field, to select a particular form, to generate a
form based on criteria, or the like, as described in more detail elsewhere herein.
[0017]     By using automated techniques as described above, the form analysis platform
provides an accurate and objective analysis of forms, provides a more consistent analysis of
forms so that multiple forms can be compared, and improves security by reducing the
likelihood and impact of data breaches associated with data obtained using the forms.
[0018]     As indicated above, Fig. 1 is provided merely as an example. Other examples are
possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Fig. 1.
[0019]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include a set of client devices 210, a form analysis platform 220, a cloud computing
environment 230, a set of external devices 240, and a network 250. Devices of environment
200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a combination of wired
and wireless connections.
[0020]     Client device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with form generation and/or
form analysis.     For example, client device 210 may include a communication and/or
computing device, such as a desktop computer, a mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone, a
radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a gaming
device, a wearable communication device (e.g., a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart
eyeglasses, etc.), or a similar type of device. Client device 210 may be used to access form
analysis platform 220, to provide information to form analysis platform 220, and/or to receive
information from form analysis platform 220.

                                               8
[0021]       Form analysis platform 220 includes one or more devices capable of receiving,
generating, storing, processing, updating, and/or providing information associated with
generating and/or analyzing a form. For example, form analysis platform 220 may include a
cloud server or a group of cloud servers.
[0022]       In some implementations, as shown, form analysis platform 220 may be hosted in
cloud computing environment 230.         Notably, while implementations described herein
describe form analysis platform 220 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 230,
in some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may not be cloud-based (i.e., may be
implemented outside of a cloud computing environment) or may be partially cloud-based.
[0023]       Cloud computing environment 230 includes an environment that hosts form
analysis platform 220.      Cloud computing environment 230 may provide computation,
software, data access, storage, and/or other services that do not require end-user knowledge
of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that host form analysis
platform 220.      As shown, cloud computing environment 230 may include a group of
computing resources 222 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 222" and
individually as "computing resource 222").
[0024]       Computing resource 222 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or another type of computation and/or communication device. In
some implementations, computing resource 222 may host form analysis platform 220. The
cloud resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 222,
storage devices provided in computing resource 222, data transfer devices provided by
computing resource 222, etc.       In some implementations, computing resource 222 may
communicate with other computing resources 222 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0025]      As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 222 includes a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 222-1, one or more virtual machines
("VMs") 222-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 222-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 222-4,
or the like.

                                                9
[0026]       Application 222-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by client device 210. Application 222-1 may eliminate a need to install and
execute the software applications on client device 210. For example, application 222-1 may
include software associated with form analysis platform 220 and/or any other software
capable of being provided via cloud computing environment 230. In some implementations,
one application 222-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications
222-1, via virtual machine 222-2.
[0027]       Virtual machine 222-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 222-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 222-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 222-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., client device 210), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 230, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0028]       Virtualized storage 222-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 222. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.

                                              10
[0029]     Hypervisor 222-4 may provide hardware virtualization techniques that allow
multiple operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a
host computer, such as computing resource 222. Hypervisor 222-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0030]     External device 240 includes one or more devices capable of providing information
to form analysis platform 220 to assist with form generation and/or analysis. For example,
external device 240 may include a server, such as a web server or a database server. In
some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may crawl one or more external devices
240 (e.g., web servers) to obtain information to be used for form generation and/or analysis.
[0031]     Network 250 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 250 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE) network, a
code division multiple access (CDMA) network, a 3G network, a 4G network, a 5G network,
another type of advanced generated network, etc.), a public land mobile network (PLMN), a
local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN),
a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)), a private
network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet, a fiber optic-based network, a cloud
computing network, or the like, and/or a combination of these or other types of networks.
[0032]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[0033]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300.        Device 300 may
correspond to client device 210, form analysis platform 220, computing resource 222, and/or

                                               11
external device 240.    In some implementations, client device 210, form analysis platform
220, computing resource 222, and/or external device 240 may include one or more devices
300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown in Fig. 3, device 300 may
include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage component 340, an input
component 350, an output component 360, and a communication interface 370.
[0034]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication among                  the
components of device 300.      Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a central processing unit
(CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), an accelerated processing unit (APU), a
microprocessor, a microcontroller, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), an application
specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or another type of processing component.          In some
implementations, processor 320 includes one or more processors capable of being
programmed to perform a function. Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM),
a read only memory (ROM), and/or another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a
flash memory, a magnetic memory, and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or
instructions for use by processor 320.
[0035]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0036]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).             Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).

                                                12
[0037]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0038]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0039]      Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0040]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.

                                                 13
[0041]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for automated form generation
and analysis.     In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be
performed by form analysis platform 220. In some implementations, one or more process
blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device or a group of devices separate from or
including form analysis platform 220, such as client device 210 and/or external device 240.
[0042]      As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving form analysis information
to be used to generate and/or analyze one or more forms (block 410). For example, form
analysis platform 220 may receive form analysis information to be used to generate and/or
analyze the forms. In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate a
new form to be analyzed. Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may
analyze an existing form.
[0043]      In some implementations, the form analysis information may include industry
profile information relating to an organization, such as information that identifies an industry
of the organization, a sector of the organization, a department of the organization, a
geographic location of the organization, a name of the organization, one or more competitors
of the organization, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, the form analysis information
may include government regulation information, such as international regulations, national
regulations, state regulations, local regulations, regional regulations, etc. regarding data
privacy. Additionally, or alternatively, the form analysis information may include form field
justifications, such as a justification for including a particular field in the form to request a
particular type of data (e.g., an indication of why the organization needs the data).
Additionally, or alternatively, the form analysis information may identify a data policy, such
as organization-specific policies regarding data acquisition, data storage, data retention, or
the like.     Additionally, or alternatively, the form analysis information may include
benchmarking information, such as information that indicates one or more field types that
other organizations are including in their forms, information that identifies data that other
organizations are gathering,        information that identifies a manner         in which those
organizations are safeguarding information, or the like.

                                                14
[0044]      In some implementations, the form analysis information may be input by a user.
For example, a single user may input the form analysis information, or multiple users may
provide different portions and/or different types of form analysis information. Additionally, or
alternatively, the form analysis information may be determined by form analysis platform 220,
such as by using natural language processing, database analysis, and/or web crawling.
[0045]      As an example, a user may input an organization uniform resource locator (URL),
and form analysis platform 220 may scan a corresponding website to determine an
organization name, industry, geographic location, sector, or the like.           Additionally, or
alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may scan a website (e.g., a business website,
Wikipedia, etc.) to determine competitors of the organization. Additionally, or alternatively,
form analysis platform 220 may scan a website to determine what jurisdiction(s) the
organization operates in (e.g., a country, a region, a state, a local area, etc.). Additionally,
or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may scan one or more websites to determine
retention policies of the organization and/or of competitors of the organization.
[0046]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may predict a type of data
the organization needs to gather, and/or may predict a justification for gathering the data,
based on a type of the organization, industry, or the like. In some implementations, form
analysis platform 220 may scan one or more websites for web forms that gather data
predicted to be needed by the organization. For example, form analysis platform 220 may
scan one or more websites to obtain benchmarking information, and may analyze the forms
as described below to provide scores for benchmarking.
[0047]      As a particular example, a user may login to access form analysis platform 220,
such as via a user interface (e.g., as shown in Fig. 5), and may provide various form analysis
information, such as industry profile and jurisdiction (e.g., as shown in Fig. 6), form field
justifications (e.g., as shown in Fig. 13), data policies (e.g., as shown in Fig. 16), or the like.
Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may use an automated technique to
determine some or all of the form analysis information, such as web crawling, natural
language processing, and/or another automated technique. In some implementations, form

                                                  15
analysis platform 220 may use a combination of user input data and data obtained by an
automated technique.
[0048]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include generating and/or analyzing
a form based on the form analysis information (block 420). For example, form analysis
platform 220 may generate and/or analyze a form based on the form analysis information.
As indicated above, form analysis platform 220 may generate a new form to be analyzed or
may analyze an existing form.         In some implementations, a user may select whether to
generate a new form or to analyze an existing for via a user interface (e.g., as shown in Fig.
7). Additionally, or alternatively, the user may indicate a location of a repository of forms,
and form analysis platform 220 may analyze multiple forms in the repository in serial or in
parallel.
[0049]        In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate a new form
based on receiving input from a user regarding fields to be included in the form and/or data
to be gathered using the form (e.g., as shown in Fig. 8).            In this case, a field may be
associated with a particular type of information (e.g., "Mobile Phone Number" in Fig. 8), may
be included in a field category (e.g., "Personal Details" or "Family Details" in Fig. 8), and/or
may indicate supporting documentation used to support the provided information (e.g.,
"Passport" in Fig. 8). In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may provide a
summary of the fields to be included in a form when a user is done providing input (e.g., as
shown in Fig. 9).
[0050]       Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate a new form
automatically. For example, form analysis platform 220 may predict various purposes of
forms needed by the organization (e.g., using web crawling, natural language processing,
artificial intelligence, etc.), and may provide a list of purposes or form types. In this case, the
user may indicate a purpose of the form by selecting the purpose from the list, and form
analysis platform 220 may predict the types of fields needed. Based on the prediction, the
user may select fields that the user wants to include in the form. In this way, form analysis
platform 220 provides objective and consistent generation of forms, and improves security

                                                   16
by accurately identifying purposes that may be associated with existing knowledge about
privacy regulations, concerns, techniques, or the like.
[0051]       In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may analyze an existing form
by using field tags and/or natural language processing to determine a type of data being
requested via the form.         In some implementations (e.g., for new forms), form analysis
platform 220 may determine the type of data using field tags and/or types of fields available
to form analysis platform 220. Additionally, or alternatively (e.g., for existing forms), form
analysis platform 220 may obtain the field tags by reading code (e.g., extensible markup
language code and/or hypertext markup language code), and/or may determine fields using
optical character recognition (OCR) and/or natural language processing.                      In some
implementations, form analysis platform 220 may analyze a form based on fields included in
the form and based on form analysis information, as described below.
[0052]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include generating one or more
scores for the form based on analyzing the form (block 430). For example, form analysis
platform 220 may generate one or more scores for the form based on analyzing the form.
[0053]       In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may store a data structure
that indicates a score (e.g., a risk score) for a particular field type and a particular type of
form analysis information that applies to the form. For example, form analysis platform 220
may determine an individual score per field and form analysis information type, and may
combine all of the individual scores for all form analysis information types for the field to
generate an overall score for the field (e.g., an average, a maximum, etc.).                  In some
implementations, form analysis platform 220 may perform this operation for all fields to
generate a score for the form.
[0054]       Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate a score
using a predictive model, such as by predicting an impact of a particular field type on a risk
level for the organization (e.g., based on an industry profile, a government regulation, a form
field justification, a data policy, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220
may create a model to be used to generate and/or analyze a form for an organization based
on one or more forms for related organizations (e.g., forms that have a related purpose,

                                                 17
organizations that have similar industry profile information, jurisdictions, and/or geographic
regions, etc.). In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may obtain a form of a
related organization from a repository and/or by crawling the web, and may analyze the form
using natural language processing.
[0055]      Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate a score
using machine learning or artificial intelligence, such as by crawling the web for one or more
articles relating to a data breach, a type of sensitive information associated with the data
breach, an industry profile associated with organizations involved in the data breach, a
government associated with the data breach, data policies of the organizations involved in
the data breach, or the like, to generate or revise scores that represent a risk level of
information obtained using a form.
[0056]       In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate a form privacy
score that represents a level of privacy risk associated with the form based on an industry
profile and/or government regulations associated with an organization for which the form is
created or analyzed. Form analysis platform 220 may generate the form privacy score based
on the fields in the form and based on the industry profile and/or government regulations.
For example, form analysis platform 220 may use information stored in a data structure to
determine a score for one or more fields included in the form, where a particular combination
of field, industry profile information, and/or government regulation is associated with a score.
Form analysis platform 220 may determine a form privacy score for the form by combining
multiple scores for fields included in the form (e.g., an average score, a minimum score, a
maximum score, etc.).
[0057]      Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate the form
privacy score using a predictive model, such as by predicting an impact of the form and/or
one or more fields included in the form on a risk level for the organization (e.g., based on an
industry profile, a government regulation, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis
platform 220 may generate the form privacy score using machine learning or artificial
intelligence, such as by crawling the web for one or more articles relating to a data breach,
a type of sensitive information associated with the data breach, an industry profile associated

                                                 18
with organizations involved in the data breach, a government associated with the data
breach, or the like, to generate or revise a form privacy score a level of privacy risk
associated with the form (e.g., based on information to be collected using the form). Possible
representations of the form privacy score are shown in Figs. 10-12.
[0058]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate a form
justification score that represents a level of risk associated with the form due to unneeded
data to be potentially collected by an organization using the form. Form analysis platform
220 may generate the form justification score based on the fields and the form field
justifications. For example, form analysis platform 220 may use information stored in a data
structure to determine a score for one or more fields included in the form, where a particular
combination of field and form field justification is associated with a score. Form analysis
platform 220 may determine a form justification score for the form by combining multiple
scores for fields included in the form (e.g., an average score, a minimum score, a maximum
score, etc.).
[0059]      Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate the form
justification score using a predictive model, such as by predicting how relevant the form
and/or one or more fields included in the form are to the organization (e.g., based on an
industry profile, a government regulation, other forms associated with similar organizations
in a same industry and/or jurisdiction, etc.).      Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis
platform 220 may generate the form justification score using machine learning or artificial
intelligence, such as by crawling the web for one or more forms associated with similar
organizations, to generate or revise a form justification score that represents a level of risk
associated with the form due to unneeded or potentially sensitive data to be potentially
collected by an organization using the form. Possible representations of the form justification
score are shown in Figs. 14-15.
[0060]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate                   an
organizational privacy score that represents a level of risk associated with an organization's
data policies. Form analysis platform 220 may generate the organizational privacy score
based on the fields and/or based on data policies. For example, form analysis platform 220

                                                19
may use information stored in a data structure to determine a score for one or more fields
included in the form, where a particular combination of field and data policy is associated
with a score. Form analysis platform 220 may determine an organizational privacy score for
the form by combining multiple scores for fields included in the form (e.g., an average score,
a minimum score, a maximum score, etc.).
[0061]       Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate the
organizational privacy score using a predictive model, such as by predicting a likelihood of
the form and/or one or more fields included in the form being subject to a data breach (e.g.,
based on a data policy, an industry profile, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis
platform 220 may generate the organizational privacy score using machine learning or
artificial intelligence, such as by crawling the web for one or more articles associated with
data breaches and/or data policies (e.g., to determine a type of information subject to the
data breach, to determine an industry profile associated with the data breach, etc.) to
generate or revise an organizational privacy score that represents a level of risk associated
with an organization's data policies. Possible representations of the organizational privacy
score are shown in Figs. 17-18.
[0062]       In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate an overall
privacy score, which may be calculated based on a combination of two or more of the form
privacy score, the form justification score, and/or the organizational privacy score. In some
implementations, form analysis platform 220 may calculate the overall privacy score as a
weighted combination of the form privacy score, the form justification score, and/or the
organizational privacy score. Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may
calculate the overall privacy score by applying a predictive model (e.g., to predict a relative
level of risk associated with the different scores), machine learning, artificial intelligence,
and/or web crawling, as described elsewhere herein. Possible representations of the overall
privacy score are shown in Fig. 19.
[0063]       In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate a combined
form score, which may be calculated based on the form privacy score and the form
justification score. In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may calculate the

                                                  20
combined form score as a weighted combination of the form privacy score and the form
justification score. Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may calculate
the combined form score by applying a predictive model (e.g., to predict a relative level of
risk associated with the different scores), machine learning, artificial intelligence, and/or web
crawling, as described elsewhere herein. Possible representations of the combined form
score are shown in Fig. 22.
[0064]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may generate a field
combination score that represents a level of risk associated with one or more combinations
of fields included in a form. For example, some combinations of field information may create
higher risks, such as a social security number and a date of birth, and form analysis platform
220 may calculate the field combination score based on a combination of fields included in
a single form. In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may use information
stored in a data structure to determine a score for a combination of two or more fields
included in the form, where a particular combination of fields is associated with a score.
Form analysis platform 220 may determine a field combination score for the form by
combining multiple scores for multiple combinations of fields included in the form (e.g., an
average score, a minimum score, a maximum score, etc.).
[0065]      Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate the field
combination score using a predictive model, such as by predicting a level of risk associated
with a particular combination of fields (e.g., based on an industry profile, a government
regulation, other forms associated with similar organizations in a same industry and/or
jurisdiction, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may generate the
field combination score using machine learning or artificial intelligence, such as by crawling
the web for one or more forms associated with similar organizations, to determine types of
information exposed during data breaches, or the like, to generate or revise a field
combination score that represents a level of risk associated with one or more combinations
of fields included in a form.      Possible representations of the field combination score are
shown in Fig. 23.

                                                  21
[0066]      In some       implementations, form       analysis platform 220 may generate           a
benchmarking score, which may represent a comparison of a score of one organization to a
score of another organization, or a comparison of a score of an organization to the
organization's industry as a whole (e.g., using averages). In some implementations, form
analysis platform 220 may compare a form privacy score for a form of an organization to
form privacy scores for similar forms (e.g., determined to be similar based on a purpose of
the form) for similar organizations (e.g., determined to be similar based on an industry profile,
a jurisdiction, a geographic location, a data policy, or the like).         Similarly, form analysis
platform 220 may compare a combined form privacy score for multiple forms of an
organization to a combined form privacy score of multiple similar organizations and/or for an
industry as a whole. Form analysis platform 220 may compare form justification scores,
organizational privacy scores, overall privacy scores, combined form scores, field
combination scores, or the like in a similar manner.              Possible representations of the
benchmarking score are shown in Figs. 24-25.
[0067]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing one or more
recommendations for the form based on the one or more scores (block 440). For example,
form analysis platform 220 may provide one or more recommendations for the form based
on the one or more scores. Example recommendations are shown in Figs. 26-27.
[0068]      As an example, form analysis platform 220 may provide a recommendation to use
a particular form for a particular purpose.        In this case, form analysis platform 220 may
provide different combinations of scores and may provide an indication of how well the
combination achieves the particular purpose. Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis
platform 220 may provide an indication of one or more of the above scores.
[0069]      Additionally, or alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may provide a
recommendation to add a particular field (e.g., to better achieve a particular purpose). As
yet another example, form analysis platform 220 may provide a recommendation to remove
a field (e.g., a field that has a high risk score, a field that has a high risk score in combination
with another field included in the form, etc.). As still another example, form analysis platform

                                               22
220 may provide a recommendation to replace a first field with a second field (e.g., a less
risky field that achieves a same purpose). Additional examples are shown in Figs. 26-27.
[0070]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include performing one or more
automated actions based on the one or more scores (block 450). For example, form analysis
platform 220 may perform one or more automated actions based on the one or more scores.
[0071]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may automatically generate
a form. For example, form analysis platform 220 may automatically generate a form based
on a request from a user via a user interface (e.g., as shown in Fig. 20).           In some
implementations, form analysis platform 220 may automatically generate a form, either with
or without user input, if one or more scores satisfy a threshold (e.g., the overall score or
combined form score indicates a low risk). In some implementations, a user may provide
requirements, such as by indicating a purpose and an acceptable score (e.g., a threshold),
and form analysis platform 220 may generate and/or obtain a form to satisfy the requirements
(e.g., using web crawling, using database analysis, etc.).
[0072]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may compare forms and/or
scores for forms, and may select a form that best satisfies a combination of requirements
(e.g., purpose and acceptable score). In this case, the forms may be created by a same
organization for a same or similar purpose, or may be generated by other users of form
analysis platform 220, or may be obtained from other sources (e.g., by web crawling). In
some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may use any combination of the above
forms, may extract fields, and may try different combinations to determine which combination
best satisfies the requirements. In this case, form analysis platform 220 may generate the
form or combination of forms that best satisfies the requirements. An example of comparison
of scores is shown in Fig. 21.
[0073]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may automatically add,
remove, or replace fields on forms. For example, form analysis platform 220 may crawl a
website of an organization and automatically update web forms to obtain a lower risk score.
As another example, a user may upload and/or input electronic forms, and form analysis
platform 220 may update the electronic forms.        In this case, for example, form analysis

                                                23
platform 220 may automatically add a field that helps to better achieve a purpose, may
automatically remove a field with a score that satisfies a threshold (e.g., a high risk score; or
a combination of a high risk score and a low purpose score), or may automatically replace a
field with another field that achieves a same purpose with less risk.
[0074]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may use artificial
intelligence, machine learning, and/or natural language processing to analyze form inputs
(e.g., the inputs that a user inputs into a form field) to learn and assign risk scores to fields,
to determine fields that result in duplicative input, or the like. In this case, form analysis
platform 220 may update forms based on the learned information.                  Additionally, or
alternatively, form analysis platform 220 may use the learned information to update the
scores stored in the data structure and used to analyze existing or future forms.
[0075]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may scan the web for news
regarding data breaches, data privacy, etc., and may automatically adjust stored risk scores
based on the obtained news. For example, form analysis platform 220 may increase scores
if there has been a recent data breach. As another example, form analysis platform 220 may
increase scores for a particular industry based on a news article highlighting the dangers of
data breaches in that industry. In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may
scan comments of articles to determine one or more user reactions, and may use this
information to update scores. In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may
scan an article to determine the type of data that was breached and may use this information
to update scores for particular fields.
[0076]      In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may determine a security
feature to be associated with a form (e.g., requiring a credential, such as a username and/or
a password, to access the form) based on one or more scores. For example, if a form is
associated with a higher risk score, then the form analysis platform 220 may generate the
form to require a credential when accessing the form. As another example, if a score for a
form satisfies (e.g., exceeds) a threshold, then form analysis platform 220 may analyze the
form to segment information from fields into different transmissions.         In this case, form
analysis platform 220 may select information for each transmission such that a score for the

                                               24
transmission does not satisfy (e.g., does not exceed) the threshold. A recipient device may
combine the information from the transmissions.         In this way, if one transmission is
intercepted or subject to a data breach, the risk of this interception is lower than if all
information were included in the transmission.
[0077]       In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may determine a type of
encryption to be used with a form based on one or more scores. For example, if a form is
associated with a higher risk score, then the form analysis platform 220 may encrypt the
form. In some implementations, form analysis platform 220 may determine that a recipient
device is capable of receiving the form with the encryption before sending the form.
[0078]      Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0079]       Figs. 5-27 are diagrams of example implementations 500-2700 relating to example
process 400 shown in Fig. 4. Figs. 5-27 show an example of automated form generation
and analysis.      As shown in Figs. 5-27, form analysis platform 220 may provide a user
interface which may be displayed (e.g., by client device 210) in various states to facilitate the
generation     and/or analysis of forms, the generation         of scores, the provision of
recommendations, and/or the performance of automated actions, as described above.
[0080]      As shown in Fig. 5, form analysis platform 220 may provide a user interface by
which a user can log into an application (e.g., APP 222-1 of Fig. 2, shown as "Privacy Meter
Application"). As shown in Fig. 6, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface
to provide a prompt by which the user can input an industry profile and/or jurisdiction
identifier, such as by selecting a geographic region, sector, industry, company name, and/or
department. As shown in Fig. 7, form analysis platform 220 may provide an option by which
the user can select whether to create and analyze a new form or to analyze an existing form.
[0081]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may generate a new form based
on receiving input from a user regarding fields to be included in the form and/or data to be

                                                25
gathered using the form. As shown in Fig. 8, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user
interface to provide a prompt by which the user may select fields to request a particular type
of information (e.g., "Mobile Phone Number"), which may be included in a field category (e.g.,
"Personal Details" or "Family Details"), and may indicate supporting documentation used to
support the provided information (e.g., "Passport").        As shown in Fig. 9, form analysis
platform 220 may cause the user interface to display a summary of fields to be included in
the form, and to provide a prompt by which the user may add new fields or delete existing
fields.
[0082]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may generate a form privacy
score, which may be determined based on the fields and based on the industry profile and/or
government regulations. As shown in Fig. 10, form analysis platform 220 may cause the
user interface to display the form privacy score along with a coded level indicator (e.g., a
color coded level indicator) , a donut chart representing a composition of categories for the
form privacy score, and help text explaining the form privacy score. As shown in Fig. 11,
form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display the form privacy score
for individual fields. As shown in Fig. 12, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user
interface to provide a prompt by which the user may provide an indication to accept the form
if the form privacy score is acceptable, and/or to send the form to another user for approval.
[0083]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may generate a form justification
score, which may be determined based on the fields and the form field justifications. As
shown in Fig. 13, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to provide a
prompt by which the user can indicate a justification for each field. As shown in Fig. 14, form
analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display the form justification score
along with a color coded level indicator, a donut chart representing a composition of
categories for the form justification score, and help text explaining the form justification score.
As shown in Fig. 15, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display the
form justification score for individual fields.
[0084]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may generate an organizational
privacy score, which may be determined based on the fields and based on data policies. As

                                                 26
shown in Fig. 16, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to provide a
prompt by which the user can indicate the organization's data policies. As shown in Figs.
17-18, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display the organizational
privacy score along with a color coded level indicator, along with the organizational privacy
scores for collection, storage, protection, usage, and access categories.
[0085]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may generate an overall privacy
score, which may be calculated based on a combination of two or more of the form privacy
score, the form justification score, and the organizational privacy score. As shown in Fig. 19
and Fig. 20, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display a
visualization of the overall privacy score.
[0086]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may compare forms and/or scores
for forms and may select a form that best satisfies a combination of requirements, may
generate a combined form score, may generate a field combination score, and/or may
generate a benchmarking score. As shown in Fig. 21, form analysis platform 220 may cause
the user interface to display a visualization of the comparison of scores. As shown in Fig.
22, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display a visualization of the
combined form score. As shown in Fig. 23, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user
interface to display a visualization of the field combination score. As shown in Figs. 24-25,
form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display a visualization of the
benchmarking score for the overall privacy score, the form privacy score, the form
justification score, and the organizational privacy score.
[0087]      As described above, form analysis platform 220 may generate recommendations.
As shown in Fig. 26, form analysis platform 220 may cause the user interface to display
organizational level recommendations. As shown in Fig. 27, form analysis platform 220 may
cause the user interface to display form level recommendations.
[0088]      As indicated above, Figs. 5-27 are provided merely as an example.           Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 5-27.

                                               27
[0089]     Implementations described herein use a form analysis platform, implemented
within a cloud computing environment, to generate and analyze forms using well-defined
rules, and to provide an accurate assessment of the level of risk associated with forms used
to obtain potentially sensitive data. In some implementations, the form analysis platform
uses natural language processing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data analysis,
web crawling, or another automated technique to more accurately determine the level of risk,
to provide recommendations regarding a form, to perform an automated action for a form, or
the like.  By using these automated techniques, the form analysis platform provides an
accurate and objective analysis of forms, provides a more consistent analysis of forms so
that multiple forms can be compared, and improves security by reducing the likelihood and
impact of data breaches associated with data obtained using the forms.
[0090]     The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[0091]     As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[0092]     Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[0093]     Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.             In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a

                                              28
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[0094]      It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[0095]      Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.       Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[0096]      No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.

                                              29
[0097]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other integer or step, or group of integers or
steps.
[0098]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                  30
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
               receive form analysis information to be used to analyze a computer
        implemented form for an organization, the form analysis information including:
                      an industry profile associated with the organization,
                      a government regulation that governs the organization, and
                      a form field justification that indicates a justification for including a
               particular field in the computer-implemented form;
               analyze the computer-implemented           form based on the form analysis
        information and based on one or more fields included in the computer-implemented
       form;
               generate one or more scores for the one or more fields based on analyzing the
       computer-implemented form, the one or more scores being generated based on:
                      the industry profile,
                      the government regulation, and
                      the form field justification; and
               perform one or more automated actions in association with the computer
        implemented form based on the one or more scores, wherein the automated actions
        include any one or more of:
                      adding a field to the computer-implemented form,
                      removing a field from the computer-implemented form, or
                      replacing a first field, included in the computer-implemented form, with
               a second field.
2.     A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors, when performing
the one or more automated actions:
       determine that a score, of the one or more scores, satisfies a threshold; and
        modify the computer-implemented form based on determining that the score satisfies
the threshold.

                                                  31
3.     A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the threshold is determined
based on user input that indicates an acceptable score for the computer-implemented form.
4.     A device according to claim 2, where the one or more processors, when generating
the computer-implemented form:
       obtain the computer-implemented form by crawling one or more websites.
5.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when analyzing the computer-implemented form:
       perform natural language processing to identify the one or more fields included in the
computer-implemented form.
6.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
       perform web crawling to identify a news article relating to the computer-implemented
form;
       analyze the news article using natural language processing; and
       update the one or more scores based on analyzing the news article using natural
language processing.
7.     A computer-implemented method, including:
       obtaining, by one or more devices, form analysis information to be used to analyze a
form for an organization, the form analysis information including:
                an industry profile associated with the organization,
                a government regulation that governs the organization, and
                a form field justification that indicates a justification for including a particular
       field in the form;
       analyzing, by the one or more devices, the form based on the form analysis
information and based on one or more fields included in the form;

                                                  32
       generating, by the one or more devices, one or more scores for the one or more fields
based on analyzing the form, the one or more scores being generated based on:
               the industry profile,
               the government regulation, and
               the form field justification; and
               performing, by the one or more devices, one or more automated actions in
       association with the form based on the one or more scores, wherein the automated
       actions include any one or more of:
                      adding a field to the computer-implemented form,
                      removing a field from the computer-implemented form, or
                      replacing a first field, included in the computer-implemented form, with
               a second field.
8.     A method according to claim 7, further including:
       determining a website associated with the organization; and
       where obtaining the form analysis information includes:
               obtaining the form analysis information by crawling the website and using
        natural language processing.
9.     A method according to either claim 7 or claim 8, where the form analysis information
further includes information associated with one or more organizations that are related to the
organization.
10.    A method according to any one of claims 7 to 9, where the one or more scores include:
       a form privacy score that represents a level of privacy risk associated with the form,
               the form privacy score being determined based on the one or more fields and
       at least one of the industry profile or the government regulation; and
       a form justification score that represents a level of risk associated with the form due
to unneeded data collected via the form,
               the form justification score being determined based on the one or more fields
       and the form field justification.

                                                   33
11.     A method according to any one of claims 7 to 10, where the form analysis information
further includes information that identifies one or more data policies of the organization.
12.     A method according to claim 11, where the one or more scores include:
        an organizational privacy score that represents a level of privacy risk associated with
data policies of the organization,
                the organizational privacy score being determined based on the one or more
        fields and the one or more data policies.
13.     A method according to any one of claims 7 to 12, where the one or more scores
include:
        a field combination score that represents a level of risk associated with a combination
of fields included in the form.
14.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
        one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
                receive form analysis information to be used to analyze a potential form for an
        organization, the form analysis information including at least one of:
                       an industry profile associated with the organization,
                       a government regulation that governs the organization, or
                       a form field justification that indicates a justification for including a
                particular field in the potential form;
                analyze the potential form based on the form analysis information and based
        on a plurality of fields to be included in the potential form;
                generate scores for the plurality of fields based on analyzing the potential form,
        the scores being generated based on at least one of:
                       the industry profile,
                       the government regulation, or

                                                 34
                     the form field justification; and
              perform one or more automated actions in association with the potential form
       based on the scores, wherein the automated actions include any one or more of:
                     adding a field to the computer-implemented form,
                     removing a field from the computer-implemented form, or
                     replacing a first field, included in the computer-implemented form, with
              a second field.
15.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, where the one or
more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to perform the one or more
automated actions, further cause the one or more processors to:
       provide one or more recommendations associated with the potential form.
16.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 14 or claim 15,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide the
one or more recommendations, further cause the one or more processors to:
       provide a recommendation to at least one of:
              add a field to the potential form,
              remove a field from the potential form, or
              replace a first field, included in the potential form, with a second field.
17.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 14 to 16,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to perform the
one or more automated actions, further cause the one or more processors to:
      compare a plurality of scores for a plurality of forms including the potential form; and
       provide a recommendation to use a particular form, of the plurality of forms, based on
comparing the plurality of scores for the plurality of forms.
18.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 14 to 17,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:

                                                 35
       identify an article relating to a type of information obtained using the potential form;
       analyze the article using natural language processing; and
       update one or more of the scores based on analyzing the article using natural
language processing.
19.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 18, where the one or
more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to update the one or more of the
scores, further cause the one or more processors to:
       update a score for a field, included in the potential form, associated with collecting the
type of information identified in the article.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
