                                           Abstract
A method of determining a number of sorting stages in a sorting cascade, each sorting
stage comprising a sensor and a diverter, comprising: calculating a probability of
correctly determining a content of a mineral sample using a sensor, calculating a
probability of correctly diverting the mineral sample using a diverter, calculating a utility of
a sorting cascade based on the probability of correctly determining the content of a
mineral sample and the probability of correctly diverting the mineral sample and
determining a number of sorting stages based on the calculated utility.

WO 2013/163759            PCT/CA2013/050336
                      1/8
                  Coo
               C)

WO 2013/163759                                                           PCT/CA2013/050336
    HIGH CAPACITY CASCADE-TYPE MINERAL SORTING MACHINE AND
                                        METHOD
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119(e) of United States
Provisional Application No. 61/640,752, filed on May 1, 2012, entitled "High Capacity
Cascade-Type Mineral Sorting Machine," which is hereby incorporated by reference
for all purposes in its entirety. This application is related to United States Application
No. 13/538,931, filed June 29, 2012, entitled "Extracting Mined Ore, Minerals or Other
Materials Using Sensor-Based Sorting," which in turn claims the benefit of United
States Provisional Application No. 61/502,772, filed on June 29, 2011,              entitled
"Method for the Pre-Concentration of Mineral Ores" and United States Provisional
Application No. 61/502,760, filed on June 29, 2011,             entitled "High Frequency
Electromagnetic Spectrometer," all of which are hereby incorporated by reference for
all purposes in their entireties. This application is related to U.S. Patent Application
No. 13/830,453, entitled "Sorting Materials Using Pattern Recognition, Such As
Upgrading Nickel Laterite Ores Through Electromagnetic Sensor-Based Methods,"
which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes in its entirety.
                                      BACKGROUND
[0002] In the field of mineral sorting, sorting machines generally comprise a single
stage of sensor arrays controlling via micro controller or other digital control system a
matched array of diverters, usually air jets. Sensors can be of various forms, either
photometric     (light  source    and   detector),    radiometric     (radiation detector),
electromagnetic (source and detector or induced potential), or more high-energy
electromagnetic source/detectors such as x-ray source/detector (fluorescence or
transmission) or gamma-ray source/detector types. Matched sensor/diverter arrays
are typically mounted onto a substrate, either vibrating feeder, belt conveyor or free
fall type, which transports the material to be sorted past the sensors and thus on to
the diverters where the material is diverted.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0003] Embodiments of the present disclosure will be described and explained through
the use of the accompanying drawings in which:
                                             -1-

WO 2013/163759                                                         PCT/CA2013/050336
[0004] Fig. 1 illustrates an example of a single sensor/diverter sorting cell;
[0005] Fig. 2 illustrates an example of signal analysis and pattern matching algorithms;
[0006] Fig. 3 illustrates an example of an arrangement of sorting cascades with a priori
size classification stages;
[0007] Fig. 4 illustrates an example of a typical sorting cascade of arbitrary dimension;
[0008]Figs. 5A-D illustrate examples of resulting feed partition curves for typical
parameterizations of a cascade;
[0009] Fig. 6 illustrates an example of an arrangement of a sorting system;
[0010]Fig. 7 is a flow chart having an example set of instructions for identifying
mineral composition; and
[0011]Fig. 8 an example of a computer system with which one or more embodiments
of the present disclosure may be utilized.
[0012]The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale.            For example, the
dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to
help improve the understanding of the embodiments of the present invention.
Similarly, some components and/or operations may be separated into different blocks
or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the
embodiments of the present invention. Moreover, while the disclosure is amenable to
various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments have been shown
by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention,
however, is not to limit the disclosure to the particular embodiments described. On
the contrary, the disclosure is intended to cover all modifications, equivalents, and
alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosure.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0013]Sorting is typically undertaken by one or more high-efficiency machines in a
single stage, or in more sophisticated arrangements such as rougher/scavenger,
rougher/cleaner or rougher/cleaner/scavenger. Sorter capacity is limited by several
factors including microcontroller speed, belt or feeder width, and a typical requirement
to a) segregate the feed over a limited particle size range, and b) separate individual
                                             -2-

WO 2013/163759                                                              PCT/CA2013/050336
particles in the feed apart from each other prior to sorting to ensure high efficiency
separation (i.e., establishing a "mono-layer" of particles).
[0014]As disclosed herein, higher efficiencies in sorting unsegregated, unseparated
feed material are achieved through unique combinations of multiple sensor/diverter
stages in a cascade arrangement, the number and combination of stages in the
cascade determined through a priori characterization of sensor/rock and rock/diverter
interactions and mathematical determination of the optimal number and combination
of stages based on probability.          Further, as disclosed herein, desired sorting
capacities are achieved through addition of multiple cascades in parallel until the
desired sorting capacity is reached.
[0015]ln the present disclosure, suitably crushed mineral feed is sorted at high
capacity in a cascade-type sorting machine. In some embodiments, the cascade-type
sorting system comprises an array of discrete sensor/diverter (sorting) cells arranged
in such a way as the sorting process occurs in a series of discrete steps comprising
the sorting cells operating in parallel, until a final product of acceptable quality is
separated from a final tailing or "reject" material stream.
[0016]The sorting cascade (or cascades) may be preceded by size classification
stages, typically one to remove fine material which is possibly not to be sorted, and a
second stage to create both a coarse fraction suitable for treatment in a coarse
particle cascade, and a fine fraction suitable for treatment in a fine-particle cascade.
For an arbitrary order of cascade, the      ith  sorting cell receives a feed input, and from
the feed input produces intermediate outputs which may either go to a further j1th
sorting cell or final outputs; the jth cell similarly may produce outputs which go to a
further stage of sorting, or are combined with         ith cell outputs to make a final product
stream; similarly, individual output streams from ith and jth sorters can be sent to a
further set of cells or are combined to make a final tailing stream.
[0017] Individual sensor/diverter cells in the sorting system are controlled by individual
embedded industrial computers embodying, e.g. rapid pattern recognition algorithms
for mineral content analysis, and high speed control interfaces to pass instructions to
high speed electromechanical diverters.             The cascade may comprise numerous
stages of sensor/diverter cells in series; stages may alternately comprise multiple
channels of sensor/diverter cells in parallel. The sorting stages comprising the entire
                                                -3-

WO 2013/163759                                                         PCT/CA2013/050336
sorting cascade are coordinated by a marshaling computer (or computers) which
provides the overall sorting algorithm and allows online adjustment of separation
metrics across the entire cascade.         In some embodiments, the sensing algorithm
deployed embodies concepts of mineral recognition adapted from biometric security.
The sorting algorithm embodies iterative Bayesian probability algorithms governing
particle recognition and diversion determining the configuration of sensing/sorting cells
required to achieve a given objective.
[0018]The techniques described herein may maximize the treatment capacity of a
mineral sorting solution by embracing the imperfection of individual sensor/diverter
cells through eliminating the need for a) a mono-layer of particles and b) the
segregation of the particles in space in combination with the exploitation of a priori
knowledge of the inherent imperfection of the sorting cells to determine the number of
sorting stages to achieve an efficient and effective separation of minerals at the
desired capacity.
[0019]Fig. 1 illustrates an example of a single sensor/diverter (sorting) cell.       The
sorting cell illustrated in Fig. 1 includes material feed stream 10, feed mechanism 20,
sensor array comprising source array 40, detector array 50, and embedded computer
60 communicating via signal cable with a control enclosure comprising analogue to
digital conversion stage 70, digital signal processing stage 80, and comparator
function stage 90, connected to the diverter control stage comprising micro controller
100, programmable logic controller ("PLC") 110, actuator array 120 and diverter gate
array 130. In some embodiments, the sensor element may be passive.               In some
embodiments, signals analyzed by the digital signal processor 80 are compared via
conditional random field-type pattern matching algorithm with nearest neighbor
detection to a previously determined pattern in the comparator function stage 90 to
determine whether the material meets or exceeds an acceptable content threshold,
and control signals for acceptance or rejection of the material, as appropriate, are sent
to the diverter array micro controller 100.
[0020] In use, feed material in material feed stream 10 entering the sorting cell may be
separated into "accept" product 140 or "reject" product 150 streams based on mineral
content determined by the sensor array 40, 50, and 60 and compared to a pre
determined value by the comparator function 90.
                                              -4-

WO 2013/163759                                                       PCT/CA2013/050336
[0021]Fig. 2 illustrates a mineral recognition algorithm.        Generally, the mineral
recognition algorithm may include an analogue to digital conversion, Fourier analysis
of spectrum, spectral pattern recognition algorithm, comparator function, and digital
output stage.
[0022]More specifically, in Fig. 2, analogue signals of arbitrary waveform and
frequency from the detector array 200 are converted by analogue to digital signal
converter 210. Digital signals from the digital signal converter 210 are passed to the
Fourier    analysis    stage   where   spectral    data   of   amplitude/frequency   or
amplitude/wavelength format are generated by Fast Fourier Transform implemented
on a field programmable gate array 220 or other suitable element(s), such as at least
one digital signal processor (DSP), application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), any
manner of processor (e.g. microprocessor), etc. Indeed, many of the components
disclosed herein may be implemented as a system-on-chip (SoC) or as similar
technology. Arbitrary power spectra generated 230 in the Fourier Analysis stage 220
are compared to previously determined and known spectra 260. Spectra of desired
material are recognized by conditional random field-type pattern matching algorithm
("CRF") with nearest neighbor detection 240 running on the embedded computer 250.
Other pattern matching algorithms are possible and the embodiments are not limited
to CRF.
[0023] Recognition of desired material results in "accept" instructions being passed
from the embedded computer 250 to the diverter array 270 via the PLC 280.
Recognition of undesired material results in "reject" instructions being passed to the
diverter array 270, whereas recognition of desired material results in "accept"
instructions being passed to the diverter array 270.
[0024] Fig. 3 illustrates an example of an arrangement of sorting cascades operating
in combination with a preceding size classification stage.       The arrangement may
include a fine removal stage, coarse/fine size classification, and both coarse and fine
sorting cascades of arbitrary dimension. The coarse and the fine sorting cascades
may both deliver appropriately classified material to either a final product or final
tailing stream.     Coarse and fine sorting cascades are controlled by the central
marshaling computer which governs the macro behavior of the cascade according to
pre-determined probabilities of correct sensing and diversion of "good" rocks to "good"
destinations, and predetermined probabilities of sensing and diversion of "bad" rocks
                                           -5-

WO 2013/163759                                                        PCT/CA2013/050336
to "bad" destinations, treating rocks with a random distribution of "good" and "bad"
values, and the spectral patterns sensed for "good" and "bad" rocks respectively have
been determined through a priori characterization.            The probability of correct
separation is then used to determine the appropriate number of stages required for
effective separation. The processes of a typical sorting cascade are described below
in more detail in terms of Bayesian probability.
[0025]Fig. 3 illustrates a mineral feed stream input into a size classification stage
followed by multiple stages of sensor-based recognition, discrimination and diversion.
These stages lead to two output mineral streams, a final product (or "accept") stream,
and a final tailings (or "reject") stream. Mineral feed of arbitrary particle size
distribution 300 is classified by a primary size classification stage 310. Fine material
stream 330 from the size classification stage underflow can be taken to final product
stream 450 or sorted. Overflow 320 from the primary size classification stage 310 is
separated into a coarse stream 340 and fine stream 350 by the secondary size
classification stage 360.    Coarse material in the coarse stream 340 is sorted in a
coarse sorting cascade 380, delivering a coarse product stream 390 and coarse
tailings stream 395. Fine material in the fine stream 350 is sorted in a fine sorting
cascade 400, delivering a fine product stream 410 and fine tailings stream 405.
[0026] Primary size classifier underflow in the fine material stream 330, coarse sorting
cascade product stream 390 and fine sorting cascade product stream 410 are
combined in a final product stream 450. Coarse sorting cascade tailings stream 395
and fine sorting cascade tailings stream 405 are combined in a final tailings stream
460.
[0027]The number of stages in each coarse sorting cascade is determined by a
cascade algorithm configured by a priori knowledge of the probability of correct
sensing and diversion of "good" rocks to "good" destinations, and predetermined
probabilities of sensing and diversion of "bad" rocks to "bad" destinations, and
expected spectral patterns sensed for "good" and "bad" rocks respectively having
been determined through a priori characterization. The configuration algorithm can be
understood as a combination of iterated Bayesian probabilities, summarized in the
form of parameters similar to those used in the biometric authentication industry,
where the notions of False Acceptance, False Rejection and Equal Error Rate have
isomorphic qualities. Consider the trajectory of a "good" rock in the sorting process. It
                                            -6-

WO 2013/163759                                                                PCT/CA2013/050336
is either accepted during the first stage of the sorting cascade, or it is "Falsely
Rejected."      A bad rock, similarly, is either rejected at this stage, or it is "Falsely
Accepted." The following concerns only the False Rejection of rocks that should make
it past the respective stages of the cascade, and with the False Acceptance of rocks
which should not.
[0028]Given a mineral feed stream comprising a random composition of m rocks, e.g.,
n good and m-n bad, each rock of the stream will be categorized as being one of a
predetermined set of types which are a priori ascertained by analysis of a
representative sequence of similar rocks for calibration and evaluation purposes only.
[0029] Now referring to a sorting plant comprised of a cascade of sensor/diverter cells
where the sorting plant includes:
         a set of sorting cells s1, S2 , ... sn, such that each cell si takes a distribution of
         rocks and sorts it into bi conveyer belts which then go onto other cells or to a
         final destination;
         a set D of final destinations (e.g., "accept" or "reject", but there can be arbitrarily
         many); and
         a set of connections (implemented for instance as conveyer belts), that takes
         rocks from an output of a cell to another cell or to a final destination.
Let Cij be the location where output j of cell si goes. If Cij = sk then sk has an input
from si. Assume that the cells are arranged in an acyclic ordering, where there is an
initial cell s1 which has, as input, the input to the sorting cascade itself, and all cells si
(except for si) have at least one input.
[0030] Now referring to a cascade sorter comprised of istages of cells: for each sorter
Si, rocks are sorted into one of bi streams. For each rock, let Si be the output of the
sorter.     Thus Si   =  j  means that the rock is output to stream            j. Each sorter is
characterized by:
         P(Si =j I t)
         where t is the type of the rock (e.g., "good" or "bad").
This probability could be dependent on parameterizations of the sorter, such as a
threshold level of desired ore content detected or sensed in a rock.
[0031]Now referring to the ultimate yield of the separation: for each sorter, the final
destination of the sorter is defined to be the final destination of the rocks that come
                                                   -7-

WO 2013/163759                                                                         PCT/CA2013/050336
into the sorter. For sorter si and for each rock, Si              =  d means that the rock coming into
si ends up in destination d. The probability P(Si                  =  d I t) defines the probability of a
rock of type t that comes into si ending up in destination d. This can be defined
recursively for all of the cells:
        While there are some sorters for which the system may not compute P(Si                      =
        dit), there is always a sorter such that all of the outputs are connected to final
        destinations or to sorters for which this quantity has been computed. Then
        P(Si   = dit) can be computed as follows:
        P(Si = dit) =IjP(Si = jlt)P(Cij        =  dit)
        where P(Cij    = dIt) is
                     -  P(Sk    =  dit) if Cij  = sk. That is, if Cij goes to cell sk. The system has
                        already computed P(Sk              = dit):
                     -  1 if Cij is connected to destination d.
                     -  0 if Cij is connected to a destination other than d.
The performance of the whole sorter is characterized by P(S1                     = dit), and the
environment, which is characterized by the distribution over types, P(t).
[0032] Now referring to the efficiency of separation, if there are two rock types (good
and bad) and two destinations (good and bad), the confusion matrix can be defined
as:
                                    rock positive                            rock negative
 destination positive               ty = P(S1 = gIt = good)P(t =             fp = P(S1 = gIt = bad)P(t =
                                    good)                                    bad)
 destination negative               fn = P(S1 = bit = good)P(t =             tn = P(S1 = bit = bad)P(t =
                                    good)                                    bad)
These can be plotted for various plants and/or parameter settings.
In general, a utility u(d; t) can be defined for each destination d and type t. In this
case, the utility of the sorter is -tyd P(S1 = dlt)P(t)u(d; t). A plant or parameter settings
can be chosen to optimize the utility for maximum yield at maximum efficiency given a
priori knowledge of the rocks.
[0033] Figure 4 illustrates an embodiment of a typical sorting cascade in more detail
comprising arrays of sorting cells in a calculated arrangement of stages delivering
sorted material to final product and tailings streams.                       The cascade has a utility
according to pre-determined P(Si            =  d I t).
                                                       -8-

WO 2013/163759                                                       PCT/CA2013/050336
[0034]Fig. 4 illustrates an example of an arbitrary sorting cascade. The selected
probability or number of stages shown is only one example - many others are
possible. Any geometric configuration involving any number of sorting cells in any
interconnection relationship thereamong is contemplated by this disclosure, as long as
each sorting cell accepts input, and has a destination to which its output is directed,
and behaves as parameterized. Further, thresholding for initial cells in the particular
embodiment may be different to that of subsequent cells in the embodiment as
separation criteria refine over the progress of rocks towards "accept" or "reject"
destinations in the cascade.
[0035] In the example shown, mineral feed is delivered to the sorting cascade via the
feed chutes 510 via gravity (or other mechanism).       Material from the feed chute is
delivered to the first stage sorting cell 520 comprising feed mechanism 530, sensor
540 and diverter 550 by gravity.      First stage sorting cell 520 separates the feed
material into accept and reject fractions 560 and 570, respectively.        The accept
fraction 560 is delivered to the next stage of sorting 580 similarly comprised to the
previous sorting cell 520, where the material is again separated into accept fraction
590 and reject fraction 595. The reject fraction 570 is delivered to the next stage of
sorting 600, which is similarly comprised to the first sorting cell 520, where the
material is again separated into accept fraction 610 and reject fraction 615.         The
accept fraction 610 is delivered to the next stage of sorting 620, which is similarly
comprised to the first sorting cell 520, where the material is again separated into
accept fraction 625 and reject fraction 630. The reject fraction 615 is delivered to the
next stage of sorting, sorting cell 635, which is similarly comprised to the first sorting
cell 520, where the material is again separated into accept fraction 640 and reject
fraction 645.     Unit separation of material into accept and reject fractions occurs
similarly through the cascade until the material is sorted into a final reject material
delivered to the final reject stream 820, and a final accept material delivered to the
final accept pile 830.
[0036]Sorting cells, such as sorting cells 520, 580, and 600 are controlled by
individual embedded computers 701 ... 709 housing the pattern recognition algorithm
240.    All embedded computers 701 ... 709 are controlled by a central marshaling
computer 800 housing the cascade sorting algorithm 810 with a priori knowledge of
the accept/reject probability. Alternatively, the embedded computers perform only
                                            -9-

WO 2013/163759                                                         PCT/CA2013/050336
basic functions (e.g., controlling material separation), but sensor data from each cell is
sent to the central computer for analysis, e.g., pattern recognition, and the central
computer sends accept/reject signals back to each embedded computer for controlling
the diverters. Some or all sorting cells may include sensors, with all sensors being
similar, but the system is configured to sense differing thresholds of a desired material
or ore for each cell (e.g. detect a particular waveform). Alternatively or additionally,
some or all sensors may differ from other sensors to, e.g., sense different materials in
the rock (e.g. to identify two different, desirable materials in the material stream), or to
employ different sensing techniques for sensing the same material (e.g. photometric,
radiometric, and/or electromagnetic sensors).
[0037] Figure 5 illustrates a series of partition curves for the embodiment described in
Figure 4. In Fig. 5, a series of partition curves describing sorting Utility over a range of
P(S   = d I t) are shown. In Fig. 5A a partition curve for Utility >_0.5 is shown. In Fig.
5B a partition curve for Utility >_0.8 is shown. In Fig. 5C a partition curve for Utility >
0.9 is shown. In Fig. 5D a partition curve for Utility approaching 1.0 is shown. The
curves show that for values of Utility > 0.5 that statistically acceptable sorting
outcomes are achieved for values not much greater than 0.5 in a limited number of
sorting stages. In this way, statistically acceptable sorting outcomes can be achieved
over multiple stages of sorting steps of individually unacceptable sorting performance.
Suitable Method of Determininq Content
[0038]The description below, including the description relating to Figs. 6 and 7,
discuss a particular method and system for determining the content of mineral
samples. Other embodiments are contemplated. In some embodiments, the variable
chemical composition of unblended mineral samples or streams may be determined
by exposing the mineral sample or stream to electromagnetic radiation and measuring
a signal produced therefrom, such as an absorption, reflectance or Compton
backscatter response. A machine comprising arrays of source-detector-type mineral
sensors, coupled to high-speed, digital signal processing software incorporating rapid
pattern recognition algorithms scans the ore stream in real-time and interprets the
chemical composition of the ore.
[0039] Referring now to the pattern recognition algorithm in more detail, the concepts
of recognition and identification as used in biometric security are introduced.
                                             -10-

WO 2013/163759                                                           PCT/CA2013/050336
Automated digital signal analysis is conventionally applied for pattern recognition
using an exact matched, or identified, signal. In spectrum matching, both wavelength
and amplitude, or frequency and amplitude of an arbitrary power spectrum are to be
matched.      Traditional pattern matching requires comparison of every inbound
spectrum to the sample spectrum to achieve an exact match and is computationally
very intensive and time consuming and therefore not practical in high-speed mineral
recognition applications.    Recognition is hereby differentiated from identification, or
matching, for the purpose of the present system. As used in biometric security, for
instance, recognition is the verification of a claim of identity, while identification is the
determination of identity. These scenarios loosely correspond to the use of sensor
telemetry for classification (e.g., sorting applications in the field) and characterization
(e.g., analytical operations in the laboratory). To build further intuition, the biometric
identification/recognition scenario will be further elucidated:
[0040] Identification: In the laboratory, a sample might be subjected to, for example,
an X-ray Fluorescence sensor for analytic purposes. In the mining practice of interest,
a spectral pattern is created in the lab using analytical procedures (i.e., samples from
the deposit of interest are characterized or identified using analytical procedures in the
lab). This is to say that the objective of the sampling is to yield the most accurate and
precise result: a sensor-based assay. In this way the identity of a mineral sample as
determined by sensor-based techniques is a priori determined.              This template is
programmed into field units so that results from new samples can be compared to it in
quasi-real time.
[0041]The biometric analogy might go as follows: You are returning to your home
country at one of its major international airports and have the option of using a kiosk
equipped with an iris scanner. You simply approach the kiosk and present only your
eye for examination by the scanner. The kiosk reads your iris and prints out a receipt
with your name on it for you to present to a customs agent. The kiosk has clearly
searched for a closest match to the sample you just provided, from a database of
templates. You have been identified by the kiosk. Leaving aside the question of
whether or not this is good security practice, it is clear that the kiosk is programmed to
minimize the possibility of identity fraud (i.e., the incidence of false acceptance).
[0042] Recognition: In the field, samples are to be analyzed quickly-in quasi-real
time-in order to produce economically viable results. There is neither time nor, as it
                                             -11-

WO 2013/163759                                                        PCT/CA2013/050336
turns out, need for exactitude in matching. A sample is to simply match the a priori
pattern within a pre-determined tolerance; it is then recognized as a positive instance,
or else it is classified as a negative instance.
[0043] It is therefore necessary only to recognize the emerging spectral pattern, based
on the a priori identification described above, in time to make a classification decision.
[0044]The biometric analogy might go as follows: You are returning to your home
country at one of its major international airports and have the option of using a kiosk
equipped with an iris scanner. You approach the kiosk and present your passport,
thereby making an identity claim. You then present your eye for examination by the
scanner. The kiosk reads your iris and compares the sample to a stored template
(derived, perhaps, from information encrypted in your passport). Identity has been
rapidly confirmed by recognition of the subject based on a priori knowledge of the
subject content. This is analogous to the pattern recognition algorithm deployed in
various embodiments of the present invention.
[0045]The advanced pattern recognition methodology deployed involves pattern
learning (or classification) of absorbed, reflected or backscattered energy from the
irradiation of previously characterized mineral samples and pattern recognition
comprising fuzzy analysis and resource-bounded matching of absorption, reflectance
or backscattered spectra from newly irradiated mineral samples through a trained
CRF algorithm. The algorithms that match of absorption, reflectance or backscattered
spectra may be resource-bounded, meaning that energy physics determines when
measurement of a sample is complete.
[0046] Referring now to the CRF algorithm, CRF involves the "training" of the random
field on known spectra, as well as the use of the random field under resource bounded
conditions to rapidly recognize new spectra similar to the "trained" spectrum.           In
contrast to an ordinary matching algorithm which predicts a result for a single sample
without regard to "neighboring" samples, the CRF algorithm deployed predicts a likely
sequence of results for sequences of input samples analyzed.          Let X be an array
observed spectral measurements with Y a corresponding array of random output
spectra. Let
                                          S=[V,E]  ()
be a set of spectra such that
                                              -12-

WO 2013/163759                                                        PCT/CA2013/050336
                                          Y = Yv)    v,,(2)
so that Y is indexed by the vertices of S. Then (X,Y) is a conditional random field
when the random variables Y, , conditioned on X, obey the Markov property
                              p(YvIX,Yw,w    v) = p(YvIX,Yw,w-v) (3)
where w-v means that w and v are neighbours or near neighbours in S. The
conditional distribution
                                          p(YIX)p(XIY)  (4)
is then modeled. Learning parameters e are then obtained by maximum likelihood
learning for
                                           p(YilXi;0)  (5)
where all nodes have exponential family distributions and optimization is convex and
can be solved by, e.g., gradient-descent algorithms. The learning, or characterization,
phase involves identifying common characteristic spectra generated from a series of
samples by repeated exposure of the spectral analyzer to the samples. These
characteristic features may then be used for efficient and rapid spectrum recognition
for new samples with similar spectra.
[0047]As discussed, Fig. 2 references a pattern recognition algorithm of the CRF
type, using back-propagation when in the training mode to define matching
coefficients e for the conditional random field, which additionally incorporates pseudo
random sampling, and boundary detection comprising confirmation of the spectral
upper and lower bounds. The system is trained to recognize the presence of a range
of typical mineral constituents in a matrix such as iron, aluminum, silica and
magnesium present in a sample which is moving with reference to the sensor,
calculate the specific and total concentration of each element in the sample and
compare it to the pre-defined spectrum of known material obtained during the
"training" phase of the algorithm development.
[0048]Other pattern recognition algorithms such as inter alia brute-force, nearest
neighbour, peak matching etc. may be used. As such, embodiments of the present
invention are not limited to the particular algorithm described. For example, the peak
frequencies from a few samples with certain amplitudes may be identified, and then
                                                -13-

WO 2013/163759                                                         PCT/CA2013/050336
each sample may be analyzed for peaks near those frequencies and above a certain
amplitude.
[0049] Fig. 6 illustrates an example of an arrangement of a sorting system in an open
pit mining application. Embodiments depicted in Fig. 6 may be used, for example to
classify a pyrometallurgical process feed, a hydrometallurgical process feed and a
waste product simultaneously from the same deposit. Typical bulk open pit mining
equipment delivers unblended mineral feed to an ore sorting facility comprising arrays
of electromagnetic sorting machines described. Saprolitic material produced by the
sorting facility is delivered to pyrometallurgical plant 1080. Limonitic material
simultaneously recovered by the sorting facility is delivered to hydrometallurgical plant
1150. Waste material simultaneously recovered by the sorting facility is delivered to
waste piles 1070, 1040 for repatriation to the open pit.
[0050]Unblended laterite material 910 from the open pit may be delivered by truck
920 to coarse separator 930. Fine fractions from separator 930 underflow may be
passed to fine sorter feed bin 940 where material may be held prior to delivery to
sorting conveyor 950. Material travelling on the sorting conveyor 950 may be scanned
by an array of electromagnetic sensors 960.           Results from the electromagnetic
sensors 960 may be passed to controller 970 which compares the sensor results to
pre-set values and may instruct the diverter 980 to divert the material according to its
chemical content. High iron limonitic material may be diverted to limonite sorter 1090.
High silica saprolitic material may be diverted to saprolite sorter feed bin 1160.
[0051] High iron limonitic material from the sorting conveyor 950 may be passed to the
limonite sorter feed bin 1090 where material is held prior to delivery to sorting
conveyor 1100. Material traveling on the sorting conveyor 1100 may be scanned by
an array of electromagnetic sensors 1110. Results from the electromagnetic sensors
1110 may be passed to controller 1120 which compares the sensor results to pre-set
values and instructs diverter 1130 to divert the material according to its chemical
content. Material not suitable for treatment is diverted to the waste pile 1140.
Limonitic material suitable for treatment is passed via the limonite product conveyor to
the hydrometallurgical facility 1150.
[0052]Similarly high silica saprolitic material from the sorting conveyor 950 may be
passed to saprolite sorter feed bin 1160 where material may be held prior to delivery
                                           -14-

WO 2013/163759                                                       PCT/CA2013/050336
to sorting conveyor 1170. Material travelling on the sorting conveyor may be scanned
by an array of electromagnetic sensors 1180.         Results from the electromagnetic
sensors 1180 may be passed to the controller 1190 which compares the sensor
results to pre-set values and instructs the diverter 1195 to divert the material
according to its chemical content. Material not suitable for treatment is diverted to the
waste pile 1140. Saprolitic material suitable for treatment is passed via the saprolite
product conveyor 1060 to pyrometallurgical facility 1080.
[0053]Coarse fractions from the separator 930 overflow may be passed to coarse
sorter feed bin 1010 where material may be held prior to delivery to the sorting
conveyor. Material traveling on sorting conveyor 1020 may scanned by an array of
electromagnetic sensors 1030.      Results from the array of electromagnetic sensors
1030 may be passed to controller 1040 which compares the sensor results to pre-set
values and instructs the diverter array 1050 to divert the material according to its
chemical content. High nickel saprolitic material may be diverted to saprolite product
conveyor 1060. Low nickel, high iron and high silica material may be diverted to the
waste pile 1070. Note that some elements may be combined together, such as a
single controller that performs comparisons and instructs diverters.
[0054]Fig. 7 is a flowchart having an example set of instructions for determining
mineral content. The operations can be performed by various components such as
processors, controllers, and/or other components.         In receiving operation 1210,
response data from a mineral sample is received.           The response data may be
detected by a scanner that detects the response of the mineral sample to
electromagnetic radiation (i.e., reflected or absorbed energy).     An analog to digital
converter may digitize the response data.
[0055]In determining operation 1220, the spectral characteristics of the mineral
sample may be determined. A spectral analysis may be performed on the response
data to determine characteristics of the mineral sample. Characteristics may include
frequency, wavelength, and/or amplitude.        In some embodiments, characteristics
include other user-defined characteristics.
[0056] In identifying operation 1230, a composition of the mineral sample is identified
by comparing the characteristics of the mineral sample to characteristics of known
                                           -15-

WO 2013/163759                                                          PCT/CA2013/050336
mineral samples.      Pattern matching algorithms may be used in identifying the
composition.
[0057]In assigning operation 1240, a composition value is assigned to the mineral
sample.
[0058]In decision operation 1250, it is determined whether the composition value is
within a predetermined tolerance of composition values. In reject operation 1260, the
assigned value of the composition is not within the predetermined tolerance (i.e., the
characteristics do not fit with in a pattern), and, thus, the mineral sample is diverted to
a waste pile.    In accept operation 1270, the assigned value of the composition is
within the predetermined tolerance (i.e., the characteristics fit within a pattern), and
thus, the mineral sample is diverted to a hydrometallurgical or pyrometallurgical
process.
Computer System Overview
[0059] Embodiments of the present invention include various steps and operations,
which have been described above. A variety of these steps and operations may be
performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine-executable
instructions, which may be used to cause a general-purpose or special-purpose
processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively, the
steps may be performed by a combination of hardware, software, and/or firmware. As
such, Fig. 8 is an example of a computer system 1300 with which embodiments of the
present invention may be utilized. According to the present example, the computer
system includes a bus 1310, at least one processor 1320, at least one communication
port 1330, a main memory 1340, a removable storage media 1350, a read only
memory 1360, and a mass storage 1370.
[0060] Processor(s) 1320 can be any known processor, such as, but not limited to, an
Intel@ Itanium@ or Itanium 2@ processor(s); AMD@ Opteron@ or Athlon MP@
processor(s); or Motorola@ lines of processors. Communication port(s) 1330 can be
any of an RS-232 port for use with a modem-based dialup connection, a 10/100
Ethernet port, or a Gigabit port using copper or fiber. Communications may also take
place over wireless interfaces.         Communication port(s) 1330 may be chosen
depending on a network such as a Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network
(WAN), or any network to which the computer system 1300 connects.
                                             -16-

WO 2013/163759                                                        PCT/CA2013/050336
[0061]Main memory 1340 can be Random Access Memory (RAM) or any other
dynamic storage device(s) commonly known in the art. Read only memory 1360 can
be any static storage device(s) such as Programmable Read Only Memory (PROM)
chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor 1320.
[0062]Mass storage 1370 can be used to store information and instructions. For
example, hard disks such as the Adaptec@ family of SCSI drives, an optical disc, an
array of disks such as RAID, such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives, or any other
mass storage devices may be used.
[0063] Bus 1310 communicatively couples processor(s) 1320 with the other memory,
storage and communication blocks. Bus 1310 can be a PCI /PCI-X or SCSI based
system bus depending on the storage devices used.
[0064] Removable storage media 1350 can be any kind of external hard-drives, floppy
drives, IOMEGA@ Zip Drives, Compact Disc - Read Only Memory (CD-ROM),
Compact Disc - Re-Writable (CD-RW), and/or Digital Video Disk - Read Only
Memory (DVD-ROM).
[0065]Although not required, aspects of the invention may be practiced in the general
context of computer-executable instructions, such as routines executed by a general
purpose data processing device, e.g., a server computer, wireless device or personal
computer. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that aspects of the invention
can be practiced with other communications, data processing, or computer system
configurations, including: Internet appliances, hand-held devices (including personal
digital assistants (PDAs)), wearable computers, all manner of cellular or mobile
phones (including Voice over IP (VoIP) phones), dumb terminals, multi-processor
systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, set-top
boxes, network PCs, mini-computers, mainframe computers, and the like.
[0066]Aspects of the invention can be embodied in a special purpose computer or
data processor that is specifically programmed, configured, or constructed to perform
one or more of the computer-executable instructions explained in detail herein. While
aspects of the invention, such as certain functions, are described as being performed
exclusively on a single device, the invention can also be practiced in distributed
environments where functions or modules are shared among disparate processing
devices, which are linked through a communications network, such as a Local Area
                                           -17-

WO 2013/163759                                                            PCT/CA2013/050336
Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), or the Internet. In a distributed computing
environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote memory
storage devices.
[0067]Aspects of the invention may be stored or distributed on tangible computer
readable media, including magnetically or optically readable computer discs, hard
wired or preprogrammed chips (e.g., EEPROM semiconductor chips), nanotechnology
memory, biological memory, or other data storage media.             Alternatively, computer
implemented instructions, data structures, screen displays, and other data under
aspects of the invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks
(including wireless networks), on a propagated signal on a propagation medium (e.g.,
an electromagnetic wave(s), a sound wave, etc.) over a period of time, or they may be
provided on any analog or digital network (packet switched, circuit switched, or other
scheme).
Conclusion
[0068]As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate based on the detailed
description provided herein, and various novel concepts are realized, some of which
are listed below:
1. A source-detector type electromagnetic sorting cell comprising:
        a. a device for the introduction of mineral feed to the sensor;
        b. a device for the generation of a range of excitation beams;
        c. a scanner for the detection of resulting reflected, absorbed, or
            backscattered energy;
        d. an analog to digital converter to digitize the signals in (c);
        e. a software program for signal analysis, data recording, and process control;
        f. a control system for processing signal outputs; and
        g. a diverter connected to the control system for the diversion of measured
            material.
2. A method of determining the spectral response of a mineral sample under
    irradiation by electromagnetic means using the system comprising the steps of:
        a. providing the source detector sensing and sorting system;
        b. exposing the sensor to a mineral sample;
        c. converting the spectral response of the mineral sample to digital format
        d. measuring the spectral response of the mineral sample to the sensor; and
        e. converting the measured response (c) into a power spectrum.
3. A method of determining the mineral composition of an unknown sample using the
    sensor comprising the steps of:
        a. providing the system;
                                            -18-

WO 2013/163759                                                          PCT/CA2013/050336
       b. measuring the spectral response due to the unknown sample as described
          in Claim 2;
       c. comparing the measured data in (b) to previously recorded response data
          from samples of known grade; and
       d. assigning a compositional value to the unknown sample based on the
          comparison in (c).
4. A method of discriminating mineral samples based on spectral response using the
   sensor comprising the steps of:
       a. providing the system;
       b. determining the characteristic spectral response of the mineral sample as
          described in Claims 3 and 4;
       c. using the software program in Claim 1(e) to compare the values determined
          in (b) to predefined spectra of previously characterized mineral samples by
          means of the conditional random field algorithm described; and
       d. Using the control system described in Claim 1(f) to control the diverter
          system based upon results of the comparison described in (c).
5. A method of automatically rejecting or accepting mineral samples based on
   spectral response using the system comprising the steps of:
       a. providing the system;
       b. discriminating between sample materials as described in Claim 12;
       c. using the software program in Claim 1(h) to generate a sort decision based
          on the discrimination in (b); and
       d. effecting the sort based on the decision in (c) by means of the sorting
          mechanism described in Claim 5.
6. A method of determining the optimal number of sorting stages for an effective and
   beneficial separation of the mineral stream comprising:
       a. providing the system;
       b. discriminating between sample materials;
       c. calculating the probability of correctly sensing "good" and "bad" fractions in
          the mineral stream;
       d. calculating the probability of correctly diverting correctly sensed "good" and
          "bad" fractions in the mineral stream;
       e. calculating the utility of the sorting cascade based on a priori knowledge of
          the above probabilities and a priori characterization of "good" and "bad"
          rocks to be sensed and diverted;
       f. building a sorting cascade of dimension n to achieve the calculated utility;
          and
       g. providing m sorting cascades of dimension n to achieve the desired
          separation capacity at the calculated utility and capacity of a single
          cascade.
7. A high efficiency, high capacity mineral sorting system of m cascades in parallel
   with dimension n, each cascade comprising multiple cells of the type described in
   Claim 1, with sorting parameters for each cell as determined by the method
   described in Claims 2-5, and the number and arrangement of stages as
   determined by the method of Claim 6, comprising:
                                              -19-

WO 2013/163759                                                          PCT/CA2013/050336
         a. a preliminary size classification stage to remove very fine material prior to
            sorting in the cascade(s);
         b. an optional sorting cascade of m stages and n channels sorting the very fine
            mineral stream ultimately delivering a single 'accept' product and a single
            'reject' product to final product and tailings streams respectively;
         c. an optional second size classification stage for the separation of coarse and
            fine streams;
         d. a sorting cascade of dimension n and m channels sorting the coarse
            mineral stream ultimately delivering a single 'accept' product and a single
            'reject' product to final product and tailings streams respectively;
         e. an optional sorting cascade of dimension n and m channels sorting the fine
            mineral stream ultimately delivering a single 'accept' product and a single
            'reject' product to final product and tailings streams respectively; and
         f. final product and tailings streams combining the coarse and fine 'accept'
            and 'reject' products respectively.
[0069] Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
the claims, the words "comprise," "comprising," and the like are to be construed in an
inclusive sense, as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
sense of "including, but not limited to."        As used herein, the terms "connected,"
"coupled," or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling, either direct or
indirect, between two or more elements; the coupling or connection between the
elements can be physical, logical, or a combination thereof. Additionally, the words
"herein," "above," "below," and words of similar import, when used in this application,
refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this
application. Where the context permits, words in the above Detailed Description using
the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number
respectively. The word "or," in reference to a list of two or more items, covers all of
the following interpretations of the word: any of the items in the list, all of the items in
the list, and any combination of the items in the list.
[0070]The above Detailed Description of examples of the invention is not intended to
be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While
specific examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes,
various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention, as
those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example, while processes or blocks
are presented in a given order, alternative implementations may perform routines
having steps, or employ systems having blocks, in a different order, and some
                                              -20-

WO 2013/163759                                                      PCT/CA2013/050336
processes or blocks may be deleted, moved, added, subdivided, combined, and/or
modified to provide alternative or subcombinations.       Each of these processes or
blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also, while processes or
blocks are at times shown as being performed in series, these processes or blocks
may instead be performed or implemented in parallel, or may be performed at different
times.   Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples: alternative
implementations may employ differing values or ranges.
[0071]The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems,
not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various
examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the
invention. Some alternative implementations of the invention may include not only
additional elements to those implementations noted above, but also may include fewer
elements. Any patents and applications and other references noted above, including
any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers, are incorporated herein by
reference.   Aspects of the invention can be modified, if necessary, to employ the
systems, functions, and concepts of the various references described above to
provide yet further implementations of the invention.
[0072]These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above
Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the
invention, and describes the best mode contemplated, no matter how detailed the
above appears in text, the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the
system may vary considerably in its specific implementation, while still being
encompassed by the invention disclosed herein.            As noted above, particular
terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should
not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to
any specific characteristics, features, or aspects of the invention with which that
terminology is associated. In general, the terms used in the following claims should
not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the
specification, unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such
terms.   Accordingly, the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the
disclosed examples, but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the
invention under the claims.
                                          -21-

WO 2013/163759                                                           PCT/CA2013/050336
[0073]To reduce the number of claims, certain embodiments of the invention are
presented below in certain claim forms, but the applicant contemplates the various
aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. For example, while only one
aspect of the invention is recited as a means-plus-function claim under 35 U.S.C sec.
112, sixth paragraph, other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means-plus
function claim, or in other forms, such as being embodied in a computer-readable
medium. (Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112, 6 will begin with
the words "means for", but use of the term "for" in any other context is not intended to
invoke treatment under 35 U.S.C. 112, 6.) Accordingly, the applicant reserves the
right to pursue additional claims after filing this application to pursue such additional
claim forms, in either this application or in a continuing application.
[0074]As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate based on the detailed
description provided herein, various novel concepts are realized. The Abstract of the
Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. section 1.72(b), requiring an abstract
that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It
is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the
scope or meaning of the claims. In addition, in the foregoing Detailed Description, it
can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the
purpose of streamlining the disclosure.         This method of disclosure is not to be
interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention
require more features than are expressly recited in each claim.              Rather, as the
following claims reflect, inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single
disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the
Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred
embodiment.
                                             -22-

WO 2013/163759                                                            PCT/CA2013/050336
                                            CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.    A method of determining a number of sorting stages in a sorting cascade, each
      sorting stage comprising a sensor and a diverter, comprising:
              calculating a probability of correctly determining a content of a mineral
                       sample using a sensor;
              calculating a probability of correctly diverting the mineral sample using a
                       diverter;
              calculating a utility of a sorting cascade based on the probability of
                       correctly determining the content of a mineral sample and the
                       probability of correctly diverting the mineral sample; and
             determining a number of sorting stages based on the calculated utility.
2.    The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the utility of the sorting cascade is
      further based on a previous characterization of the mineral sample.
3.    The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              receiving a desired separation capacity;
             determining a number of sorting cascades to achieve the desired
                       separation capacity at the calculated utility.
4.    The method of claim 3, wherein each sorting cascade includes the determined
      number of sorting stages.
5.    A system for sorting ore from a stream of material, comprising:
              a first size-classifying stage configured to separate at least a portion of
                       the stream of material into at least fine fractions and coarse
                       fractions;
              a first sorting cascade comprising at least one sorting cell, wherein the
                       first sorting cascade is configured to:
                       receive the coarse fractions;
                       detect content of at least a first desired component from the
                               coarse fractions; and
                                              -23-

WO 2013/163759                                                        PCT/CA2013/050336
                     sort, based on a first grade threshold, the coarse fractions into a
                            coarse fraction accept stream and a coarse fraction reject
                            stream;
             a second sorting cascade comprising at least one sorting cell, wherein
                     the second sorting cascade is configured to:
                     receive the fine fractions;
                     detect content of at least a second desired component from the
                            fine fractions; and
                     sort, based on a second grade threshold, the fine fractions into a
                            fine fraction accept stream and a fine fraction reject
                            stream;
             a product stream comprising the fine fraction accept stream and the
                     coarse fraction accept stream; and
             a tailings stream comprising the fine fraction reject stream and the
                     coarse fraction reject stream.
6.   The system of claim 5, wherein detecting the content of at least the first desired
     component and detecting the content of at least the second desired component
     includes detecting the content of a same desired component in the fine
     fractions and the coarse fractions.
7.   The system of claim 6, wherein the first grade threshold is different from the
     second grade threshold.
8.   The system of claim 5, wherein detecting the content of at least the first desired
     component and detecting the content of at least the second desired component
     includes detecting a content of a different desired component in the fine
     fractions and the coarse fractions.
9.   The system of claim 5, further comprising a second size-classifying stage
     configured to separate at least a portion of the coarse fractions into at least
     second-stage fine fractions and second-stage coarse fractions.
                                            -24-

WO 2013/163759                                                           PCT/CA2013/050336
10.  The system of claim 5, wherein a number of sorting cells in the first sorting
     cascade is determined by:
             calculating a probability of correctly determining the content of the first
                    desired component of the coarse fractions using a sensor;
             calculating a probability of correctly diverting the coarse fractions using a
                    diverter;
             calculating a utility of the first sorting cascade based on the probability of
                    correctly determining the content of the first desired component of
                    the coarse fractions and the probability of correctly diverting the
                    coarse fractions; and
             determining the number of the at least one sorting cell in the first sorting
                    cascade based on the calculated utility.
11.  The system of claim 10, further comprising at least one additional sorting
     cascade, wherein each additional sorting cascade comprises the determined
     number of the at least one sorting cell.
12.  The system of claim 11, wherein a number of additional sorting cascades is
     determined based on a desired separation capacity.
13.  A method of separating material, comprising:
             receiving material into a first sorting cell, wherein the first sorting cell
                    comprises a first sensor and a first diverter;
             sorting, using the first sensor, the material into a first accept group and a
                    first reject group based on a content of the received material;
             receiving the first accept group into a second sorting cell, wherein the
                    second sorting cell comprises a second sensor and a second
                    diverter;
             sorting, using the second sensor, the first accept group into a second
                    accept group and a second reject group based on the content;
             receiving the first reject group into a third sorting cell, wherein the third
                    sorting cell has a third sensor and a third diverter; and
                                              -25-

WO 2013/163759                                                          PCT/CA2013/050336
             sorting, using the third sensor, the first reject group into a third accept
                    group and a third reject group based on the content;
             wherein at least two of the first sorting cell, the second sorting cell, and
                    the third sorting cell are configured to sort the content differently.
14.  The method of claim 13, further comprising:
             combining the third accept group and the second reject group;
             receiving the third accept group and the second reject group into a fourth
                    sorting cell, wherein the fourth sorting cell comprises a fourth
                    sensor and a fourth diverter; and
             sorting, using the fourth sensor, the third accept group and the second
                     reject group into a fourth accept group and a fourth reject group
                    based on the content.
15.  The method of claim 14, further comprising:
             combining the second accept group and the fourth accept group to form
                    a product group; and
             combining the fourth reject group and the third reject group to form a
                     reject group.
16.  The method of claim 15, further comprising
             determining a number of sorting cells to separate the material to a
                    desired utility; and
             repeating the receiving, sorting, and combining steps for the determined
                     number of sorting cells.
17.  The method of claim 16, wherein determining the number of sorting cells to
     separate the material to the desired utility is based on a probability of correctly
     determining content of the material and a probability of correctly diverting the
     material based on the content.
                                            -26-

WO 2013/163759                                                           PCT/CA2013/050336
18.  The method of claim 13, wherein the material comprises ore, wherein sorting,
     using the first sensor, the ore into the first accept group and the first reject
     group based on the content of the received ore comprises:
             exposing the first sensor to a mineral sample of the ore; and
             measuring a spectral response of the mineral sample.
19.  The method of claim 18, wherein sorting, using the first sensor, the ore into the
     first accept group and the first reject group based on the content of the received
     ore further comprises:
             comparing the measured spectral response to previously recorded
                     response data from mineral samples of a known content; and
             assigning a compositional value to the mineral sample based on the
                     comparison.
20.  The method of claim 13, further comprising:
             prior to receiving the material into the first sorting cell, classifying the
                     material into fine fractions and coarse fractions.
21.  The method of claim 20, wherein the fine fractions are received into the first
     sorting cell, and wherein the coarse fractions are received into a different
     sorting cell.
                                            -27-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
