                                                1
   Abstract
           A juice extraction module for a large-caliber juicer includes a base, a hood
   body, a rotary brush, a juicing net and a helical structure, wherein the hood body is
   matched with the base; the rotary brush, the juicing net and the helical structure
 5 are accommodated in a housing formed by matching the base and the hood body;
   the helical structure is accommodated in the juicing net; the juicing net is
   accommodated in the rotary brush and an outer wall of the juicing net is fitted with
   an inner wall of the rotary brush. An extrusion part is arranged on the helical
   structure of the juice extraction module for the large-caliber juicer in the utility
10 model. Helical vanes are arranged at the periphery of the extrusion part. Outer
   diameters of the helical vanes are consistent from top to bottom. A cutting part is
   arranged at a top of the extrusion part. The cutting part firstly cuts fruits and
   vegetables into small blocks; the helical vanes continuously deliver the small
   blocks of the fruits and vegetables downwards and extrude the small blocks, so as
15 to realize quick juicing, thereby effectively preventing the fruits and vegetables
   from accumulating in a feed inlet and increasing juicing efficiency.

   53
                  510
5
         51
      Fig. 4
             5101
53
                      5
      Fig. 5

                                                 1
             JUICE EXTRACTION MODULE FOR LARGE-CALIBER JUICER
   BACKGROUND
            The utility model relates to a juice extraction module for a large-caliber
   juicer.
 5          An existing juicer solves the problems of extrusion and crushing of material
   by means of the characteristic that the material flows downwards through self
   gravity. Meanwhile, because a machine base is arranged on a bottom, stability of
   a machine is good. However, a material inlet in the above solution is arranged
   above a screw rod. After entering a shell, the material falls above a helix of the
10 screw rod and is difficult to feed. Meanwhile, if the material falls in a position near
   an axis, because rotating speed in the position of the axis is zero, feeding is slow
   and the material may be accumulated, thereby affecting next extrusion and
   crushing.
   SUMMARY
15          The utility model provides a juice extraction module for a juicer with high
   feeding speed and high juicing efficiency.
            A technical solution adopted to solve the above technical problems in the
   utility model is as follows:
            A juice extraction module for a large-caliber juicer comprises a base, a
20 hood body, a rotary brush, a juicing net and a helical structure, wherein the hood
   body is matched with the base; the rotary brush, the juicing net and the helical
   structure are accommodated in a housing formed by matching the base and the
   hood body; the helical structure is accommodated in the juicing net; the juicing net

                                                2
   is accommodated in the rotary brush and an outer wall of the juicing net is fitted
   with an inner wall of the rotary brush, wherein an extrusion part is arranged on the
   helical structure; a juicing processing position is arranged at the bottom of the
   hood body; the juicing processing position accommodates the extrusion part of the
 5 helical structure; an outer wall of the juicing processing position is an arc-shaped
   surface; the radius of the arc-shaped surface is consistent from top to bottom; a
   cutting part is arranged at an upper part of the extrusion part; the cutting part is a
   blade; helical vanes are arranged at the periphery of the extrusion part from top to
   bottom; and outer diameters of the helical vanes are consistent from top to bottom.
10         Preferably, an axis of the helical structure is opposite to the bottom of the
   hood body.
           Preferably, a juice outlet and a residue outlet are arranged on the outer
   contour of the bottom of the base; and a sealing cover is arranged on the juice
   outlet.
15         Preferably, a safety cover is arranged on a top of the hood body; and a
   cover body hinged and matched with the safety cover is arranged on the safety
   cover.
           Preferably, first teeth are arranged on the circumferential bottom of the
   rotary brush; second teeth and a driving shaft are arranged on the bottom of the
20 helical structure; the driving shaft is located at a center of a circle of the bottom of
   the helical structure; the second teeth are arranged at an outer edge of the bottom

                                                  3
   of the helical structure; a gear is arranged between the first teeth and the second
   teeth; and the gear is engaged with the first teeth and the second teeth.
           Preferably, a diameter of the juicing net is gradually decreased from top to
   bottom.
 5         Compared with the prior art, an extrusion part is arranged on the helical
   structure of the juice extraction module for the large-caliber juicer in the utility
   model. Helical vanes are arranged at the periphery of the extrusion part. Outer
   diameters of the helical vanes are consistent from top to bottom. A cutting part is
   arranged at a top of the extrusion part. The cutting part firstly cuts fruits and
10 vegetables into small blocks; the helical vanes continuously deliver the small
   blocks of the fruits and vegetables downwards and extrude the small blocks, so as
   to realize quick juicing, thereby effectively preventing the fruits and vegetables
   from accumulating in a feed inlet and increasing juicing efficiency.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
15         Fig. 1 is a structural view of a juice extraction module for a large-caliber
   juicer in the utility model;
           Fig. 2 is a local structural view of a juice extraction module for a large
   caliber juicer in the utility model;
           Fig. 3 is an exploded view of a juice extraction module for a large-caliber
20 juicer in the utility model;
           Fig. 4 is a first structural view of a juice extraction module for a large-caliber
   juicer in the utility model; and

                                               4
           Fig. 5 is a second structural view of a juice extraction module for a large
   caliber juicer in the utility model.
          The utility model is further described below in detail in combination with the
   drawings and embodiments.
 5        As shown in Fig. 1 to Fig. 5, the juice extraction module 100 for the juicer
   comprises a base 1, a hood body 2, a rotary brush 3, a juicing net 4, a helical
   structure 5 and a gear 6. The hood body 2 is arranged on the base 1. The rotary
   brush 3, the juicing net 4 and the helical structure 5 are accommodated in a space
   formed by matching the base 1 and the hood body 2. The helical structure 5 is
10 accommodated in the juicing net 4. The juicing net 4 is accommodated in the
   rotary brush 3 and an outer wall of the juicing net 4 is fitted with an inner wall of
   the rotary brush 3. A juice outlet 11 and a residue outlet 12 are arranged on the
   circumferential surface of the bottom of the base 1, and a sealing cover is
   arranged on the juice outlet 11. A safety cover 21 is arranged on a top of the hood
15 body 2. A cover body 22 hinged and matched with the safety cover 21 is arranged
   on the safety cover 21. An axis of the helical structure 5 is opposite to the center of
   the bottom of the hood body 2. An extrusion part 510 is arranged on the helical
   structure 5. A juicing processing position 7 is arranged at the bottom of the hood
   body 2. The juicing processing position 7 accommodates the extrusion part 510 of
20 the helical structure 5. A cutting part 5101 is arranged at an upper part of the
   extrusion part 510. The cutting part 5101 is a blade. First teeth 31 are arranged on
   the circumferential bottom of the rotary brush 3. Second teeth 51 are arranged on
   an outer surface of the bottom of the helical structure 5. A driving shaft 52 is
   located at a center of the bottom of the helical structure 5. Helical vanes 53

                                                  5
   arranged along the periphery of the extrusion part 510 from top to bottom are
   installed on an outer wall of the helical structure 5. Outer diameters of the helical
   vanes 53 are consistent from top to bottom. A gear 6 is arranged between the first
   teeth 31 and the second teeth 51, and the gear 6 is engaged with the first teeth 31
 5 and the second teeth 51.
           An outer wall of the juicing processing position 7 is an arc-shaped surface,
   and the radius of the arc-shaped surface is consistent from top to bottom. The
   juicing processing position 7 is formed so that a bottom region of the feed inlet is
   covered at a height that the juicing processing position 7 is connected with the
10 bottom of the feed inlet of the hood body 2. An inner surface of the juicing
   processing position 7 comprises a food material guiding surface and extends from
   the feed inlet. The food material guiding surface guides the material in this manner,
   so that a side surface of the food material is squeezed by the helical vanes 53.
           In a process of juicing, firstly, the juice extraction module 100 for the juicer
15 is put on a power supply base; a driving bearing which extends upwards is
   arranged on the power supply base; the driving bearing is matched with an electric
   motor in the power supply base; and therefore, the driving shaft 52 on the bottom
   of the helical structure 5 is matched with the driving bearing on the power supply
   base. The safety cover 21 of the hood body 2 is opened and food materials, such
20 as fruits, vegetables, etc., are put into the safety cover 21. After the safety cover
   21 is closed, a power supply switch on the power supply base is pressed; the
   electric motor is started; and the helical structure 5 is driven by the driving bearing
   to rotate. Because the first teeth 31 and the second teeth 51 are simultaneously
   engaged with the gear 6, the rotary brush 3 is driven by the gear 6 to rotate in the

                                                6
   rotating process of the helical structure 5. As the helical structure 5 is continuously
   rotated, the cutting part 5101 firstly cuts the food materials into small blocks.
   Because the diameter of the juicing net 4 is gradually decreased from top to
   bottom, a gap between the outer wall of the helical structure 5 and the juicing net 4
 5 is gradually decreased from top to bottom, so that the helical vanes 53 of the
   helical structure 5 and the juicing net 4 continuously extrude and squeeze the
   fruits and the vegetables. The squeezed juice exudes through holes in the juicing
   net 4. The rotary brush 3 continuously rotates and scrape down fruit juice on the
   outer wall of the juicing net 4. Finally, the fruit juice flows out through the juice
10 outlet 11, while residues formed after squeezing are discharged through the
   residue outlet 12.
           The extrusion part 510 is arranged on the helical structure 5 of the juice
   extraction module 100 for the large-caliber juicer in the utility model. The helical
   vanes 53 are arranged at the periphery of the extrusion part 510. Outer diameters
15 of the helical vanes 53 are consistent from top to bottom. A cutting part 5101 is
   arranged at a top of the extrusion part 510. The cutting part 5101 firstly cuts fruits
   and vegetables into small blocks; the helical vanes 53 continuously deliver the
   small blocks of the fruits and vegetables downwards and extrude the small blocks,
   so as to realize quick juicing, thereby effectively preventing the fruits and
20 vegetables from accumulating in the feed inlet and increasing juicing efficiency.
           Finally, it should be noted that the above embodiments are only used for
   describing the technical solution of the utility model rather than limitation. Although
   the utility model is described in detail by referring to the above embodiments,
   those ordinary skilled in the art should understand that: the technical solution

                                             7
  recorded in each of the above embodiments can be still amended, or some
  technical features therein can be replaced equivalently. However, these
  amendments or replacements do not enable the essence of the corresponding
  technical solution to depart from the spirit and the scope of the technical solution
5 of various embodiments of the utility model.

                                               1
   Claims
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A juice extraction module for a large-caliber juicer, comprising a base (1), a
   hood body (2), a rotary brush (3), a juicing net (4) and a helical structure (5),
 5 wherein the hood body (2) is matched with the base (1); the rotary brush (3), the
   juicing net (4) and the helical structure (5) are accommodated in a housing formed
   by matching the base (1) and the hood body (2); the helical structure (5) is
   accommodated in the juicing net (4); the juicing net (4) is accommodated in the
   rotary brush (3) and an outer wall of the juicing net (4) is fitted with an inner wall of
10 the rotary brush (3), wherein an extrusion part (510) is arranged on the helical
   structure (5); a juicing processing position (7) is arranged at the bottom of the
   hood body (2); the juicing processing position (7) accommodates the extrusion
   part (510) of the helical structure (5); an outer wall of the juicing processing
   position (7) is an arc-shaped surface; the radius of the arc-shaped surface is
15 consistent from top to bottom; a cutting part (5101) is arranged at an upper part of
   the extrusion part (510); the cutting part (5101) is a blade; helical vanes (53) are
   arranged at the periphery of the extrusion part (510) from top to bottom; and outer
   diameters of the helical vanes (53) are consistent from top to bottom.
   2. The juice extraction module for the large-caliber juicer according to claim 1,
20 wherein an axis of the helical structure (5) is opposite to the bottom of the hood
   body (2).
   3. The juice extraction module for the large-caliber juicer according to claim 1,
   wherein a juice outlet (11) and a residue outlet (12) are arranged on the outer

                                                2
   contour of the bottom of the base (1); and a sealing cover is arranged on the juice
   outlet (11).
   4. The juice extraction module for the large-caliber juicer according to claim 1,
   wherein a safety cover (21) is arranged on a top of the hood body (2); and a cover
 5 body (22) hinged and matched with the safety cover (21) is arranged on the safety
   cover (21).
   5. The juice extraction module for the large-caliber juicer according to claim 1,
   wherein first teeth (31) are arranged on the circumferential bottom of the rotary
   brush (3); second teeth (51) and a driving shaft (52) are arranged on the bottom of
10 the helical structure (5); the driving shaft (52) is located at a center of a circle of
   the bottom of the helical structure (5); the second teeth (51) are arranged at an
   outer edge of the bottom of the helical structure (5); a gear (6) is arranged
   between the first teeth (31) and the second teeth (51); and the gear (6) is engaged
   with the first teeth (31) and the second teeth (51).

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2701>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

